@@118328363 <p> Houston Texans linebacker Azeez Al-Shaair was put under the microscope on Sunday as his second-quarter hit on Jacksonville Jaguars quarterback Trevor Lawrence knocked the player out of the game . <p> Lawrence was trying to slide when Al-Shaair hit the Jaguars star in the head and neck area . The hit sparked a brawl and led to the ejections of Al-Shaair and Jaguars cornerback Jarrian Jones . Al-Shaair was in the midst of a brawl that occurred after the play . <p> The linebacker took part in the NFL 's My Cause My Cleats campaign . Players who partake in the campaign are allowed to pick a cause that 's important to them and represent the organization on their cleats . Al-Shaair chose the Palestine Children 's Relief Fund -- as he did last year . <p> Al-Shaair had " Free " written on one side of his shoes in the colors of the Palestinian flag . On one shoe , " Surely to Allah we belong and to him we will all return , " was written . On the side of his other shoe , it had the number of Palestinians reportedly killed and wounded in its war with Israel . <p> " Palestine Children 's Relief Fund ( PCRF ) , founded in 1991 by concerned humanitarians in the USA , provides free medical care to thousands of injured and ill children yearly who lack local access to care within the local health care system , " the PCRF 's description said on its website . <p> " Over the years , we 've sent over 2,000 affected children abroad for free medical care , sent thousands of international doctors and nurses to provide tens of thousands of children free medical care in local hospitals , and provided tens of thousands of children humanitarian aid and support they otherwise would not get . " <p> A ton of scrutiny poured in on social media . <p> Al-Shaair talked about his decision to wear the cleats last month . <p> " I feel like it 's something that 's trying to be almost silenced , " he told the Houston Chronicle . " On either side , people losing their life is not right . In no way , shape or form am I validating anything that happened , but to consistently say that because of Oct. 7 innocent people in Gaza should now die , it 's crazy . <p> Jaguars quarterback Trevor Lawrence leaves the field on a cart after getting injured on a late hit by Houston Texans linebacker Azeez Al-Shaair , Sunday , Dec. 1 , 2024 , in Jacksonville . ( AP Photo/John Raoux ) <p> Other people try to make a disconnect and dehumanize people over there . And it 's like , they 're human beings . Being a Muslim , we see everybody the same ; Black , White , Spanish , whatever you are ; you can be orange , like , we 're all human beings . " <p> Al-Shaair is also a part of the Athletes For Ceasefire organization , along with several other athletes . <p> The group has called on President Biden to call for " an immediate cease-fire " in the war in Gaza following Hamas ' Oct. 7 terrorist attacks on Israel . <p> " We call on President Joe Biden to call for an immediate cease-fire . And to redirect those resources to address pressing domestic needs such as education , health care and helping the unhoused , " the group stated on its website . <h> Fox News First <p> Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox . <p> Arrives Weekdays <p> By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button , you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use , and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News . You understand that you can opt-out at any time . 
@@118330171 <p> United States President-elect Donald Trump has selected Lebanon-born billionaire Massad Boulos as his senior White House adviser for Arab and Middle Eastern affairs , citing the businessman 's outreach to Arab Americans during the election campaign . <p> The announcement of the appointment on Sunday comes as the Trump administration continues to take shape , particularly in terms of the officials who will oversee US policy in the Middle East , although the purview of Boulos 's role was not immediately clear . <p> Before the selection of Boulos , who is the father-in-law of Trump 's daughter Tiffany , the president-elect tapped pro-Israel hawk Marco Rubio as his nominee for secretary of state ; Mike Huckabee , a staunch supporter of illegal Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank , as his ambassador to Israel ; and friend Steven Witkoff , a businessman with scant policy experience , as special envoy to the Middle East . <p> In a statement on Trump 's Truth Social platform , the president-elect hailed Boulos as " an accomplished lawyer and a highly respected leader in the business world , with extensive experience on the International scene " . <p> " Massad is a dealmaker , and an unwavering supporter of PEACE in the Middle East . He will be a strong advocate for the United States , and its interests , and I am pleased to have him on our team ! " Trump wrote . <h> Trump 's envoy to Arab Americans <p> Boulos was a key figure in the Trump campaign 's outreach to the Arab American community and sought to capitalise on outrage over President Joe Biden 's continued support for Israel during the war in Gaza and , more recently , Israel 's invasion of Lebanon . <p> It was a difficult balancing act . Trump had repeatedly promised to end the war in Gaza and prevent further escalation but had long been the preferred candidate of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's right-wing government . <p> During his first term from 2017 to 2021 , Trump had fully embraced Israel , moving the US embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem , long seen as the capital of a future Palestinian state ; recognising Israeli sovereignty over the occupied Golan Heights in Syria ; forging a series of normalisation agreements between Israel and Arab countries ; and allowing for the rapid expansion of Israeli settlements , which are illegal under international law . <p> His selection of Huckabee -- an evangelical Christian minister who in 2008 said there is " no such thing as a Palestinian " -- has signalled the makings of a similarly permissive approach in his second term . <p> Boulos also sought to calm concerns over Trump 's 2017 bans on travellers from several Muslim-majority countries , a swiftly reversed executive order seen as blatantly discriminatory . <p> Boulos 's efforts received mixed marks from leaders in the large Arab American community in Michigan , a key battleground state . <p> Some embraced Trump , identifying with his socially conservative message or just seeking to punish Biden , while others derided Boulos for failing to give specifics about how Trump would chart a different path than Biden in the region . <p> Still , the election saw a historic shift away from Democrats from within Arab American and Muslim American communities . <p> In Dearborn , the largest Arab American majority city in the US , Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris received just half of the votes that Biden had in 2020 . All told , the vice president won just over 36 percent of the vote in the city with Trump taking more than 42 percent and Jill Stein , the Green Party 's candidate , carrying 18 percent . <h> In the family <p> For his part , Boulos has been largely silent on his personal views on the Middle East and has not articulated his own policy positions . <p> He was born to a politically connected Christian family in Lebanon but moved to Texas as a teenager and eventually joined his family 's business ventures in Nigeria . <p> While The Associated Press news agency had previously reported that Boulos ran for parliament in Lebanon in 2009 , he disputed that account in a recent interview with Newsweek . <p> He also pushed back that he was " a friend " of Suleiman Frangieh , a Lebanese politician with ties to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad whose presidential ambitions have been backed by the Lebanese armed group Hezbollah . <p> Boulos instead said he was not affiliated with any party in Lebanon but remained " acquainted with most Lebanese Christian leaders " . <p> The businessman has described himself as a longtime Republican who supported Trump in 2016 . He came more firmly into Trump 's orbit after his son Michael married Trump 's daughter Tiffany . <p> His selection was announced a day after Trump said he would nominate Charles Kushner , the father of Trump 's son-in-law Jared Kushner , as the US ambassador to France . 
@@118330175 <p> Bekaa Valley , Lebanon -- A warm wind blows over the rocky , arid landscape of the Lebanon-Syria border , ruffling the silhouettes walking slowly through the mountain pass , clambering around two huge craters . <p> What used to be a densely packed road stretching all the way from Beirut in Lebanon , through the Bekaa Valley and on to Damascus in Syria via the Masnaa Crossing , has been reduced to rubble by Israeli bombardment . All travel has become near impossible . <p> Families now pass only on foot , carrying their luggage over their heads , carefully avoiding losing their balance while navigating the debris . <p> Until a fragile ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah was reached on Wednesday , Israel had been carpet-bombing Lebanon since late September . On October 4 , its forces bombed Masnaa , the largest border crossing into Syria , on October 4 as it ramped up its assault on Lebanon nearly a year after it started a war on Gaza . <p> What 's left of Masnaa is barely enough to allow people through , not to mention the once-familiar trucks full of fresh fruits and vegetables that used to wind through the pass , going both ways . <p> " Since the strike , no produce has been coming in or going out , neither avocados nor bananas , even though the season is in full swing , " Abu Hussein , a young labourer who usually works at the site loading and unloading trucks , tells Al Jazeera . <p> Since no commercial trucks pass through now , he spends his days sitting in the shade on the side of the road or helping people carry their belongings through the debris . " This is a difficult economic blow for us , " he adds . <p> People carry their luggage as they cross into Syria on foot , through a crater caused by Israeli airstrikes aiming to block the Beirut-Damascus highway at the Masnaa crossing , in the eastern Bekaa Valley , Lebanon , on Saturday , October 5 , 2024 Hassan Ammar/AP <p> In 2023 , Lebanon exported between 250 and 350 tonnes of agricultural produce daily to the wider Middle East region through Masnaa , producing annual sales of $176m , according to Lebanese customs data , including industrial exports . <p> Israel claims it hit the road to Masnaa to prevent Hezbollah from importing weapons from Syria , but it could well be the first step in a blockade of the country , locals fear . <p> Since that incident , all other official border crossings between Syria and Lebanon also have been bombed , and Israel imposed a maritime blockade on south Lebanon in October . <p> Across the country , Israeli bombs have burned more than 2,000 hectares ( about 5,000 acres ) of farmland , while 12,000 hectares ( nearly 30,000 acres ) have been abandoned by farmers fleeing for safety . <p> This means that 10 percent of Lebanon 's arable land has been lost -- although this is considered a very conservative estimate . Of the rest , much has been left fallow . <p> Before Israel 's assault , nearly one in four Lebanese people were already struggling with hunger because of the country 's economic crisis and inflation , according to the World Food Programme . With Israel 's escalation of its attacks on Hezbollah in the country since September , " Lebanon 's food insecurity is set to worsen , " the agency has warned . " The conflict also threatens ... more than 60 percent of Lebanon 's agricultural production . " <p> While Gaza has been suffering from an Israeli blockade for 17 years -- now resulting in severe famine -- many in Lebanon fear the same fate could await them . <h> Preparing for war -- the farm <p> In Saadnayel , a few kilometres from Masnaa , a mudbrick farmhouse stands surrounded by abundant fields . <p> This is the home of Buzuruna Juzuruna ( " our seeds are our roots " ) , an agroecological collective with Lebanese , Syrian and French members . <p> As the gentle autumn wind brushes through the orchards and goats bleat , the farm feels like a haven totally removed from Lebanon 's bloodshed . <p> Like most of Lebanon 's progressive agroecological collectives and farms , it has experienced much upheaval since the Israeli attacks . However , this particular collective has prepared itself for war . <p> " In case there is a total siege , we have prepared our ' seed library ' and natural fertilisers and can achieve self-sufficiency if the borders and ports are closed , " Walid Youssef , one of the collective 's co-founders , tells Al Jazeera as he leads the way around the farm 's premises . <p> As he walks , he brushes aside generous bushes of rosemary next to the fields before heading into the barn which is filled with the warm , stingy smell of goats and sheep . <p> Founded in 2015 by a group of five as an experimental project , the farm has steadily expanded to encompass two hectares of land ( five acres ) on which it grows fruit and vegetables as goats , sheep and chickens roam around . <p> The animals and birds are useful for clearing weeds , producing cheese , labneh and ghee , while also creating their own natural fertiliser from their waste . " We also consume and sell the meat , the eggs , everything -- we developed our own self-sufficient economy here , " Youssef explains . <p> Close to the animal farm is the plant nursery where the collective cultivates more than 1,000 types of seedlings into plants -- from crops and decorative plants to aromatic herbs . <p> " I really love the summer crops , like tomatoes , cucumbers , and eggplants , as well as our diverse kinds of wheat , " Youssef says . <h> The seed library <p> But most important of all on this farm is the dark , dry room in the main mudbrick building that holds an invaluable treasure : an extensive " seed library " . <p> Here , rows of boxes filled with heirloom seeds are stacked on wooden shelves , each with its species and variety written in Arabic and French . <p> " Here , we have about 1,000 kinds of seeds , " Youssef said , foraging through the boxes . " We have about 50 varieties of tomatoes , and as many of chillis , eggplants and lettuce , as well as 75 kinds of local and traditional wheat seeds from all over the Mediterranean basin , " he adds proudly . <p> Buzuruna has collected the seeds from farmers from the south of France to Syria and even Palestine , thanks to its relationships with other like-minded collectives in those countries . Sometimes , members of the collective would travel to France to collect seeds from those farmers or Syrian members of the collective would bring them to Lebanon . <p> In the dark room which serves as a " library " of seeds , Youssef rifles through a box of red-white textured cranberry beans which flow between his fingers like beads . " These are very special for Lebanese farmers , they are a traditional kind found all over the country , " he says . <p> He joyfully presents some of his favourite seeds -- a rare kind of tomato called " joy of the orchards " in Arabic , a Syrian apple tomato and a large Lebanese mountain tomato . <p> Buzuruna Juzuruna now has enough to supply all the farms in Lebanon if they should need it . <p> But first , the seeds must be shielded from the bombing , which is getting closer by the day . Buildings just a few hundred metres from the farm have been struck in recent weeks . <p> Youssef picks up a transparent plastic box filled to the brim with small bags of seeds . <p> " This box has samples such as fava beans , pumpkins , tomatoes and eggplants that we will hide somewhere far from here so that if there were strikes on this place , we would have a safety box in another place , " he explained . <p> " It is a small fortune ; you ca n't find seeds like these on the general markets any more . We have not only to save them but also to disseminate them . " <p> To this end , Buzuruna Juzuruna provides seedlings to farmers in need -- currently it is providing vegetable seeds to 14 farms , and wheat seeds to another four . The collective provides the seeds and training on how to cultivate them for free . Other farmers are welcome to buy seeds . " These are seeds that are reusable , so they can then develop their crops on their own , " as opposed to industrially produced seeds , Youssef adds . <p> A mix of seeds contained in a box that the Buzuruna Juzuruna collective will hide in a safe location in case of an air attack on the farm Philippe Pernot/Al Jazeera <p> Most seeds available in the general markets that farms buy from are hybrid -- genetically modified -- and are produced by just four main multinational companies , such as Monsanto , explains Lea Martinet-Jannin , one of the French members of the collective . She speaks to Al Jazeera by telephone as she has been unable to return to Lebanon from France since the start of Israel 's onslaught . <p> Hybrids are engineered to be more resistant to certain diseases or to yield a larger amount of produce , but the benefit comes at the price of being single-use only . <p> The crops can not be used to produce new seeds to be replanted in the next season . This is expensive and creates a dependency because farmers have to buy them every year anew . <p> The seeds that the collective uses to cultivate crops are not hybrid and can be replanted . <p> For this reason , the collective 's seed library initiative is revolutionary in Lebanon -- a country dependent on agricultural imports for up to 80 percent of its needs , including fruit , vegetables , meat and dairy products as well as seeds . Wheat , fertilisers , pesticides and machinery are also almost entirely imported . <p> The collective has held educational training courses for local farmers . " The goal was to raise awareness and guide the Syrian , Lebanese and Palestinian farmers of the area to have an idea about sustainable agriculture and so that they 'll have secure nourishment for themselves and their families , " Youssef explains . <p> " Today we are witnessing a war in Lebanon -- this library 's goal is to help ensure that the farmers have self-sufficiency , so that they are able to grow crops from the seeds they have between their hands , " he added . <p> Some of the 1,000 heirloom seeds and more stored in Buzuruna Juzuruna 's seed library Philippe Pernot/Al Jazeera <h> Food : ' The last safety net ' <p> " The multinational companies that produce and sell these hybrid , one-way seeds are subjugating small farmers and their families by making them dependent on a capitalistic , colonial system of agriculture . Developing heirloom seeds is an act of resistance , " Martinet-Jannin says . <p> The collective also aims to reverse the disappearance of food traditions and to preserve local heritage and culture , especially during times of war . <p> " As an example , our Syrian colleagues -- they 've lost their homes , they 've lost their villages , their lives , during the Syrian civil war . But here , we can still grow the special kinds of small , heirloom eggplants and zucchinis they need for their traditional dishes -- they can still hold on to something . Food can be the last safety net left when you 've lost everything , " Martinet-Jannin explains . <p> " It is flagrant how the war is destroying local agricultural systems and traditions , particularly in Palestine recently -- but this has happened over the whole region over the course of the last conflicts , " she said , referring to incidents such as when the United States bombed Iraq 's seed bank in Abu Ghraib during its 2003 invasion . <p> This autumn , some of Buzuruna 's members took part in a series of meetings and conferences about heirloom seeds and sovereignty in France . Although the collective usually attends such events , the region 's bloody context has presented it with a particularly serious agenda this year . <p> " These events focused a lot on Palestine , Sudan and Lebanon , talking about how to restore food sovereignty amidst the wars , " Martinet-Jannin says . <p> After attending the International Farmer Seeds Gathering in Antibes , France , which is held every four years , the collective members gathered for a one-week retreat in southern France alongside similar collectives from Syria , Iran , the Kurdish region of northern Iraq , Palestine , Egypt and the wider MENA region . <p> " We had longstanding connections to all these people and movements , but they had never met before . It was beautiful to finally create this connection between our local fights , talk about the issues we face , and how we can organise together , " she says . <p> As farmers all over the region face the combined spectres of climate change , drought and conflict , the meeting created a space for shaping an alliance . <p> Farmers face the dramatic effects of climate change , warming the MENA region by about 1.5 degrees Celsius ( 34.7 degrees Fahrenheit ) more than the rest of the world on average by 2030 . This poses many risks : droughts , wildfires , desertification , and loss of natural habitat . <p> At the same time , political reforms in many countries that have favoured large , industrial-scale farmers have further challenged family-sized and collective farming all over the Mediterranean basin . Regional wars and unrest have just added to the challenges faced by farmers . <p> " It was uplifting to feel that we 're not alone in our struggle . There are many other people who are getting organised and with whom we share common values , same horizons and desirable futures , " Martinet-Jannin says . <p> Back at the Buzuruna Juzuruna farm in Saadnayel , Youssef is sitting in the shade of a tree , flowers growing in front of the tent he lives in with his family . He has just been checking on the stores of dry food that his farm will distribute to food kitchens around the country to help feed those who have been displaced by Israel 's bombardment . <p> His children are doing their English homework while he sips a small cup of Turkish coffee . <p> " Usually , there would be rain now , but the seasons are totally unbalanced by climate change , " he sighs , looking at the bright , sunny sky . " This is why we have to fight here and now , so that our children can inherit a good world . " 
@@118330178 <p> The UN agency for Palestinian refugees has halted the delivery of aid through the Karem Abu Salem ( known as Kerem Shalom to Israelis ) crossing between Israel and Gaza because of security concerns , its chief said , as widespread hunger and deadly Israeli bombardments continue . <p> " We are pausing the delivery of aid through Kerem Shalom , the main crossing point for humanitarian aid into Gaza . The road out of this crossing has not been safe for months . On 16 November , a large convoy of aid trucks was stolen by armed gangs , " UNRWA head Philippe Lazzarini said in a post on X. <p> " Yesterday , we tried to bring in a few food trucks on the same route . They were all taken , " he added , warning hunger was " rapidly deepening " in Gaza . <p> Lazzarini listed how the humanitarian operation had become " unnecessarily impossible " due to " the ongoing siege , hurdles from Israeli authorities , political decisions to restrict the amounts of aid , lack of safety on aid routes and targeting of local police " . <p> He called on Israel to ensure aid flowed to Gaza and said the country " must refrain from attacks on humanitarian workers " . <p> On Thursday , the UN agency said " out of the 91 attempts the agency has made to deliver aid to besieged north Gaza between October 6 and November 25 , 82 have been denied and 9 impeded . " <p> Israel has been accused of using starvation as a weapon of war as it has restricted supplies of food , medicine and other essential items into Gaza since launching the war last October . More than 44,000 Palestinians have been killed in nonstop Israeli bombardment since then . <h> Targeting of aid convoys <p> Louise Wateridge , the UNRWA emergency officer , told Al Jazeera that the targeting of aid convoys has been happening since May . <p> " That has led to desperation of people , who do n't have what they need and it has led and forced criminal activities , " she stressed . <p> However , the WCK said it had " no knowledge that any individual in the vehicle had alleged ties " to the Hamas attack . <p> The UN said last month that 333 aid workers had been killed since the start of the war in October of last year , 243 of them employees of UNRWA . <p> Israel , which imposed a total siege on Gaza in the early stages of the war last year , blames the inability of relief organisations to handle and distribute large quantities of aid . <p> Hamas 's Interior Ministry in Gaza have responded to the looting , saying more than 20 of the gang members suspected of carrying out the robbery had been killed by its security forces acting in coordination with tribal committees . <p> Meanwhile , Palestinians in Gaza have told Al Jazeera of their confusion over how , in one of the most heavily surveilled territories on the planet , the presence of so many armed men could have gone undetected by Israeli forces . <p> The Washington Post had previously reported that an internal UN memo from October said the gangs in Gaza " may be benefitting from a passive if not active benevolence " or " protection " from the Israeli army . <p> One gang leader , the memo said , had established a " military-like compound " in an area " restricted , controlled and patrolled by the IDF ( Israeli army ) " . <p> As this developed , Gaza 's civil defence agency reported that nearly 100 people were killed in Israeli attacks in Gaza in the last 24 hours . <p> The casualties include those killed in an Israeli strike on a home belonging to the al-Araj family in the Tal az-Zaatar neighbourhood , which housed more than 40 people . <p> Israel 's genocide in Gaza has killed at least 44,382 Palestinians and wounded 105,142 since October 7 , 2023 . At least 1,139 people were killed in Israel during the Hamas-led attacks that day , and more than 200 were taken captive . 
@@118331476 <h> AP News Summary at 5:42 p.m . EST <p> UN halts aid shipments through Gaza 's main crossing after looting . It blames the crisis on Israel <p> DEIR AL-BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- The U.N . agency for Palestinian refugees says it is halting aid deliveries through the main cargo crossing into Gaza because of the threat of armed gangs who have looted recent convoys . The decision could worsen the humanitarian crisis in Gaza as another cold , rainy winter sets in . Hundreds of thousands of people are living in squalid tent camps and rely on international food aid . And in Israel , a former defense minister and fierce critic of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu -- and a hard-liner on the Palestinians -- accuses the government of ethnic cleansing in northern Gaza , where a military offensive continues . <h> This page requires Javascript . <p> Javascript is required for you to be able to read premium content . Please enable it in your browser settings . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@118334678 <p> A picture taken during a tour organised by the Israeli Army shows an Israeli truck transporting aid destined for the Gaza Strip at a drop-off area near the Kerem Shalom crossing , on November 28 , 2024 . <p> Jack Guez/AFP/Getty Images <p> CNN -- <p> At least 200 people were killed in Israeli airstrikes on northern Gaza Saturday , according to local health officials , as the United Nations said it would pause aid deliveries through the enclave 's main crossing after more of its trucks were stolen . <p> The developments underscore the worsening humanitarian situation in the enclave , where tens of thousands of people have been killed by the Israeli military , and chronic hunger threatens the remaining civilian population . On Friday , two children and a woman were crushed to death while attempting to buy food from a bakery in central Gaza . <p> The deadly strikes also come with an uneasy truce underway between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon , which Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said would allow his forces to focus on Gaza . <p> Speaking to CNN on Sunday , Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of the Kamal Adwan Hospital , said that five buildings housing more than 200 people were struck in the Tal Al Zaatar and Beit Lahiya areas of northern Gaza . <p> " They were calling for help , and anyone who tried to assist was bombed . Unfortunately , the cries for help have disappeared ; they were killed , " Dr. Abu Safiya said . The strike in Tel Al Zaatar left more than 100 people under the rubble , with only one person pulled out . <p> " This scene has become a daily occurrence , and no one is held accountable ; no one can stop the killing of innocent people . " <p> The spokesperson for Gaza 's Civil Defense said that more than 40 people belonging to the " Al-Araj " family were killed in a single strike on a building in the Tel Al Zaatar neighborhood . <p> CNN has reached out to the Israel Defense Forces for further comment on the target of the strikes and the measures taken to mitigate civilian casualties . <p> According to the Health Ministry in Gaza , at least 44,429 people have been killed and more than 105,000 injured in the enclave since the war began last year . The figure is thought to be an underestimate , as much of northern Gaza is inaccessible and many casualties never arrive at a hospital to be counted . <h> UN pauses aid deliveries <p> The deadly strikes coincided with the theft of trucks carrying food and other supplies into the besieged strip , prompting the UN agency for Palestinian refugees to halt aid deliveries through the main crossing point between Israel and Gaza . <p> The " difficult decision " to stop deliveries through Kerem Shalom comes at a time when " hunger is rapidly deepening , " UNRWA chief Philippe Lazzarini warned Sunday . <p> The decision was made after a " few food trucks " were " taken " on the route Saturday , he wrote on X. A source involved in transferring aid inside Gaza told CNN that a further five trucks loaded with flour were stolen near the crossing Sunday . <p> " The road out of this crossing has not been safe for months , " Lazzarini noted in his post , referring to an incident on November 16 when almost 100 aid trucks were stolen by armed gangs in what UNRWA described as " one of the worst " incidents of its kind . <p> The humanitarian operation in Gaza had become " unnecessarily impossible , " he added , citing hurdles from Israeli authorities and political decisions to restrict the amounts of aid as compounding factors in the breakdown of law and order in the enclave . <p> Lazzarini stressed that Israel , as the occupying power , was responsible for the protection of aid workers and supplies . Israeli authorities " must ensure aid flows into Gaza safely and must refrain from attacks on humanitarian workers , " he said . <p> COGAT , the Israeli agency responsible for approving aid into Gaza , said that " dozens " of other humanitarian organizations continued delivering supplies to people in the enclave . <p> " Last week , over 1,000 trucks carrying humanitarian aid were collected from the various crossings and distributed throughout the Gaza Strip , " the agency added in a statement shared with CNN . " We will continue to work with the international community to increase the amount of aid making its way into Gaza , through the Kerem Shalom Crossing as well as the other four crossings between Israel and Gaza . " 
@@118363464 <h> Lebanon says nine killed in Israeli strikes on southern villages <p> AFP News <p> 2 December 2024 at 3:42 pm*4-min read <p> While the ceasefire has largely brought fighting to a halt , Israel has launched strikes against targets it says were violating the truce ( - ) ( -/AFP/AFP ) <p> Nine people were killed in Israeli strikes on villages in southern Lebanon Monday , after Israel said it was taking aim at dozens of Hezbollah targets in retaliation for an attack claimed by the militant group amid a fragile ceasefire . <p> Both Israel and Hezbollah faced accusations Monday of breaching the truce , which took effect on Wednesday to end a war that has killed thousands of people in Lebanon and sparked mass displacements on both sides of the border . <p> The Israeli military in a statement said it " struck Hezbollah terrorists , dozens of launchers , and terrorist infrastructure throughout Lebanon " . <p> " Israel demands that the relevant parties in Lebanon fulfil their responsibilities and prevent Hezbollah 's hostile activity , " the statement said . <p> Lebanon 's health ministry said the strikes killed five people and wounded two in the village of Haris " in an initial toll " , while in the village of Tallous , another four people were killed and one wounded . <p> Earlier , Hezbollah said it had launched an attack targeting an Israeli position in " the occupied hills of Kfar Shouba " , in a disputed part of the border area between Israel and Lebanon . <p> Israel 's military said Hezbollah had launched two projectiles towards one of its posts in the area of Har Dov , Israel 's term for the disputed Shebaa Farms . <p> After that attack , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accused Hezbollah of a " serious violation " and vowed to " respond forcefully " . <p> " We are determined to uphold the ceasefire and respond to any violation by Hezbollah , no matter how minor or serious , " he said . <p> Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz also vowed a " harsh response " . <p> Shortly afterwards , the Israeli military said it was striking targets in Lebanon . <p> Lebanon 's official National News Agency reported strikes on areas of south Lebanon , where Hezbollah has long held sway , that are located around 20 kilometres ( 12 miles ) from the border with Israel . <p> - ' Aggressive actions ' - <p> Israel has carried out a near-daily series of strikes in southern Lebanon since the ceasefire was put in place , and earlier on Monday Beirut 's powerful parliament speaker Nabih Berri accused it of violating the truce . <p> " The aggressive actions carried out by Israeli occupation forces ... represent a flagrant violation of the terms of the ceasefire agreement , " said Berri , who helped mediate the truce on behalf of ally Hezbollah . <p> The fighting escalated after Israel moved its focus from Gaza to Lebanon in September to secure its northern border from Hezbollah attacks , dealing the Iran-backed Shiite Muslim movement a series of stunning blows . <p> Also Monday , French Foreign Minister Jean-Noel Barrot told Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar in a call of " the need for all sides to respect the ceasefire in Lebanon " , the foreign ministry said . <p> Saar rejected accusations that Israel had violated the truce , claiming instead that his country 's strikes were " enforcing " the ceasefire . <p> " We hear claims that Israel is violating the ceasefire understandings in Lebanon . On the contrary ! Israel is enforcing them in response to Hezbollah 's violations , which demand immediate action , " he said in a statement . <p> He also said Hezbollah had attempted to move weapons in southern Lebanon and their presence " south of the Litani river is the most basic violation of the understandings " . <p> Under the deal , Hezbollah must withdraw its fighters from areas south of the river , and dismantle its military infrastructure in the south . <p> As part of the agreement , the Lebanese army and United Nations peacekeepers will deploy in southern Lebanon as the Israeli army withdraws over a period of 60 days . <p> - ' Threats ' - <p> A committee involving France , UN peacekeepers , Israel , Lebanon and chaired by the United States is tasked with maintaining communication between the various parties and ensuring violations are identified and dealt with to avoid any escalation . <p> " We ask the technical committee formed to monitor the implementation of this agreement where it stands on ongoing violations ... that have exceeded 54 breaches , " Berri added , urging it to " oblige Israel to stop its violations and withdraw from territories it occupies " . <p> The United States said on Monday it believed that a ceasefire was still holding in Lebanon and that it was looking at potential violations . <p> Israel escalated its campaign against Hezbollah in late September after nearly a year of cross-border exchanges launched by the militant group in support of its Palestinian ally Hamas and its October 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel . <p> Earlier on Monday , Lebanon 's health ministry said an Israeli strike killed one person in the country 's south , while the Lebanese army said an Israeli drone wounded a soldier in the east . <p> Israel 's military said it was " aware of reports regarding a soldier from the Lebanese military who was injured in one of the strikes and the incident is under investigation " . <p> The army said it was responding to " several acts by Hezbollah in Lebanon that posed a threat to Israeli civilians in violation of the understandings between Israel and Lebanon " . <p> burs-raz/srm/ser/giv/aha <h> Latest stories <p> The United States called Monday for de-escalation in Syria , where an Islamist-led rebel alliance has wrested swathes of territory from the control of President Bashar al-Assad 's government in a lightning offensive.The conflict had been mostly dormant with Assad back in control of much of the country , until last week when the Islamist-led rebel alliance began its offensive . <p> WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) -U.S. manufacturing contracted at a moderate pace in November , with orders growing for the first time in eight months and factories facing significantly lower prices for inputs . The improvement reported by the Institute for Supply Management ( ISM ) on Monday tracked similar increases in other sentiment surveys , which have risen on hopes of more business-friendly policies from the incoming Trump administration . Still , manufacturing is not out of the woods yet . <p> Atlanta Federal Reserve President Raphael Bostic said on Monday he has an open mind about whether to cut interest rates again at the Fed 's December meeting , with upcoming data on jobs important in shaping the decision . " There is a lot of uncertainty , " Bostic said in comments to reporters . In an essay also released on Monday , Bostic said his base case remains that inflation will continue to fall to the Fed 's 2% target , though it remains an open question how far and how fast interest rates should be reduced to ensure that happens while avoiding any undue damage to the job market . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is set to serve his second term in the White House in January , with plans to employ immigration reform through mass deportations . The Hamilton Project director and Brookings Institution senior fellow in economic studies , Wendy Edelberg , joins Seana Smith and Madison Mills on Catalysts to examine the impact of Trump 's proposed deportations " Economies generally do n't do well with abrupt changes , and this would be no different , " Edelberg says , noting that if Trump " tried as hard as he could under current law without Congress 's help to do mass deportations , we 'd see potentially hundreds of thousands of people being involuntarily deported next year and that , along with a bunch of other economic effects and changes in the labor force that would come alongside those deportations , would mean less GDP Gross Domestic Product growth next year to the tune of as much as a half a percentage point . " The economist says the decline in GDP " comes not just from the less economic output because we the US would simply have fewer workers in the economy , but a lot less consumer spending and businesses responding to that reduction in consumer spending . " Edelberg believes Trump 's odds of pulling off the level of deportations he promised on the 2024 campaign trail to be " implausible ... even with the aid of congressional action ... " &amp;nbsp ; " If he took the kinds of actions that he 's promised to take and that state and local officials across the country look quite amenable to them , we could see maybe 450,000 people being deported next year ... And I think we would see several hundred thousand more people voluntarily leaving . We would make this country a pretty unpleasant place to be . " The economist says Trump 's proposed immigration policies would stall job growth , impact wages , reduce activities in some sectors , and raise prices for consumers . To watch more expert insights and analysis on the latest market action , check out more Catalysts here . This post was written by Naomi Buchanan . <p> Cristiano Ronaldo was absent when Al-Nassr lost for the first time in the AFC Champions League Elite , to Al-Sadd of Qatar 2-1 on Monday . Al-Nassr was already guaranteed a place in the round of 16 so Ronaldo , who has five goals in his last three matches , was rested . Al-Sadd took the lead through Akram Afif , named the Asian player of the year in November , eight minutes after the break . <p> Israel 's military said on Monday that it was " currently striking terror targets in Lebanon " , six days into a fragile US-brokered truce with militant group Hezbollah . The announcement comes after Hezbollah fired into a disputed zone on the Israel-Lebanon border . Read our liveblog for the latest developments . Yesterday 's key developments : Iran 's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi landed in Ankara late Sunday just hours after holding top-level talks in Damascus over a shock offensive by Syrian rebels , <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza . <p> President-elect Donald Trump has opted to keep it in the family again with some of his latest administrative picks-- this time , with the senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . Trump has appointed Lebanon billionaire Massad Boulos to take on the role . His son , Michael , is married to Tiffany Trump , the president 's youngest daughter . " Massad is an accomplished lawyer and a highly respected leader in the business world , with extensive experience on the International scene , " Trump wrote o <p> Kash Patel may have finally been nominated for the position he craved the most -- Federal Bureau of Investigation director . But it 's not like Donald Trump wanted him first . President-elect Trump said Saturday he would nominate Patel to head the FBI , heralding him as a " brilliant lawyer , investigator , and ' America First ' fighter " and signaling he would push current FBI Director Christopher Wray out of his 10-year term . But Patel was n't Trump 's first choice for the role , according to Axios -- he just di 
@@118364170 <p> Five years later , I 've visited 24 countries across four continents and plan to keep traveling indefinitely . <p> Here 's how I started my business , so I 'm free to work from anywhere and my top traveling tips in Southeast Asia , Latin America , and Europe . <h> I make 6 figures and am able to work from anywhere <p> I started my business , Duraca Strategic , as a branding and marketing strategy consultant and business coach for freelancers . It was a rocky beginning . <p> When I got to Bali , I planned to work with the entrepreneurs there . They seemed so successful on Instagram , but the reality was quite different . I struggled to sell $300 coaching packages and was burning through my $30,000 in savings . <p> Eventually , I figured out how to market to premium clients from all over the world and have been making six figures a year for the past five years . <p> While that sometimes means a 5 a.m. or 10 p.m. call with a client in a different time zone , it 's a price I 'm happy to pay for the freedom and flexibility of working with who I want , on what I want , from where I want . I would n't have it any other way . <h> Traveling through Southeast Asia <p> After Bali , I made my way through Java , then Singapore . <p> I met my mom in Malaysia and went with her to Angkor Wat in Cambodia . Then I continued solo to Thailand and Vietnam . <p> I visited a top-50 bar in Singapore , learned to scuba dive in Koh Lanta , saw the largest Buddhist temple in the world at sunrise in central Java , and did a six-day motorcycle trip through Ha Giang . <p> While it 's easy enough to get by with English in Southeast Asia , I always learn " hello " and " thank you " in the local language and do Duolingo . For every country I go to , I try to read a book about it , listen to their Top 100 , and take up a regular activity popular with residents like soccer or volleyball . <p> After Vietnam , I had to spend the next couple of years back and forth to the US . <p> I realized that the nomadic lifestyle , and entrepreneurship , were no longer an experiment for me . I was committed for the long haul . <p> So , I doubled down on my business , investing in more systems and support . I also joined nomad communities like WiFi Tribe and stayed at co-livings so I could build digital nomad friendships and relationships . <p> I even started a digital nomad site , Duraca Travels , to help people navigate this lifestyle , including how to handle working abroad , balance fulfilling work and adventure , and practical advice on finances , taxes , medical insurance , and more . <h> Traveling through Latin America <p> I went paragliding in Bogota , hiked Guatemala 's Acatenango to watch the erupting Fuego volcano , and celebrated D ? a de los Muertos in Oaxaca . <p> Being a bilingual Latina , I felt at home and easily connected with locals . My best advice for traveling in Latin America is to venture beyond the top tourist destinations . Residents will be more excited to meet you and genuinely engage . <p> Take Peru , for example . Most people will only visit Lima , Macchu Picchu , and maybe Cusco and Arequipa . I highly recommend checking out the Amazonian rainforest in Iquitos , the Kuelap ruins in Chachapoyas that rival Macchu Picchu , and hiking in Huaraz with fewer crowds . <h> Traveling through Europe <p> I was never eager to get to Europe : I felt like it would always be there , and would only get better as I got older and had more money to enjoy it . <p> In addition to Italy , I went to Greece , Spain , France , Albania , and Romania . <p> I scootered up the Amalfi Coast , spoke at a travel conference in San Sebastian , learned via Ferrata in Brian ? on , and celebrated my 35th birthday with friends who flew from all over the world to sail with me in Paros . <p> One of the best things about traveling in Europe is how close everything is to each other and how easy it is to take public transportation . <p> Some people feel it 's difficult to befriend Europeans as an outsider . But I largely found people who were warm , kind , happy to help , and patient with me practicing their language . <p> In a way , being a digital nomad is my extreme solution to work-life balance . I 've had more once-in-a-lifetime experiences in the last five years than I would have in a lifetime if I 'd stayed at my 9 to 5 in DC . <p> Next is my Africa chapter . I ca n't wait to see who I 'll meet and what I 'll learn . <p> Fears of a global trade war are growing as Donald Trump intensifies his rhetoric against the BRICS nations -- Brazil , Russia , India , China , and South Africa -- along with newly joined members like Iran , Saudi Arabia , and the UAE . <p> Demi Moore has a tried-and-true approach when choosing her next film roles -- and it might not be what you think . The veteran actress appeared on a recent episode of Sean Evans ' popular Hot Ones video interview series , revealing that a certain degree of risk is crucial to the projects she takes on -- including ... <p> If there 's proof that a diet rich in fruits and vegetables is the key to a long life , former Dole Food owner David Murdock , now 101 years old , is it . When he sold the tiny Hawaii Island of Lanai to Oracle owner Larry Ellison for $300 million twelve years ago , he did so with one proviso -- that he keep the 1-acre parcel where he had built an oceanfront vacation home , expecting to live out the remainder of his life in paradise on the island that once hosted one of the world 's largest pineapple plan <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza . <p> Margot Robbie appeared on the " Talking Pictures " podcast with TCM 's Ben Mankiewicz and revealed that her " Wolf of Wall Street " director Martin Scorsese actually offered her the chance not to appear fully nude in the film . Robbie has a full frontal scene as Naomi Lapaglia , the bombshell and no-nonsense wife to Leonardo DiCaprio 's criminal Jordan ... 
@@118364175 <p> The Israeli military said Monday that Omer Neutra , a dual American Israeli citizen who was serving in the Israeli Defense Forces during Hamas ' attack on Oct. 7 , 2023 , died that day . <p> The 21-year-old was previously thought to have been taken hostage , sparking hope he might one day come home alive along with the roughly 100 other people believed to still be in Hamas ' captivity . <p> It 's unclear why the Israeli military refrained from clarifying that Neutra was deceased until today , with Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz writing on social media that Neutra " fell in a heroic battle " on Oct. 7 . <p> Neutra 's parents , Ronen and Orna Neutra , told CNN last week they 'd hoped the ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon might lead to progress on a similar agreement with Hamas and the release of their son . <p> " We have seen that attention both in Israel and around the world was taken from the war in Gaza to the war in Lebanon in the last four or five months , and that was a concern to us , " Ronen Neutra said . " But at the same time , we are disappointed that it was not combined with a hostage deal , which is really the most urgent element right now . We consider it a missed opportunity . " <p> An image of Omer Neutra hangs on a gate in Krakow , Poland , on Jan. 1 , 2024 . NurPhoto via Getty Images <p> The two also visited President Joe Biden at the White House less than a month ago , where presumably they made a similar plea . <p> Biden paid tribute to Omer Neutra , a Long Island native , in a statement Monday , saying he and first lady Jill Biden were " devastated and outraged " to learn of Neutra 's death . <p> " Less than a month ago , Omer 's mother and father joined me at the White House to share the pain they 've endured as they prayed for the safe return of their son -- pain no parent should ever know , " Biden said . " They told me how Omer 's grandparents were Holocaust survivors and how their family 's strength and resilience has been carried through the generations . " <p> " During this dark hour -- as our nation joins Omer 's parents , brother , and family in grieving this tragic loss -- we pray to find strength and resilience , " he continued . " And to all the families of those still held hostage : We see you . We are with you . And I will not stop working to bring your loved ones back home where they belong . " <h> Latest stories <p> A disturbing video showing American-Israeli hostage Edan Alexander was released Saturday night by Hamas . In the heavily edited propaganda video , Alexander , 20 , pleads for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President-elect Donald Trump to free him and the other 100 hostages held by Hamas . " The fear is at its peak , and we are dying a thousand times every day that passes , and no one ... <p> Hamas said on Monday that 33 hostages in Gaza had been killed during the almost 14-month-old war between the Palestinian militant group and Israel in the enclave , without giving their nationalities . Hamas added that other hostages had gone missing . Hamas shortly afterward published a video it said detailed when and how the hostages had been killed , blaming Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for their fate . <p> President-elect Trump on Monday threatened to unleash " hell " in the Middle East if hostages held by Hamas in the Gaza Strip are not released before his inauguration Jan. 20 , underscoring urgency to President Biden 's efforts to secure a hostage release and ceasefire deal in his final months in office . In a post on his social ... <p> Paris stocks wobbled and the euro fell Monday as a budget standoff in France fueled concern about the eurozone 's second-biggest economy.Paris stocks , which wobbled in afternoon trading , ended the day flat . <p> Once presenting itself as one of the world 's most welcoming countries to refugees and immigrants , Canada is launching a global online ad campaign cautioning asylum-seekers that making a claim is hard . The C$250,000 ( $178,662 ) in advertisements will run through March in 11 languages , including Spanish , Urdu , Ukrainian , Hindi and Tamil , the immigration department told Reuters . Search queries such as " how to claim asylum in Canada " and " refugee Canada " will prompt sponsored content titled " Canada 's asylum system -- Asylum Facts , " the ministry said . <p> MANILA ( Reuters ) -President Ferdinand Marcos Jr . said on Monday the presence of a Russian attack submarine in the Philippines ' exclusive economic zone ( EEZ ) in the South China Sea was " very worrisome " . A Russian Kilo-class submarine was sighted 80 nautical miles off the western province of Occidental Mindoro on Nov. 28 , Navy spokesperson Roy Vincent Trinidad said in a statement on Monday , confirming a report by the Philippine Daily Inquirer newspaper . <p> Fears of a global trade war are growing as Donald Trump intensifies his rhetoric against the BRICS nations -- Brazil , Russia , India , China , and South Africa -- along with newly joined members like Iran , Saudi Arabia , and the UAE . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza . <p> Months after running an internal pressure campaign that nudged President Joe Biden out of the 2024 election , former House Leader Nancy Pelosi ( D-CA ) is plotting another ouster within the Democratic Party . The representative for California 's 11th congressional district -- who stepped down as Leader of the House Democratic Caucus last year after two decades -- is targeting the top member of her party on the Judiciary Committee , Rep. Jerry Nadler ( D-NY ) , the New York Times reported . Pelosi is among a gro <p> President-elect Donald Trump has opted to keep it in the family again with some of his latest administrative picks-- this time , with the senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . Trump has appointed Lebanon billionaire Massad Boulos to take on the role . His son , Michael , is married to Tiffany Trump , the president 's youngest daughter . " Massad is an accomplished lawyer and a highly respected leader in the business world , with extensive experience on the International scene , " Trump wrote o 
@@118364177 <p> In anticipation of more hostility toward abortion under President-elect Donald Trump 's administration , California lawmakers announced two new pieces of legislation Monday aimed at protecting medication abortion and punishing local governments that interfere with access to reproductive health care . <p> California Attorney General Rob Bonta announced the bills at a press conference , saying Californians are in an " urgent and dangerous situation " with Trump returning to office and Republicans soon controlling both chambers in Congress . <p> One of the legislative proposals , the Medication Abortion Access bill , seeks to ensure that medication abortion ? a two-pill regimen of mifepristone and misoprostol ? is protected and available everywhere in California , including in its so-called health care deserts where medical providers are harder to come by . <p> " Rights do n't really do us any good if we ca n't access them , " said Assemblymember-elect Maggy Krell , who co-authored the bill with Majority Leader Cecilia Aguiar-Curry . The goal of the bill is to ensure that medication abortion ? the most common way of terminating a pregnancy ? is " not just a constitutional right that lives in a constitutional document on paper , " she said . <p> California Attorney General Rob Bonta speaks at a news conference in front of the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco on Nov. 7. via Associated Press <p> The legislation " will ensure that patients and providers have access to what they need , to mifepristone , to misoprostol , and protect the transportation , the mailing , the supplying of everything that would be needed for a medication abortion , " Krell continued at Monday 's press conference . <p> The full text of the bill and its strategies have not yet been released . <p> The legislation comes as reproductive rights advocates warn that Trump could invoke the the Comstock Act ? a 150-year-old law that criminalizes sending " obscene " materials in the mail , including anything " intended for producing abortion " ? to ban medication abortion , which has become a crucial access point since the fall of Roe v. Wade in 2022 . <p> After months of pressure for him to clarify his stance , Trump said on the campaign trail that he would n't enforce the Comstock Act . But critics are skeptical of such a promise given that many of his allies , including Vice President-elect JD Vance , have advocated for using it to crack down on medication abortion . <p> The other California legislation announced Monday would broaden Bonta 's powers to enforce the Reproductive Privacy Act , an existing statute banning the state from interfering in a patient 's decision to access abortion . If passed , Bonta would be able to slap those who violate it with financial penalties . <p> " This is not a hypothetical , " Bonta said Monday , saying city officials in Beverly Hills illegally colluded earlier this year to stop an abortion clinic from opening there . <p> " We were able to prevent Beverly Hills from taking this type of action again , but we were n't able to seek financial penalties that would in turn further disincentivize government actors from violating the law , " Bonta said . <p> The bills ' announcement comes the same day California Gov . Gavin Newsom convened a special session on Trump-proofing some of the state 's laws . He plans to ask the legislature to approve additional funding to Bonta 's office in preparation with legal fights with the Trump administration . <p> " We 're not going to be caught flat-footed , " Newsom said at a press conference earlier this month . " We want to be prepared as early as Jan. 20 . " <p> Speaking Monday , Bonta said it 's California 's duty to inspire every state to its east . <p> " At times in this nation , when people 's rights and freedoms are under attack , when they 're at risk ? as is so often the case ? people look west across this country , " he said . " They look west to California to see what the largest state in the nation , the fifth-largest economy in the world , the most diverse state in the nation , is doing . And here 's what they 'll see . " <p> He noted that his office sued the previous Trump administration more than 120 times and won a supermajority of those cases . <p> Minnesota Republicans filed a lawsuit Monday to try to force a rerun of a state House race where the incumbent Democrat won by 14 votes -- but in which investigators concluded that election workers probably destroyed 20 valid absentee ballots after failing to count them . It 's a race that could determine the balance of power in the Minnesota House , where leaders from both parties are working out the details of a power-sharing agreement that currently presumes a 67-67 tie when the Legislature convenes next month . A Republican victory in a special election could shift that balance to a two-vote , 68-66 GOP majority . <p> Nine people were killed in Israeli strikes on villages in southern Lebanon Monday , after Israel said it was taking aim at dozens of Hezbollah targets in retaliation for an attack claimed by the militant group amid a fragile ceasefire . Lebanon 's health ministry said the strikes killed five people and wounded two in the village of Haris " in an initial toll " , while in the village of Tallous , another four people were killed and one wounded . <p> Months after running an internal pressure campaign that nudged President Joe Biden out of the 2024 election , former House Leader Nancy Pelosi ( D-CA ) is plotting another ouster within the Democratic Party . The representative for California 's 11th congressional district -- who stepped down as Leader of the House Democratic Caucus last year after two decades -- is targeting the top member of her party on the Judiciary Committee , Rep. Jerry Nadler ( D-NY ) , the New York Times reported . Pelosi is among a gro <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza . <p> MANILA ( Reuters ) -President Ferdinand Marcos Jr . said on Monday the presence of a Russian attack submarine in the Philippines ' exclusive economic zone ( EEZ ) in the South China Sea was " very worrisome " . A Russian Kilo-class submarine was sighted 80 nautical miles off the western province of Occidental Mindoro on Nov. 28 , Navy spokesperson Roy Vincent Trinidad said in a statement on Monday , confirming a report by the Philippine Daily Inquirer newspaper . <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's stunning announcement that he will nominate Kash Patel as FBI director sets the stage for a fresh round of turbulence at a law enforcement agency tasked with protecting the homeland and investigating federal crimes . Patel , a steadfast Trump ally with plans to shake up the bureau , is a study in contrasts from the current tight-lipped director , Christopher Wray , who preaches a " keep calm and tackle hard " mantra . In selecting Patel late Saturday over more conventional contenders , the incoming Republican president is again testing the loyalty of Senate Republicans and their willingness to defy him . <p> Malaysia has urged Chinese companies to refrain from using it as a base to " rebadge " products to avoid U.S. tariffs , its deputy trade minister said on Monday , amid increasing export restrictions and concerns of a U.S.-China trade war . Washington is expected to further curb exports to Chinese semiconductor toolmakers and sales of certain chipmaking equipment , including products manufactured in Malaysia , Singapore and Taiwan , sources have told Reuters . Malaysia is a major player in the semiconductor industry , accounting for 13% of global testing and packaging , and is seen as well placed to grab further business in the sector as Chinese chip firms diversify overseas for assembling needs . <p> President Joe Biden pardoned his son , Hunter , on Sunday just days before he was scheduled to be sentenced in separate federal gun and tax cases -- marking an about face for the lame-duck president . " From the day I took office , I said I would not interfere with the Justice Department 's decision-making , and I kept my word even as I have watched my son being selectively , and unfairly , prosecuted , " Biden said in a statement . The president accused his " political opponents in Congress " of pursuing the pr <p> Just in , a hot take from everyone 's least favorite senator on the nomination of Kash Patel as incoming FBI chief . Speaking with CBS 's Face The Nation on Sunday , Republican Sen. Ted Cruz ( R-TX ) told host Major Garett that criticism of Patel 's perceived lack of qualifications for the post has come only from commentators alarmed at the prospect of a " real reformer " heading up the agency . " I got ta say , all of the weeping and gnashing of teeth , people pulling their hair out , are the people dismayed a <p> Once presenting itself as one of the world 's most welcoming countries to refugees and immigrants , Canada is launching a global online ad campaign cautioning asylum-seekers that making a claim is hard . The C$250,000 ( $178,662 ) in advertisements will run through March in 11 languages , including Spanish , Urdu , Ukrainian , Hindi and Tamil , the immigration department told Reuters . Search queries such as " how to claim asylum in Canada " and " refugee Canada " will prompt sponsored content titled " Canada 's asylum system -- Asylum Facts , " the ministry said . 
@@118364876 <h> Trump 's threat came days after Hamas released a video showing an Israeli-American hostage pleading for his release <p> Fox News correspondent Lucas Tomlinson reports on the latest developments relating to the Biden administration 's foreign policy in the Middle East on ' Fox News Live . ' <p> President-elect Trump promised there would be " all hell to pay " if the hostages being held captive by Hamas are not released prior to when he takes office on Jan. 20 . <p> In a Truth Social post , Trump said nothing was being done to free those being held by the Iran-backed terror group since Oct. 7 , 2023 , after Hamas attacked Israel and killed at least 1,200 people and kidnapped at least 250 others . <p> President Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu shake hands at the Israel Museum in Jerusalem . Trump has promised " hell to pay " if hostages being held by Hamas are not released prior to when he takes office on Jan. 20 . ( AP/Sebastian Scheiner ) <p> " Everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire World , in the Middle East -- But it 's all talk , and no action ! " Trump wrote . <p> " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump added . <p> On Saturday , Hamas released a video of an Israeli-American hostage pleading for his release . <p> The footage shows Edan Alexander , 20 , covering his face and crying . He was abducted by Hamas terrorists on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Edan Alexander , born in Tel Aviv and raised in New Jersey , is currently being held hostage by Hamas in Gaza . ( Hostage Family Forum ) <p> Alexander explained that he had been a prisoner for over 420 days and delivered forced messages to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Trump . Netanyahu spoke with Alexander 's family and is determined " to take every action to bring them back home , " his office said Monday . <p> Trump said those responsible for taking the hostages " will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . " <p> More than a year after the attacks , a permanent cease-fire deal between Israel and Hamas remains elusive . Israeli forces continue to conduct military operations in Gaza . <p> A cease-fire deal between Israel and Lebanon was reached in November following a year of attacks targeting Israel 's north by Hezbollah . On Monday , Israel said Hezbollah broke the cease-fire by launching two projectiles . No one was harmed . <h> Fox News Politics <p> By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button , you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use , and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News . You understand that you can opt-out at any time . 
@@118365968 <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu speaks during a memorial ceremony for Israelis killed on the Hebrew calendar anniversary of the Hamas attack on October 7 last year that sparked the ongoing war in Gaza , at the Mount Herzl military cemetery in Jerusalem , Oct. 27 , 2024 . <h> Latest headlines : <h> IDF says it 's hitting targets in Lebanon <p> The IDF said it is striking targets in southern Lebanon on Monday after Hezbollah officials said earlier they fired on an Israeli target . <p> " We will respond decisively to Hezbollah 's severe violation of the ceasefire -- and will continue to do so . We have plans and targets ready to be carried out and at any given moment , " the Chief of the General Staff , LTG Herzi Halevi , said Monday . <p> In this picture taken from Marjayoun , thick smoke rises from explosions as Israeli forces reportedly demolish dwellings in the border town of Khiam in southern Lebanon , Dec. 1 , 2024 . <p> -/AFP via Getty Images <p> 12:35 PM EST <h> Hezbollah says it fired on Israeli target in southern Lebanon <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu speaks during a memorial ceremony for Israelis killed on the Hebrew calendar anniversary of the Hamas attack on October 7 last year that sparked the ongoing war in Gaza , at the Mount Herzl military cemetery in Jerusalem , Oct. 27 , 2024 . <p> Gil Cohen-Magen/POOL/AFP via Getty Images <p> Hezbollah officials said Monday they fired on an Israeli target in southern Lebanon , accusing Israel of " repeated violations " of the ceasefire agreement . <p> The Israel Defense Forces said Hezbollah launched two projectiles toward the area of Har Dov . There were no injuries , with the projectiles falling in open space , the IDF said . <p> " We are determined to continue enforcing the ceasefire , and to respond to any violation by Hezbollah -- minor or serious , " Netanyahu said . <p> 12:27 PM EST <h> Family of dead Israeli-American soldier release statement <p> The family of Omer Maxim Neutra , the Israeli-American soldier who had been believed to be in Hamas captivity , released a statement Monday after it was confirmed he was killed Oct. 7 . <p> " Our hearts are shattered with this devastating news , " the family said . " The Neutra family is deeply grieving and are requesting the public , who has shown great support throughout this journey , to please respect their privacy until they are formally ready to announce the next steps . " <p> " May Omer 's memory be a blessing , " they added . <p> 6:46 AM EST <h> Netanyahu vows to recover body of US-Israeli soldier from Gaza <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his wife , Sara Netanyahu , said in a joint statement Monday they " will not rest or be silent " until the body of killed U.S.-Israeli soldier Omer Neutra is recovered from the Gaza Strip . <p> The Israel Defense Forces confirmed Monday that Neutra , 21 , was killed during Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack into southern Israel and his body taken back into Gaza . Neutra -- who was originally from New York -- was previously thought to have been taken hostage . He was serving as a tank platoon commander at the time of the attack . 
@@118366563 <h> Syria rebels take control of Aleppo , government forces counterattack Photos <p> Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , a breakaway faction of al-Qaeda , had staged a surprise offensive on the major city of Aleppo <p> Share Via <p> Copy Link <p> 1 / 8 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Published on Dec 02 , 2024 02:23 PM IST <h> Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , a breakaway faction of al-Qaeda , had staged a surprise offensive on the major city of Aleppo and other northern areas of the nation . ( AFP ) <p> 2 / 8 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Published on Dec 02 , 2024 02:23 PM IST <h> Government forces lost control of Syria 's second city Aleppo on on December 1 , for the first time since the country 's civil conflict began , the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said , dealing a severe blow to President Bashar al-Assad . ( Photo by AAREF WATAD / AFP ) <p> 3 / 8 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Published on Dec 02 , 2024 02:23 PM IST <h> The photo shows people crossing an anti-government checkpoint as return to the town of Saraqib in the eastern part of the Idlib province in northwestern Syria . This marks the fifth day since the takeover . Russian and Iranian backed militias have also entered Syria to fight the rebels . ( AFP ) <p> 4 / 8 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Published on Dec 02 , 2024 02:23 PM IST <h> Anti-government fighters tore up posters of President Bashar al Assad a atfter taking over the northern Syrian town of Tal Rifaat . The president has reportedly fled to ally Russia . ( AFP ) <p> 5 / 8 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Published on Dec 02 , 2024 02:23 PM IST <h> The United States and its allies France , Germany and Britain , on Sunday , called for " de-escalation " in Syria and urged in a joint statement for the protection of civilians and infrastructure . ( Photo by Rami al SAYED / AFP ) <p> 6 / 8 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Published on Dec 02 , 2024 02:23 PM IST <h> On Monday , US-backed forces arranged for the evacuation of Kurds after around 200,000 Syrian Kurds were " besieged by pro-Turkey factions " who took over the town of Tal Rifaat and nearby villages . They also burned flags with images of Kurdish leaders . ( AFP ) <p> 7 / 8 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Published on Dec 02 , 2024 02:23 PM IST <h> An anti-government fighter steps on Syrian pro government military grades in this picture taken in the northern town of Minagh . The president 's allies in Iran and Russia have found it difficult to push back against the rebels due to the military needs of the Ukraine war and the crisis in Gaza , reported Bloomberg . ( AFP ) <p> 8 / 8 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Published on Dec 02 , 2024 02:23 PM IST <h> The government has been launching air strikes to deter the rebels . Government airstrikes in Idlib killed at least three civilians , including two children , and wounded 11 others , said the Syrian Civil Defense , known as the White Helmets , which operates in opposition-held areas . ( AP Photo/Omar Albam ) 
@@118366876 <h> Editorial : Hezbollah deal bad news for Hamas , good for world <h> Share this : <p> Activists sit blindfolded to mark one year in the Hebrew calendar since the Hamas terrorist attack on Israel while hostages are still held in Gaza , in Tel Aviv , Israel late last month . ( AP Photo/Oded Balilty , File ) <p> It was n't a good Thanksgiving for Hamas . Not that the terrorist group celebrates the American holiday , but it has to be feeling particularly un-thankful as its chokehold on horror seems to be slipping following the Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire deal . <p> " I do think that Hamas is feeling the pressure . They 're feeling the pressure because one of their main partners in crime here , Hezbollah , has now cut a ceasefire deal , and they thought that Hezbollah would be with them till the end , " White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan told CBS 's " Face the Nation " Sunday . <p> The deal to end fighting across the Israeli-Lebanon border was reached last Tuesday , and spurred a new energy for a ceasefire in Gaza from the Biden administration , as The Hill reported . <p> Peace is bad news for Hamas , its objective has and continues to be the annihilation of Jews and Israel . Hence the Oct. 7 , 2023 massacre of innocents , spree of atrocities and kidnapping of hostages into Gaza . <p> Sullivan added that Hamas is also feeling pressure after the October killing of Yahya Sinwar , the head of Hamas and the architect of the Oct. 7 terrorist attack . <p> " They 're feeling the pressure , of course , because their top leader , Sinwar , has been killed , " Sullivan said . " So , they may be looking anew at the possibility of getting a ceasefire and hostage deal . And we are working actively with all of the key players in the region , including Israel and Turkey and Qatar and Egypt , to try to bring that about . In the coming days , conversations will be happening , even this very day , to try to make that happen as soon as possible . " <p> Hamas has scored a win on one front : propaganda . By hiding hostages amid the civilian Palestinian population in Gaza , it guaranteed that more innocent lives would be lost as Israel fought to bring the hostages home and rout out the terrorists . The impassioned and uninformed rebel class thriving on U.S. college campuses has parroted Hamas ' anti-Israel propaganda with glee . <p> The hostages mean nothing to them , and incidents of people tearing down posters of the men , women and children still being held in Gaza made for shameful headlines . <p> It has n't stopped . <p> As the New York Post reported , a staffer in New York City Mayor Eric Adams administration whose mission includes fostering " unity " and bridging " cultural divides , " is under fire for ripping down an Israeli hostage poster . <p> Nallah Sutherland , a special event coordinator for the Mayor 's Office of Special Projects and Community Events , was spotted earlier this month tearing down the poster from an Upper East Side light pole , ripping it up and dumping it in a trash bin , according to video posted online by the social media platform Jews of NY and nonprofit StopAntisemitism . <p> A City Hall source told The Post that Sutherland , 25 , got a disciplinary note added to her permanent work file and was required to take " multicultural training . " <p> Enraging ? Yes . Surprising , no . <p> Antisemitism has soared since Oct. 7 around the U.S. and globally , with Jews being blamed , essentially , for attacks against them . Repercussions for antisemitic actors are anemic . <p> But the Israel-Hezbollah cease-fire offers hope : the possibility of a Middle East without the talons of terrorists like Hezbollah , Hamas and others choking the life out of the region . 
@@118374662 <h> ' Unnecessary &amp; brutal attack , just like Hamas . ' <p> Texans linebacker Azeez Al-Shaair sparked an uproar after an illegal hit on Jaguars quarterback Trevor Lawrence on Sunday that left him with a concussion . <p> Featured Video <p> But the backlash has been compounded by the fact that Al-Shaair was wearing cleats with a pro-Palestine message . <p> Lawrence is a devout Christian , leading some posters online to insinuate he was targeted over his beliefs ( and not because it was a football game ) . <p> Video of the dirty play shows Al-Shaair hitting Lawrence after the quarterback already started sliding to the ground , slamming his head into the turf . The move quickly prompted an all-out brawl , with Jaguars players coming to Lawrence 's defense . <p> Advertisement <p> This should be a suspension for the rest of the season for Azeez Al-Shaair -- UNACCEPTABLE , dangerous attack **26;1557;TOOLONG <p> Another critic shared a photo of Al-Shaair 's cleats , which were decorated with the " Free Palestine " message as part of the NFL 's My Cause My Cleats program , which allows players to raise money for specific charities . <p> Funds from Al-Shaair 's cleats went to the Palestine Children Relief Fund . <p> The cleats state that at least 41,788 Palestinians have been killed in the war in Gaza and that nearly 100,000 have been wounded . <p> " It is no coincidence that terrorist sympathizer Azeez Al-Shaair acted like one on the field today , " the poster said . <p> " Send him on a one way flight to Palestine ! " commented another right-winger about the hit . <p> As Al-Shaair continued to face calls for a full-on suspension , he released a statement Monday morning saying he " genuinely did n't see him sliding until it was too late . " <p> " I would never want to see any player hurt because of a hit I put on them especially one that 's deemed ' late ' or ' unnecessary , ' " he wrote , adding later that reporters , people , and " racist and islamophobic fans " do not know his heart nor his intentions . <p> Advertisement <p> Lawrence , for his part , posted an update Sunday night as well , telling fans he appreciated everyone reaching out and praying , saying that he was " home and feeling better . " <p> Internet culture is chaotic -- but we 'll break it down for you in one daily email . Sign up for the Daily Dot 's webcrawlr newsletter here . You 'll get the best ( and worst ) of the internet straight into your inbox . <p> Katherine Huggins is a New York-based journalist and freelance contributor to the Daily Dot 's tech and politics section . She helps cover the United Nations for the Japanese newspaper Mainichi and previously reported on the 2022 midterm elections for Marketwatch . Her work has appeared in USA Today , Forbes , OpenSecrets and more . 
@@118408267 <p> Thirty-eight Vietnamese tourists have reportedly disappeared in South Korea after arriving in the country through the southern Jeju island last month . <p> The tourists were part of a group of around 90 tourists who arrived on the island on 14 November . However , 38 of them disappeared during the final stop of their itinerary before they were set to depart to Vietnam , officials said . <p> The rest of the group members boarded the return flight but those who did not have been reported missing to the authorities . <p> Foreign tourists in the resort island can stay up to 30 days without a visa under the visa waiver programme . The programme , which is part of the Special Act on the Establishment of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province , allows people from 64 countries to stay on the island for up to 30 days without a visa . <p> However , travellers can not travel to other parts of South Korea , such as Seoul or Busan , unless they have a valid visa for the mainland . <p> The missing tourists are only allowed to stay on the island till 14 December under the visa waiver programme and will be considered illegal tourists after the deadline . <p> The Jeju Immigration Office said it is working to find the missing tourists and reviewing CCTV footage of the hotel and streets around it . <p> " We are currently analyzing closed-circuit ( CC ) TV to find out where the Vietnamese tourists disappeared , " an official from the Jeju Immigration and Foreign Affairs Agency said . <p> " We plan to organize a Jeju visa-free fugitive arrest team to start a full-fledged arrest . " <p> This is not the first time tourists have been reported missing on the island . Many of these situations involve individuals overstaying their permitted time or attempting to remain on the island illegally , taking advantage of Jeju 's visa-free entry programme . <p> In 2022 , at least 55 Thai tourists who arrived in Jeju island with a package tour group disappeared during their holiday . They were suspected of taking illegal jobs in various parts of the country . <p> Project Sunrise , Qantas 's bid to conquer the " tyranny of distance " , inches closer , with the airline pressing ahead with plans to launch non-stop services from both Sydney and Melbourne to London in 2026 . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza . <p> China announced Tuesday it is banning exports to the United States of gallium , germanium , antimony and other key high-tech materials with potential military applications , as a general principle , lashing back at U.S. limits on semiconductor-related exports . The Chinese Commerce Ministry announced the move after the Washington expanded its list of Chinese companies subject to export controls on computer chip-making equipment , software and high-bandwidth memory chips . <p> People were seen blocking a military vehicle as it tried to leave an area near South Korea 's parliament late Tuesday . Protesters gathered in front of the Parliament building after South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol declared martial law , vowing to eliminate " anti-state " forces as he struggles against an opposition that controls the country 's parliament and that he accuses of sympathizing with communist North Korea . <p> Yoon Suk Yeol 's decision comes after parliament voted to block the order , with the speaker of the National Assembly , Woo Won Shik , declaring it " invalid " and saying politicians would " protect democracy with the people " . The president had said in a TV address on Tuesday night he was putting the military in temporary charge to defend the constitutional order and " eradicate the despicable pro-North Korean anti-state forces " . <p> The star won critical acclaim as 007 in 2006 's Casino Royale but its 2008 follow up left critics cold , before a return to form with Sam Mendes ' 2012 effort , Skyfall . Speaking to The Hollywood Reporter , Craig explained that industrial action in Hollywood led to him improvising several scenes , a process he described as a , " f**king nightmare " . " Paul Haggis did a pass on the script , then he went off and joined a picket line , and we did n't have writers , so we did n't have a script . We probably should never have gone and started production , ... " <p> WILMINGTON , Delaware ( Reuters ) -A Delaware judge ruled on Monday that Tesla CEO Elon Musk still is not entitled to receive a $56 billion compensation package despite shareholders of the electric vehicle company voting in June to reinstate it . The ruling by the judge , Chancellor Kathaleen McCormick of the Court of Chancery , follows her January decision that called the pay package excessive and rescinded it , surprising investors , and cast uncertainty over Musk 's future at the world 's most valuable carmaker . In a post on X after the decision , Musk said that " shareholders should control company votes , not judges . " 
@@118408268 <p> When those pop , they produce a small but powerful pressure wave that scours grime from the skin -- the same process used to clean electrical components that ca n't be washed with chemicals . <p> Just like so many things nowadays from smartphones to restaurants , the wash pod offers far more than its primary function . <p> In this case , an innovative artificial intelligence system AI analyzes the aforementioned biomarkers to see if the customer is calm or excited and then projects a specially chosen video onto the plastic pod 's interior to calm their nerves . <p> AI analyzes biomarkers to see if the customer is calm or excited and then projects a specially chosen video onto the plastic pod 's interior to calm their nerves . Television OSAKA NEWS <p> The bathtub uses sensors to ensure that the bather is washed at the proper temperature . Television OSAKA NEWS <p> As a result , the user receives a psychological deep-clean to go with the physical one , the company claims . <p> This technology might seem cutting-edge , but it 's actually a case of rinse and repeat : It 's based on a machine exhibited at the 1970 Japan World Exposition by the Sanyo Electric Co. , now Panasonic Holdings Corp . <p> That tech , dubbed the Ultrasonic Bath , also filled with water when the user climbed in , then released ultrasound waves as well as plastic balls to massage the bather 's body . <p> While the device never took off , Aoyama -- who waited in line as a fourth grader to try the bath at that time -- was inspired to create his own automated people scrubber . <p> " It made me excited , thinking about what kind of future there would be , " said the bathtub boss . " We will offer a new human washing machine as a legacy from the 1970 expo . " <p> Just like with its predecessor , he plans to exhibit the Mirai Ningen Sentakuki in April at Expo 2025 in Osaka , where 1,000 people will get to give the state-of-the-art scrubber a whirl . <p> The company is already accepting reservations for the automated bathtub on its website . <p> But do n't worry if you ca n't jet to Osaka to try it out -- the company is planning to debut a home edition in the future . <p> China and Japan are experiencing the worst slide in public sentiment towards each other in two decades , with nearly 90 per cent of respondents harbouring a negative view of their neighbour , according to a new joint poll . The 20th Japan-China Joint Public Opinion Poll was released on Monday by Tokyo-based think tank The Genron NPO and Beijing-based China International Publishing Group , ahead of the annual Tokyo-Beijing Forum . In the survey , 87.7 per cent of Chinese respondents said they had a neg <p> China must protect its overseas interests related to the Belt and Road Initiative ( BRI ) amid growing global risks , President Xi Jinping said on Monday . Speaking at a working conference on BRI projects , Beijing 's sprawling effort to build out a global infrastructure and trade network that connects to China , Xi warned that the international environment has become " tough and complicated " . " In recent years , the world has entered a new period of turbulence and change , with a significant rise in unila <p> Malaysia 's jailed ex-leader Najib Razak began his defence Monday against graft charges tied to more than $500 million in alleged bribes and several counts of money laundering , saying they were " politically motivated " . The case involves 2.27 billion ringgit ( $510 million ) in alleged bribes and 21 counts of money laundering . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza . <p> China announced Tuesday it is banning exports to the United States of gallium , germanium , antimony and other key high-tech materials with potential military applications , as a general principle , lashing back at U.S. limits on semiconductor-related exports . The Chinese Commerce Ministry announced the move after the Washington expanded its list of Chinese companies subject to export controls on computer chip-making equipment , software and high-bandwidth memory chips . 
@@118410776 <h> Taylor Swift topped this year 's list by signing an Instagram post in September as " Taylor Swift Childless Cat Lady " while endorsing Harris for president . <p> From " Childless Cat Lady " to " They 're eating the cats , " Yale University 's list of 2024 's most notable quotations delves into the worlds of presidential politics , entertainment and conspiracy theories while saving room for sports , business and protests against the war in Gaza . <p> Taylor Swift performs during the opening show of the Toronto dates of The Eras Tour on Thursday , Nov. 14 , 2024 . ( Chris Young/The Canadian Press via AP ) ( AP ) <p> The remark was a reference to three-year-old comments made by JD Vance , the Republican vice president-elect , as he described Democrats as beholden to " a bunch of childless cat ladies who are miserable at their own lives and the choices that they 've made and so they want to make the rest of the country miserable , too . " <p> President Joe Biden and President-elect Donald Trump took the next two spots on the list . Biden came in at No. 2 with his recent announcement that he was pardoning his son Hunter . Trump followed with his false claim that , " In Springfield , they 're eating the dogs , the people that came in . They 're eating the cats " during his September debate against Harris . <p> Trump 's comment about Springfield , Ohio , amplified false rumors that Haitian immigrants were abducting and eating pets , repeating inflammatory and anti-immigrant rhetoric he promoted throughout his campaigns . <p> Trump also came in at No. 5 with " Fight ! Fight ! Fight ! " after an assassination attempt in Butler , Pennsylvania . <p> The notable quotations list , compiled each year by Fred Shapiro , an associate director at the Yale Law Library , is a supplement to The New Yale Book of Quotations , which is edited by Shapiro and published by Yale University Press . <p> " Please note that the items on this list are not necessarily eloquent or admirable quotations , rather they have been picked because they are famous or important or particularly revealing of the spirit of our times , " Shapiro said . <p> 6 . " Yes they can control the weather . " -- Georgia U.S. Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene , posting on the social media platform X , Oct. 2 , 2024 , endorsing a conspiracy theory that the government used weather control technology to aim Hurricane Helene at Republican voters . <p> 7 . " Some of you ( women ) may go on to lead successful careers in the world , but I would venture to guess that the majority of you are most excited about your marriage and the children you will bring into this world . " -- Kansas City Chiefs football player Harrison Butker , commencement address at Benedictine College , Atchison , Kansas , May 11 , 2024 . <p> 8 . " Does calling for the genocide of Jews violate Harvard 's rules on bullying and harassment ? " -- New York U.S. Rep. Elise Stefanik , House of Representatives Education and Workforce Committee hearing , Dec. 5 , 2023 , questioning now-former Harvard President Claudine Gay on how the university responded to instances of antisemitism on campus . <p> 9 . " OMG. " -- New York Mets baseball player Jos ? Iglesias , title of song released in 2024 . <p> 10 . " The court reaches the following conclusion : Google is a monopolist . " -- U.S. District Judge Amit Mehta in Washington , D.C. , Aug. 5 , 2024 , ruling in an antitrust lawsuit by the U.S. Justice Department against Google . <p> Catch every big hit , ... <p> See more <p> Catch every big hit , every wicket with Crickit , a one stop destination for Live Scores , Match Stats , Infographics &amp; much more . Explore now ! . 
@@118426078 <p> The Gaza war has shaken up the Mideast . Now Syria 's war has reignited Rebels have rekindled Syria 's war with a lightning offensive that seemed to come from nowhere . But multiple upheavals , beginning with the Gaza war last year , have spread conflict across the region . <p> A Syrian rebel fighter sits outside the arrivals gate of the airport in Aleppo , Syria , on Monday . Syrian rebels from the group HTS captured Aleppo , the second largest city in Syria , as part of a lightning offensive in recent days . The rebels caught the Syrian military off-guard , and at a time when Syria 's allies , Iran , Russia and Hezbollah , were pre-occupied with other conflicts . Omar Albam/AP hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Omar Albam/AP <p> In a matter of days , Syrian rebels captured the major city of Aleppo , seized additional territory in the surrounding countryside , and refocused international attention on what was the mostly dormant Syrian civil war . <p> Now the question is whether the rebels can keep the pressure on Syrian President Bashar Assad , or whether his army can hold the line and mount a counterattack . <h> A chain of upheavals in the region <p> From afar , the rapid advance by the rebels , known as Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or HTS , seemed to come out of nowhere . <p> Yet events in Syria are linked to a series of upheavals in the Middle East over the past year , beginning with the Israel-Hamas war in Gaza . Collectively , they have destabilized the region and helped create the opening for HTS fighters to launch their offensive last week . <p> Sponsor Message <p> Loading ... <p> Syria 's government army is now trying to regroup with help from Syria 's traditional allies , which include Russia , Iran and the Lebanese group Hezbollah . <p> Russian and Syrian planes are carrying out airstrikes in and around Aleppo . Iran is trying to rally diplomatic support , including a Tuesday meeting between the foreign ministers of Iran and Turkey . While Iran has long backed Assad , Turkey has supported various rebel factions fighting Assad in the multi-sided civil war that erupted in 2011 . <p> After several years of limited fighting in Syria , it appeared the worst of the war was over even if the country remained deeply divided among multiple groups . The Syrian government holds the capital Damascus along with most of the south and west , while various opposition factions control much of the north and the east . <p> Against this backdrop , the attack by the Palestinian group Hamas on southern Israel on Oct. 7 of last year set in motion multiple conflicts that are still playing out . The day after that Hamas incursion , Oct. 8 , 2023 , Hezbollah joined the fray , firing rockets into northern Israel as a show of support for Hamas . <h> Syria 's leader lays low <p> Amid all this turmoil , Syria 's Assad kept a low profile . The Syrian leader is accused of widespread abuses and atrocities during the country 's civil war . But over the past year , he 's said very little , refrained from new military offensives against opposition forces , and generally sought to avoid direct involvement in the wider regional conflicts . <p> But in recent days , war has returned with a vengeance to Syria , the country Assad and his late father , Hafez Assad , have ruled for more than a half-century . <p> Paul Salem , who 's based in Beirut with the Middle East Institute , noted that Syria 's three main supporters -- Iran , Russia and Hezbollah -- have all been weakened and distracted by other conflicts . <p> Iran and Hezbollah have been locked in confrontation with Israel , while Russia has been bogged down with its war in Ukraine . <p> " Israel has dealt a staggering blow to Hezbollah in Lebanon , " said Salem . " Hezbollah was one of the main fighting forces that saved the Assad regime from collapse in 2015 . They are no longer really available to do that . " <p> Iran , meanwhile , has suffered a series of setbacks as its proxies , Hezbollah and Hamas , have fared poorly in their wars with Israel . Iran has also been weakened by Israeli strikes that targeted the country 's limited air defenses , leaving it vulnerable to any future Israeli strikes . <p> With Syria 's allies in disarray , the rebels decided to pounce last week and scored a shockingly swift victory in Aleppo . Syrian government forces battled the rebels for months in 2016 to reclaim the devastated city . Last week , the Syrian army quickly retreated and left the city . <p> Syrian opposition fighters stand on a military plane Monday at the Al-Nayrab military airport outside the northwestern city of Aleppo . The rebels captured the city and surrounding areas in recent days . The Syrian military is now trying to regroup . Omar Albam/AP hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Omar Albam/AP <p> " The Assad regime forces really melted away and there were not a lot of supportive forces to hold that line , " said Salem . <h> Gauging the strength of the rebels <p> HTS has not been advancing this week as it was last week , and analysts say the rebel fighters may find themselves stretched too thin if the Syrian military regroup and counterattack . Syria 's allies are trying to assist . <p> Sponsor Message <p> " The Russian air force is already pounding rebel-held areas . Iran is already moving allied militia forces . I would n't be surprised to read reports that Hezbollah is moving fighters from Lebanon to Syria as well , " said Salem . But it 's not clear , he says , how much support these allies can provide . <p> In addition , several other opposition factions are also active in Syria , further complicating any efforts to resolve the conflict . <p> Also , the U.S. military still has around 900 troops in Syria , mostly in the remote northeast to help protect the Kurdish population . The U.S. troops are n't directly involved in the current fighting , though they periodically come under attack by militias back by Iran . <p> The Biden administration has not taken sides in the latest fighting . The U.S. classifies HTS as a terrorist group and is also highly critical of Assad . 
@@118427865 <h> What the Palestinian-Israeli Group As1One Means For the Future of Boy Bands <p> In October 2023 , the starry-eyed boys of As1One boarded a plane in Tel Aviv bound for Los Angeles , buzzing and ready to record their first full album as the world 's only Palestinian-Israeli boy band . The next day , their phones lit up with the news : Hamas and other militants had attacked southern Israel , killing over 1,000 people and taking more than 250 hostages . <p> In the year since , it 's not just As1One who has watched the retaliation unfold on their phones , over social media and WhatsApp . It 's the whole world . And throughout the US -- the biggest supplier of arms to the Israeli military -- the movement to divest has gained unprecedented support , as the Israeli military continues to carry out what some human rights advocates are calling a genocide in Gaza . <p> With two singles out this year and a long-awaited Paramount+ docuseries dropping Dec. 3 that captures the band 's formation and journey thus far , As1One has remained intact , even as multiple members have lost loved ones and the future of their homeland grows more uncertain by the day . But despite the band 's proximity to the conflict -- four members are Israeli Jewish , one is Palestinian Christian , and another is Palestinian Muslim -- their official stance is that they are apolitical . Instead , perhaps backed into a corner by global geopolitics that they were hoping to avoid , trailers for their docuseries have pushed a message we 've all heard before : it 's the music that will " bring people together . " As Palestinian rapper and As1One member Aseel Farah told Billboard last year : " We do n't want to be political , we just want to be humanitarian . " <p> But many online are wondering how a group made up of people from opposing sides of the world 's most-observed war zone could simply replicate the same blueprint we 've seen time and again from boy bands -- how this group could be anything but political , even if they claim to be otherwise . <p> As1One 's first single is a good example . It 's titled " All Eyes on Us , " which some observers , like YouTube host Benedict Townsend , have pointed out is uncomfortably close to " All Eyes on Rafah , " a controversial rallying cry from this past year bringing awareness to human rights abuses committed in Palestine . The upbeat song -- studded with standard boy-band lyrics like " dance like the whole world 's watching " and riffs from celebrated guitarist Nile Rodgers -- has nothing to do with the war , at least not overtly . And it has people all over the internet raising their proverbial eyebrows . <p> " It all comes across a bit na ? ve " and very " ' Eurovision ' -coded , " Townsend said in a September episode of his show " Scroll Deep . " He wondered if As1One is " the musical equivalent of greenwashing " -- if they are , in other words , " taking something very dark and complicated and trying to just smooth it over into something simplistic . " <p> While the YouTube comments on As1One 's music videos seem mostly positive , reactions on X and Reddit expose a more widespread mistrust of the band and its aims . On Reddit , someone wrote , " As a MENA person , I do n't know what to make of the idea of an Israeli/Palestinian boyband debuting right now . " Meanwhile , X users mocked the band . " ' Hey world , ignore the genocide and expanding war , come look at us Israeli and Palestinians standing united #as1one ' barf , " one wrote . <p> " Societally , there has been a value placed on being apolitical , because if you 're not appealing to a specific identity , then the thinking is you appeal to everybody . " <p> Journalist and culture critic Maria Sherman says that since the ' 90s , when the modern pop-group formula first began to see immense success , boy bands have embraced a sort of " all-American , boy-next-door " vibe . They 're meant to be exciting to an audience of mostly young girls and their moms , and tend to be marketed with an air of innocence , with just the faintest whiff of rebellion and sex appeal . As1One , made up of six conventionally attractive 20-somethings with puppy dog eyes and white smiles , hits all those marks . <p> " Boy bands have always been wholly apolitical , and societally , there has been a value placed on being apolitical , because if you 're not appealing to a specific identity , then the thinking is you appeal to everybody , " Sherman says . " Politics are considered bad business in the pop music space because it could isolate , it could divide . There 's this idea that by speaking out politically on a cause or taking a stance you 're limiting who will enjoy , buy into , and consume your music . " <p> Still , Sherman says , what we understood to be " apolitical " or " neutral " in the past would today register as pretty transparently political , even conservative . In their heyday , she remembers NSYNC and the Backstreet Boys talking openly about God and patriotism ; the Jonas Brothers wore promise rings and made religious conservatism a part of their image early on . <p> " The purity and innocence was appealing to a lot of people , but now that would have registered as a conservative political idea , " Sherman says . " Historically boy bands have always tried to veer away from political posturing or beliefs , but looking back , there were perhaps opinions or ideologies that they were participating in . " <p> James Diener and Ken Levitan , the American music executives who formed As1One in 2021 , could n't have known about the forthcoming war . But even if the Oct. 7 attack had n't happened , assembling a band of Israelis and Palestinians has inherent political undertones . To pretend otherwise , critics say , is disingenuous . ( Paramount+ and the band 's record label , Thirty Tigers , did not respond to PS 's requests for comment . ) <p> Cultural historian Jim Cullen agrees with Sherman that boy bands generally claim to be separate from politics . And he admits the members of As1One are , " in a certain sense , prisoners of history , " having come to the US where " suddenly world politics rains on their parade . " <p> " But when they do proceed , they do what boy bands have always done , " he adds , which is to double down on their proclaimed neutrality . The public , though , seems to have caught on , he says , and is less pleased with the dynamic than they may have been in years past . <p> Cullen says the mega-hit boy bands of the late ' 90s and early 2000s flourished under the glossy " NAFTA mentality " of the time , referring to President Clinton 's North American Free Trade Agreement that transformed the US economy . <p> At the turn of the 21st century , there was a great deal of confidence in capitalism , he says . " That manifests itself in an embrace of the market , and that has important cultural consequences " -- one being a higher tolerance for the commodification of pop music and its ties to the " establishment . " <p> Just as the ' 80s swung to what Cullen calls a " capitalistic , self-commodifying " era after the countercultural ' 70s , pop music of the early 2000s reflected a renewed belief in the capitalism that repelled the grunge artists of the ' 90s . The era we 're in now is still wrestling with its identity , but between cynicism and optimism , few would argue the latter is the pervading sentiment . <p> It 's harder , Cullen says , for pop artists of any kind , but especially boy bands -- " where the commodification is foregrounded and packaged from the outset " -- to pull off the innocent , na ? ve , cheery shtick in our hyper-online , " postliberal world , " because there are fewer places to hide . Social media , for all its flaws , has exposed the inner workings of the pop music marketing machine and made it much harder to ignore the role that boy bands play in upholding the status quo . <p> That may help explain why , for some , As1One feels so " cringely out of touch with the moment , " Cullen says . <p> Surely , some people resonate with the band 's message that unity is possible through pop music . As1One 's critics , meanwhile , feel the band is untrustworthy because it 's non-committal , Sherman says . <p> But committing to anything goes against the boy band business model . <p> In recent years , fans have pushed BTS to donate to Black Lives Matter , and more generally in the world of pop , Taylor Swift fans have pressured her to make direct political statements and endorsements . But bold gestures from pop artists will likely always feel somewhat inauthentic . " When you see political action happening in music , it 's typically music on the margins , alternative in musical style , or coming from marginalized performers , less so status quo mainstream pop music , " Sherman says . <p> As1One 's message itself is not bad . Music is healing , and uplifting musical artists from war-torn regions may very well have positive consequences -- if indirect -- for people who are suffering . But as a boy band , As1One is hamstrung by its duty to be commercially viable . And the likelihood that it will produce anything truly revolutionary is low because of it . <p> " The boy band 's job is to create joyful music and make people happy , " Sherman says , " but politics do n't always make people happy . " <p> Emma Glassman-Hughes ( she/her ) is the associate editor at PS Balance . In her seven years as a reporter , her beats have spanned the lifestyle spectrum ; she 's covered arts and culture for The Boston Globe , sex and relationships for Cosmopolitan , and food , climate , and farming for Ambrook Research . 
@@118430060 <h> PHOTOS : The top images of 2024 <p> AP photographers assembled a visual catalog of our civilization as life in 2024 hurtled directly at us at every speed and in every imaginable color and flavor . <p> Elise Mertens , of Belgium , serves against Naomi Osaka , of Japan , at the BNP Paribas Open tennis tournament , on March 11 , 2024 , in Indian Wells , Calif . ( AP Photo/Mark J. Terrill ) <p> Mark J. Terrill <p> Fans interfere with a foul ball caught by Los Angeles Dodgers right fielder Mookie Betts during the first inning in Game 4 of the baseball World Series against the New York Yankees , on Oct. 29 , 2024 , in New York . ( AP Photo/Ashley Landis ) <p> Ashley Landis <p> An adult periodical cicada sheds its nymphal skin on May 11 , 2024 , in Cincinnati . There are two large compound eyes , which are used to visually perceive the world around them , and three small , jewel-like , simple eyes called ocelli at center . ( AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster ) <p> Carolyn Kaster <p> Republican presidential candidate former President Donald Trump is surrounded by U.S. Secret Service agents after an assassination attempt at a campaign rally in Butler , Pa. , July 13 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Evan Vucci ) <p> Evan Vucci <p> Cairo Consort prepares for a race in the paddock at Churchill Downs in Louisville , Ky. , before the 150th running of the Kentucky Derby horse race on May 4 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Brynn Anderson ) <p> Brynn Anderson <p> Republican presidential nominee former President Donald Trump prepares to walk on stage for a campaign rally at Macomb Community College in Warren , Mich. , on Nov. 1 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Julia Demaree Nikhinson ) <p> Julia Demaree Nikhinson <p> Models wait backstage for a show to start during China Fashion Week in Beijing on March 28 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ng Han Guan ) <p> Ng Han Guan <p> Emerald miner Janeth Paez stands inside the tunnel of an informal mine near the town of Coscuez , Colombia , on Feb. 28 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Fernando Vergara ) <p> Fernando Vergara <p> Assistants react as members of " Castellers de Vilafranca " try to form a " Castell " or human tower , during the 29th Human Tower Competition in Tarragona , Spain , on Oct. 6 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Emilio Morenatti ) <p> Emilio Morenatti <p> Republican presidential candidate former President Donald Trump attends the 2024 Republican National Convention at the Fiserv Forum in Milwaukee , on July 18 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster ) <p> Carolyn Kaster <p> Passengers in the back of a taxi film themselves as they leave the Eiffel Tower , decorated with the Olympic rings ahead of the 2024 Summer Olympics , in Paris , on July 17 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/David Goldman ) <p> David Goldman <p> Sara Chen weeps over the grave of her longtime friend , Staff Sgt. Avraham Nerya Cohen , who was killed in action on Oct. 7 , 2023 , as Israel marks the first anniversary of the Hamas attack on Israel , at the Mount Herzl military cemetery in Jerusalem on Oct. 7 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Maya Alleruzzo ) <p> Supporters of Republican presidential candidate former President Donald Trump hold signs as Democratic presidential nominee Vice President Kamala Harris passes by on her bus en route to a campaign stop at the Primanti Bros. restaurant in Pittsburgh , on Aug. 18 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Julia Demaree Nikhinson ) <p> Julia Demaree Nikhinson <p> Emergency personnel carry a 4-year-old girl who was rescued from her collapsed house after heavy rains in Petropolis , Rio de Janeiro state , Brazil , on March 23 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Bruna Prado ) <p> Bruna Prado <p> Midwife Diluwara Begum holds a newborn baby girl after helping deliver her on a boat on the River Brahmaputra , in the northeastern Indian state of Assam , on July 3 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Anupam Nath ) <p> Anupam Nath <p> The faithful carry an 18th century wooden statue of Christ before the start of a procession the in Procida Island , Italy , on March 29 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Alessandra Tarantino ) <p> Alessandra Tarantino <p> A worker inspects the permanent foundations being constructed on the coral reef for a judging tower to be used during the Olympic Games surf competition in Teahupo'o , Tahiti , French Polynesia , on Jan. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Daniel Cole ) <p> Daniel Cole <p> Female Israeli soldiers pose for a photo in southern Israel , on the border of the Gaza Strip , on Feb. 19 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Tsafrir Abayov ) <p> Tsafrir Abayov <p> Kansas City Chiefs tight end Travis Kelce kisses Taylor Swift after the NFL Super Bowl 58 football game against the San Francisco 49ers on Feb. 11 , 2024 , in Las Vegas . The Chiefs won 25-22 . ( AP Photo/John Locher ) <p> John Locher <p> An American flag is mounted on a fence at a farm on U.S. Highway 20 during a blizzard near Galva , Iowa , on Jan. 13 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster ) <p> Carolyn Kaster <p> Democratic presidential nominee Vice President Kamala Harris looks at a monitor backstage just before taking the stage for her final campaign rally on Nov. 4 , 2024 , the day before Election Day , in Philadelphia . ( AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin ) <p> Jacquelyn Martin <p> French sailors on the bridge of the French navy frigate Normandie keep watch during a reconnaissance patrol during NATO exercises in a Norwegian fjord north of the Arctic circle on March 6 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Thibault Camus ) <p> Thibault Camus <p> A race fan holds a drink as he walks on the grounds of Churchill Downs in Louisville , Ky. , before the 150th running of the Kentucky Oaks horse race on May 3 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Charlie Riedel ) <p> Charlie Riedel <p> Natasha Ducre surveys the kitchen of her devastated home , which lost most of its roof during the passage of Hurricane Milton , in Palmetto , Fla. , on Oct. 10 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Rebecca Blackwell ) <p> Rebecca Blackwell <p> People gather at the Republique plaza in Paris after the second round of the legislative election , on July 7 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Louise Delmotte ) <p> Louise Delmotte <p> Students beat a policeman with sticks during a protest over a controversial quota system for government job applicants in Dhaka , Bangladesh , on July 18 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Anik Rahman ) <p> Anik Rahman <p> In this photo taken with a long exposure , Israeli shelling hits an area in southern Lebanon , as seen from northern Israel , on Sept. 30 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Leo Correa ) <p> Leo Correa <p> Orthodox nuns wait to take part in a procession marking 250 years since the remains of Saint Dimitrie Bassarabov , patron saint of the Romanian capital , were brought to Romania , in Bucharest , on July 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Vadim Ghirda ) <p> Vadim Ghirda <p> Members of the Al-Rabaya family break their fast during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan outside their home , which was destroyed by an Israeli airstrike , in Rafah , Gaza Strip , on March 18 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Fatima Shbair ) <p> Fatima Shbair <p> A gaucho , or South American cowboy , bathes a horse during the Criolla Week rodeo festival , in Montevideo , Uruguay , on March 26 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matilde Campodonico ) <p> Matilde Campodonico <p> A horse looks out the window from its stable ahead of the 156th running of the Belmont Stakes horse race at Saratoga Race Course , in Saratoga Springs , N.Y. , on June 6 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Julia Demaree Nikhinson ) <p> Julia Demaree Nikhinson <p> A cat searches for food in a house burnt by rockets fired by Hezbollah in the town of Kiryat Shmona , northern Israel , near the border with Lebanon , on Feb. 29 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ariel Schalit ) <p> Ariel Schalit <p> A man transports an electronic voting machine on a pony as election officials walk to a polling booth in a remote mountain area on the eve of the first round of voting in the six-week long national election at Dessa village in Doda district , Jammu and Kashmir , India , April 18 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Channi Anand ) <p> Channi Anand <p> Debris is visible through the window of a damaged home following severe storms in Lakeview , Ohio , on March 15 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Joshua A. Bickel ) <p> Joshua A. Bickel <p> Friends and family fuss over a quincea ? era in preparation for her photo session at Colon square in the Zona Colonial neighborhood of Santo Domingo , Dominican Republic , on May 15 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Matias Delacroix <p> Jewish ultra-Orthodox men dressed in costumes celebrate the Jewish festival of Purim in Bnei Brak , Israel , on March 24 , 2024 . The holiday commemorates the Jews ' salvation from genocide in ancient Persia , as recounted in the Book of Esther . ( AP Photo/Oded Balilty ) <p> Oded Balilty <p> Druze clergymen attend the funeral of some of the 12 children and teens killed in a rocket strike by the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah at a soccer field at the village of Majdal Shams , in the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights , on July 28 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Leo Correa ) <p> Leo Correa <p> People take cover next to a public bomb shelter as a siren sounds a warning of incoming rockets fired from Lebanon , in Safed , northern Israel , on Sept. 29 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ariel Schalit ) <p> Ariel Schalit <p> Sloane Stephens of the U.S. signs autographs after defeating Daria Kasatkina of Russia in their second round match at the Australian Open tennis championships at Melbourne Park , Melbourne , Australia , on Jan. 18 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Louise Delmotte ) <p> Louise Delmotte <p> Monuwara Begum and another woman return from a polling station across the Brahmaputra river on the eve of the second phase of India 's national election in Sandahkhaiti , a floating island village in the Brahmaputra River in Assam , India , on April 25 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Anupam Nath ) <p> Anupam Nath <p> The container ship Dali rests against the wreckage of Baltimore 's Francis Scott Key Bridge on the Patapsco River , on March 27 , 2024 , as seen from Pasadena , Md . ( AP Photo/Alex Brandon ) <p> Alex Brandon <p> A girl waits in the family home of the late Ousmane Sylla , who died by suicide inside one of Italy 's migrant detention centers , ahead of his body 's arrival in Conakry , Guinea , on April 8 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Misper Apawu ) <p> Misper Apawu <p> Yulia Navalnaya , center , widow of Alexey Navalny , stands in a queue with other voters at a polling station near the Russian embassy in Berlin on March 17 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ebrahim Noroozi ) <p> Ebrahim Noroozi <p> Alicia Keys performs during halftime of the NFL Super Bowl 58 football game between the San Francisco 49ers and the Kansas City Chiefs on Feb. 11 , 2024 , in Las Vegas . ( AP Photo/David J. Phillip ) <p> David J. Phillip <p> People walk through a part of the Amazon River that shows signs of drought in Santa Sofia , on the outskirts of Leticia , Colombia , on Oct. 20 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ivan Valencia ) <p> Ivan Valencia <p> A fisherman casts his fishing line into the Mediterranean Sea from a rocky area along the coastline in Beirut , Lebanon , on July 27 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Hassan Ammar ) <p> Israeli students watch a virtual tour of the concentration and extermination camp Auschwitz-Birkenau at the Testimony House , a Holocaust museum in Nir Galim , Israel , on the eve of Israel 's annual Holocaust Remembrance Day , May 5 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Oded Balilty ) <p> Oded Balilty <p> Children shake hands before they play a chess game at The Soga Chess Club of the internally displaced persons camp in Kanyaruchinya , Democratic Republic of Congo , on July 29 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Moses Sawasawa ) <p> Moses Sawasawa <p> A young man watches the ball after diving while playing soccer on a dusty field in Abidjan , Ivory Coast , on Feb. 6 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Themba Hadebe ) <p> Erin Young holds her adopted daughter Gianna Young , as she prays the " Patriotic Rosary " for the consecration of the nation and Donald Trump around a bonfire at their home in Sunbury , Ohio , the night before the U.S. election , Monday , Nov. 4 , 2024 . The conservative Catholic family lives their anti-abortion beliefs through adoption , foster-parenting and raising their children to believe in the sanctity of life . They 're also committed to teaching their children about political candidates they see as aligned with their beliefs . ( AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster ) <p> Carolyn Kaster <p> A mural of former Argentine first lady Mar ? a Eva Duarte de Per ? n , better known as Eva Per ? n , or Evita , depicting her with a saint 's halo , adorns a wall inside the Peron Peron restaurant in the San Telmo neighborhood of Buenos Aires , Argentina , Friday , Feb. 9 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Natacha Pisarenko ) <p> Natacha Pisarenko <p> In this photo taken with a long exposure , people look at the northern lights , or Aurora Borealis , in the night sky on May 10 , 2024 , in Estacada , Ore . ( AP Photo/Jenny Kane ) <p> Jenny Kane <p> A girl plays a jump rope game at a school housing residents displaced by gang violence in Port-au-Prince , Haiti , on May 15 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ramon Espinosa ) <p> Ramon Espinosa <p> People fish next to drainage that flows into the Paraguay River in Asuncion , Paraguay , on Jan. 28 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Jorge Saenz ) <p> Jorge Saenz <p> A mother coaxes her daughter into trying a spoonful of rice at a school turned into a makeshift shelter for people displaced by gang violence , in Port-au-Prince , Haiti , on May 8 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ramon Espinosa ) <p> Ramon Espinosa <p> A man sits inside a concrete pipe meant for municipal use after his shelter was swept away by the flooding Bagmati River in Kathmandu , Nepal , on Oct. 1 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha ) <p> A cleric holds up his son as he celebrates Iran 's missile strike against Israel during an anti-Israeli protest at Felestin ( Palestine ) Square in Tehran , Iran , on Oct. 1 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Vahid Salemi ) <p> Vahid Salemi <p> Kenya Wildlife Service rangers and capture team pull a sedated black rhino from the water in Nairobi National Park , Kenya , on Jan. 16 , 2024 , as part of a rhino relocation project to move 21 of the critically endangered beasts hundreds of miles to a new home . ( AP Photo/Brian Inganga ) <p> Brian Inganga <p> A pod of Beluga whales swim through the Churchill River near Churchill , Manitoba , Canada , on Aug. 4 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Joshua A. Bickel ) <p> Joshua A. Bickel <p> A person carrying a handgun and a sign depicting Republican presidential candidate former President Donald Trump stands outside the Republican National Convention in Milwaukee on July 18 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Jae C. Hong ) <p> Jae C. Hong <p> Atmaram , who goes by one name and was found living on the street a day earlier , eats breakfast at Saint Hardyal Educational and Orphans Welfare Society , a home for the aged and unwanted , on April 12 , 2024 , in New Delhi , India . ( AP Photo/David Goldman ) <p> David Goldman <p> Buildings cover Gardi Sugdub Island , part of San Blas archipelago off Panama 's Caribbean coast , on May 25 , 2024 . Due to rising sea levels , about 300 Guna Indigenous families are relocating to new homes , built by the government , on the mainland . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Matias Delacroix <p> People help Liudmila , 85 , board a bus after their evacuation from Vovchansk , Ukraine , on May 12 , 2024 . Her husband was killed in their house during a Russian airstrike on the city . ( AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka ) <p> Evgeniy Maloletka <p> Prisoners reach out from their cell for bread at lunchtime at the Juan de la Vega prison in Emboscada , Paraguay , on July 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Rodrigo Abd ) <p> Rodrigo Abd <p> Members of the water safety team move into the impact zone on a jet ski to rescue a surfer under a rainbow during a training day ahead of the 2024 Summer Olympics surfing competition in Teahupo'o , Tahiti , on July 23 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Gregory Bull ) <p> Gregory Bull <p> Children play with the ropes of a ship docked on a beach in Parika , Guyana , on June 9 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ramon Espinosa ) <p> Ramon Espinosa <p> A supporter of Republican presidential candidate former President Donald Trump waits for the start of his campaign rally in Doral , Fla. , on July 9 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Rebecca Blackwell ) <p> Rebecca Blackwell <p> Lava flows from a volcanic eruption that started on the Reykjanes Peninsula in Iceland , Nov. 20 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Marco di Marco ) <p> Marco di Marco <p> Actors make final adjustments to their costumes before the start of Ramleela , a dramatic folk re-enactment of the life of Rama according to the ancient Hindu epic Ramayana , in New Delhi , India , on Oct. 5 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Manish Swarup ) <p> Manish Swarup <p> Muslim pilgrims circumambulate the Kaaba , the cubic building at the Grand Mosque , during the annual Hajj pilgrimage in Mecca , Saudi Arabia , on June 11 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Rafiq Maqbool ) <p> Two men in Russian Cossack uniforms pose for a selfie with the Historical Museum in the background after visiting the mausoleum of the Soviet founder Vladimir Lenin , marking the 154th anniversary of his birth , in Moscow 's Red Square , on April 22 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Alexander Zemlianichenko ) <p> Alexander Zemlianichenko <p> Ama Pipe , from Britain , center , receives the baton from teammate Lina Nielsen in a women 's 4 X 400 meters relay heat during the World Athletics Indoor Championships at the Emirates Arena in Glasgow , Scotland , on March 3 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Bernat Armangue ) <p> Bernat Armangue <p> Ultra-Orthodox Jews look at part of an intercepted ballistic missile that fell in the desert near the city of Arad , Israel , on April 28 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/ Ohad Zwigenberg ) <p> Ohad Zwigenberg <p> People drive along a road littered with fallen power lines after the passing of Hurricane Rafael in San Antonio de los Banos , Cuba , on Nov. 7 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ramon Espinosa ) <p> Ramon Espinosa <p> Palestinian activist Khairi Hanoon walks with the Palestinian flag on a damaged road following an Israeli army raid in Tulkarem , West Bank , on Sept. 3 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Majdi Mohammed ) <p> Majdi Mohammed <p> A polar bear and a cub search for scraps in a large pile of bowhead whale bones left from the village 's subsistence hunting at the end of an unused airstrip near the village of Kaktovik , Alaska , on Oct. 15 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Lindsey Wasson ) <p> Lindsey Wasson <p> Vero Almarche , right , hugs her neighbor Maria Munoz , who was born in the house where they are photographed and which was destroyed by flooding in Masanasa , Valencia , Spain , on Nov. 6 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Emilio Morenatti ) <p> Emilio Morenatti <p> Wearing a device that measures his energy consumption , Israel Amputee Football Team player Ben Maman , left , fights for the ball with a young soccer player from a local team during a practice session in Ramat Gan , Israel , on April 11 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Leo Correa ) <p> Leo Correa <p> First-graders attend the traditional ceremony for the first day of school in Zaporizhzhia , Ukraine , on Sept. 1 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka ) 
@@118431967 <h> Share on Social Media <p> The New York Film Critics Circle is announcing its awards for the films of 2024 on Tuesday . TheWrap will update the list of winners as they are revealed . <p> Marianne Jean-Baptiste won the Best Actress award for her scorching performance in Mike Leigh 's " Hard Truths , " while Adrien Brody won Best Actor for " The Brutalist . " <p> Kieran Culkin was named best supporting actor for his role in Jesse Eisenberg 's " A Real Pain . " Carole Kane was honored as best supporting actress for " Between the Temples . " <p> As the first major critics group to announce its awards , the NYFCC was able to give a little attention to its winners in a year in which few of the major categories have strong frontrunners . In the acting categories , Culkin and Brody are considered locks for an Oscar nomination , while Jean-Baptiste is on the bubble and Kane is a real longshot . <p> " No Other Land , " the documentary filmed over five years by Israeli and Palestinian filmmakers in Gaza , won the award for non-fiction film a little more than 12 hours after it won in the same category at the Gotham Awards . Payal Kapadia 's " All We Imagine As Light " did the same thing in the Best International Film category . <p> Sean Baker , on the other hand , won the screenplay award for " Anora " the day after his film came into the Gotham Awards as the most-nominated movie but failed to win anything . <p> Annie Baker 's " Janet Planet " was named the year 's best first film . Jomo Fray won the cinematography award for the way he implemented director RaMell Ross ' point-of-view approach in " Nickel Boys . " <p> Since 1938 , the winner of the NYFCC has gone on to win Best Picture more than two dozen times , but the two groups have agreed more infrequently in recent years . The last time the critics chose the eventual Oscar winner was 12 years ago , when " The Artist " won both awards ; since then , the NYFCC has gone for the likes of " Zero Dark Thirty , " " Boyhood , " " Carol , " " La La Land , " " Roma , " " First Cow , " " Drive My Car , " " Tar " and a pair of Martin Scorsese movies , " The Irishman " and last year 's " Killers of the Flower Moon . " <p> Over the last 20 years , the NYFCC winner has been nominated for the top Oscar 17 times , with the only exceptions being " United 93 " in 2007 , " Carol " in 2016 and " First Cow " in 2020 . <p> The New York Film Critics Circle consists of 45 critics based in New York City . The group was founded in 1935 and has been voting on the year 's best films since 1936 . Next year marks the organization 's 90th anniversary , a milestone that will be celebrated when the NYFCC holds its awards ceremony on Jan. 8 , 2025 . <h> Subscribe to Breaking News . <p> Steve Pond has been writing about film , music , pop culture and the entertainment industry for more than 40 years . He has served as TheWrap 's awards editor and executive editor , awards since joining the company in 2009 . Steve began his career writing about music for the Los Angeles Times , where he remained a contributor for more ... 
@@118433161 <p> " It 's a complete shock . We 've all been holding out such hope these last 14 months , " Galper said . <p> The IDF has also said Neutra 's body was taken into Gaza and has been held there ever since . <p> " A couple of people wrote maybe there 's some solace that he has n't been suffering these last 14 months . I think it 's all part of the psychological torture that was intended by these attacks in the first place , " Galper said . <p> " We need to keep advocating for Omer 's body to be returned home to his family and to be given a proper burial in the homeland that he literally gave his life for , " she continued . <p> Raised in New York , Neutra moved to Israel and served in the army . He was in a tank during the Oct. 7 attack . <p> " He was a leader . We should all take that part of him , to lead , to be good people , to do what 's right , to defend when something wrong is happening , which is what he was doing , " Galper said . <p> Galper has marked more than 400 days , hoping and praying for all the hostages to come home . While she now knows her cousin 's fate , she said she wo n't stop advocating for the others . <p> " There are still families who are waiting for loved ones to come home . There are still hostages that are alive and waiting to be rescued , " Galper said . <p> New York Governor Kathy Hochul has ordered that all flags within the staff fly at half-staff in memory of Neutra . <p> ( Copyright ( c ) 2024 Sunbeam Television . All Rights Reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten , or redistributed. ) 
@@118454969 <h> Donald Trump demands release of Israeli hostages before his inauguration <h> By Hanna Seariac , Deseret News Posted - Dec. 3 , 2024 at 4:31 p.m . <h> Released hostage Ilana Gritzewsky , center , whose boyfriend , Matan Zangauker , is held hostage by Hamas in the Gaza Strip , stands with Matan 's family in Tel Aviv , Israel , May 8 . President-elect Donald Trump is urging hostages in Gaza to be released before his inauguration , ( Maya Alleruzzo , Associated Press ) <p> President-elect Donald Trump demands the release of Israeli hostages before his inauguration . <p> He warns of severe consequences if hostages are n't freed by Jan. 20 . <p> President Joe Biden and the United Jewish Federation of Utah express outrage and heartbreak at the confirmed death of 21-year-old Omer Neutra , who was killed in the Oct. 7 attack by Hamas and whose body was held hostage . <p> WASHINGTON -- President-elect Donald Trump said if the hostages are n't released before his inauguration , then " there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East . " <p> Trump posted this message Monday on Truth Social . <p> If the hostages are n't released by Jan. 20 , Trump also said there would be hell to pay " for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity . " <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America , " continued Trump . " RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " <p> Trump 's post comes hours after the Israel Defense Forces confirmed the death of 21-year-old Omer Neutra . Neutra , an Israeli American from New York , served as a platoon commander in the Armored Corps . The Israeli forces said he was killed on Oct. 7 , 2023 , and his body was held hostage . <p> The United Jewish Federation of Utah expressed heartbreak at the news of his death and said the community feels his loss personally . <p> " Along with the entire Jewish community , we have stood with the Neutras as they have worked tirelessly to secure his release , " said the release from the organization . " For 422 days , we have waited for the return of all the hostages . It is long past due that Hamas release them , and they come home . " <p> President Joe Biden issued a statement after Neutra 's death was confirmed saying he and first lady Jill Biden were " devastated and outraged " to hear Neutra was killed . <p> " And to all the families of those still held hostage : We see you . We are with you . And I will not stop working to bring your loved ones back home where they belong , " said Biden . <p> Over the weekend , the terrorist group Hamas released a video of Israeli American Edan Alexander , who was kidnapped on Oct. 7 and has been held hostage since . According to Axios , Alexander said he did n't want to die and called upon Trump to help get him released . <p> " We implore President-elect Trump to work with President Biden and Prime Minister ( Benjamin ) Netanyahu and immediately secure a deal to bring every hostage home , " said Alexander 's parents , according to Axios . They said " every passing hour dims the prospect of their survival . " <p> ? <p> The Key Takeaways for this article were generated with the assistance of large language models and reviewed by our editorial team . The article , itself , is solely human-written. 
@@118455279 <h> Israel 's military says hostages were likely killed by Hamas as airstrike hit <p> Ruti Munder at the grave of her husband , Avraham Munder , in Israel in August.AVISHAG SHAAR-YASHUV/NYT <p> JERUSALEM -- Six Israeli hostages whose bodies were found in the Gaza Strip over the summer were probably shot dead by their Hamas captors in February , around the same time that an Israeli airstrike hit near the underground tunnel where they were being held , the Israeli military said Wednesday . <p> Later on Wednesday night , the Israeli government said that its forces had recovered the body of another hostage , Itay Svirsky , 38 , in Gaza . Svirsky was abducted from Be'eri , a small village near the Gaza border , during the Hamas-led attack Oct. 7 , 2023 , which triggered the war in Gaza . Both his parents were killed during the assault . <p> The two announcements added fuel to an already anguished debate in Israel over whether the country 's military campaign in Gaza is endangering the return of the remaining 100 captives held there , at least some of whom are presumed dead . <p> Advertisement <p> The Israeli military said its investigators and pathologists could not definitively determine how the group of six hostages had died , as their bodies were recovered six months after they were killed . Israeli troops found the bodies with " signs of gunfire " on them in the southern city of Khan Younis in August . The hostages were killed in February , around the same time that Israeli fighter jets targeted a Hamas site in Khan Younis , according to the military . <p> It was only later that Israeli officials learned the bombardment had hit , at most , 220 yards from where the six hostages were being held , Rear Admiral Daniel Hagari , the Israeli military spokesperson , said in a televised news conference . <p> " We were supposed to bring them home alive , and we failed in our mission , " Hagari said . <p> The airstrike ultimately killed the hostages ' Hamas guards , most likely by asphyxiation , said an Israeli military official who briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity to comply with protocol . <p> In a statement , the Israeli military said it was " highly probable " that the hostages ' deaths " were related to the strike , " which may have prompted their captors to shoot them . But the Hamas guards ' deaths appeared to raise the possibility that the airstrike might have killed the six hostages either way . <p> Hagari said it was impossible to determine whether the hostages were killed by gunfire or as a consequence of the strike . But the military believed the former scenario was more likely , he said , rather than one in which other militants later shot the hostages ' bodies . <p> Advertisement <p> The six hostages were mostly older people taken from their homes during the Hamas-led attack . They were : Avraham Munder , 79 ; Haim Peri , 80 ; Yoram Metzger , 80 ; and Alexander Dancyg , 75 , from the tiny kibbutz of Nir Oz ; and Nadav Popplewell , 51 ; and Yagev Buchshtab , 35 , from a nearby community , Nirim . <p> Hamas and its allies took 251 people captive during the Oct. 7 assault , which killed 1,200 people , most of them civilians . After over a year of war , hostages remain in Gaza despite Israel 's efforts to free them by force and an internationally backed push for a ceasefire and hostage release deal between Israel and Hamas . <p> Talks have been deadlocked for months , as both Israel and Hamas have set seemingly irreconcilable conditions for a postwar settlement . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu argues that ramping up Israeli " military pressure " on Hamas will ultimately compel the Palestinian militants to come to an agreement . But at least some of the hostages have been mistakenly killed by Israeli airstrikes in Gaza , including three soldiers . <p> The Israeli military has since tightened its criteria for authorizing airstrikes , such as sometimes mandating the approval of a special intelligence directorate working on the hostage issue , the statement said . That may require intelligence indicating that an area is clear of hostages , the Israeli military official told reporters . <p> Israel 's campaign in Gaza has flattened huge chunks of its cities and killed over 44,000 people , according to Gaza health officials , who do not distinguish between combatants and civilians . The Israeli military says it has " eliminated " 17,000 militants . <p> Advertisement <p> The families of the remaining hostages fear that each additional day in Gaza further threatens their loved ones ' lives . At least 37 of the remaining hostages are already presumed dead by the Israeli government ; the bodies of another 37 have been retrieved by Israeli soldiers . <p> " The investigation is yet more evidence that military pressure leads to the killing of hostages , " the Hostages and Missing Families Forum said in a statement Wednesday . " The military inquiry , as well as numerous other events , shows the absolute urgency of bringing all of our people back . " <p> The death of Svirsky -- the hostage whose body was recovered Wednesday in Gaza -- had been announced in January . Palestinian militants had held him alongside Noa Argamani , who was freed in an Israeli rescue operation in June , and Yossi Sharabi . <p> " Dear Itay : During our time together in captivity , we imagined a thousand scenarios in which we returned back to Israel , " Argamani wrote on social media . " We never thought you would come back like this , as a corpse . " 
@@118455573 <p> More than 100 pro-Palestinian protesters link arms to surround an encampment on April 26 , outside the Indiana Memorial Union in Bloomington . Inside the encampment , there was food , medical supplies , tents , and a pile of backpacks . Mia Hilkowitz for Indiana Daily Student <p> A new report tracking the health of civic freedoms around the world identifies a notable trend : Crackdowns on Palestinian solidarity protests in every kind of society , from the most open to the least . <p> " Both the conflict itself and its impact on civic space ... is one of the main takeaways of the year for us , " says Tara Petrovic , an author of the report by CIVICUS Monitor , a global alliance of civil society groups , headquartered in Johannesburg . " We 've seen expressions of solidarity and we 've seen repression of these expressions of solidarity at pretty much every corner of the globe . " <p> Most protests are over issues close to home -- food prices , national politics . The throngs that gathered outside South Korea 's parliament on Tuesday were chanting against the President 's abrupt imposition of martial law , which outlawed just such expressions . Had the decree survived the day , the space for civil society in South Korea might have dropped from its current assessment , " narrowed , " to " obstructed " in the next annual CIVICUS report , titled People Power Under Attack . The group assays civic space in 198 countries , from " open " to " repressed , " and in its newly released report found that nearly one-tenth of the protests suppressed by authorities involved Israel 's war against Hamas in Gaza , or solidarity with the Palestinian people . <p> The deadly Hamas attack on Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , and the devastating retaliatory war that answered it , sparked protests around the world , many demanding an end to a war that has claimed the lives of at least 1,200 Israelis and 44,000 Palestinians . But not all such demonstrations have been welcomed . In several countries , including those where civic freedoms are considered by CIVICUS to be " narrowed , " such as the Netherlands ( whose standing was downgraded from " open " this year ) , Australia , and Italy , pro-Palestinian protesters were met with what the organization deems excessive force , arrests , and detention . Some , such as France , banned protests outright on the grounds that they posed a security risk . <p> Germany stands out , according to Petrovic . In addition to cracking down on protests , German authorities have cancelled pro-Palestinian events , conducted raids on the homes of pro-Palestinian activists , and even enforced Schengen-wide bans on pro-Palestinian speakers , such as the British-Palestinian surgeon Ghassan Abu Sitta , trying to visit the country . ( That ban , which applied to the 29 European nations that eliminated passport controls for travel between them , was subsequently overturned . ) Most recently , the German government introduced new rules mandating that those applying for naturalization in the country affirm Israel 's right to exist . Germany 's ranking on the CIVICUS Monitor was downgraded from " open " to " narrowed " in 2023 -- a relegation that Petrovic says was widely attributed to the state 's actions against climate activists , with tactics not dissimilar to those now being used against Palestinian-solidarity campaigners . <p> In the U.S. , whose CIVICUS ranking has stood at " narrowed " since 2022 , college campuses remain the fulcrum of debate over pro-Palestinian demonstrations , with more than 3,100 people arrested or detained at protests that often included encampments , the vast majority of which were peaceful . The controversies cost the leaders of several Ivy League universities their jobs , and resulted in many universities changing their rules around permissible campus activity and introducing new disciplinary measures in an apparent bid to prevent further such protests from taking place . Last month , the House of Representatives passed legislation that would enable the government to revoke the tax-exempt status of nonprofit groups it accuses of supporting terrorist entities -- a power that opponents of the bill says could be weaponized to target certain organizations , including Palestinian rights groups . <p> " Engaging in activism or public debate concerning Israel and the situation of Palestinians living under Israeli military occupation has become an incredibly fraught endeavor , " Zaha Hassan , a human rights lawyer and fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , writes in Suppressing Dissent : Shrinking Civic Space , Transnational Repression and Palestine-Israel , which is due to be published on Dec. 5 . " This is true even outside of academic settings , whether one lives in Israel , in the occupied Palestinian territories , in a liberal democracy such as the United States , or under autocratic rule in the Arab Middle East . That American classrooms and college campuses -- so often idealized as safe spaces for ideas to be debated -- have become deeply contested terrain is no accident . " <p> So long as the war in Gaza persists , the protests opposed to it are expected to continue -- as are the efforts to suppress them . But Petrovic notes that the movements have already had a demonstrable impact on policy : several countries have withheld weapons sales to Israel , as well as restored funding to UNRWA , suspended when Israel reported a handful of Palestinians involved in the Oct. 7 attack also worked for the the U.N . agency that provides health , education , and food aid to Palestinians . Visibility , however , is the main accomplishment . <p> " What we 've seen this year was this incredible global mobilization of people for the same cause , " she says , " and more specifically in solidarity with the people of Palestine and what they 're facing . " 
@@118462164 <h> Recently , Politico reported that Kamala Harris is speaking with her advisors about a possible presidential run in 2028 . <p> Andrew Harnik / Getty Images <h> News of a potential return to the campaign trail spawned a flood of reactions online , which led me to wonder about our own BuzzFeed Community 's thoughts . So , I asked y'all what you think about Harris potentially running in 2028 . <p> Saul Loeb / AFP via Getty Images <h> We received well over 600 replies . So , whether you agree with these takes or not , here 's what the community said : <p> Some responses have been edited for length/clarity. <h> 1 . " I believe that if Kamala had n't been vice president to Biden , she would have an amazing chance at winning , but because she was attached to a president that did next to NOTHING for this country , I just do n't see her as being the political leader that can solve problems for this country . " <p> " If Biden had been proactive , and she had been involved in that , I 'd trust her more , but I 'm appalled by how much she missed the glaring problems that many subcultures are facing when she , instead , ran her campaign , mostly , on abortion rights . So , I ca n't begin to imagine a scenario where I would trust her to be the leader of this country . Oh , well . It is what it is , and this is just my perspective and opinion . " <h> 5 . " She gave me the same calming feeling Obama did . " <h> 6 . " I voted for her because she is extremely qualified , and Trump will leave the country in another state of chaos . She was ready to tackle high prices , help young families , is pro-choice , inclusive , and willing to expand the ACA , reduce drug costs , expand Medicare to cover care for elders , and help defray costs of caregivers , giving them a break . " <p> " She recognized the importance of tackling climate change and caring for the environment . She is up against many challenges but takes them on . Voter rights , education , equal pay for women , and so much more , and last but not least , common sense gun control . Trump will always be nothing but a felon. " <h> 7 . " I disagree with her being qualified . She proved she does n't have what it takes . Going against Trump should have been a very easy win . " <p> " Every criticism people had with the Biden administration , she basically said she would continue . She absolutely failed with the border . She ran a bad campaign of extreme liberalism that many people did not agree with . Her main selling point was , at least , she 's not Trump . " <h> 8 . " I am a registered Democrat , and I personally like Kamala , but the party needs to realize they ca n't keep doing the same things and expecting different results . " <p> " As much as I ca n't stand the current Republican Party , they at least realize America wants things done differently and know how to connect to the people ( even if it is gaslighting and lies ) to get the vote . " <h> 9 . " I love her and am heartbroken that she lost . But she lost once ; I 'm terrified she 'd lose again . " <h> 10 . " Kamala is a bad candidate for president in 2024 and will be a bad candidate again in 2028 because of her ultra-liberal policy positions . Her ceiling is as a senator from California , where she can get elected every cycle without a primary and an electorate that votes Democrat every election . " <p> " US electorate in the middle wo n't vote for a deep-left candidate . This was evident from why she could n't get past the primaries in 2019 -- 2020. " <h> 11 . " I 'm tired of Democrats and Republicans in office . It 's time for a real change . " <h> 12 . " I do n't want her to run again . She 's what America needs but not what America deserves . " <p> " There 's no need to waste energy and money on ingrates who chose a twice-impeached convicted felon over the educated , experienced woman with no felonies . ( As I 'm typing this , it just ca n't be fucking legal that a twice impeached felon got to run and got elected . How fucking embarrassing for us. ) " <h> 13 . " People were ready to believe that Kamala Harris was so unqualified to be president that it was laughable that she was even running , despite her being the literal vice president . " <p> " She is n't going to gain more relevant experience in the next four years , so how will that perception change ? " <p> -- anonymous <h> 14 . " I 'm an Independent , and I wholeheartedly supported Harris in the presidential race . I would never vote for Trump , and if Harris runs again , I will not support her and will look hard at supporting her opponents in the primaries . " <p> " She ran a terrible campaign and did n't pay attention to the polls or the people around her . She decided the race was about abortion ; she already had all of the support she was going to get from that issue , and she ignored the border and economy issues completely . " <p> -- anonymous <h> 15 . " Forget it ! ! She is not in touch with the working class/middle class families and their priorities ! ! " <p> " She has too many VERY PROGRESSIVE policy positions that would move America in the wrong direction . She proved that the last four years ! ! " <p> -- anonymous <h> 16 . " I like Kamala a lot , I really do . But I think it 's time for a fresh face in politics . " <p> " Someone who is much younger and can better relate to the public . I think we just need someone new . " <h> 17 . " She should stay OUT OF POLITICS . She 's way too far to the left , and most of her endorsements came from the wealthy elite , i.e. , Oprah , Beyonc ? , and Taylor Swift . " <p> " Neither she nor Dems care about the little people and would prefer to allow any and every person who wants to come to America to do so . " <p> -- anonymous <h> 18 . " Kamala was my first choice in 2020 and in 2024 . I really believe she has everything it takes to run this country well , and if she could take everything she 's learned from her time as VP and her two big campaigns , she might be able to win in 2028 . " <p> " She needs to hit the ground running and spend the next four years meeting voters from ALL walks of life , truly introducing herself to the American people . She needs to show the skeptics the side of her that we can see : her authenticity , compassion , and wit . <p> Then , as a party , we need a whole new playbook for how we act during this next Trump term . We need to show people why prices are high ( corporate greed , Trump tariffs ) and what options we have to actually fix this . We need to educate people better ; we have to get people to understand basic facts like ' Obamacare IS the Affordable Care Act . ' We need to craft effective and compassionate strategies for dealing with Ukraine/Russia and Israel/Gaza . There is a path forward for the Democratic Party , and there are far worse figureheads to have than Kamala Harris . " <h> 22 . " I would be very happy if Kamala Harris were to run again in 2028 . She is by far the most qualified candidate we have ever had in United States history . " <p> " She was also the only candidate to have worked in every branch of government . I believe that Kamala Harris is the perfect person for the job . She is strong , capable , intelligent , overqualified , and empathetic . I 'm so devastated at the outcome of the election , but I 'm remaining hopeful that we will see a madam president , and hopefully that will be Kamala Harris . " <p> -- anonymous <h> 23 . " Despite being one the most qualified candidates in our history , she was defeated by sexism and racism . " <p> " Democrats will need a white , cisgender male candidate , with credible Christian credentials , military background , and mass appeal to move any votes to their side of the ballot . " <h> 24 . " Girl , no . This ai n't it . And I wish it was . " <p> " I think she 'd be great for the country . But Trump and MAGA have set us too far back in the sexism and racism departments , and it 's clear that besides that , people of this country are n't ready for a female POC to be president . *sigh* " <h> 25 . " I 'm honestly so disappointed and discouraged by the majority of these comments . I do believe that America can have a woman president . " <p> " Kamala was not the right one for the moment , but that does n't mean it ca n't happen . Part of the American dream is believing that amazing leadership can arise from unexpected places . Do n't count women out just because you think it 's a safe bet . What 's safer ? A qualified woman , or an unqualified ( i.e. , dangerous* ) man ? Dangerous because of the amount of power they wield without the wisdom , experience , or resources to make the responsible decisions required for the job . ? ? ? ? ? " <h> 26 . " I am a diehard Democrat who campaigned in my local area for Kamala . She was clearly the superior choice . Unfortunately , what I realized after the election is that the US population is afraid of a woman in charge . Especially a woman of color . " <p> " We had lower voter turnout this time around when the race was n't between two geriatric white men and people who say they only voted for Trump because he 's a man , while not paying attention to his lack of clearly defined policies . While I wholeheartedly would love for her to run , the US is not ready for her . Democrats need to regain power to bring back what Trump will inevitably take away , and they wo n't gain the majority or public vote if a man is not in charge . It 's sexist and awful , but I 'm afraid it 's the American truth . " <p> -- anonymous <h> 27 . " Personally , I hope that she does run again for president or for governor-ship of California . " <p> " I think she is relatively young enough to have a bit more of a political career and has some positive things to share . ( Though if she does n't , she has already made history as the first female VP . ) Honestly , I think she was stuck between a rock and a hard place when it came to flushing out her own platform . She possibly wanted to pivot . But when your current boss is the president ... " <p> -- anonymous <h> 28 . " I would possibly vote for her again , depending on who else is on the ticket . My only thing is she did not stand up for herself . The reason why people voted for the egghead is because they did n't want another four years of Biden . She needed to distance herself from Biden , and she did n't . " <p> " I heard the clown say many , many times that things were messed up because of Biden and Kamala . I only heard her once say that SHE was running , not Biden . She should have honestly come out and said that at every meeting , the points you are criticizing were decisions made by my boss , not me . Her stating that she did n't feel like Biden made mistakes and she would have made the same choices is what lost her the election . <p> She had the fight for women 's health down . She did not have the fight for the economy . I did like Walz as her running mate . If he ran for president and I had to pick between Harris and Walz , I would probably pick him . He just feels more like the common person than Kamala. " <h> 29 . And finally , " Since Trump is no longer able to run in 2028 , it is widely presumed that Vance will be the default nominee . I would love to see someone new come from the Democrat ranks to challenge the Republicans . " <p> " How about someone that is a centrist candidate vs. someone that is more about identity politics ? That is now proven to not work . Move on and appeal to more of us . I am a registered Independent and have been for a long time . I could care less about the policies that the current version of the Democratic Party espouses . " <p> -- anonymous <h> What are your thoughts on Harris potentially running for president in 2028 ? Let us know in the comments . 
@@118468066 <h> The meetings signal that the Gulf state of Qatar has resumed its role as a key mediator after suspending that role last month . <p> THEN-CANDIDATE Donald Trump attends a campaign event last Monday in Raleigh , North Carolina , the day before the US presidential election . At this pivotal moment in history , it most definitely matters who holds the office of US president and the nature of the leadership he or she provides ( photo credit : Jonathan Drake/Reuters ) <p> Steve Witkoff , the incoming envoy , traveled to Qatar and Israel in late November , the source said . <p> The meetings signal that the Gulf state of Qatar has resumed its role as a key mediator after suspending that role last month , the source said , adding that negotiators from terrorist group Hamas would likely return to the Qatari capital Doha to facilitate a fresh round of talks soon . <p> In November with pressure put on Doha to expel Hamas , Qatar had said that it would n't act as a mediator any longer , essentially threatening the fate of the hostages because a deal would ostensibly be harder without Doha in the middle . <h> Trump 's first priority <p> Trump 's newly-appointed Middle East adviser , Massad Boulos , told French magazine Le Point on Wednesday that the first priority for the Trump administration will be the immediate release of the hostages . <p> Boulos added that while the release of the hostages should be separate from issues relating to the future of Gaza , a hostage deal should come within the framework of a temporary ceasefire.US President-elect Donald Trump with Massad Boulos during a campaign stop in Dearborn , Michigan , US , on November 1 ( credit : REUTERS/BRIAN SNYDER ) <p> " According to him , their fate should not be linked to other issues related to the day after in Gaza . Several countries are currently helping to achieve this goal , whether it is Egypt , Jordan , Qatar , or even Turkey , " Boulos had said . <p> Boulos stressed that Turkey should not replace Qatar 's role as a mediator but that it did have influence over Hamas 's decision-making , given it now houses the terror group 's key officials . 
@@118468068 <h> On January 15 , Hamas announced in a video that Itai Svirsky , 38 , had been killed in an IDF airstrike . <p> The body of Itai Svirsky , who was taken hostage on October 7 from Kibbutz Be'eri , was recovered by the IDF in a joint operation with the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) , the military announced on Wednesday . There are 100 hostages who remain in Hamas captivity in the Gaza Strip , 14 months after they were kidnapped . <p> " Itai , a member of Kibbutz Be'eri , was kidnapped by Hamas on October 7 , 2023 . He was tragically killed in captivity , and his body was held in Gaza , " said the statement . " As part of the operation , the Kidnapped and Missing Persons team in the IDF Human Resources Division , responsible for supporting the families of the kidnapped , worked closely with the Institute for Forensic Medicine and the Israel Police to identify his remains , " it continued . <p> The Hostages and Missing Families Forum said , " Returning Itai 's body for proper burial in Israel provides crucial closure for his family . However , families are still waiting for their loved ones after 425 days in captivity . Many hostages remain alive but in grave danger , requiring immediate release for urgent medical care and rehabilitation . The others must be returned for a dignified burial . The time has come to bring all 100 hostages home . " The agency and military informed the Svirsky family of the developments on Wednesday and extended " their deepest condolences to the family " and will " continue to work tirelessly to bring all the kidnapped home . " <h> Svirsky 's death <p> On January 15 , Hamas announced in a video that Itai Svirsky , 38 , had been killed in an IDF airstrike . He was held hostage with Yossi Sharabi , who was killed in captivity , and Noa Argamani , who was rescued in June.In a video released at the time by Hamas , Argamani announced their deaths . " I was located in a building , " Argamani said in the Hamas video . " It was bombed by an IDF airstrike , an F16 fighter jet . <p> Three rockets were fired . Two of the rockets exploded , and the other did not . We were in the building with Al-Qassam soldiers and three hostages : me - Noa Argamani - Itai Svirsky , and Yosef Sharabi . <p> " After the building we were in was hit , we were all buried under rubble . Al-Qassam soldiers saved my life and Itai 's . Unfortunately , we were not able to save Yossi 's . " After many days ... two nights , Itai and I were relocated to another place . While we were being transported , Itai was hit by an IDF airstrike . He did not survive . " <p> Argamani commemorated Svirsky in a post to Instagram on Wednesday , soon after the news broke : " Dear Itai , during our shared stay in captivity , we imagined thousands of situations together , how we would return to Israel together , how we would meet for coffee after everything was over and laugh about it all . We never thought for a moment that you would return to Israel like this , as a corpse . " Thank you for every moment of our shared time together . You were my friend ; you were my big brother in this dark place . You taught me so many things that I will take with me no matter where I go . Now , you will receive a proper burial in Israel . Rest in peace , " Argamani wrote.The IDF 's position is that Svirsky was shot and murdered by Hamas in captivity . He was kidnapped from Kibbutz Be'eri on October 7 during Hamas 's rampage through the southern Israeli community . At the time , the 38-year-old had been staying with his mother , Orit , 70 . <p> He and his mother had been hiding under blankets in the safe room when the terrorists stormed in and sprayed the room with bullets , killing Orit.Itai 's father , Rafi , 71 , was also murdered , along with his three golden retrievers. 
@@118468069 <h> The IDF said this meant that if the Hamas guards had not already shot the six hostages , the air force bombing probably would have killed them . <p> The bodies of hostages Yagev Buchshtab , Alexander Dancyg , Avraham Munder , Yoram Metzger , Nadav Popplewell , and Haim Perry were recovered by the IDF from the Khan Yunis area in the Gaza Strip. ( photo credit : Hostages and Missing Families Forum ) <p> A comprehensive IDF probe has concluded that the military did not kill six hostages whose bodies were recovered from Khan Yunis on August 20 after having been kidnapped by Hamas.Rather , there were signs of gunfire on all six hostages ' bodies , such that they were likely killed by their Hamas guards.These six hostages are different from a group of six hostages who were killed by Hamas in Tel Sultan in Rafah at a later date when the military was maneuvering close to where they were being held.The six hostages were Nadav Popplewell , Yagev Buchshtab , Yoram Metzger , Haim Peri , Alexander Dancyg , and Avraham Munder.There is room for uncertainty regarding their deaths because , on February 14 , the air force bombed the tunnel areas where the hostages were likely being kept , killing around six Hamas guards . People walk past a wall displaying posters of hostages , in Tel Aviv , Israel , August 18 , 2024 ( credit : REUTERS/FLORION GOGA ) <p> IDF sources admitted that this meant that if the Hamas guards had not already shot the six hostages , the air force bombing probably would have killed them . <p> Additional Hamas forces later encountered the bodies , but it appears they did not move them to a different area , believing that the IDF would not find them , which it did not for another six months . <p> In addition , the IDF disclosed the movements of the hostages as far as it knows up until their death . <p> According to the IDF , the six hostages were held along with a larger group of hostages in the largest underground Hamas command center in Gaza , in Khan Yunis , until the end of December . <p> This was the area with artificial turf and large numbers of cages as well as top senior Hamas leaders . <p> A video released by the IDF regarding the investigation of the death of six hostages in a Hamas tunnel in the Khan Yunis area ( December 4 , 2024 , IDF Spokesperson 's Unit ) . <p> At the end of December , the six were separated from the other hostages as well as from the top Hamas leaders , and were moved to Hamad , a neighborhood four kilometers away from their earlier hiding spot in Khan Yunis.This occurred as the IDF made breakthroughs in its invasion of Khan Yunis , which had started on December 1 . The IDF did not inject large numbers of soldiers into Hamad until months after it had taken over the rest of Khan Yunis proper . <p> On February 14 , the IDF conducted airstrikes against Hamas battalion commanders in the area where the hostages were being held underground.The IDF believes that Hamas shot and killed them shortly before they themselves were killed.Unlike the hostages , who had signs of gunfire on their bodies , the Hamas guards only had signs of airstrikes.On June 3 , the IDF confirmed four of the six were dead , even though it had not recovered the bodies.By July 22 , the IDF was able to confirm all six were dead.The August 20 rescue operation was conducted by the IDF 's 98th Division and carried out by the Paratroopers Brigade , Yahalom Unit , and the 75th Battalion , along with ISA forces . The operation was managed by military intelligence , Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) , and the IDF Intelligence Directorate Hostage Headquarters.It was announced by Kibbutz Nirim earlier that the bodies of Popplewell and Buchshtab were retrieved from Gaza.Similarly , Kibbutz Nir Oz announced that the bodies of Peri , Metzger , and Dancyg were also retrieved . Munder was believed to be alive until Kibbutz Nir Oz announced his death while in Gaza captivity.The National Institute of Forensic Medicine , Israel Police , and the IDF Manpower Directorate 's Hostage Team conducted an identification procedure of the bodies and notified their families and communities . <h> Nadav Popplewell <p> Popplewell , 51 years old , was kidnapped from Nirim on October 7 . In June , the IDF announced he had been killed in Hamas captivity.Kibbutz Nirim said that he loved books and science fiction.Popplewell was taken hostage along with his mother , Channah Peri , who was released in the November 2023 hostage deal following 49 days in Gaza captivity . Both were taken from their home 's safe room . Popplewell 's brother Roi , aged 54 , was murdered on October 7 . <h> Yagev Buchshtab <p> Buchshtab , 35 years old , was seized from Kibbutz Nirim on October 7 along with his wife , Rimon Kirsht Buchshtab , 36 , who was released on November 28 , 2023 as part of the hostage deal . <p> In July , the IDF announced he had been killed in Gaza captivity . Buchshtab was a sound technician and had a passion for music . <h> Yoram Metzger <p> Metzger , 80 years old , was seized from Nir Oz on October 7 . In June , the IDF announced he had been killed while in Hamas captivity . He is survived by his wife , Tamar , who was kidnapped along with him and released in the November hostage deal , three children , and seven grandchildren . <p> At the kibbutz , Yoram worked in the Nirlat factory and as a kibbutz mechanic . <h> Haim Peri <p> Peri , 79 , was kidnapped from kibbutz Nir Oz on October 7 . In June , the IDF announced he had been killed in Hamas captivity . <p> " On the day of the massacre in the kibbutz , Haim managed to save his wife , Asnat , before being kidnapped himself . He survived in inhumane conditions in the Hamas tunnels for months , until he was brutally murdered in captivity , " the kibbutz wrote in a statement in August.Peri was a father of five , a grandfather to 13 , a peace activist , and the founder of an art gallery . He also taught at Sapir College . <h> Alexander Dancyg <p> Dancyg , 76 years old , was kidnapped from Nir Oz on October 7 . In July , the IDF announced he had been killed in Gaza captivity . <p> Born to Holocaust survivors , Dancyg was an educator and historian who worked at Yad Vashem for nearly 30 years . He was one of the founders of educational delegations to Poland and led many of them . <h> Avraham Munder <p> Munder was kidnapped from kibbutz Nir Oz on October 7 . Munder fought and was wounded in the Six-Day War , according to the Hostages and Missing Families Forum . <p> Munder 's nephew told KAN Reshet Bet earlier that his uncle 's body had been recovered from Gaza and that " it 's sad that a person who participated in liberating Jerusalem and answered the call to develop communities in the Negev had his life ended by being thrown aside in a tunnel in Khan Yunis . " He lived in Kibbutz Nir Oz for more than 50 years and took part in the Eshkol choir.He was kidnapped to the Gaza Strip on October 7 along with his wife , Ruti , his daughter , Keren , and his nine-year-old grandson , Ohad , who was released in the November 2023 hostage deal following 49 days in captivity . <h> Hostage Families Forum responds <p> After the results of the probe were published , the Hostage Families Forum provided a statement , saying , " After 425 agonizing days , the investigation 's findings serve as yet another proof that the lives of hostages face constant , daily danger . Time is of the essence -- many of the hostages are still alive and enduring impossible conditions of abuse , starvation , and isolation . " " As US President-elect Donald Trump has emphasized -- they must be released before he takes office -- they will not survive captivity until then . The current and incoming American administration , along with mediating countries , must do everything necessary to achieve a deal for the hostages ' return . " 
@@118468073 <p> The newest photo of Muhammed Deif ( right ) holding US dollars and a plastic cup of juice. ( photo credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> Hamas managed to locate the body of Muhammad Deif , the former military leader of Hamas , under the rubble of an airstrike that eliminated him in the area of Al-Mawasi and buried it in secret , Israeli state broadcaster KAN reported on Wednesday , citing Palestinian sources . <p> According to KAN 's source , Hamas secretly buried Deif 's body in an undisclosed location without publicly announcing the location . <p> The source noted that Hamas believes that if Israel learns of the burial site , the IDF will dig up the grave and take Deif 's body to use as a bargaining chip in a hostage deal . <h> Hamas sought to hide Deif 's death <p> According to KAN 's report , Hamas also maintained discretion due to the terror group not having previously officially announced Deif 's death out of concern that the news " would break the morale of the fighters in the Gaza Strip . " Since the assassination , there have been multiple reports in Arab media sources claiming officials from the terror group admitted his death , but Hamas never put out an official statement . <p> The IDF confirmed in August that its July 13 airstrike targeting Deif succeeded in killing him . The attempted assassination of Mohammed Deif ( credit : Arab networks ) <p> IDF sources indicated that some members of Hamas and Hezbollah have known for some time that Deif was dead but that others may not have known because portions of Hamas are currently cut off from the broader Hamas operational network . 
@@118468075 <h> Adam Boehler previously served as a lead negotiator on the Abraham Accords with Jared Kushner . <p> Former president Donald Trump listens as Adam Boehler , the CEO of the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation , addresses the daily coronavirus task force briefing in the Rose Garden at the White House in Washington , US , April 14 , 2020. ( photo credit : LEAH MILLIS/REUTERS ) <p> US President-elect Donald Trump named Adam Boehler as his special envoy for hostage affairs , in a post on Truth Social on Wednesday . <p> Boehler thanked Trump in a post on X/Twitter , for the " opportunity and honor to serve you and our great nation . There is nothing more important than bringing Americans home . Under @realDonaldTrump 's leadership , there will finally be action and consequences . We will BRING THEM HOME . " <p> A source told Reuters that Trump 's national security advisor , Mike Waltz , was set to meet with Strategic Affairs Minister Ron Dermer on Wednesday . They were expected to discuss the efforts to reach a Gaza hostage and ceasefire deal and the Iranian threat . A reporter for Axios , who had earlier reported the meeting , said it on X , citing a source familiar with the meeting.The meeting comes just weeks before Trump takes office on January 20 following campaign promises to end the wars in the Middle East and elsewhere , though he has offered scant details on how he plans to proceed.Boehler is a former chief executive officer of the US International Development Finance Corporation , Reuters reported . <p> Boehler was also the lead US negotiator alongside Jared Kushner for the Abraham Accords between Israel , the UAE , and Bahrain . He led the normalization talks between Israel and Morrocco . <p> David Friedman , who served as US ambassador to Israel under the first Trump administration , called Boehler a " brilliant guy " in a phone call with The Jerusalem Post shortly after the announcement . <p> " I 'm repeating myself now , but he 's incredibly smart , very dedicated , very serious , and is very well educated in the Middle East , " Friedman said . " He used to come to Israel often when I was ambassador . We spent a lot of time together , and I think he 's an excellent , excellent choice . " According to Friedman , Boehler will be able to develop " certainly , a strategy that 's far better than what we 've had so far " to secure the release of the hostages . <p> Friedman declined to say what actions Boehler should take between now and inauguration day for the hostages to be released since those are discussions that " generally need to be done quietly behind the scenes , " he said . <h> ' All hell to pay ' <p> The announcement came after Trump 's statement that if the hostages were n't released by his inauguration day in January , there would be " all hell to pay . " <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America , " Trump wrote , adding in a call to release the hostages as soon as possible . <p> Friedman said he thinks Trump means what he wrote , that the " message is to show how invested the president is in this outcome and how much he cares about it . " According to Friedman , the reaction of the US under Trump " will be overwhelming " if these hostages are not released . " I 'm glad the message was conveyed , " he added . " And now I hope that some sanity will prevail among us . " Michael Rubin , senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute , echoed Friedman 's sentiment . " If Hamas thinks Trump is bluffing , they have another thing coming , " Rubin told the Post . " Hamas has become accustomed to an elaborate pantomime in which the Biden White House pretends to care about the hostages and Hamas pretends to negotiate in good faith . Trump plays a different game . " Hamas may want to test Trump , Rubin added , but the terrorist group will find that they will pay the price.John Hannah , a senior fellow at the Jewish Institute of National Security of America , described Trump 's threat as " both ridiculous and constructive at the same time . " C'm on . Harder than an atomic bomb on Nagasaki and Hiroshima ? Harder than the firebombing of Tokyo or Dresden ? Difficult to imagine , " said Hannah.That said , he continued , it is entirely plausible to believe that " depending on who he last spoke to or his mood on January 20 , " Trump might really follow through with " extremely tough actions that far exceed anything the Biden administration ever considered . " Hannah said that includes strong military action against not just whatever remains of Hamas but also against Iran.That could also mean " threatening draconian economic sanctions " against other countries Trump views as having fallen short in using their full influence and leverage over Hamas to free the hostages , including US partners in Qatar , Turkey , and even Egypt , he added . " This is a classic case where even if you ca n't take Trump literally , you ca n't afford not to take him seriously -- especially if you 're a potential target of his wrath , " Hannah said.As the promises of a ceasefire in the South echo , all the players are reeling and on edge from the one secured late last month in the North . US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Wednesday that fundamentally both Lebanon and Israel want to continue the ceasefire . He made the comments to reporters at a NATO news conference in Brussels.Blinken indicated the oversight mechanism operated by France and the US is operating as intended to assess allegations of violations.He declined to respond to " any private diplomatic conversations " between the US , France , Israel , and Hezbollah regarding possible violations . " All I can tell you is the mechanism that we established with France to make sure that the ceasefire is effectively monitored and implemented , is working , and we want to make sure it continues to work , " Blinken said.Blinken said he would not speculate about " what 's going to happen in the future " and that he can only talk about the clear interests of the parties : Israel is interested in making sure the terms of the ceasefire are fully implemented by Hezbollah , including moving Hezbollah back to the North.Israel 's interests include making sure the Lebanese Armed Forces are effectively deployed along the border and that they have the authority to deal with arms and infrastructure that they find . " That 's where we are . I 'm again very focused on making sure that we carry forward , " Blinken said . " Let 's see where we are after the initial 60 days . " 
@@118468076 <h> " The president believes that the hostages must be released immediately and that there must be no further delay , " Boulos told Le Point . <p> US President-elect Donald Trump with Massad Boulos during a campaign stop in Dearborn , Michigan , US , on November 1 ( photo credit : REUTERS/BRIAN SNYDER ) <p> The first priority for the Trump administration will be the immediate release of the hostages with no further delay , President-elect Donald Trump 's newly-appointed Middle East adviser , Massad Boulos , told French paper Le Point in an exclusive interview . <p> Boulos added that while the release of the hostages should be separate from issues relating to the future of Gaza , a hostage deal should come within the framework of a temporary ceasefire . " The president believes that the hostages must be released immediately and that there must be no further delay , " he told Le Point . " According to him , their fate should not be linked to other issues related to the day after in Gaza . <p> Several countries are currently helping to achieve this goal , whether it is Egypt , Jordan , Qatar , or even Turkey . " However , Boulos stressed that Turkey should not replace Qatar 's role as mediator but that it did have influence over Hamas 's decision-making , given it now houses the terror group 's key officials . <p> PRIME MINISTER Benjamin Netanyahu and Donald Trump , during his first term as US president , arrive to deliver joint remarks on the ' Deal of the Century ' proposal , at the White House in 2020. ( credit : JOSHUA ROBERTS/REUTERS ) <p> When asked whether the incoming administration might support Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich 's plan to annex the West Bank , Boulos said that Trump has yet to publicly address this issue , and the administration has not yet implemented a policy . <p> However , Boulos did say that " starting January 20th , there will be a very clear and very specific policy on this subject , which must be respected . " Boulos agreed that discussions around a " roadmap leading to a Palestinian state " would be a key part of discussions between the US and Israel . He referenced Trump 's 2020 plan , which spoke of a proposed Palestinian state , the details of which " were rejected by both sides . " Boulos continued that the president-elect 's priority is " to resume discussions on the Abraham Accords , with , of course , Saudi Arabia first . Because we know very well , and the president has said so , that once we reach an agreement with Saudi Arabia on Israel , there will be at least twelve Arab countries that will be immediately ready to follow suit . " <h> Plans for Iran <p> He added that the Saudi parties were not demanding the establishment of a Palestinian state as part of a deal.Speaking on Iran , Boulos said that Trump was adamant on preventing the regime from having a nuclear program.He stressed that Trump would put " maximum pressure " on Iran again and added that he felt Iran had changed tact since the former president was reelected.However , Boulos said that Trump was mainly focused on the nuclear deal and not the regime itself , which he was prepared to negotiate with . <p> " Nevertheless , there are three very important points for him : Iran must absolutely not have nuclear power ; Iran 's ballistic missiles pose a risk not only to Israel but also to the Gulf countries ; and finally , the problem posed by Iranian proxies in the region , whether in Gaza , Lebanon , Iraq , or Yemen . Apart from these three axes , Trump did not talk about regime change . " Boulos , a Lebanese-American businessman , was recently appointed by Trump as his Middle East adviser . He is the father of Michael Boulos , who is married to Trump 's daughter , Tiffany.Speaking on his appointment , Boulos told Le Point that " it was a great honor " and a " great responsibility . " " The vision is to achieve lasting peace in the Middle East . We have four years to work , and we hope to achieve something that will be sustainable for the future and generations to come , " he added . 
@@118468077 <p> Defense Minister Israel Katz said that he intends to hold a disciplinary procedure against IDF Spokesperson Rear Admiral Daniel Hagari , who criticized the " Feldstein bill , " calling it " very dangerous to the IDF " during a press conference on Wednesday evening . <p> Katz criticized Hagari , saying , " The IDF Spokesperson 's criticism of the political echelon and the legislative process in the Knesset is a serious and extraordinary phenomenon , completely outside of its authority and what is permitted and expected from someone in uniform in a democratic regime . " <p> " I intend to take disciplinary action against him as soon as possible to draw the necessary conclusions . " <p> Hamas managed to locate the body of Muhammad Deif , the former military leader of Hamas , under the rubble of an airstrike that eliminated him in the area of Al-Mawasi and buried it in secret , Israeli state broadcaster KAN reported on Wednesday , citing Palestinian sources . <p> According to KAN 's source , Hamas secretly buried Deif 's body in an undisclosed location without publicly announcing the location . <p> The video features a simulated image of Netanyahu against the backdrop of Hamas tunnels in Gaza and is shown to be saying , " My name is Yair Netanyahu , 33 years old , From Jerusalem ... uh , Miami , Caesarea . I 've been here in Hamas captivity with almost no food or water , without seeing the sun or breathing fresh air . " <h> Blinken said he would not speculate about " what 's going to happen in the future " and that he can only talk about the clear interests of the parties . <p> Fundamentally , both Lebanon and Israel want to continue the ceasefire , according to US Secretary of State Antony Blinken , who addressed reporters on Wednesday afternoon during a NATO news conference in Brussels . <p> Blinken indicated the oversight mechanism operated by France and the US is operating as intended to assess allegations of violations . <p> The current situation in Syria has the purpose of weakening Syria and its allies in the Middle East 's " Axis of Resistance , " Iran 's Armed Forces Chief of Staff , Major-General Mohammad Bagheri , said on Tuesday , according to the Islamic Republic 's news agency , IRNA. 
@@118468078 <p> Defense Minister Israel Katz said on Wednesday that " there is a chance that this time , we can truly advance a hostage deal " while speaking at the Tel Nof air base , Israeli media reported . <p> At Tel Nof , Katz met with Israel Air Force commander Major-General Tomer Bar and Israel Air Force Chief of Staff Brigadier-General Omer Tishler , along with other senior commanders . <p> Israeli media cited Katz as saying , " This is the ultimate goal that stands before us , and we are working in every way to make this happen . " <p> In a recent development , an internal Hamas statement seen by Reuters on Wednesday stated that Hamas said it had information that Israel intended to carry out a hostage rescue operation similar to one conducted in Gaza 's Nuseirat camp in June . <h> Hamas says they would ' neutralize ' hostages if Israel carried out rescue op . <p> In the statement , Hamas threatened to " neutralize " the captives if such an operation took place , Reuters reported . Israel Katz attends a replacing ceremony at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Jerusalem on November 10 , 2024. ( credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <p> The internal statement was dated November 22 , where Hamas told operatives not to consider any repercussions of following the instructions and said Israel was responsible for the fate of the hostages . It did not say when any Israeli operation was expected to take place . 
@@118468079 <p> Lebanon 's Hezbollah has been significantly degraded militarily by Israel , but the Iran-backed group will likely try to rebuild its stockpiles and forces and pose a long-term threat to the US and its regional allies , four sources briefed on updated US intelligence told Reuters . <p> US intelligence agencies assessed in recent weeks that Hezbollah , even amid Israel 's military campaign , had begun to recruit new fighters and was trying to find ways to rearm through domestic production and by smuggling materials through Syria , said a senior US official , an Israeli official , and two US lawmakers briefed on the intelligence , speaking on condition of anonymity . <p> It 's unclear to what extent those efforts have slowed since last week when Hezbollah and Israel reached a shaky ceasefire , two of the sources said . The deal specifically prohibits Hezbollah from procuring weapons or weapons parts . <p> In recent days , Israel has tried to undercut Hezbollah 's ability to rebuild its military forces , striking several Hezbollah rocket launchers in Lebanon , bombing border crossings with Syria , and blocking an Iranian aircraft suspected of ferrying weapons for the group . <p> US intelligence agencies assess that Hezbollah is operating with limited firepower . It has lost more than half its weapons stockpiles and thousands of fighters during the conflict with Israel , reducing Tehran 's overall military capacity to its lowest point in decades , according to the intelligence . HEZBOLLAH WEAPONS , explosives , and military gear are found in a secret underground storehouse by the writer and his unit during the current Lebanon war . ( credit : Courtesy Benjamin Sipzner ) <h> Hezbollah will try to rebuild <p> But Hezbollah has not been destroyed . It still maintains thousands of short-range rockets in Lebanon , and it will try to rebuild using weapons factories in neighboring countries with available transport routes , the sources said . <p> One of the lawmakers said Hezbollah has been " knocked back " in the short term and had its ability to conduct command and control reduced . But the lawmaker added : " This organization is designed to be disrupted . " <p> US officials are concerned about Hezbollah 's access to Syria , where Syrian rebels recently launched an offensive to retake government strongholds in Aleppo and Hama . Hezbollah has long used Syria as a safe haven and transport hub , taking military equipment and weapons from Iraq , through Syria and into Lebanon through the rugged border crossings . <p> Washington is trying to pressure Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to limit Hezbollah 's operations , enlisting other countries in the region to help , a senior US official said . Reuters reported on Monday that the US and the United Arab Emirates have discussed possibly lifting sanctions on Assad if he peels himself away from Iran and cuts off weapons routes to Hezbollah . <p> Hezbollah officials have said the group will continue to function as a " resistance " against Israel , but its secretary general Naim Qassem has not brought up the group 's weapons in recent speeches , including after the ceasefire was reached . Sources in Lebanon say Hezbollah 's priority is rebuilding homes for its constituency after Israeli strikes destroyed swaths of Lebanon 's south and the southern suburbs of Beirut . <p> The US National Security Council and the Office of the Director for National Intelligence declined to comment on the updated US intelligence . <h> Training challenges <p> Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi said last week that Hezbollah had not been weakened by Israel 's killing of many of its leaders since January and by its ground assault against the group since early October . He said Hezbollah had been able to reorganize and fight back effectively . <p> However , US intelligence indicates that Israel has taken out thousands of Hezbollah 's missiles in Lebanon , pushing cadres of its fighters back from the border with Israel , the sources told Reuters . <p> While tracking the exact number of Hezbollah fighters remains a challenge , the intelligence notes that the group will likely face significant training challenges for years to come , the sources said . <p> US officials say Hezbollah 's breakdown points to a growing gap in Iran 's military capacity and raises doubts about its ability to use its proxies to attack Israel and its other adversaries in the short term . Iran also backs Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip and the Houthi group in Yemen . <p> In the past , had Israel considered bombing Iran , it faced the prospect of Hezbollah in Lebanon reciprocating , said a second US official , but with Hezbollah weakened , Israel can attack Iran directly without the same threat to its north . <p> In Gaza , US intelligence indicates Hamas can only sustain small , guerrilla-style tactics after having lost at least half of its fighters . The Houthis continue to launch missiles and drones from Yemen , but the US has been able to intercept most . <p> The updated US intelligence - briefed to senior officials and lawmakers in recent weeks - emerges ahead of US President-elect Donald Trump 's Jan. 20 inauguration . The US charged an Iranian man last month in connection with an alleged Iranian plot to assassinate Trump . Iran has rejected the accusation . <p> During his first term in office , Trump embraced a " maximum pressure " campaign on Iran , imposing harsh sanctions on Tehran , its military complex , and its most lucrative economic sectors . Trump , in 2018 , pulled the US out of a 2015 international agreement meant to deny Tehran the ability to build nuclear weapons . In 2020 , Trump was responsible for a strike in Iraq that killed top Iranian military commander Qassem Soleimani. 
@@118476076 <p> Many called her a murderer and a supporter of genocide because she served in the Israeli military . <p> Pro-Palestinian advocates opened up a torrent of bilious hatred against Israeli actress Gal Gadot after a movie trailer for her latest film was released by Disney . <p> The live-action " Snow White " movie has already been mired in controversy over casting decisions about the seven dwarves , but anti-Israel critics have been more vociferous since the Oct. 7 attack led to Israel 's war on Hamas in the Gaza Strip . Gadot served as a combat fitness instructor in the Israeli Defense Forces as part of her mandatory service . <p> ' F*** gal gadot and all the zionists in and behind this movie . ' <p> " Oh look , gal gadot in her true form , a murderer , " said one critic , referring to her role as the Evil Queen in the movie . <p> " Remember to boycott Snow White , " said another critic , " never EVER support anything that evil zionist Gal Gadot is in . " <p> " F*** israel and f*** gal gadot and her s****y acting , " read one tweet . <p> " F*** gal gadot and all the zionists in and behind this movie i hope you rot in hell , " read another tweet . <p> " How is gal gadot famous like she 's one of the worst actresses to ever exist AND she served in an army being tried for gen ? cide , " said another critic . <p> " Not to be that one friend that 's too woke but , " read another tweet , " ' f*** gal gadot ' yes but also f*** the fact that this is a story abt a girl who 's the most beautiful girl ever because of her pale skin and caricatures of disabled people presented as fantastical creatures . " <p> The movie has also been lambasted by the right over the decision to feature actress Rachel Zegler as the title character despite far-left statements against Trump supporters , Israel , and the traditional story of Snow White . <p> Like Blaze News ? Bypass the censors , sign up for our newsletters , and get stories like this direct to your inbox . Sign up here ! 
@@118499867 <p> The killing is a wakeup call for corporate security teams , who say they have noticed an uptick in violent threats against business leaders , especially on social media , according to The Wall Street Journal . <p> Security chiefs at major US corporations are weighing whether they should beef up safety measures . REUTERS <p> " The environment is explosive right now , " former Boston Police Commissioner Ed Davis , who consults with companies on security risks , told the Journal . " The threats are evolving and getting more violent . " <p> Corporate leaders have been the target of violent attacks in the past . Starting in the 1970s , the Unabomber killed three people and injured others by sending explosive packages to airline executives over a two-decade span . A kidnapper abducted and later killed Exxon executive Sidney Reso in the early 1990s . <p> But resentment toward corporate America has grown more widespread , with some executives being threatened over their companies ' stance on controversial diversity and inclusion initiatives and the war in Gaza . <p> " It 's a shock to the system , " Michael Evanoff , a former State Department assistant secretary for diplomatic security , told the Journal . " It 's a wake-up call . " <h> What we know about the shooting of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson <p> The methodical killer used a firearm with a silencer outside the Hilton hotel along Sixth Avenue . <p> The gunman fired at Thompson multiple times , striking his back and right calf before fleeing on foot . <p> The NYPD released a new photo of the hooded suspect standing in front of the counter at the Starbucks at West 56th Street and 6th Avenue , just minutes from the Hilton hotel where he gunned down Thompson , 50 . <p> Thompson 's murder has caused major US corporations to reconsider their security protocol . <p> Just hours after the attack , the head of security at Corteva , a seed and pesticide supplier , called the company 's chief executive Chuck Magro to ask if he wanted additional security measures this week . <p> The New York City Police Department released photos showing the suspect 's face . via REUTERS <p> " Now , you sort of ask yourself : OK , is it too relaxed ? I do n't know , " Magro told the Journal . " Every company 's going to have to look at this . " <p> In particular , security teams are looking at large investor meetings , typically held at hotels or other large venues , which pose a challenge since there are not many entry and exit points . <p> Some executives have security guards who walk a step ahead to scan for potential threats , while others are escorted to events by armed drivers . <p> More than a quarter of S&amp;P 500 companies provide personal security services outside working hours , according to data from Equilar . About 13% provide security measures to executives aside from the CEO , the data said . These companies do not have to report their spending on security measures within normal business hours . <p> The gunman who fatally shot UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson is still at-large . REUTERS <p> A number of companies spent millions on outside-hours security measures in 2023 . Meta spent $24 million on such security protocols , mostly for CEO Mark Zuckerberg , according to securities filings . Blackstone spent $4.6 million and Oracle and Las Vegas Sands each spent just over $3 million on these security measures last year , according to Equilar . <p> UnitedHealth did not report any such costs in 2023 , according to the Journal . <p> Many corporate boards require top executives to travel via corporate jets for business matters , and sometimes for personal use , as a safety measure . Andrew Witty , chief executive of the UnitedHealth group , is required to travel by jet for business matters and is encouraged to travel by private plane for personal travel , according to securities filings . <p> UnitedHealth 's executives did not use corporate jets for any personal trips last year , the filing said . 
@@118500263 <p> Cornell University has seen multiple controversies over pro-Palestinian speech , activism and , now , teaching . <p> Matt Burkhartt/Getty Images <p> Cornell University 's interim president is facing public accusations that he suppressed academic freedom after he criticized a pro-Palestinian professor 's planned course in an email and that email was shared with a reporter . <p> The fracas started with a Nov. 6 email from a Cornell adjunct law professor , who wrote to interim president Michael I. Kotlikoff that a course set for the spring was antisemitic and could cause violence against Israeli and Jewish students . The course , Gaza , Indigeneity , Resistance , is going to be taught by Eric Cheyfitz , who is Jewish . <p> Cheyfitz , the Ernest I. White Professor of American Studies and Humane Letters and an indigenous studies professor , wrote in his course description that the class would examine the idea that Indigenous people have been involved " in a global resistance against an ongoing colonialism . " He wrote that the course would also " present a specific case " of the ongoing Israel-Hamas war as " settler colonialism in Palestine/Israel with a particular emphasis on the International Court of Justice finding ' plausible ' the South African assertion of ' genocide ' in Gaza . " <h> Most Popular <p> The professor who raised concern about the course to Kotlikoff was Menachem Z. Rosensaft ( both are also Jewish ) . Kotlikoff did respond , criticizing the class but also defending academic freedom , and that might have been the end of it . But Rosensaft told Inside Higher Ed that a reporter from the Jewish Telegraphic Agency called him to ask about his opinions on the course . Rosensaft said that , during that interview , he mentioned his email exchange with Kotlikoff and provided the reporter with the email when asked . <p> " I personally find the course description to represent a radical , factually inaccurate , and biased view of the formation of the state of Israel and the ongoing conflict , " Kotlikoff , the former provost , had written to Rosensaft . The Jewish Telegraphic Agency published the contents Nov. 11 . <p> Kotlikoff 's comments , which he told Inside Higher Ed were meant to remain private , have since spread to the Cornell Daily Sun student newspaper and prompted condemnation from faculty . The Middle East Studies Association 's president and its Committee on Academic Freedom have condemned his comments . Cornell 's chapter of the American Association of University Professors piled on Wednesday , releasing a lengthy statement that said Kotlikoff 's comments were an " egregious threat to bedrock principles of academic freedom . " <p> Risa Lieberwitz , president of that AAUP chapter , told Inside Higher Ed that Kotlikoff violated both Cheyfitz 's individual academic freedom and a broader facet of academic freedom . Kotlikoff 's email had not only criticized the course but the faculty who had supposedly approved it . Lieberwitz -- who 's also a member of AAUP 's national Committee A on Academic Freedom and Tenure , though she said she was n't speaking in that capacity -- said AAUP principles also protect the " intramural " speech that 's part of faculty governance at universities . <p> " The content of that email is extremely important because it is the university 's president weighing in about whether a faculty member 's course should be offered , " Lieberwitz said . She said that could have a " chilling effect " on what and how other faculty teach . <p> This is just the latest controversy at Cornell and other Ivy League institutions over faculty and student speech and protests that can broadly be characterized as pro-Palestinian . <p> In October , Cornell said it arrested three students who took part in the successful Sept. 18 shutdown of a university-hosted career fair that included weapons manufacturers . The Sunalso reported that during a private Zoom meeting between university administrators and Jewish parents , two university administrators ( not including Kotlikoff ) " outlined how the university monitors and disciplines pro-Palestinian activists , including by boosting security and surveillance around campus and ' scrutinizing ' faculty members ' in-class behavior . " <p> In one of the earliest post -- Oct. 7 , 2023 , campus flare-ups about pro-Palestinian speech that went national , associate history professor Russell Rickford said Hamas 's attack that day initially " exhilarated " him . ( Rickford , alongside Cheyfitz and Cheyfitz 's wife , founded a pro-Palestinian Cornell faculty organization , Cheyfitz told Inside Higher Ed . ) <p> Kotlikoff told Inside Higher Ed that his email " was a private communication to a colleague , not a public statement , it was not meant for public distribution . " <h> Editors ' Picks <p> " I had no expectation that this would be made public , " he added . " I would not publicly comment on the decision of a curriculum committee or a colleague 's choice of course material . " <p> However , Kotlikoff , said that " if there are antisemitic , racist , other incidents that are directly related to Cornell , I certainly reserve the right to comment on those and reassure the community around those issues " or " events . " He did not exclude what 's said by a professor in a classroom . <p> Cheyfitz , for his part , shared with Kotlikoff an email he received on the day the Jewish Telegraphic Agency article came out . <p> " Hope the women in your life experience the brutal rape Israeli women experienced and your children and grandchildren are burned to death before your eyes , " the email said . <p> Cheyfitz added to Kotlikoff , " The attached is the kind of email your ill-considered comments on my course in JTA provoke . " <p> Generally , though , Cheyfitz told Inside Higher Ed that " the backlash has n't been horrible , " and he 's surprised there has n't been more . But he said Kotlikoff has violated his academic freedom , and " there 's not anything in this course description that represents any of the critiques that Kotlikoff offers . " <h> A Not-So-Private Exchange <p> Cheyfitz , a longtime , vocal critic of Israeli policy , was receiving public criticism even before the JTA article . Ritchie Torres , a staunchly pro-Israel Democratic member of Congress representing New York , criticized the professor in a Nov. 4 social media post . <p> " Eric Cheyfitz , who is a Cornell Professor , demonizes Israel and lionizes Hamas , treating good as evil and evil as good , " Torres wrote on X. ( Cheyfitz denies lionizing Hamas . ) <p> Torres went on to say that " Cheyfitz is untroubled by genocide when the target is the homeland of the Jewish people . Poisonous professors like Cheyfitz are poisoning young minds at taxpayer expense . It is one thing for a free society to permit the poisoning . It is something else to subsidize it . Why do we ? " <p> It 's unclear what prompted Torres 's post , which did n't mention the course . A spokesman for Torres did n't respond to a request for comment . Whatever the genesis , the day after that post , the conservative online outlet Campus Reformwrote about the planned course . <p> Rosensaft said that after learning about the course roughly simultaneously from one of Torres 's posts and from a concerned student in his own class , he obtained a copy of the course description . <p> " If you cast Israel as being in the context of a global war against colonialism ... then you call into question the legitimacy of the state of Israel as a whole , " Rosensaft told Inside Higher Ed . " And you need to remember that Israel was not a colonial enterprise , but it was established pursuant to a United Nations General Assembly resolution . " <p> Rosensaft also said , " Courses with a racist , homophobic , misogynistic , Islamophobic bent would not be and should not be offered and I believe that the same standard should apply with courses that have an antisemitic bent . " ( Rosensaft was the longtime general counsel of the Israel-defending World Jewish Congress , and he teaches a class called Law of Genocide . ) <p> He wrote to Kotlikoff just two days after Torres 's post , saying the course description 's assertion of there being " settler colonialism " in Israel/Palestine is a " false premise " that " seeks to delegitimize the State of Israel " and " justify Palestinian terrorism . " Rosensaft said it 's " safe to assume " that Cheyfitz would portray the atrocities of Hamas 's Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack in " a positive light . " <p> Rosensaft said Cheyfitz " intends to use -- and will most certainly use -- the course as yet another means to propagate his extreme anti-Israel and , in my opinion , antisemitic views rather than to educate . " He said the course appearing amid the ongoing Israel-Hamas war made the class dangerous . <p> Rosensaft noted that Cornell gives deference to academic freedom , adding that " there are those who would argue that a hypothetical Cornell professor could offer a course claiming that Copernicus and Galileo were wrong and that the sun revolves around the Earth . " But while that would be " harmless quackery , " Rosensaft wrote , " Cheyfitz 's teachings could spur his students into acts of violence against Israeli and Jewish students at Cornell . " <p> He called on the interim president to at least tell the Cornell community that he " categorically opposes Professor Cheyfitz 's unsubtle effort to drag the university into the eye of the geopolitical storm surrounding the Israel-Hamas war in Gaza . " <p> Kotlikoff replied the next day , saying that he was concerned with " the course 's apparent lack of openness and objectivity , " but that faculty are responsible for the curriculum . <p> He went on to write that Cheyfitz 's course is optional and there are multiple other courses students can take on the Middle East and Zionism . Near the end of his letter , Kotlikoff also wrote that he " will speak out forcefully in response to antisemitic words or actions at Cornell , as I would with any behavior that threatens members of the Cornell community . " <p> Cheyfitz , for his part , does n't argue his course will be balanced . He said , " All scholarship is advocacy -- you 're always advocating in a course for a way to approach something . " Furthermore , he said , " Genocide 's not balanced . " 
@@118501278 <h> Amnesty International accuses Israel of Palestinian genocide in Gaza <p> Dec. 5 , 2024Updated Thu. , Dec. 5 , 2024 at 2:28 p.m . A man cries as he holds the body of a two-year-old child who was killed from shrapnel following an Israeli strike in Gaza City , at Al-Ahli Arab hospital , also known as the Baptist hospital on Dec. 5 , 2024 , as the war between Israel and Hamas militants continues . ( Omar Al-Qattaa/AFP/GETTY IMAGES NORTH AMERICA/TNS ) <p> BERLIN -- Amnesty International on Thursday accused Israel of genocide against Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , saying the Israeli military intentionally committed war crimes . <p> In a 300-page report , the human rights organization argued that the Israeli army has brought suffering and destruction to the people living in Gaza . <p> " Our damning findings must serve as a wake-up call to the international community : this is genocide . It must stop now , " the group 's secretary general Agn ? s Callamard said in a statement . <p> The Israeli Foreign Ministry has denied the allegations , saying the " deplorable and fanatical organization Amnesty International has once again produced a fabricated report that is entirely false and based on lies . " <p> " Israel is defending itself against these attacks acting fully in accordance with international law , " the ministry added . <p> The trigger for the Gaza conflict was the massacre by the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas and other extremists on October 7 , 2023 , when they invaded Israel , killing some 1,200 people and taking about 250 hostages . <p> Amnesty emphasized that Israel has since aimed to destroy Palestinians as a group . Countries and nations that continue to supply weapons to Israel risk becoming complicit , the report warned . <p> " States that continue to transfer arms to Israel at this time must know they are violating their obligation to prevent genocide and are at risk of becoming complicit in genocide , " Callamard warned . <p> " All states with influence over Israel , particularly key arms suppliers like the USA and Germany , but also other E.U. member states , the U.K. and others , must act now to bring Israel 's atrocities against Palestinians in Gaza to an immediate end . " <p> The organization is calling for an immediate end to what it says is genocide , the establishment of a ceasefire , and the release of all hostages . <p> The Israeli government has ignored countless warnings about the catastrophic humanitarian situation and disregarded measures from the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) , argued Julia Duchrow , secretary general of Amnesty International in Germany . <p> The ICJ has called on Israel to ensure humanitarian supplies in Gaza . <p> " Israel has carried out acts prohibited under the Genocide Convention , with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza , " Callamard wrote . <p> Israel has been engaging heavily with ground troops and airstrikes against Hamas in the densely populated coastal strip , home to more than 2 million people , for over a year . <p> According to the Hamas-controlled Health Ministry in Gaza , more than 44,500 people have died so far , and around 105,500 have been injured . <p> A large portion of residential buildings and infrastructure has been destroyed . Aid organizations are warning of a famine . <p> The Spokesman-Review Newspaper <p> Local journalism is essential . <p> Give directly to The Spokesman-Review 's Northwest Passages community forums series -- which helps to offset the costs of several reporter and editor positions at the newspaper -- by using the easy options below . Gifts processed in this system are not tax deductible , but are predominately used to help meet the local financial requirements needed to receive national matching-grant funds . 
@@118502262 <h> Is Israel 's war in Gaza putting the global order at peril ? The Hindu parley podcast <p> Nearly 400 days since the October 7 , 2023 attacks on Israel that led to the Israeli bombardment of Gaza , West Bank , and Lebanon , more than 43,000 have been killed , mostly civilians . Despite calls by the United Nations ( UN ) for action to address the humanitarian crisis ; an International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) verdict on the risk of genocide being perpetrated in Palestine ; and warrants issued by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , former Israeli Defence Minister Yoav Gallant , and Hamas military leader Mohammed Deif for alleged war crimes , there seems no let-up in the violence . <p> Is Israel 's war in Gaza putting the global order at peril ? Here we discuss the question . <p> Guests : Navtej Sarna served as India 's envoy to the United States , Israel and the United Kingdom ; Trita Parsi , Executive Vice President of the Quincy Institute in Washington , and author of books on Iran-U.S. relations <h> Comments <p> Comments have to be in English , and in full sentences . They can not be abusive or personal . Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments . <p> We have migrated to a new commenting platform . If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in , you may continue to engage with our articles . If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments . Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. 
@@118502271 <h> Is Israel 's war in Gaza putting the global order at peril ? <p> A man holds the body of a child who was killed from shrapnel following an Israeli strike in Gaza . Photo Credit : AFP <p> Nearly 400 days since the October 7 , 2023 attacks on Israel that led to the Israeli bombardment of Gaza , West Bank , and Lebanon , more than 43,000 have been killed , mostly civilians . Despite calls by the United Nations ( UN ) for action to address the humanitarian crisis ; an International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) verdict on the risk of genocide being perpetrated in Palestine ; and warrants issued by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , former Israeli Defence Minister Yoav Gallant , and Hamas military leader Mohammed Deif for alleged war crimes , there seems no let-up in the violence . Is Israel 's war in Gaza putting the global order at peril ? Navtej Sarna and Trita Parsi discuss the question in a conversation moderated by Suhasini Haidar . Edited excerpts : <p> When it comes to global institutions , why is the world so polarised ? In particular , what explains the policy of the U.S. on enforcing rules on Israel ? <p> Trita Parsi : Put simply , this is a genocide and we can see it happening live , on our phones . The Lancet estimates the toll to be over 1,86,000 because 43,000 is only the number of bodies that have been counted in hospitals . So , I 'm not surprised by the world 's outrage in comparison to what was felt over Russia 's invasion of Ukraine . Roughly , 700 children were killed in Ukraine through Russian bombardment over two-and-a-half years . More than 20,000 children have been killed in Gaza in about a year already . The intensity of this exceeds anything we have seen in any modern war . <p> What is surprising is America 's reaction . The Biden administration , in particular , has violated its own regulations to allow the Israeli government to do exactly what it wants . This has never happened before . The U.S. is shifting away from supporting the same international institutions , regulations , and laws that it played a crucial role in establishing . The first shift was away from international law to what it calls the ' rules-based international order ' . The rules-based order is not centred on law ; it is centred on rules , and it is unclear who makes those rules . In reality , it ends up being a coalition or a willing partnership of countries , mostly allies , which is not universally accepted or applicable . This is what we are seeing when it comes to the ICC warrants as well . <p> Navtej Sarna : The U.S. has a sort of umbilical relationship with Israel . The U.S. has treated Israel as if it is a part of the U.S. which needs to be protected at all costs . Now the protection is for strategic reasons , but also because Israel represents a sort of a moral burden . It is the Jewish homeland , and after the Holocaust , there is a need to protect all Israelis and not let them lose the homeland . In the view of the U.S. , Israel is also a democracy , a vulnerable democracy in a very hard neighbourhood , the only democracy in West Asia . While it is unstated so far , Israel is also believed to be a nuclear power , and one that can be a deterrent against another potential nuclear power that could be Iran . Now there are some contradictions : Israel 's democracy comes up against the fact that it has also been an occupying power and it is no longer vulnerable . But that has been overlooked because of the U.S. 's need to protect Israel for the other reasons I mentioned , particularly after the October 7 terror attacks by Hamas . <p> Israel has said the ICC warrant makes no sense because it is not a member state of the ICC , much like how India is n't , and does n't submit to its jurisdiction . Can a warrant still be issued against Prime Minister Netanyahu ? <p> Trita Parsi : Of course it can , because Israel is conducting war crimes in another country 's territory Palestine . This was an issue that the ICC had to address before taking up this issue . <p> Navtej Sarna : More than the ICC warrant , it is necessary to look at what has been done to international humanitarian law on the ground . Countries may react to the warrants one way or the other , but the sad part is that international humanitarian law has been flouted for months in full visibility of the world . Therefore , everybody has a responsibility to bear for allowing the bombardment of Gaza to continue . The U.S. has simply been putting up a diplomatic performance . If it really wanted to stop this , it could have . <p> Why did n't India join the ICC and what is its position on this warrant now ? <p> Navtej Sarna : The ICC has only 124 member states . India participated in the negotiations in the preparatory stages that led up to the setting up of the ICC in 2002 . India participated in the negotiations of the Rome Statute . But it did not sign it or ratify it . India negotiates in good faith and when it finds that it ca n't agree to some of the terms , it does n't sign . It is better than signing and flouting the terms . The reasons for not signing at the time were many . The Indian government felt that the ICC did not give sufficient place for national administrative and judicial institutions to deal with such crimes and it did not recognise the use of nuclear weapons and the use of other weapons of mass destruction as a crime which could be punished . It also did not recognise terrorism as a punishable crime against humanity , which , I think , was probably the breaking point for India , which had been a victim of terrorism for decades . Regarding the present ICC warrants in the cases of both Russian President Vladimir Putin and Mr. Netanyahu , India has made it clear that it does not have much faith in the ICC . <p> At the UN Security Council ( UNSC ) , there has been a logjam over votes involving Israel and Russia . Even in cases where the UNSC has passed resolutions , such as Afghanistan and Myanmar , the regimes in power are flouting directions with impunity . Are we reaching a point where the international world order , as is defined by these institutions , is unable to function ? What would it take to make states including Israel compliant ? <p> Navtej Sarna : It is clear that UNSC resolutions do n't mean a thing any more . In the case of Israel , the U.S. veto is used almost automatically . Naturally , Russia is going to use its veto for its own purposes , to protect itself , as it has in the past few years . The fact remains that the situation in which the UN was formed has changed from 1945 . So even if the UNSC believes it can still deliver , the truth is it can not . Every country has decided to live on a transactional , immediate short-term policy paradigm . There are no ' value-based international relations ' today . It is not as if countries did not work in national interest earlier , but the brazenness with which we see ' realpolitik ' used is at a different level . Until this situation changes -- and I do n't see any signs of that -- this kind of breakdown of international systems will probably increase . <p> Trita Parsi : I agree that we are in a very bad situation . However , I do n't think there is a collective desire not to have any rules and laws that will guide state to state conduct at this point . We can point to all of these examples in which clearly the system has not worked , but those are perhaps 5% of the situations . Of the interactions that are taking place in the world , there are many in which laws are being followed . <p> The UNSC absolutely needs reform . It has become a joke and at some point , it will become irrelevant . Things are going to get worse , but there is going to be a tipping point in which a critical mass of countries will recognise that it is actually in their interest to have a functioning global order and effective institutions that help uphold international conventions and laws . <p> Do you see Israel being brought to account internationally , or a ceasefire in Gaza any time soon , especially given the upcoming change in U.S. administration ? <p> Trita Parsi : There is a likelihood of a ceasefire because incoming U.S. President Donald Trump will take a tough position on ending the war . While he has shown little regard for global institutions , and sees transactional value in backing Israel , I think he does not want to see the U.S. get dragged into another war in West Asia . <p> Navtej Sarna : I think Mr. Trump 's main motivation would be to show himself as the ultimate winner who can say he delivered on his campaign promise to stop the wars . But a ceasefire will not mean peace . Mr. Trump 's next step will be to want to go back to the Abraham Accords , which will be more difficult than it was in Trump 1.0 ( 2017-2021 ) . The landscape has changed considerably for the countries that signed the accords ( the UAE , Bahrain , Sudan , Morocco ) and those that the U.S. was trying to bring on board ( Saudi Arabia ) . There wo n't be a return to peace or negotiations until the heart of the problem is addressed , which is the need for the establishment of a Palestinian state . <p> Navtej Sarna served as India 's envoy to the United States , Israel and the United Kingdom ; Trita Parsi , Executive Vice President of the Quincy Institute in Washington , and author of books on Iran-U.S. relations <h> Comments <p> Comments have to be in English , and in full sentences . They can not be abusive or personal . Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments . <p> We have migrated to a new commenting platform . If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in , you may continue to engage with our articles . If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments . Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. 
@@118513463 <h> " A fixated mind can make one believe black is white , " he explained . <p> Dr. Ofer Grosbard , a clinical psychologist whose award-winning books have been translated into several languages , attributed the October 7 intelligence failures to the psychological blindness of Israeli leaders in an interview with Maariv partially published on Wednesday . <p> In the interview , he discussed the personalities of Israel 's adversaries and its leaders , emphasizing the role psychologists play in countering repression . <h> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu <p> " Netanyahu is both a skilled orator and a habitual procrastinator . At critical junctures , he avoided action . During Operation Protective Edge , the cabinet advised continuing the campaign , yet he stopped it . He also hesitated to eliminate Qassem Soleimani . Presented with the ' grand plan ' to attack Lebanon at the war 's outset , he chose smaller-scale operations . This indecision continued , delaying Gaza entry for weeks and northern operations for months . His tenure has been marked by avoiding military solutions . " <h> National Unity Head Benny Gantz <p> " Gantz speaks in a measured tone but misunderstands the enemy . He assumed economic improvements would stabilize the situation and that a small , technologically advanced army and a security fence would suffice . " National Unity head Benny Gantz speaks at the Knesset in Jerusalem . November 25 , 2024. ( credit : MARC ISRAEL SELLEM ) <h> Opposition leader Yair Lapid <p> " Lapid 's Western , democratic perspective prevents him from grasping the need to dismantle Hamas and Hezbollah . He offered economic recovery plans to Hamas and brokered a gas deal with Hezbollah , granting Nasrallah a symbolic victory . " <h> Naftali Bennett <p> " Bennett 's Western optimism , rooted in his background as a commando and tech entrepreneur , blinds him to the enemy 's mindset . Although he advocates a hardline stance , he did not prioritize dismantling Hamas or countering Hezbollah 's buildup . " <h> Ex-Defense Minister Yoav Gallant <p> " Gallant , a courageous warrior , led efforts against Gaza rocket fire but failed to understand the enemy . He supported economic aid for Gaza , assuming it would promote calm . He overlooked his own contradictions . " <h> Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich <p> " Smotrich lacks analytical independence , relying on rhetoric like ' Hamas is an asset . ' While he supports a strong stance against Israel 's adversaries , his religious worldview hinders objective assessments . " <h> IDF Chief of Staff Herzi Halevi <p> " Halevi , a modest and principled individual , suffers from the same cultural blindness . His Western mindset led him to mistakenly believe that deterrence and calm were achievable . " <h> Mossad head David Barnea <h> Shin Bet chief Ronen Bar <p> " Bar believed Hamas shared Israel 's desire for quiet and a better life , focusing on cyber intelligence at the expense of actionable human intelligence . He ignored clear signs of an impending attack . " <h> ' We do not understand the enemy ' <p> Two years before the October 7 attack , Dr. Grosbard was invited to provide consultation to the Research Division of Israeli Military Intelligence ( Aman ) . <p> At the time , he was teaching cross-cultural psychology at Bar-Ilan University 's Department of Political Science . <p> Drawing from academic research , he noted that " we do not understand the enemy . " Grosbard cited " cultural blindness , " a psychological phenomenon in which individuals from one culture struggle to comprehend those from another due to differing thought processes . <p> " When I arrived at Aman , I was handed a massive intelligence manual , mostly filled with flowcharts , " Grosbard said . <p> " The word ' emotions ' did n't appear . I asked researchers , ' How can you analyze Nasrallah 's strategy with flowcharts while ignoring his sense of self-respect ? ' They laughed , but the October 7 attack , like past disasters including the Yom Kippur War , reflects a failure to integrate psychology into Aman 's Research Division . The focus remains on rational analysis , yet humans are irrational , driven by emotions . " 
@@118520660 <h> Photographer Allie Schallert 's best photos and videos of 2024 <p> Allie Schallert joined the Post-Dispatch as a **25;2181;TOOLONG in August 2023 . In 2022 , she was the multimedia intern producing stills and videos . <h> Palestinian refugees come to St. Louis for medical treatment <p> Hadi Zaqout , from left , laughs with Mdalala Abdeljabbar , Jenna Tarroum and Sarrah Fakhani as they take a break from protesting to get water and custard at Andy 's in Kirkwood on Thursday , May 23 , 2024 . After a bomb exploded in Zaqout 's home in Gaza , his leg was severely injured and was later amputated . Heal Palestine helped bring him to the United States temporarily to receive a prosthetic leg . <p> Allie Schallert <h> 2024 year-in-review with Post-Dispatch videographer Allie Schallert <h> Taking a look back <p> Marshall White , of south St. Louis County , dons a banana costume while voting with Alicia Ruskey , of Kirkwood , who was also dressed in costume , at the St. Louis County Library Grants View branch in south St. Louis County on Tuesday , Nov. 5 , 2024 . " We wanted to make it a little fun , " Ruskey said . For more of Post-Dispatch **25;2208;TOOLONG Allie Schallert 's favorite photos from 2024 , please see Page A6 . <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> Gordon Ramsay attends grand opening of Ramsay 's Kitchen <p> Gordon Ramsay talks with attendees of the grand opening of Ramsay 's Kitchen at the Four Seasons Hotel in downtown St. Louis on Friday , June 28 , 2024 . <p> Allie Schallert , St. Louis Post-Dispatch <h> Miniature horses find sanctuary at R&amp;R Ranch <p> Stacy Rolfe lets her dwarf miniature horse Martha nuzzle her neck at R&amp;R Ranch in Wildwood on Friday , June 28 , 2024 . " There 's something special about my relationship with these horses , " Rolfe said . <p> Allie Schallert , St. Louis Post-Dispatch <h> Missouri Botanical Garden announces L ? cia G. Lohmann as new president <p> Lucia G. Lohmann was announced Monday , Sept. 9 , 2024 , as the new president and director of the Missouri Botanical Garden , where she poses for a photo . She will be the first woman to lead the institution and is scheduled to begin in January 2025 . For more , please see Page A4 . <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> St. Louis Cardinals vs Chicago Cubs <p> Cardinals first baseman Alec Burleson celebrates after hitting a three-run home run against the Chicago Cubs at Busch Stadium on Saturday , July 13 , 2024 . The Cardinals scored 9 runs in the first inning . <h> Truck day for the St. Louis Cardinals <p> Trucks are packed in preparation for the St. Louis Cardinals spring training on Monday , Feb. 5 , 2024 . Photo by Allie Schallert , **28;2235;TOOLONG <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> All eyes on Sonny Gray as he pitches in bullpen and live batting practice <h> The sights and sounds of Cardinals spring training <h> St. Louis Cardinals fans prepare for the 2024 home opener <p> Sailor Murrill , center , of Charlotte , N.C. , tries on different St. Louis Cardinals hats with her dad , Tony , in the Cardinals team store at Busch Stadium the day before the team 's 2024 home opener in downtown St. Louis on Wednesday , April 3 , 2024 . Photo by Allie Schallert , **28;2265;TOOLONG <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> Atlanta Braves v St. Louis Cardinals <p> St. Louis Cardinals pitcher Lance Lynn throws a pitch during the Atlanta Braves v St. Louis Cardinals game at Busch Stadium in St. Louis on Monday , June 24 , 2024 . Photo by Allie Schallert , **28;2295;TOOLONG <p> Allie Schallert , St. Louis Post-Dispatch <h> Atlanta Braves v St. Louis Cardinals <p> Cardinals outfielder Michael Siani rounds third base en route to scoring a run against Atlanta in a game on Monday , June 24 , 2024 , at Busch Stadium . <p> Allie Schallert , St. Louis Post-Dispatch <h> Seattle Mariners vs St. Louis Cardinals <p> St. Louis Cardinals pitcher Steven Matz throws a pitch during the Seattle Mariners v St. Louis Cardinals game at Busch Stadium in St. Louis on Sept. 8 , 2024 . Photo by Allie Schallert , **28;2325;TOOLONG <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> Los Angeles Dodgers vs St. Louis Cardinals <p> Jayson Tatum , along with Matthew Tkachuk , prepares to throw the first pitch before the Los Angeles Dodgers v St. Louis Cardinals game at Busch Stadium on Sunday , Aug. 18 , 2024 . Photo by Allie Schallert , **28;2355;TOOLONG <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> Chaminade basketball coach talks on the game that showed how ' good Jayson Tatum was and will be ' <h> ' This is the greatest life I 've ever lived ' : Baseball great Darryl Strawberry finds healing from addiction through Christianity <h> Golf mentoring at Nance Elementary School <p> Anandra Chaney , left , helps 6th grader Brandi Faar with her practice swing during a golf mentorship program at Nance Elementary School in St. Louis on Wednesday , April 17 , 2024 . <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> ' My goal is to get other people into golf ' : Anandra Chaney mentors students to share her love of golf <h> Excaliburd takes the super-fan to ' a whole new level ' to show passion for the St. Louis Battlehawks <h> Super 30 No. 3 : Dierre Hill , Althoff <h> Bam Bam Cam , a 13-year-old racehorse , is still racing and winning <h> Icy conditions in St. Louis <p> A cardinal rests on an icy branch as freezing rain falls in St. Louis on Monday , Jan. 22 , 2024 . <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> ' They get their second chance ' : 97 Labrador retrievers rescued from unlicensed breeder <h> Photos with the Easter Bunny <p> Xoe Hayes , 3 months , begins to cry while having pictures taken with the Easter Bunny at West County Center in Des Peres on Monday , March 25 , 2024 . <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> Demolition of St. Augustine <p> The St. Louis skyline is seen behind the cross on the steeple at former St. Augustine Catholic Church on Friday , March 29 , 2024 , as demolition begins at the church . Photo by Allie Schallert , **28;2385;TOOLONG <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> Ceremonial street naming for Karlie Kloss <p> Karlie Kloss , center , poses with St. Louis Mayor Tishaura Jones , left , and Derek Blasberg beneath her ceremonial street sign at the corner of Washington Avenue and 16th Street in downtown St. Louis on Monday , April 1 , 2024 . Photo by Allie Schallert , **28;2415;TOOLONG <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> Crowds watch the eclipse under the Gateway Arch in St. Louis <h> Cicadas visit the Laumeier Sculpture Park <h> HyperTile demonstration at Blades Elementary School <p> Harrison Burns , bottom right , looks as Robert Becker shows an exploded tetrahedron made with HyperTiles during a demonstration to a 2nd grade class at Blades Elementary School in Oakville on Tuesday , June 11 , 2024 . Robert Becker , of University City , thought of the concept for HyperTiles in college but did n't start development until after he retired as a high school chemistry teacher in 2020 . <p> St. Louis Archbishop Mitchell T. Rozanski leaves the pulpit after speaking in the Old Cathedral in downtown St. Louis on Saturday , June 22 , 2024 as part of the Third Annual Forgive Us Our Trespasses Prayer Service and Maafa Procession hosted by the Archdiocese of St. Louis . Photo by Allie Schallert , **28;2445;TOOLONG <p> Participants of the third annual " Forgive Us Our Trespasses " Maafa Procession held by the Archdiocese of St. Louis begin their procession in Gateway National Park on Saturday , June 22 , 2024 . They stopped at five locations throughout downtown that held significance in St. Louis ' history of slavery . <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> Mine collapse under athletic fields in Alton <p> A hole is left after a mine collapsed on June 26 , 2024 underneath the Gordon Moore Park Athletic Fields in Alton , as seen on Thursday , June 27 , 2024 . <p> Allie Schallert , St. Louis Post-Dispatch <h> St. Louis Riverboat tours resume after high water recede <p> Bruce Babcock , of Dallas , takes in the view while riding the Tom Sawyer riverboat on the Mississippi River in downtown St. Louis on Friday , July 12 , 2024 . Friday was the first day the Gateway Arch Riverboats returned to action after high waters on the river made it too dangerous to operate the tour boats for the past week . <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> Flooding in Nashville , Illinois <p> Landon Mikel , left , and John Farel , both of St. Louis , check out the flooding on Mockingbird Road in Nashville , Ill. on Tuesday , July 16 , 2024 . <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> Ann Wagner places her votes for Missouri 's primary elections <p> Rep. Ann Wagner kisses her grandson William Wagner , 11 months , after she and her son , Stephen , right , cast their votes for Missouri 's primary elections at Highcroft Ridge Elementary School in Chesterfield on Tuesday , Aug. 6 , 2024 . Photo by Allie Schallert , **28;2475;TOOLONG <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> Faisal Ghandiwal integrates himself into American life after fleeing Afghanistan 3 years ago <p> Joy Erekson , middle , high fives Faisal Ghandiwal , left , after he won a hand of Skull King while playing with his host family , including Erekson 's granddaughter Caroline Erekson , in their home in Frontenac on Tuesday , Aug. 20 , 2024 . Joy agreed to take in Ghandiwal and his cousin after her husband Rock learned they were living in their car and unable to sign a lease because they were under 21 . <p> Allie Schallert photos , Post-Dispatch <h> Free breast milk helped Rebecca Dubberke after her son 's birth <p> Rebecca Dubberke breast feeds her almost one-month-old son Kayden in her home in Arnold on Thursday , Sept. 12 , 2024 . After Kayden struggled to latch and had low blood sugar levels because Rebecca has Type 1 diabetes , SSM Health provided free breast milk to supplement what Rebecca fed him . He now breast feeds only . <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> Fnnch makes his mark at the City Museum <p> Fnnch climbs down after completing a Honey Bear mural on the roof of the City Museum in St. Louis on Tuesday , Sept. 17 , 2024 . The anonymous artist spray painted 10 different bears throughout the museum between two days . Photo by Allie Schallert , **28;2505;TOOLONG <h> Nancy Letts practices to become first deaf woman to complete all World Marathon Majors <p> Nancy Letts runs around Creve Coeur Lake to prepare for running in marathons on Thursday , Oct. 17 , 2024 . When she runs the Boston Marathon in April she will be the first deaf woman to complete all World Marathon Majors . <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> Early voters line up to wait at St. Charles County polling locations <p> Cassie Tighe pulls her daughter Cosima Tighe , 5 , as they wait in a line of no-excuse absentee voters at Element Church in Wentzville on Tuesday morning Oct. 29 , 2024 . At the time , the Tighes had been waiting for 25 minutes and were about halfway through the line of voters waiting to cast their ballots in the 2024 General Election . <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> Walkthrough Halloween display in Oakville gives back while giving scares <h> Fading fall colors along Great River Road <p> Hints of faded fall colors linger in trees in Elsah , Illinois along the Great River Road on Nov. 1 , 2024 . <p> Allie Schallert , Post-Dispatch <h> The Election Day rainbow <p> A rainbow stretches over Mt . Pleasant in south St. Louis after an Election Day of constant rainfall on Tuesday , Nov. 5 , 2024. 
@@118560375 <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- As the investigation into a masked gunman who stalked and killed the head of one of the largest U.S. health insurers moves into its third day , possible leads have emerged about his travel before the shooting and a message scrawled on ammunition . <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- President Joe Biden is weighing whether to issue sweeping pardons for officials and allies who the White House fears could be unjustly targeted by President-elect Donald Trump 's administration . The preemptive move would be a novel and risky use of the president 's extraordinary constitutional power . <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- President-elect Donald Trump is naming former U.S. Senator David Perdue of Georgia to be his ambassador to China . Trump says that as a former CEO , Perdue will bring " valuable expertise " to the U.S. relationship with China . <p> A Hamas official says international mediators have resumed negotiations with the militant group and Israel over a ceasefire in Gaza , and that he is hopeful a deal to end the 14-month war is within reach . <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- Hiring in the United States likely rebounded last month from a dismal October , when hurricanes and strikes reduced job growth to its lowest level in nearly four years . Friday 's jobs report is expected to show that employers added roughly 208,000 jobs in November . <p> DALLAS ( AP ) -- A federal judge has rejected a deal that would have let Boeing to plead guilty to a felony conspiracy charge and pay a fine for misleading U.S. regulators about the 737 Max jetliner before two of the planes crashed and 346 people died . <p> Host Terry Lipshetz is managing editor of the national newsroom for Lee Enterprises . Besides producing the daily Hot off the Wire news podcast , Terry conducts periodic interviews for this Behind the Headlines program , co-hosts the Streamed &amp; Screened movies and television program and is the former producer of Across the Sky , a podcast dedicated to weather and climate . <p> Theme music <p> The News Tonight , used under license from Soundstripe . YouTube clearance : ZR2MOTROGI4XAHRX 
@@118584073 <h> In fight for Syria , a battle for domination of the entire Middle East <p> A portrait of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is pictured with its frame broken , in a Syrian regime 's Political Security Branch facility on the outskirts of the central city of Hama.OMAR HAJ KADOUR/AFP via Getty Images <p> As armed rebels have advanced at lightning speed in recent days from the north of Syria toward the capital , Damascus , footage online showed statues of the Assad dynasty -- which has kept the country in its authoritarian grip for over 50 years -- crashing to the ground . <p> But as the figures of President Bashar Assad 's deceased father and brother fell to cries of " God is Great ! " the question looming over the astonishingly rapid resurrection of the torpid civil war into a five-alarm fire is whether the rebels might topple the president himself . <p> The commander of the rebel alliance , Abu Mohammed al-Golani , who depicts himself as a reformed zealot from Al Qaeda , has bluntly made that point . <p> " Our goal is to liberate Syria from this oppressive regime , " he said in a video interview with The New York Times . <p> Advertisement <p> Regardless of whether the rebels succeed , experts say an expected brutal fight to control Damascus , and by extension Syria , would constitute the most important confrontation yet in the struggle to remake the region , one ignited Oct. 7 , 2023 , with the Hamas-led attack on Israel . <p> The main regional players -- Israel , Iran , and Turkey -- all have a stake in the outcome , which means the ripples will affect not just the Middle East but global powers such as the United States and Russia . <p> If the war in the Gaza Strip is the worst manifestation yet of the seemingly intractable Israel-Palestinian dispute , which drew in the armed Lebanese group Hezbollah , analysts call the fight for Syria a far more important struggle to dominate a regional crossroads that influences the entire Middle East . <p> " Syria is the barometer for how power dynamics in the region are changing , " said Mona Yacoubian , head of the Middle East and North Africa Center at the United States Institute of Peace in Washington . " It is in for a period of chaos in a region that is already on fire . " <p> Israel 's strategists refer to Syria as the " hub of hubs , " which has served as a supply conduit for soldiers and arms to places like southern Lebanon . There , Hezbollah , Iran 's main regional ally , held sway before Israel decimated the group 's ranks by assassinating its longtime leader and most of his top echelon . Israel also launched direct attacks on strategic air defenses in Iran . <p> Advertisement <p> Israel is determined to prevent Iran , which has propped up the Assad regime , from reestablishing those supply lines . It is also not clear how Israel would react to an Islamist-style government in Syria should Assad 's regime fall , especially a government beholden to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who has been a harsh critic because of the Gaza war . <p> Iran knows that if it loses Assad and its sway over Damascus , it is game over for its attempt to fortify a crescent of Shiite Muslim proxy forces from Lebanon to Iraq to Yemen that can threaten Israel . Nonetheless on Friday , Iran , after more than a decade of staunch support for Assad , began evacuating from Syria top military commanders of its powerful Quds Force and other personnel , according to Iranian and regional officials . <p> Some analysts see the hand of Erdogan in the sweeping advance of the main Syrian rebel group , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or the Organization for the Liberation of the Levant . Turkey seized an opportunity to increase its influence at a time when Iran was beleaguered , analysts said , and it wants the 3 million Syrian refugees who fled to its territory because of the civil war to return home . <p> Damascus is the target , Erdogan told reporters after Friday prayers in Istanbul . " The opposition 's march continues , " he said . " Our wish is that this march in Syria continues without incident . " <p> In Russia , which had made bolstering Assad a cornerstone of its Middle East policy for almost a decade , President Vladimir Putin faces a dilemma : beef up his country 's forces there to aid Syria and risk shortchanging his troops in Ukraine , where he needs every hand to prosecute the war . <p> Advertisement <p> In a telling sign of diminishing confidence , Russia announced Friday that its citizens should leave Syria . <p> Russia and Iran are not the only nations ordering evacuations . <p> The US State Department also encouraged Americans to leave . Washington has not known quite what to do about Syria for more than a decade , basically letting its policy drift after Russia moved in 2015 to intervene there militarily , analysts said . Now , Washington faces a moment of transition between two administrations , with the incoming president , Donald Trump , having once referred to Syria as " sand and death . " <p> It is unclear how much time all these governments have to act , given the volatile situation on the ground . In little over a week , Syrian rebels have captured two of the country 's most important cities along the north-south corridor that forms the country 's main spine . <p> The rebels have been preparing for this offensive for more than a year , said Ibrahim Hamidi , Syrian editor of Al-Majalla , an online current affairs magazine based in London . On the surface , the war might resemble the period around 2014 , when Assad was on the ropes and Iran and Russia intervened . That was then . <p> " The whole equation is different now , " Hamidi said . <p> Iran and Hezbollah , the main forces buttressing the Assad regime , have been seriously weakened from their fight with Israel . And Russia , whose air force used to carpet-bomb Syrian rebel strongholds , is preoccupied by its war in Ukraine . While Russia has resumed aerial bombardments in Syria , it is on a far smaller scale . <p> First to fall was the city of Aleppo , Syria 's economic capital , and then Hama , its breadbasket . The rebel forces are now putting pressure on Homs , which is a little more than 100 miles north of Damascus and the strategic hinge linking the country 's heartland to the Mediterranean Sea and the coastal center of the Alawites , a minority Shiite Muslim sect that dominates the regime . <p> Advertisement <p> Civilians began to flee Homs in earnest Friday . <p> Syria has relied heavily on Iranian militias for ground troops . But Israeli missile attacks on Syria have thinned the ranks of senior Iranian militia commanders , as well as supply lines . <p> And Friday , Kurdish forces in northeast Syria , who have long been buttressed by a contingent of about 900 US troops , reportedly took control of the main border crossing that Iranian forces used to enter Syria from Iraq . <p> As for Hezbollah , in 2013 , its forces poured over the border from Lebanon to smash the armed opposition at Qusayr . And some of its men have now deployed to defend Homs , said a Hezbollah official in Damascus , speaking on the condition of anonymity for security reasons . <p> But after months of fighting Israel in Lebanon , it is unclear how many forces Hezbollah has left to deploy to Syria . <p> When it comes to the Syrian army , some of the strongest units , the Fourth Armored Division and the Republican Guards , have long been stationed around Damascus with the idea of making it coup-proof . But lack of training and low salaries have taken their toll , with regular troops melting away rather than confronting the rebels . <p> " You need loyal , reliable troops to hold territory , and they are not there , " said Andrew J. Tabler , a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy and a former US government official on security issues . <p> Advertisement <p> Many analysts consider the central Syrian state a hollow shell . " The Assad regime is unbelievably rickety , " Tabler said . " It is like an old car put together with spare parts by unknown mechanics . " <p> Since the Obama administration , Washington has been fearful of what was called " catastrophic success : " having Assad fall , only to be replaced by a jihadi regime . That fear remains , although Golani , who has held authoritarian control of northwestern Idlib province for years , attempted through outreach to minorities and other moderate steps to recalibrate his reputation as a religious nationalist rather than a jihadi . <p> The alliance , which broke ties with Al Qaeda in 2016 but remains labeled a terrorist organization by the United States , the European Union , and the United Nations , has become a broader coalition that includes more moderate factions . <p> Yet , memories of the disasters that accompanied the effort to glue together a coalition Iraqi government are still fresh . <p> " This is all about the balance of power between these regional players in the Levant , where Syria sits at the heart , " said Firas Maksad , a senior fellow and Syria expert at the Middle East Institute based in Washington . 
@@118584876 <p> A month after suspending its mediation bid , Qatar has said it sees " momentum " in efforts to reach a deal to end Israel 's war on the Gaza Strip , as dozens of Palestinians were killed in the Israeli military 's continued attacks on the besieged enclave . <p> Speaking at the Doha Forum on Saturday , Qatari Foreign Minister and Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani said the country took a step back from mediating Gaza ceasefire talks because it failed to see " a real willingness " to end the war . <p> But the minister said that after the United States presidential election on November 5 , Qatar has sensed " that the momentum is coming back " . <p> " We have seen a lot of encouragement from the incoming administration of US President-elect Donald Trump in order to achieve a deal even before the president comes into office " in January , Al Thani said . <p> " And that actually made us try ... to put it back on track . We 've been engaging in the past couple of weeks , " he added . <p> Efforts to end Israel 's war on Gaza , which has killed more than 44,600 Palestinians since early October 2023 , have foundered , with critics accusing Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of stymying the negotiations . <p> H.E . Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani @MBAAlThani , Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs , at a panel discussion in Doha Forum : Qatar stresses that reaching a lasting agreement depends on sincere willingness from all parties to end the war and finalize a ... **26;1168;TOOLONG <p> The administration of outgoing US President Joe Biden , which has repeatedly said it is pushing for an end to the fighting in Gaza but refuses to condition US aid to Israel , also has faced criticism for failing to secure a ceasefire . <p> The US provides Israel with at least $3.8bn in military aid annually , and the Biden administration has authorised $14bn in further assistance to its ally since the war began last year . <p> Trump -- who , like Biden , is a staunch supporter of Israel -- this week warned that " there will be hell to pay " if captives held in Gaza are not released by the time he enters the White House on January 20 . <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " he wrote on social media . <h> Dozens killed across Gaza <p> Meanwhile , medical sources in Gaza told Al Jazeera Arabic on Saturday that 39 Palestinians were killed since dawn in Israeli attacks across the bombarded territory , including a strike in the Nuseirat refugee camp that killed at least 26 people . <p> Reporting from Deir el-Balah in central Gaza , Al Jazeera 's Tareq Abu Azzoum said the attack on the refugee camp targeted a building in a densely populated area housing displaced families . <p> " People have been buried under tonnes of debris , " said Abu Azzoum , adding that rescuers and residents were still searching through the rubble for possible survivors as well as bodies that can be taken for burial . <p> The Israeli military also has laid siege to Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza 's Beit Lahiya , as well as the surrounding area . <p> Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , head of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , said an international medical team " was forced to self-evacuate " amid the deteriorating security situation at Kamal Adwan Hospital . <p> He said in a social media post on Saturday that " displaced people , caregivers , and many injured patients began fleeing the hospital and panic spread " but that 90 patients and 66 medical staff remained at the facility . <p> " Kamal Adwan is minimally functional , but this latest incident further threatens its ability to remain operational . It is one of the last lifelines for the people of northern Gaza . We urgently call for the immediate protection of healthcare facilities and an end to the hostilities ! " he wrote . <p> Back in Doha , the Qatari prime minister said the Gulf country was working to protect the negotiation process " to make sure that we can achieve a meaningful result " . <p> " We hope to get things done as soon as possible . We hope that the willingness of the parties to engage in good faith continues in the same manner , " Al Thani said . <p> Advertisement <p> " It 's all about the main questions : Is there a willingness to end the war ? Yes or no . Is there a willingness to have an exchange deal ? Yes or no , " he added . <p> " Those are two very simple questions with very simple answers . If the answers are yes on both questions then we have a deal . " 
@@118584877 <p> " I went in the morning to work in Bethlehem and Naji went to school . When I returned from work at 12 noon , I found Naji near his school , leaving for home . He got into the truck with me to return home together . " <p> Naji 's sisters had prepared his favourite meal -- molokhia with chicken -- for lunch . Afterwards , he asked his father to let him go out to play with his friends near his grandfather 's grocery store , which is close to their home . <p> Naji was the fifth of six children , after Sondos , 23 ; Bashir , 21 ; Amira , 20 ; and Mohammed , 16 ; and ahead of Rataj , 13 . <p> He checked in at home after half an hour -- a little after 3pm -- and then set off to play again . <p> It was the last time the family would see him alive . <p> Nidal al-Baba 's hand was broken when he was violently assaulted by Israeli soldiers responsible for the killing of his 14-year-old son Mosab Shawer/Al Jazeera <h> ' The most difficult 40 minutes of my life ' <p> The family listened in horror . Israeli soldiers had arrived and started shooting at the children playing in a nearby wooded area -- and Naji had been hit , he said . <p> Desperately hoping he was merely injured -- as many have been since the increase in illegal Israeli settlements and incursions by Israeli settlers and the army across the West Bank since Israel 's war on Gaza began -- Naji 's father and uncle Samir rushed to the spot where a cluster of Israeli soldiers was standing . <p> " I want my son ! I want my son ! " Nidal screamed before about 10 soldiers turned on him and his brother and beat them so violently they broke Nidal 's hand . <p> Advertisement <p> As he continued to demand to see his son , he was handcuffed , tied up and left on the ground for more than 40 minutes . <p> The most difficult 40 minutes of his life , Nidal says now . <p> " I heard an officer ask the soldiers to stand in two teams , five on the right and one on the left to carry the body . <p> " That 's when I started screaming : ' How can you kill a 14-year-old child ? What did he do to you ? What did he do to you ? ' " <p> One of the soldiers replied that Naji had been in an area Palestinians are forbidden to enter . <p> Family and friends arrive at the hospital to prepare Naji 's body for his funeral Mosab Shawer/Al Jazeera <p> " I watched him being carried on the soldiers ' shoulders towards an army vehicle and ... I could see it was Naji . <p> " I recognised him from his shoes which I had bought for him only days before ; a pair of black trainers he had longed for . All I could think about was how happy he was when I bought them for him . " <p> The soldiers took Naji 's body away and ordered Nidal and Samir to leave immediately or they would be killed . <p> The family found out later that a Palestinian ambulance was called after two hours and his body was handed over and taken to Halhul 's Abu Mazen Hospital overnight <p> The forensic medical report found that Naji had been hit by four bullets -- one in the pelvis , another in the foot , the third through his heart and the fourth in the shoulder . <p> It also found that the boy was left for 30 minutes without medical attention after being shot . <p> Advertisement <p> The next morning , Naji 's family were able to visit the hospital to prepare him for his funeral . <p> Despite his broken hand , Nidal insisted on carrying his son 's body on his shoulder for the funeral , which was attended by hundreds of people from Halhul . <p> Al Jazeera contacted the Israeli Ministry of Defence for comment regarding the killing of Naji al-Baba , but did not receive a response . <p> The funeral procession of Naji in Halhul , West Bank Mosab Shawer/Al Jazeera <h> Remembering Naji <p> The family was devastated and could not speak to anyone for nearly a month . <p> In happier times , Naji was the one who took care of his family -- fetching blood pressure medicine for his father and keeping an eye on the doses . <p> " I have 20 grandchildren , but he was the most loving among them , affectionate , supportive and helpful , " his grandmother Intisar al-Baba , 70 , remembers . <p> In the winter , she says , Naji would keep an eye on the firewood and rush off to collect more without being asked . <p> " He would take care of everything like a man of 30 , and he would always ask me for his favourite , traditional dishes -- always wanting to eat with me and his grandfather so that we would n't feel lonely . " 
@@118586279 <p> In this photo released by Russian Foreign Ministry Press Service on Friday , Dec. 6 , 2024 , Russia 's Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov , speaks during an interview with former Fox News host Tucker Carlson , back to a camera , in Moscow , Russia . <p> Defectors line-up to register their details with Syrian insurgents in Aleppo , Syria , Thursday Dec. 5 , 2024 . As insurgents consolidate their hold of Aleppo , which they overran last week , they issued a call to government soldiers and security agencies to defect , granting them what they called " protection cards , " which offer them some sort of amnesty and assurances that they wo n't be hunted down . <p> The destroyed crossing border point between Lebanon and Syria which hit by an Israeli airstrike is shown , in Arida , north Lebanon , Friday , Dec. 6 , 2024 . <p> STR - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> People cross through the destroyed crossing border point between Lebanon and Syria which hit by an Israeli airstrike , in Arida , north Lebanon , Friday , Dec. 6 , 2024 . <p> STR - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Palestinian girls struggle as they get donated food at a distribution center in Khan Younis , Gaza Strip , on Friday , Dec. 6 , 2024 . <p> Abdel Kareem Hana - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Amos Hochstein , a senior adviser to President Joe Biden , gives a statement to the media after his meeting with Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri , in Beirut , Lebanon , Wednesday , Nov. 20 , 2024 . <p> Bilal Hussein - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> In this photo released by Russian Foreign Ministry Press Service on Friday , Dec. 6 , 2024 , Russia 's Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov , speaks during an interview with former Fox News host Tucker Carlson , back to a camera , in Moscow , Russia . <p> Uncredited - hogp , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Defectors line-up to register their details with Syrian insurgents in Aleppo , Syria , Thursday Dec. 5 , 2024 . As insurgents consolidate their hold of Aleppo , which they overran last week , they issued a call to government soldiers and security agencies to defect , granting them what they called " protection cards , " which offer them some sort of amnesty and assurances that they wo n't be hunted down . <p> Omar Albam - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Syrian opposition fighters ride along the streets in the aftermath of the opposition 's takeover of Hama , Syria , Friday , Dec. 6 , 2024 . <p> Ghaith Alsayed - stringer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> A man rides his motorcycle past a burning government armoured vehicle south of Hama , Syria , Saturday , Dec. 7 , 2024 . <p> Syrian opposition fighters have reached the suburbs of the capital , Damascus , and government forces abandoned the central city of Homs as the rebels ' surprising offensive picks up speed . President Bashar Assad 's whereabouts are unknown . <p> Homs is an important intersection between Damascus and Syria 's coastal provinces that are the Syrian leader 's base of support . In Damascus , residents described a city on edge , with security forces on the streets and many shops running out of staple foods . <h> This page requires Javascript . <p> Javascript is required for you to be able to read premium content . Please enable it in your browser settings . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@118588066 <p> Jacques Audiard 's Spanish-language transgender musical won best film , best director and best screenplay honors for Audiard . Karla Sof ? a Gasc ? n , who plays the titular character , won best actress , becoming the first trans performer to win in the category . <p> " I did n't prepare anything because I was sure I was n't going to receive anything tonight , " said Gasc ? n , accepting her prize . She thanked Audiard , " the best European director for making the best European actress . " Gasc ? n dedicated here prize " to my mother and to all mothers in this world because their values and their function are sometimes undervalued , and I would like to devote this prize to all families and ask all parents to love their children , because , unfortunately , in this world , there are families that prefer their children be criminals than gay people . " <p> Audiard dedicated his best screenwriting honor to the late , French-Danish actor Niels Arestrup , who the director worked with on films such as The Beat That My Heart Skipped ( 2005 ) and A Prophet ( 2009 ) . <p> Hoisting his best film trophy , Audiard reminded the crowd that " all of us here in this room are so lucky to be making films in Europe . " He said he would like his country , with its generous government support of cinema , " to serve as an example for all other countries in Europe . " <p> Emilia P ? rez is France 's official submission for the Academy Awards in the best international feature category and a strong contender for several categories , including best actress for Gasc ? n , supporting honors for co-stars Zoe Salda ? a and Selena Gomez , and multiple technical categories . <p> Jacques Audiard at the 2024 European Film AwardsPhoto by Vittorio Zunino Celotto/Getty Images <p> Guinean actor Abou Sangare beat out heavyweights Ralph Fiennes , Daniel Craig and Germany 's Lars Eidinger to take the best actor prize for Boris Lojkine 's Souleymane 's Story , where he plays an African immigrant in Paris struggling to survive and get legalization papers so he can stay . <p> There were few overtly political statements at the awards , but Palestinian actress Hiam Abbass , presenting the best film award , called on the audience to think of the children of Gaza . " If they ever dreamt or had anything to say or any horizon , death has vanished all their dreams . " <p> The winners of best documentary No Other Land , which follows the Israeli government 's systematic and violent evictions of Palestinians in the West Bank , used the occasion to speak out against the war in Gaza . Accepting the prize via Zoom , Basel Adra , one of the film 's Palestinian directors , said it was difficult to celebrate with the ongoing " genocide against my people . How Israel is systemically trying to erase us from our homes . " Yuval Abraham , his Israeli co-director , called for action from European governments to pressure the Israeli government to enter a ceasefire by stopping the supply of weapons to Jerusalem . " For the sake of the hundreds of thousands of Palestinians in Gaza at risk of death , for the sake of the hundreds of Israeli hostages , a ceasefire has to be imposed . " <p> Flow , Latvia 's Oscar hopeful for best international feature , as well as a best animated feature contender , took the European Film Award for best animated feature . The dialog-free drama follows a big-eyed cat caught in an apocalyptic flood who teams up with a geographically diverse pack of critters to escape . <p> The prize for best short film went to Croatian director Nebojsa Slijepcevic 's The Man Who Could Not Remain Silent , an Oscar frontrunner that won the Palme d'Or earlier this year . The film dramatizes the ? trpci massacre of 1993 , when 24 Bosniak Muslims were pulled off a train by a Serbian paramilitary group and only one man , the Croatian Tomo Buzov , stood up against the attackers . <p> After the Yugoslav War , said Slijepcevic , Buzov 's story was forgotten " because it did n't fit into any of the narratives , but now it wo n't be . " <p> The European Young Audience Award went to the animated documentary The Remarkable Life of Ibelin , which premiered at Sundance and was snatched up by Netflix . <p> Armand , a school-set drama from Norwegian director Halfdan Ullmann T ? ndel and the country 's best international feature contender for the Oscars , won the European Discovery prize for best first feature . <p> Iconic German director Wim Wenders ( Paris , Texas , Pina , Perfect Days ) received a European lifetime achievement award . The long list of video tributes to Wenders included clips from Martin Scorsese , Willem Dafoe , Nick Cave and , in a showstopper , Japanese actor K ? ji Yakusho , star of Wenders ' Perfect Days , who appeared in character from the film , scrubbing a Toyko public toilet . " Mr. Director ! In celebration , I will clean your toilet , " Yakusho quipped . " Prost ! " <p> Receiving his trophy from EFA President Juliette Binoche , Wenders made the first Trump joke of the night . " Thank you , Madame President . So many of us would have liked to call another lady Madame President , but that did n't happen . If it had , the world would be a better place . But while that other guy pretends to make America great again , this president has a chance to make European cinema shine again . " <p> Closing his speech , Wenders quoted another U.S. president , John F. Kennedy , calling on the film professionals in the room to ask not what Europe could do for them but what they could do for Europe . " Europe is in trouble right now , " Wenders said , " and I really urge you to think what you can do for Europe because Europe needs you . It needs the film community to produce a more positive , more emotional view of the continent because too many people think of it as an economic community , a financial community , but it is an emotional community . It gives us strength , and right now we should give it strength . " <p> " She can claim a pretty decent heritage , " said Fiennes , referencing Rossellini 's legendary filmmaking parents , Oscar-winning actress Ingrid Bergman and Italian neo-realist director Roberto Rossellini , before listing off the " extraordinary talents " she has worked with in her career . " David Lynch , Robert Zemeckis , Peter Weir , Abel Ferrara , Guy Madden , Denis Villeneuve , Alice Rohrwacher and Edward Berger . You might think that they chose her , but for the most part , she chose them . " <p> While accepting the award , Rossellini said , " If I had to define the engine , the motor of my life , I would say it has been curiosity and the fuel for this motor has been laughter . " She thanked the babysitters who cared for her children when she was off working . " If it was n't for the wonderful work of other women who helped me , I could n't have the career I have had , " she said . " This is true for all of us women that have careers . My mother said to me the same thing : ' If it was n't for our Jenny , our nanny , I could n't have had the career I had . I am as grateful to her , Jenny , as I am to a director of the caliber of Alfred Hitchcock . ' " 
@@118599276 <p> Can the US support Israel 's crusade against Muslim terror while condemning its persecution of Christians ? <p> Now that Donald Trump has successfully mounted his political comeback and is set to become the 47th president of the United States , we can finally look forward to seeing how he 'll handle his long list of agenda items for his upcoming administration : inflation , immigration , energy , crime . <p> He 's got his hands full . <p> Both Israel and Turkey are aligned when it comes to sending money and arms to Azerbaijan for the express purpose of whittling the already-tiny Republic of Armenia down to nothing . <p> But for now , let 's focus on his foreign policy -- particularly how he 's going to tackle the increasingly complicated situation developing in Israel and the rest of the Middle East . <h> Good guys vs. bad guys <p> Trump has come out firmly in support of Israel in the state 's crusade against Hamas , Hezbollah , Iran , and the rest of Iran 's proxy terrorist network . But the rhetoric that 's come from both Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu oversimplifies the situation . <p> America and Israel are the good guys . <p> Iran , Hamas , and Hezbollah are the bad guys . <p> That 's been the framing of the situation from GOP establishmentarians . Simple , yet effective . <p> But it 's nowhere near as simple as that , and Trump 's recent moves have actually complicated his commitment to that framing as well . <p> You see , the Middle East is , in reality , a smorgasbord of shifting , overlapping , crisscrossing alliances . And that 's because there is so much ethnic and religious diversity within this pocket of the world . <h> No Muslim monolith <p> Contrary to common Western perception , the Middle East is not one big , brown , Muslim monolith . The Turks are not the Sunni Arabs , who are n't the Shiite Persians , who are n't the Christian Armenians , who are n't the somewhat secular , somewhat Islamic Azeris , who are n't the Maronite Lebanese , who are n't the Coptic Egyptians . <p> Each one of these groups vary drastically from one another in ethnicity , culture , and religion . And therefore , there 's no clear-cut demarcation in the Middle East when it comes to political alliances . Or at least , there 's not a simple " good guys vs. bad guys " heuristic that can be used to assess the situation . <p> And yet , that 's the framing American foreign policy and media sticks with : " The Middle East is full of Muslim bad guys ( who are all the same ) , and we need to protect the lone Judeo-Christian oasis of democracy in the Middle East . " <p> Our once and future president did something recently that slightly undermined the legitimacy of that framing . <h> Trump gets Armenia-pilled <p> In the days leading up to his election , Trump announced his commitment to aiding Christians in the Middle East who had been victims of Islamic persecution . Specifically , he was referring to the 120,000 Armenians who had been ethnically cleansed from their historic homeland of Artsakh by Azerbaijan . <p> From where I 'm sitting , this is a clear result of Trump having surrounded himself with advisors like Robert F Kennedy Jr. , Vivek Ramaswamy , and Tulsi Gabbard , all of whom have all made statements signaling their support for Armenia against its various regional antagonists . <p> But the simple act of signaling a commitment to aiding the Christian Armenians actually creates a flurry of complications for the Trump administration . <p> And it all has to do with the love triangle between the U.S. , Israel , and Turkey . <h> Aiding Azerbaijan <p> As the entire world knows , Israel launched a war in Gaza after the brutal October 7 attacks by Hamas . <p> What much of the world does n't know is that at the time of the attacks , Israel was already embroiled in a different conflict , aiding ( along with the U.S. State Department ) in its ethnic cleansing campaign against the Armenian enclave of Artsakh . <p> And just one week after the October 7 attacks , a shipment of arms left Tel Aviv headed toward Baku , Azerbaijan . <p> And Israel has not relented . In the midst of all the bombs Israel has dropped on both Gaza and Lebanon , it ( along with Turkey ) continues to send state-of-the-art weaponry to Azerbaijan , most recently on September 24 . <p> If you 've kept up with the news , you also know that there 's been a fair bit of saber-rattling between Turkey and Israel , as Turkish President Erdogan has been raising tensions with Israel for its offensive against Hamas , recently going so far as hailing the ICC decision to issue arrest warrants for Israeli leaders as " courageous " and hosting Hamas in Turkey after the terrorist group was booted from Qatar . <p> It certainly seems like the Islamic Turks are egging on a war with Israel from the outside . <p> But how much of this is theater ? <p> After all , Israel relies on Turkey and Azerbaijan for 40% of its oil via the BTC Pipeline ( which begins in Baku and ends in Ceyhan , Turkey ) . <p> And , as I already mentioned , both Israel and Turkey are aligned when it comes to sending money and arms to Azerbaijan for the express purpose of whittling the already-tiny Republic of Armenia down to nothing . <p> But that still does n't cover the total extent of Israel 's antagonistic relationship with Armenians . <h> Jerusalem land-grab ? <p> You see , the state of Israel is n't just home to Jews and Muslims . It 's home to about 187,000 Christians , some 5,000 of whom are Armenian . In Jerusalem , the Old City has historically been divided into four quarters : the Christian quarter , Jewish quarter , Muslim quarter , and the Armenian quarter . <p> While this Armenian community dates back to the 4th century , it has recently found itself under siege by a shadowy Israeli corporation called Xana Capital . In dispute is the " Cow 's Garden , " the last large , open space in Jerusalem 's Old City . In 2021 , the Armenian patriarchate agreed to a secret 98-year lease of the land -- which comprises 25% of the Armenian quarter , to a Jewish-Australian developer . <p> Calling the lease illegal , the community has been fighting to invalidate it in court . Meanwhile , the Grayzone reports that Xana Capital has employed Israeli settlers to intimidate Armenians into vacating the land . <p> The point I 'm making is that the framing of the Israel-Palestine conflict since the 10/7 attacks has been that Israel has been in a fight for its survival against the bloodthirsty Muslims and therefore needs as much aid and support from the U.S. as it can muster . <p> But there 's one glaring flaw in that narrative : Israel 's direct involvement in the downfall of the Armenian state and diaspora . <p> To recap : <p> Israel has been sending arms to Azerbaijan , before , during , and after October 7 . <p> Israel is currently confiscating the historic Armenian quarter of Jerusalem . <p> All of this is happening in the midst of its crusade against Hamas and Hezbollah . <p> My question is : When is the United States going to prioritize Christians in the Middle East priority over the other two Abrahamic faiths ? We 're a Christian country , right ? <h> Help wanted <p> This is why Trump 's pre-election commitments to Christians in the Middle East is a complicated matter . It 's not as simple as " Muslims bad , Israel good . " <p> As I mentioned , Trump seems to be stacking his cabinet with pro-Armenia advocates ( RFK Jr. , Vivek , Tulsi , even Marco Rubio ) . But he 's also got plenty of pro-Israel people ( Elise Stefanik , Kristi Noem , Lee Zeldin , Mike Huckabee , Susie Wiles , Pete Hegseth , and , yes , even Marco Rubio ) in the mix . Not to mention the pro-Turkey Dr. Oz as head of Medicare and Medicaid . <p> So for now , it looks like it 'll be a bumpy ride . <p> In a post-election interview with Tucker Carlson , RFK , Jr . recounted the time he witnessed Trump draw from memory an accurate map of the Middle East , including troop strength of each country . It 's apparent from this one exchange that Trump has a sharp understanding of the geopolitical and strategic military dynamics of the Middle East . <p> This means he also knows that stability in the region can never be taken for granted . I would urge him to look at the movements happening between Israel , Turkey , and Azerbaijan and take stock of the Pan-Turanic vision being cooked up by these parties . <p> If he 's serious about helping the Christians of the Middle East , there 's no getting around it . 
@@118619369 <h> New reports claim UNRWA works with terrorists , teaches hate as agency hits back at critics <p> Following numerous allegations and charges against the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) over its ties to terrorists with involvement in the Hamas terrorist massacre in Israel , the scandal-hit agency is facing new allegations of wrongdoing . <p> U.N . Watch a Geneva-based NGO , has released parts of a 150-page dossier that Executive Director Hillel Neuer told Fox News Digital shows " high-level UNRWA staff who are complicit with terrorists , who meet with them regularly . " <p> Before presenting his documentation to the world , Neuer attempted to address it directly with UNRWA Commissioner-General Philippe Lazzarini . In a letter to Lazzarini , Neuer explained that Lazzarini 's staff have previously complained that U.N . Watch did not submit its reports to UNRWA for comment prior to publishing . Neuer then recounted several attempts to meet personally with Lazzarini to discuss U.N . Watch 's findings and explained that when it released its dossier , Lazzarini would be unable to " claim ... that we do not show you the evidence in advance . " <p> Neuer 's group then released photographs of senior UNRWA staff , including Lazzarini and former UNRWA Commissioner-General Pierre Krahenbuhl , meeting with alleged terror leaders . " You would n't find these photos on UNRWA officials ' own social media , " he said . " We found them our own ways , but they do n't post them . " <p> Neuer pointed Fox News Digital to two undated photos showing Lazzarini meeting with groups that included members of terror organizations , including the Jihadi Islamic Movement , the Islamic Ansar League , and Hamas . <p> In another photo dating back to late 2014 , multiple UNRWA regional directors met with senior Hamas member Ali Baraka . Neuer said , and reporting from Al Watan Voice confirms , that the UNRWA staff wanted to " to congratulate Baraka on Hamas ' anniversary . " <p> A terrorist from Hamas takes part in a military parade . <p> In another instance , Neuer said he was able to find a photo and transcript from a February 2017 meeting between former UNRWA chief Pierre Krahenbuhl , Baraka , members of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine ( PFLP ) and Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ) , and others . According to U.N . Watch , Krahenbuhl reportedly told the assembly that " we are united , and no one can separate us . " <p> In September 2024 , the U.S. Department of Justice announced " terrorism , murder conspiracy , and sanctions-evasion charges " against Baraka and five other Hamas leaders for their roles in Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , terror attack , which killed 40 Americans and over 1,000 others . <p> Krahenbuhl and his staff were investigated in 2019 for reports of " sexual misconduct , nepotism , retaliation , discrimination and other abuses of authority . " Krahenbuhl resigned from his position , but in April 2024 was named the head of the International Committee of the Red Cross ( ICRC ) . Leading congressional voices requested that Secretary of State Antony Blinken and U.S. Agency for International Development Administrator Samantha Power " persuade the ICRC to reconsider this appointment " given Krahenbuhl 's " disastrous tenure " as UNRWA commissioner-general . <p> Fox News Digital asked the ICRC about the photos of Krahenbuhl posing with terror leaders , and of congressional concern about his fitness for the position in the Red Cross . An spokesperson told Fox News Digital that the ICRC " was not present in the meeting , so it can not speak to the full context of the discussion . " <p> They also stated that Krahenbuhl " has demonstrated through his work at ICRC and his decades of humanitarian experience that he has one objective : to secure aid to civilians in conflict zones . Meeting with any group that controls access to civilians , is an essential part of the ICRC work and other humanitarian organizations in conflict zones . " <p> U.N . Watch 's latest dossier also includes interviews of UNRWA students taken by local Palestinian film crews over a period of three weeks during the summer of 2024 . In one interview , a 14-year-old former student of UNRWA 's Ein Arik co-ed school said that his school taught him " ' to fight back and resist ' so that ' Palestine will be liberated and our lands will return to us by the good grace of Allah . ' " The child later explains that the solution for Jerusalem is to " kill the Jews . We get rid of the Jews . " <p> A second NGO , IMPACT-se has reported extensively on educational materials used in UNRWA schools for over two decades . In a Nov. 13 report , IMPACT-se names 12 high-ranking UNRWA principals , deputies , directors or deputy directors of training centers who held membership in either Hamas or PIJ . The report notes that nine of the 12 participated in the terror attack of Oct. 7 , with " some even serving as Nukhba operatives , " members of the special forces units of Hamas . Two of the dual UNRWA- and Hamas-member principals headed schools " under which Hamas tunnels were built . " <p> The latest IMPACT-se review complements findings from March 2023 that two UNRWA schools headed by Hamas members had " promoted violence and terrorism in self-created study material . " Now , IMPACT-se has named three additional schools where Hamas operatives served as UNRWA staff . The NGO found that these schools promoted " libels against and non-recognition of Israel " and " gratuitously inserted content promoting hatred and violence against Israel into grammar exercises . " <p> IMPACT-se found that UNRWA schools are " shamelessly flouting " UNESCO standards , which include " peace-building , respect for non-Palestinian groups , and avoiding incitement to violence . " <p> The group 's report cites intelligence claiming that " over 10% of the 510 senior employees in UNRWA 's education system in the Gaza Strip , " are members of PIJ or Hamas . UNRWA members are not allowed to be participants in terror groups designated by the U.N . Security Council . But as Neuer explained , " The U.N . terror list is one of the thinnest lists in the world , " because " Russia and China can block any designation they do n't like . " Neuer said this means " there 's virtually no Palestinian groups " on the list . <p> Fox News Digital reached out to UNRWA media officials on numerous occasions for its response to the contents of IMPACT-se 's and U.N . Watch 's dossiers , about allegations that UNRWA schools were not adhering to UNESCO standards , and about Lazzarini 's refusal to meet with Neuer . <p> UNRWA Commissioner-General Philippe Lazzarini addresses the assembly on the opening day of the Global Refugee Forum , in Geneva . <p> Bill Deere , director of the UNRWA representative office in Washington , told Fox News Digital , " UNRWA Commissioner-General Philippe Lazzarini has cautioned the spread of disinformation against UNRWA , " which he says " is meant to create chaos and divert attention from the political aims to dismantle the Agency . " Reiterating the content of a statement Lazzarini shared on X in the aftermath of Neuer 's dossier being released , Deere said , " UNRWA recommends before giving oxygen to accusations like these , double-check the source and question the intent to avoid becoming an echo chamber for disinformation and de facto the fueling of hate and putting other people 's lives in danger . " <p> Addressing U.N . Watch 's interviews with UNRWA students , he said , " What they do n't tell you is these children were filmed without the knowledge or permission of their parents , " Deere said . " The kids were isolated and asked a series of leading questions designed to elicit a response . This is beyond misleading , it 's twisted and desperate . " <p> The U.S. was among numerous countries to pause support to UNRWA in January after the initial proofs emerged of members ' participation in the terror attack of Oct. 7 . Congress has halted funding to UNRWA through March 2025. 
@@118627069 <p> The saga of my Jewish conversion began twenty-five years ago , when I got engaged to my first husband . He 'd grown up in an Orthodox family , and his parents , my future in-laws , were devastated that he was marrying a non-Jew ; under religious law , a child is born a Jew only if the mother is Jewish , so any kids we had would not technically be Jewish , either . An Orthodox rabbi pleaded with my fianc ? one night not to marry me , then vomited all over the sidewalk -- possibly from too much alcohol , but the point was vividly made . I remember feeling elated to realize that I could solve the problem by converting . It turned out not to be so simple . For decades , through our marriage and divorce and my subsequent remarriage , I lived like a Jew without becoming one . At home , my family lit candles and said blessings on Shabbat . I shook a lulav and etrog on Sukkot , taught my children when to make noise during the Megillah reading on Purim , and learned enough Hebrew to read and sing at the Passover Seder . It was n't until a Yom Kippur sermon last year -- and , two weeks later , the events of October 7th -- that I decided to finally follow through . <p> I was raised in a Korean American evangelical church , where people spoke in tongues as the Holy Spirit moved them . My Bible teacher referred to me as " devil 's spawn " because I had a habit of picking arguments with Scripture . ( Eve 's lust for knowledge was n't sinful , I remember declaring ; God 's curse on humankind was an overreaction . ) By the time I reached adulthood , I 'd developed an emphatically rationalist world view , which for a while I thought precluded religion . But I knew the first books of the Old Testament cold , and I still sometimes prayed to God . I also nurtured a nascent affinity for Judaism , born of both disposition and circumstance . My father , a physician , did his medical residency at Brooklyn Jewish Hospital , where his department chief was an Orthodox Jew , and he 'd occasionally serve as a " Shabbos goy , " turning on lights for the religious doctor on the Sabbath . Like many devout Christians , my mother was fascinated with Israel , and she visited the country often . <p> My first husband , Noah , did n't ask me to convert -- Jewish law stipulates that a conversion must not be done merely to accede to another 's wishes -- but through him I absorbed Jewish rituals and tradition . The Talmud , with its rabbinic legal codes and commentaries , its reams of debates and interpretive disagreements , provided a heady way into learning a new religion . I took a course in law school taught by an esteemed Jewish-law scholar , Hanina Ben-Menahem , who was known for arguing that , compared with Western legal thought , the Talmud allows judges a degree of discretion to deviate from the letter of the law in order to honor its spirit . Exploring the tradition 's built-in disputation -- reasoned differences touching on every conceivable subject -- I felt that I might have a home in Judaism . <p> The only conversion that would have been legitimate in my in-laws ' community , though , was an Orthodox one , and Orthodox rabbis typically required prospective converts to demonstrate their commitment to a strictly religious life . This would entail following hundreds of mitzvot , or commandments , including extensive kosher dietary laws , prohibitions of work and travel on the Sabbath , and many more obscure rules , such as eschewing garments that contain both linen and wool . It did n't seem plausible for me to promise to maintain such a life style , in part because Noah had let go of rigorous observance . Converting under the more lenient Conservative or Reform denominations felt more within reach , but I feared that pursuing a non-Orthodox conversion would amount to thumbing my nose at my in-laws ' standards . <p> If I 'm honest , though , my biggest barrier to conversion back then was a youthful allergy to the message that I could gain acceptance only by adopting a new identity . My parents and grandparents had fled their home in North Korea during the Korean War to avoid being killed ; I was born in Seoul and immigrated with my family to the United States when I was six . The tragic history of my native country was in constant dialogue in my head with the story of the Jewish people , and I knew that Korean and Jewish identities could be compatible . But the Orthodox community at the time did n't make it easy to feel that the two could coexist . While I was considering conversion , Noah and I went to a class reunion of the Modern Orthodox high school that he 'd attended . Afterward , when the school 's alumni newsletter came in the mail , with a group photo from the reunion , Noah noticed that he and I -- the only Asian person there -- were missing from the picture , though we both recalled posing for it . ( The photographer told Noah , who wrote about the incident years ago , that he had taken some pictures that cut off one side of the group but had n't selected the final photo . ) <p> As a young immigrant with a fair measure of pride , I recoiled intuitively at such signals that my presence was shameful -- a shanda , as Jews would say . I allowed those feelings to stymie my pursuit of what I wanted for myself , which was Judaism . <p> In 2023 , on Yom Kippur , the Jewish day of atonement , my friend Rabbi Angela Warnick Buchdahl of Central Synagogue , a Reform congregation in New York City , gave a sermon focussed on atoning for the " sin of passing judgment , " and in particular judgment of intermarriage . Buchdahl has a Jewish American father and a Korean Buddhist mother . I 've known her since we attended college together , in the nineteen-nineties , when she already seemed poised to become the first East Asian American Jew ordained as a rabbi . She reached that milestone in 2001 , and has built a robust following within her congregation and beyond . She is fifty-two years old , with pixie-cut brown hair that frames the light freckles on her heart-shaped face , and a rich alto singing voice . When Buchdahl travels , even Orthodox Jews stop her to share that they watch her services , saying , " Do n't tell my rabbi ! " I live-streamed her Yom Kippur sermon from my home in Cambridge , along with people in roughly a hundred countries . <p> Buchdahl drew a contrast between the Bible 's Ezra , who promoted the idea of a Jewish " holy seed , " and Ruth , a Biblical model of conversion . A Gentile by birth , Ruth married an Israelite and , when she was later widowed , told her mother-in-law , Naomi , " Wherever you go , I will go . Wherever you stay , I will stay . Your people are my people , your God , my God . " Ruth became the great-grandmother of King David , an ancestor of the future Jewish Messiah . As Buchdahl later put it to me , " We 've been a mixed multitude all along . " Plus , in her experience -- contra fears about conversion " diluting " Judaism -- those who join the faith often " make their Jewish spouses more Jewish . " Buchdahl invoked Rabbi Alexander Schindler , a former leader of the American Reform movement , who made the front page of the Times in 1978 , when he pressed Jews to seek converts . Proselytizing is often understood to be anathema to Judaism , but Buchdahl told congregants , " Throughout Jewish history , you should know , whenever Jews felt safe , we sought new adherents . This moment in America should be such a time . " <p> Two weeks later came October 7th . Hamas invaded Israel , massacring some twelve hundred people and kidnapping two hundred and fifty more . Israel , in turn , launched a devastating war in Gaza that has killed approximately forty-five thousand people . Around the world , anti-Israel protests erupted , and antisemitism spiked ; many Jews faced a fresh reckoning with the relationship between Israel and Jewish identity . It was a time of fear and dread and painful fractures within the Jewish community -- it was no longer , as Buchdahl had suggested , a moment when Jews widely felt at ease . Yet rabbis from a broad range of Jewish institutions observed something they had n't anticipated : a surge of interest in Judaism . Elliot Cosgrove , a Conservative rabbi and the author of the new book " For Such a Time as This : On Being Jewish Today , " told me that since October 7th he 's seen engagement from " within and beyond the boundaries of the conventional Jewish community " at a level he 's never before witnessed . This has included increased synagogue membership , expanded enrollment in Hebrew-school programs , full houses at Shabbat services -- and oversubscribed courses for people interested in becoming Jewish . Suddenly , my own halting path to conversion was meeting a larger movement . <p> At Central Synagogue , another rabbi , Lisa Rubin , runs the Center for Exploring Judaism , which educates and guides Jewish-curious newcomers . Since October 7th , the program 's courses have enrolled double the usual number of students and accrued a seven-month waiting list . Rubin told me that she has warned potential converts that " this is not a great time to be stepping into Judaism . " Still , as she put it , " They 're running toward the house on fire . " <p> Judaism is not only a faith but a tribe , a culture , and a life style , and the motivations behind conversion are as varied as Jewishness itself . I spoke to converts who had always suspected that they had Jewish ancestry . Deb Kroll , a woman in her early seventies , grew up in the Bible Belt with parents who became Pentecostal leaders , but when she was a child her Christian grandmother told stories of her family fleeing at night from a county where the Ku Klux Klan was active , soon after the lynching of Leo Frank . Kroll remembers thinking , I 'm a little Jewish girl who 's been born into the wrong family . For most of her life , she did n't realize that it was even possible to convert to Judaism . Then , in recent years , Kroll said , DNA testing of relatives suggested that she had significant Jewish ancestry on both sides . She was studying in Rubin 's program online from her home , in Georgia , when the events of October 7th occurred . " I thought , Well , I 'm not going to stop my Jewish journey out of fear , " she recalled , adding , " I throw in my lot with the Jewish people . " <p> Another graduate of Rubin 's course , Keve Bates , is a thirtysomething Midwesterner . He comes from a long line of Methodist ministers on his father 's side ; his mother 's parents were Christians , too , but they had surnames -- Goldman and Kirsch -- often associated with American Jews . Though his family members insisted that they had no Jewish past , Bates became interested in learning about Judaism . He eventually moved to New York , where he took Rubin 's class and considered converting . Although he is , by his own description , " a person who has a problem starting things and not completing them , " the aftermath of October 7th spurred him to go through with it . Friends invited him to anti-Israel protests , but he did n't attend . One day , he was near the American Museum of Natural History when a protest march filled the street . He overheard a fellow-observer say , " It 's like 1933 all over again " and felt an uneasiness that he could n't shake . Bates did n't want to be " on the side , hiding in plain sight , " he told me . " I wanted to belong . " <p> A number of converts I spoke to had , like me , been with a Jewish partner for years without becoming Jewish themselves . Several said that they 'd been planning to convert since before October 7th but now felt an increased sense of urgency . Leo Spychala , a forty-three-year-old graduate of Rubin 's class who grew up gay and Catholic in New Jersey , said that he 'd always felt an affinity for Judaism but that his impression from popular culture was that " it 's almost like you would n't be welcome " ; he recalled an episode of " Sex and the City " in which the Waspy Charlotte , embracing Judaism after her boyfriend says that he ca n't wed a non-Jew , goes to a rabbi asking to convert and initially has a door shut in her face . Then Spychala met his partner , a Jewish man who works in Jewish philanthropy . One of the first Jewish things they did together was attend synagogue , in 2022 , for the holiday of Simchat Torah , a joyous celebration that involves dancing in the aisles while parading a Torah scroll . " I felt very welcomed , " he said . " It was a big moment for me . " A year later , Simchat Torah fell on October 7th . The mood in synagogue was sombre . There was no dancing this time . " Seeing the difference was just really sad , " Spychala recalled , and he felt himself drawn closer to the Jewish community . This past August , he proposed to his partner with a diamond-studded Star of David necklace ; he completed his conversion a week before the October 7th anniversary . <p> " Two Jews , three opinions , " the saying goes . The canon of Jewish humor includes many jokes about Jewish dissensus , including one about a Jew alone on a desert island who builds two synagogues : one that he attends and another that he would n't set foot in . Conversion to Judaism inspires its own share of disagreement . Lacking a central authority comparable to , say , the Vatican 's governance of the Catholic Church , Jews of different denominations have developed diverging rules and rites around what makes a valid conversion . Orthodox and Conservative Jews require converts to immerse themselves in a mikvah , a ritual bath , and expect male converts to undergo circumcision or , if they are already circumcised , to be pricked to draw a ritual drop of blood . The Orthodox typically do not recognize Conservative or Reform conversions ; Conservative Jews may not recognize Reform ones . And those are just the three major North American denominations . Some Sephardic communities may not accept conversion at all . <p> The basic question of what makes someone a born Jew is no less divisive . American Reform Judaism , since the nineteen-eighties , has recognized " patrilineal Jews , " but the Orthodox and Conservative denominations do not . As a result , a large portion of people who consider themselves Jewish are not acknowledged as such by some of their fellow-Jews . Buchdahl recalled that , as a teen-ager , during a fellowship in Israel for young Jewish leaders , her roommate commented that she was n't Jewish because her mother was n't a Jew . At the age of twenty-one , Buchdahl decided to undergo conversion rituals : appearing before a beth din , a Jewish court , and immersing herself in the mikvah . She chose to think of this as a way of reaffirming that she had always been a Jew . <p> I figured that I would pursue a non-Orthodox conversion , though it stung to know that some Jews would never consider me Jewish . Then , through an Orthodox friend , I learned about a New York-based rabbi named Adam Mintz . Mintz is a member of the century-old Rabbinical Council of America ( R.C.A. ) , which , since 2007 , has overseen standards for Orthodox conversions . But in recent years Mintz has gained , by word of mouth , a reputation for an unusual willingness to provide Orthodox conversions outside the R.C.A. 's system . Creating extreme hurdles for potential converts is " not good for the Jewish people , " he told me , because it prevents the formation of Jewish families . Once he began convening his own beth din , he found that a rising number of people from within the Orthodox Jewish establishment , including R.C.A. leaders , were asking him to convert their own family members . Because of the law of matrilineal descent , the majority of candidates who sought him out were women . Mintz now leads a growing cohort of Orthodox rabbis who share his view that less rigid requirements for conversion can still satisfy Jewish law . In 2022 , he co-founded a nonprofit conversion organization , Project Ruth . <p> Mintz is sixty-three , with eyes that twinkle behind his glasses and an impish laugh that makes his deliberations seem like a series of adventures . I began studying with him over Zoom for several hours each week . One potential obstacle to my Orthodox conversion was that my second husband , Jacob , was a kohen , a member of a priestly male hereditary line going back to the time of Moses , and according to the Talmud kohanim are forbidden to marry converts . Mintz saw two ways around this prohibition . The first , and more controversial , was through interpretative leniency . Mintz considers laws that are stipulated in the Bible to be nonnegotiable . Because God commanded that males must be circumcised , for instance , Mintz requires that male candidates be free of foreskin prior to conversion . ( He told me that not all of them stick around when they hear this news . ) But the particular rule regarding kohanim and converts is rabbinic , not Biblical , which -- arguably -- allows a degree of discretion . A simpler solution would be for Jacob to abdicate his claim to the kohen lineage . After much lively discussion of these points of law , though , the issue seemed increasingly moot : Jacob 's probing of family memories made him highly doubtful that he was a kohen , after all . <p> " Triceradoodle . " <p> Cartoon by Michael Shaw <p> Link copied <p> Mintz 's conversions typically entail six to nine months of study , but after assessing my Jewish knowledge he determined that I would be ready to go to the mikvah in a couple of months . True to Buchdahl 's observation about converts making their spouses more Jewish , in my second marriage I had been the one to insure that our family kept Shabbat rituals . To the bemusement of my new in-laws , I 'd cajoled Jacob into dusting off the Hebrew he 'd learned for his bar mitzvah . He had never imagined that he 'd be keeping kosher , yet he did his best to observe the rules of kashrut with me . During the High Holidays this year , as we walked home after hours in shul , he jokingly wondered aloud , " How did this happen ? " <p> The Hebrew term for " convert , " ger , also means " stranger . " ( My married surname , Gersen , happens to derive from it . ) Buchdahl is writing a memoir , " Heart of a Stranger , " thematically inspired by the Genesis story of Abraham , the father of the Jewish people , who leaves his birthplace when God calls on him to found a new nation . As Buchdahl put it to me , " He ca n't become a Hebrew until he becomes a stranger in a different land . " The word Ivri -- Hebrew person -- comes from the term for " crossing over . " <p> According to rabbinic sources , Abraham and his wife Sarah went on to convert a large number of people to Judaism . In Exodus , God admonishes the Jews not to oppress strangers , " for you were strangers in the land of Egypt , " a line that rabbis have long interpreted as one of God 's many warnings not to mistreat converts . To be a convert to Judaism is to be one form of ger , and to be Jewish is to be another . Converts , by embodying a Jewish relation to strangers , remind Jews that they are strangers even to themselves . Buchdahl told me , " For so much of my Jewish life , I felt inauthentic , and like an outsider in so many ways . At some point , I understood that maybe that 's the most Jewish thing about me . " <p> Jewish texts are wildly ambivalent on the subject of converts . The convert is " more beloved than Israel when they stood at Mount Sinai , " it says in a midrash , a rabbinic interpretation of the Torah . In the Talmud : " Converts are harmful to Israel as leprosy . " Medieval rabbinic discussions of the latter line underscore the divided thinking : one rabbi worries that converts will influence other Jews to become lax in their observance of God 's commandments ; others fear that Jews will inevitably mistreat converts and suffer God 's punishment for it . Yet another rabbi , a convert himself , reasons that because converts are " more meticulous in their observance " they draw attention to the shortcomings of other Jews . <p> Unlike Christianity , Judaism does not teach that people of other faiths must adopt the religion to be saved . But Buchdahl is not the only Jewish leader today who believes that a tradition of Jews proselytizing has been underemphasized . Mintz said that during the early Roman Empire , when Jews were in a position of strength , at least some of them actively worked to convert people in the Hellenistic world . " Not proselytizing is a function of lack of power , " he said . Whether Jews proselytized in this period and how much have been subjects of scholarly debate . Another rabbi , Ethan Tucker , the head of Hadar , a yeshiva in Manhattan , noted that the Jews ' history of persecution includes not only massacres , expulsions , and forcible conversions but also prohibitions on converting people to Judaism , sometimes on pain of death . " I think Jews got very strategically attached to non-proselytizing as a self-defense mechanism , " he said , " and then turned it into a philosophical virtue . " Tucker is the stepson of the late senator Joseph Lieberman , who published a book in 2011 about the Jewish Sabbath , " The Gift of Rest . " If you consider Judaism a " gift " and not a burden , Tucker told me , then it 's natural to want to share it with others . <p> In the Biblical story of Ruth 's conversion , Naomi says " turn back " three separate times before accepting Ruth 's determination to follow her . This has led to an idea that people seeking to convert to Judaism should be turned away three times , or at least initially , to test their conviction . The Talmud says that a person who comes to a court to convert is to be questioned as to his motivation and asked , " Do n't you know that the Jewish people at the present time are anguished , suppressed , despised , and harassed , and hardships are frequently visited upon them ? " If he says he knows and still wants to convert , " the court accepts him immediately to begin the conversion process . " He is then taught " some of the lenient mitzvot and some of the stringent mitzvot , " but rabbis must not " overwhelm him with threats " or be " exacting with him about the details . " As Cosgrove , the Conservative rabbi , put it to me , " When I want to join a gym , they do n't say , ' Get in shape and then join a gym . ' They say , ' Join the gym and we 'll get you in shape . ' " <p> In practice , though , within Orthodox Judaism , conversion candidates are often put through a process that Rabbi Mintz compared to hazing . Converts , candidates , and rabbis told me some of the demoralizing things they 'd experienced or witnessed . ( Most asked to speak anonymously because they feared retaliation from Orthodox institutions . ) Wishful converts had reached out to rabbis and been repeatedly ignored or told to go away . They had been instructed to stop living with their Jewish partners , or to stop dating them altogether , throughout a multiyear conversion process . One candidate was required to move in with an Orthodox family to insure her religious observance . Others had their conversions delayed again and again , for years , because they were n't deemed ready . Rabbis typically prohibited the setting of wedding dates in anticipation of conversions , leaving couples uncertain about when they would be able to start a family . One Jewish man , who today leads a major Jewish organization , said that when he approached an Orthodox rabbi he knew to ask about conversion the rabbi became so cold and discouraging that the man considered leaving Jewish life . He 'd been raised Jewish , with Yiddish-speaking grandparents on his father 's side . But his mother had undergone a Reform conversion , so Orthodox and Conservative communities did n't recognize him as a Jew . He told me that when he eventually met Orthodox rabbis who agreed to convert him he broke down and wept . ( R.C.A. leaders declined my requests for an interview , but a representative said , in an e-mail , that the council aimed " to create an apparatus that operates with professionalism , sensitivity , and transparency . " ) <p> Benjamin Samuels , a Modern Orthodox rabbi and a longtime member of Boston 's Orthodox beth din ( unaffiliated with the R.C.A. ) , told me that rabbis who choose to ignore potential converts are being " negligent of our religious obligations . " He acknowledged the irony that " to become a Jew , you have to be a super Jew . " Still , like many other Orthodox rabbis , he believes that conversion to Judaism should be difficult . Converting someone without having confidence that she will fulfill God 's commandments would violate the Jewish mandate against " placing a stumbling block in front of the blind . " Instead of leading a perfectly good life as a Gentile , Samuels said , she enters a " life of liability . " <p> Mintz , meanwhile , has been inundated with inquiries from potential converts . In 2023 , his beth din in New York completed about ninety conversions ; in 2024 , it has so far completed nearly two hundred -- around the same number that the R.C.A. , which has not seen an increased interest since October 7th , typically completes across North America in the span of a year . Candidates have flown in to see Mintz , sometimes as a family or in groups , from other states -- Kansas , North Carolina , California , Texas -- and from as far abroad as Australia and Hong Kong . His beth din has regularly converted gay , lesbian , and transgender people , and their children . A few of the rabbis who work with him have presided over same-sex weddings . Though Jewish law has not traditionally recognized such unions , Mintz said that a rabbi 's choice to officiate them " in no way disqualifies " him from legally conducting an Orthodox conversion . But the diversity of Jewish communities and their respective rabbinic standards means that virtually no conversion is guaranteed to be accepted everywhere . Indeed , Mintz told me that a substantial number of his candidates are converting to " fix , " " upgrade , " or " strengthen " their Jewish status -- and he acknowledges that if , in the future , any of them want to join a Jewish community with a different set of standards , they might choose to go to the mikvah again . <p> On Rosh Hashanah this year , Rabbi Rubin of Central Synagogue gave a sermon in which she likened the post-October 7th surge in conversions to one in post-Holocaust Germany , where so many people sought to convert to Judaism ? ? that a commission was formed in Berlin to help process requests . But the divisions within the Jewish community today complicate the comparison . Nancy Ko is a Korean American convert to Judaism and a doctoral student in Middle Eastern history at Columbia . She grew up around the many Jews who frequented her family 's grocery store , in Brooklyn 's Bensonhurst neighborhood . In college , she studied the history of Arab and Middle Eastern Jews . She also became involved in activism against the Israeli occupation and helped found an organization to promote the inclusion of non-Zionists and anti-Zionists in campus Jewish communities . She told me that she finally decided to convert after an Israeli American mentor , paraphrasing Moses ' metaphor about Jews opening their hearts to God , urged her , in Hebrew , to " circumcise your soul . " Ko was moved by the Talmud 's teaching that the souls of converts were present at Mt . Sinai with all Jewish souls when God gave Jews the Torah . Though she had no Jewish partner or family , she wanted an Orthodox conversion , in part , she told me , " so that I could daven in any shul and bless the bread at any Shabbos table , and so that my children would be able to do so as well . " Mintz 's beth din converted her in 2022 , sixteen months before October 7th . <p> When I spoke with Ko recently , she was working to get money to families who had fled from Gaza to Egypt . She connected her pro-Palestinian activism with her family 's origins on the Korean island of Jeju , where , in 1948 , an uprising during the American military occupation was met with a massacre that eventually killed tens of thousands of civilians ; the same year , in what 's become known as the Nakba , hundreds of thousands of Palestinians were displaced during the formation of the State of Israel . On October 7th , a friend and colleague of Ko 's , an Israeli American anti-occupation peace activist , was killed by Hamas . Another friend , a Palestinian in the West Bank , told her that he could n't get out because Israel had closed the border . When Ko posted critically about Israel on social media , a Jewish friend messaged her to say that she should n't " pretend to be part of the Jewish community . " Ko belongs to a group of observant Jews who came together for prayer after October 7th , feeling out of step with Jewish institutions . She told me that it was " unbearable to be in the synagogue where folks are celebrating that a hospital was destroyed , or are standing up to do the prayer for Israel . " <p> Still , Ko 's anti-Zionism exists necessarily in relation to mainstream Jewish identity -- as a form of dissent . " You can not be a Jew alone , " she said . " No matter how Jewish you know you are , it 's not completely up to you . It 's up to the community to decide what kind of Judaism and Jewishness they want to advocate for . " Ko told me that , given her views on Israel , she suspects that the beth din might have rejected her if she 'd tried to convert after October 7th . Rabbi Mintz insisted otherwise . " She would have been accepted , " he said . " The beauty of rabbinic Judaism -- it is all about the argument . " On that last point , the two of them concur . Ko told me , " There 's been a very rich history of Jewish anti-Zionists . There 's been division on these questions . What are Jews if not disagreers ? " She added , quoting the Talmud , " Machloket l'shem shamayim " -- " Disagreement for the sake of Heaven . " <p> In June , my parents and I happened to be in South Korea when Rabbi Buchdahl delivered a speech at the launch of a center for Israel studies at Seoul National University , my father 's alma mater . Before an audience of government officials , academics , and diplomats , Buchdahl noted parallels between the stories of Koreans and Jews , remarking that " the modern states of these ancient peoples " were formed within months of each other . But it was the differences between the cultures that enlivened her storytelling . She compared Korean folk tales about the value of filial piety with a midrash about Abraham smashing his father 's idols . She contrasted her mother 's solitary Buddhist learning with the Jewish tradition of havruta , studying in noisy dialogue with a partner . To conclude , she took out a guitar and sang a mashup of " Jerusalem of Gold , " an Israeli song from the nineteen-sixties expressing longing for the Old City , which was then under Jordanian rule , and the Korean folk song " Arirang , " which , during the Japanese occupation of Korea , became an anthem of anti-colonial resistance . <p> I made the unconventional choice to have two different Jewish courts oversee my conversion ceremony at the same time . Rabbi Mintz convened an Orthodox beth din with two younger rabbis , who gave off Brooklyn hipster vibes . Rabbi Buchdahl assembled a Reform one with another rabbi from Central Synagogue and a congregant of theirs , my longtime friend Tali Farhadian Weinstein , an Iranian American Jew . Another close friend , who is Orthodox , and Jacob accompanied me . A quarter century of dilemmas of identity and belonging had led me there , and the meeting , at the West Side Mikvah in Manhattan , seemed to embody its own fresh contradictions . Mintz also teaches at Yeshivat Maharat , an Orthodox institution in the Bronx that trains and ordains women as rabbis , but , per Orthodox conversion rules , there are no women on his beth din . One of the Orthodox rabbis remarked to me later , " Angela is one of the great rabbis in the world " and joked , " Why would she need me , a little pischer rabbi in Brooklyn , to complete this conversion ? " <p> The event began with an extended discussion between the rabbis and me about my path to conversion . I recounted my Korean childhood , my decades in a Jewish family , my love of Jewish tradition , and my sense of belonging among the Jewish people . Afterward , to prepare for the heart of the proceedings , I went alone into a spa-like marble bathroom . I took off my jewelry and makeup , undressed , washed , and put on a white bathrobe that a mikvah attendant had left for me . Some Orthodox rabbis insist on being present for a convert 's immersion , or at least on observing through slits in a partition , to insure that it 's done properly . Mintz does n't do that with female converts , so he waited outside , but Buchdahl and my two friends entered the room with me . <p> The mikvah itself was an inviting lapis blue and resembled a luxurious plunge pool . The water was warm . I submerged my body , then my head and my long hair . I curled into a ball underwater . Suspended there , I felt gently but fully held . I recited the mikvah prayer : " Blessed are You , O Lord , our God , King of the universe , who has sanctified us with His commandments and commanded us regarding the immersion . " In the long-sought ritual , I momentarily sensed boundaries receding as I crossed over to become a Korean American Jew . <p> When I emerged from the mikvah , the two sets of rabbis showed me the documents they 'd prepared to officially mark my new Jewish status . The papers bore my chosen Hebrew name : Chava , or Eve . Buchdahl told me that the certificate of conversion under Reform Judaism would be sent to be recorded for posterity in the American Jewish Archives . I looked expectantly toward the Orthodox rabbis . They seemed impressed . One of them said , " We keep a list in a Google doc . " ? <p> Published in the print edition of the December 9 , 2024 , issue , with the headline " The Choosing Ones . " 
@@118632876 <h> Share <p> Crowds gathered in Syria 's Damascus on Sunday to celebrate the fall of Bashar Assad 's government with chants , prayers and the occasional gunfire after opposition fighters entered the capital following a stunning advance.Rami Abdurrahman of the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , a Syrian opposition war monitor , said Assad took a flight from Damascus and left early Sunday . There was no immediate official statement from the Syrian government and Assad 's whereabouts remain unknown.It was the first time opposition forces had reached Damascus since 2018 when Syrian troops recaptured areas on the outskirts of the capital following a yearslong siege.The night before , opposition forces had taken the central city of Homs , Syria 's third largest , as government forces abandoned it.The rapidly developing events have shaken the region . Lebanon said it was closing all its land border crossings with Syria except for one that links Beirut with Damascus . Jordan closed a border crossing with Syria , too . Here 's the Latest : ? President Biden speaks out about the collapse of the Syrian governmentPresident Joe Biden said Sunday that the sudden collapse of the Syrian government under Bashar Assad is a " fundamental act of justice " after decades of repression , but it was " a moment of risk and uncertainty " for the Mideast.Speaking at the White House , Biden said the U.S. was not sure of Assad 's whereabouts , but was monitoring reports he was seeking refuge in Moscow.Biden credited action by the U.S. and its allies for weakening Syria 's backers -- Russia , Iran and Hezbollah . He said " for the first time " that they could no longer defend Assad 's grip on power . " Our approach has shifted the balance of power in the Middle East , " Biden said.Russian news agency reporting that Assad has arrived in MoscowRussian state news agencies reported that ousted Syrian President Bashar Assad has arrived in Moscow with his family and been given asylum.The agencies , Tass and RIA , cited an unidentified Kremlin source . The Associated Press was not immediately able to verify the reports but had contacted the Kremlin for comment.Arab League condemns Israel for seizing territory in Golan HeightsCAIRO -- The Arab League on Sunday condemned Israel for taking advantage of Syrian President Bashar Assad 's downfall by moving into more Syrian territory.Hours after Assad 's overthrow , Israel announced it had seized a buffer zone in the Golan Heights that was established by a cease-fire agreement with Syria in 1974 . In a statement , the Arab League said Israel illegally sought to occupy more territories.But Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the 50-year-old agreement regarding Syrian territory had collapsed and that Syrian troops had abandoned their positions , necessitating Israel taking over as a " temporary defensive position . " United Nations secretary-general marks the ' fall of the dictatorial regime ' in SyriaUNITED NATIONS -- The United Nations secretary-general is marking the " fall of the dictatorial regime " in Syria and says the future of the country is " is a matter for the Syrians to determine . " A statement by Antonio Guterres also called for calm and the protection of the rights of all Syrians as well as of diplomatic and consular facilities in Syria . He said there is much work ahead to ensure an " orderly political transition to renewed institutions , " and he called on the international community to ensure that " any political transition is inclusive and comprehensive and that it meets the legitimate aspirations of the people of Syria , in all their diversity . " Top Ukraine diplomat says Assad is a ' dictator ' who relied on Russia to prop up his ruleKYIV , Ukraine - Ukraine 's top diplomat on Sunday responded to Assad 's ouster by describing him as a " dictator " who relied on Russia to prop up his rule - a reference to the military campaign Moscow has waged in Syria since September 2015 , teaming up with Iran to allow Assad 's government to fight armed opposition groups and reclaim control over most of the country . " Assad has fallen . This has always been and will be the case with all dictators who bet on Putin . He always betrays those who rely on him , " foreign minister Andrii Sybiha said in a post on X.In a separate update on the social network , Sybiha said Kyiv was ready to take steps towards restoring relations with Syria , severed months into Russia 's full-scale invasion of the neighboring state.Kyiv broke off diplomatic ties after Damascus in June 2022 recognized Kremlin-occupied parts of eastern Ukraine as independent territories , in a move welcomed by Moscow and decried by the West as a clear violation of Ukrainian sovereignty.Israeli military issues warning to residents of five villages in southern SyriaJERUSALEM -- The Israeli military has issued a warning to residents of five villages and towns in southern Syria to stay inside their homes for their safety . " The fighting in your area is forcing the IDF to act , " the IDF 's Arabic-language spokesman said on X.The military did n't respond to questions . Earlier , Israel said its troops had seized a buffer zone in the Golan Heights established in 1974 , saying it was to protect Israeli residents after Syrian troops abandoned their positions.Defense Minister Israel Katz said on X that the IDF has been instructed to " seize the buffer zone and control points to ensure the protection of all Israeli communities in the Golan Heights -- Jewish and Druze -- so that they are not exposed to threats from the other side . " Israel captured the Golan in the 1967 Mideast war and later annexed it . The international community , except for the United States , views it as occupied.Head of Syria 's biggest rebel faction in first appearance since Assad 's fall calls it " a victory to the Islamic nation . " BEIRUT - The leader of the largest insurgent group in Syria visited the Syrian capital 's sprawling Umayyad Mosque and declared that the victory against President Bashar Assad " is a victory to the Islamic nation . " Ahmad al-Sharaa , who was formerly known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani , made his first public appearance and remarks since fighters entered Damascus . He told hundreds of people at the historic mosque that Assad had made Syria " a farm for Iran 's greed . " He added that Assad made Syria a base for the illegal amphetamine Captagon that brought cash to Assad 's circles.Al-Sharaa , the leader of the jihadi Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or HTS , said Sunday that the victory was achieved because of " God and the blood of martyrs . " He said that he left Syria 20 years ago and since then his heart has longed for this movement.British Prime Minister welcomes end of Assad 's rule , calls for protection of civiliansLONDON -- British Prime Minister Keir Starmer welcomed the end of Assad 's rule as he called for peace and the protection of civilians . " The Syrian people have suffered under Assad 's barbaric regime for too long and we welcome his departure , " Starmer said.He said the U.K. was focused on a political solution to restore peace and stability . " We call on all sides to protect civilians and minorities and ensure essential aid can reach the most vulnerable in the coming hours and days , " he said.China hopes for stability soon in SyriaBEIJING -- China said it was closely monitoring the situation in Syria and that it hoped stability would return as soon as possible , according to a statement published Sunday on the Foreign Ministry 's website.Beijing said it has been helping Chinese nationals who wish to leave Syria to do so in a safe manner and that it remained in contact with those still in the country . " We urge relevant parties in Syria to ensure the safety and security of the Chinese institutions and personnel in Syria , " the statement read . " The Chinese Embassy is still up and running and carrying out its duty in Syria . We will continue to make every possible assistance to Chinese nationals in need . " Opposition forces announce curfew in DamascusBEIRUT -- The command of the Syrian armed opposition says it will impose Sunday a curfew in Damascus , starting at 4 p.m. local time till 5 a.m. on Monday.The Military Operations Administration , which posted the decision on Telegram , did not give a reason for the curfew.Russia claims Assad left Syria after giving instructions to transfer power peacefullyMOSCOW -- Russia 's Foreign Ministry claimed Sunday that Bashar Assad had left Syria after negotiations with rebel groups , and gave " instructions " to " transfer power peacefully . " In a post on the Telegram messaging app on Sunday , the ministry said Moscow had not directly participated in these talks . It also said it has been following the " dramatic events " in Syria " with extreme concern . " It also said Russian troops stationed in Syria have been put on high alert and that as of early afternoon Sunday , there was " no serious threat " to the security of Russia 's military bases there.Russia has waged a military campaign in Syria since September 2015 , teaming up with Iran to allow Assad 's government to fight armed opposition groups and reclaim control over most of the country.While Russia now concentrates the bulk of its military resources in Ukraine , it has maintained a military foothold in Syria and keeps troops at its bases there.Turkey-backed forces are about to wrest control of city from a U.S.-backed and Kurdish-led forceANKARA , Turkey - Turkish security officials said Sunday that Turkey-backed opposition forces were close to wresting control of the city of Manbij from a U.S.-backed and Kurdish-led force.The opposition group , known as the Syrian National Army , SNA , was now in control of 80% of Manbij , after pushing back against the Syrian Kurdish People 's Protection Units , the YPG , the officials said . They provided the information on condition of anonymity due to regulations.Last week , the Turkish-backed force similarly expelled YPG fighters from the city of Tal Rifaat.The Syrian Kurdish militia group is a key U.S. ally in the fight against the Islamic State group in Syria . Turkey however , considers the YPG to be a terrorist organization due to its link to the banned Kurdistan Workers ' Party , or PKK , which has led a decades-long insurgency in Turkey.Turkey has conducted several incursions into Syria since 2016 to push the YPG away from its borders with Syria.France welcomes the fall of Bashar AssadPARIS -- The French Foreign Affairs ministry said France " welcomes " the fall of Bashar Assad 's government " after more than 13 years of violent repression against its own people . " The ministry said in a statement : " The Syrian people have suffered too much . Bashar Assad has bled dry country , emptied of a large part of its people who , if not forced into exile , have been massacred , tortured and bombarded with chemical weapons by the regime and its allies . " France also called for a peaceful political transition that respects the diversity of the Syrian people and protects civilians and minorities and on its international partners to help the Syrian people move towards " reconciliation and reconstruction , " saying France is ready to " play its full part " in the process.UN envoy for Syria expresses hope but warns of immense challengesDOHA , Qatar -- The U.N . envoy for Syria says the ouster of President Bashar Assad has created an opportunity to address the country 's deep problems and create a brighter future after years of conflict . But he says " immense " challenges remain.Geir Pederson told reporters that the changes in Syria now raise hope for millions of refugees , internally displaced , political prisoners and families whose loved ones have disappeared . " Today we look forward to the cautious hope for the opening of a new time for the peace , reconciliation , dignity and inclusion of all Syrians , " he said.He said the U.N . was closely monitoring the situation on the ground and urging all groups to avoid violence , protect civilians and respect human rights . " Let me stress that there must be a collective effort to secure peace and dignity for all , and that I stand ready to support the Syrian people in their journey toward a stable and inclusive future , decided and shaped by the Syrian people themselves , " Pederson said at the Doha Summit.He said he did not know where Assad has fled to and declined to say whether the former president should be prosecuted for war crimes.Pederson said international efforts should focus now on a stable and peaceful transition before addressing deeper questions like justice for Assad . " First things first , " he said.Turkish foreign minister calls on world to help stabilize SyriaBEIRUT -- Hakan Fidan said Sunday that " Syria has reached a stage where the Syrian people will shape the future of their own country , " calling on the international community to support Syrians.Fidan is attending the Qatari diplomatic forum that started late Saturday and is hosting eight countries with an interest in Syria , including the U.S. and Iran . " The new administration must be established in an orderly manner . The principle of inclusiveness must never be compromised , " the Turkish foreign minister told reporters . " There must never be a desire for revenge . It is time to unite and reconstruct the country . " When asked where Bashar Assad was , he said : " I can not say for sure . " Hakan Fidan , adding , " he is somewhere , but I can not comment on that " and that he was " probably outside of Syria . " Fidan , who on Saturday met with his counterparts from Russia and Iran , the main backers of the Assad regime , said regional and global powers should try " to act with prudence and calm and to refrain from steps that could further destabilize the region . " Turkey has been in contact with Syrian opposition factions to ensure terrorist groups do not take advantage of the situation , Fidan added , referring to the Islamic State group and Kurdish militants . He also stressed that any chemical weapon stockpiles should be secured.Fidan also addressed the rapid advance of rebel fighters across Syria , saying it was helped by the " slow decay and collapse " of a regime that did not tackle the country 's problems.Trump says Russia and Iran are in a weakened stateU.S . President-elect Donald Trump posted on social media platform Truth Social Sunday , saying that Assad " has fled his country . His protector , Russia ... led by Vladimir Putin , was not interested in protecting him any longer . " He also wrote that Russia " lost all interest in Syria because of Ukraine , where close to 600,000 Russian soldiers lay wounded or dead . " He added that " Russia and Iran are in a weakened state right now , one because of Ukraine and a bad economy , the other because of Israel and its fighting success . " German foreign minister warns Syria must not fall into the hands of radicalsBERLIN -- German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock expressed understanding for the relief Syrian people felt after the fall of Bashar Assad 's government , but warned that " the country must not now fall into the hands of other radicals . " " Several hundred thousand Syrians have been killed in the civil war , millions have fled , " Baerbock said in a statement emailed by her office Sunday . " Assad has murdered , tortured and used poison gas against his own people . He must finally be held accountable for this . " Baerbock also called " on the parties to the conflict to live up to their responsibility for all Syrians . " " This includes the comprehensive protection of ethnic and religious minorities such as Kurds , Alawites or Christians and an inclusive political process that creates a balance between the groups , " the German foreign minister said.Syrian refugees in Beirut say they want to go homeBEIRUT -- Syrian refugees in Beirut rejoice Assad 's downfall on Sunday , with some saying they are considering returning to Syria . " After all these years of suffering , God granted us relief , " Hilal Youssef , a Syrian from Hama , said on Sunday . " We will go back to Syria with pride and joy . We got rid of this army . We got rid of the injustice that we lived before and freed Syria . Now we can go there anytime we want . " " For sure we want to go back , " said Bilal al Khleif , also from Hama . Refugees will return " to Hama , to Damascus , to Idlib and all areas and chant ' Freedom , ' " he said.Syrian state TV briefly resumes programs and hosts a rebel commanderDAMASCUS , Syria -- Syrian state TV briefly continued its programs , with an anchorman calling on all employees at the station to return to work adding that they are safe . " This is Damascus , the capital of Syria where the gates of freedom have opened for the first time in many years . This is a historic day in Syria 's modern history " the anchorman said Sunday morning.He later hosted Anas Salkhadi , a rebel commander among the fighters who stormed the capital . Salkhadi said that the rebels would protect state institutions . " Our message to all the sects of Syria is that we tell them that Syria is for everyone , " Salkhadi said . " We will not do what Assad family did , " he said.As Salkhadi spoke , the sound was cut and the broadcast suddenly stopped . A red banner then appeared on screen with writing in Arabic that said : " The victory of the great Syrian revolution and the fall of Assad 's criminal regime . " Syrians in Berlin celebrate the downfall of Assad 's governmentBERLIN -- Hundreds of Syrians took to the streets to celebrate the fall of Bashar Assad 's government.Some cheered and rejoiced in front of a Syrian bakery on the German capital 's Sonnenallee Boulevard in the neighborhood of Neukoelln , famous for its many Arabic stores , restaurants and coffee shops.People were waving flags emblazoned with " Free Syria " while others flocked in motorcades , German news agency DPA reported.Many , originally from Lebanon , Syria and Iraq , live in Neukoelln.Hundreds of thousands of Syrians fled the civil war in their home country and reached Germany by crossing the Mediterranean on flimsy rubber boats and trekking up the Balkan , often for days and weeks by foot.Qatari official says renewed mediation efforts between Israel and Hamas still in early stagesDOHA , Qatar -- Majed bin Mohammed al-Ansari , Qatar 's foreign ministry spokesman , said the revived efforts to push for a ceasefire between the two sides were still in the early stages despite e new " momentum . " Qatar recently renewed its role as mediator after suspending efforts last month in frustration over what it said was a lack of willingness by the sides to make progress.Al-Ansari said his government has been only engaging with the individual sides . However , he said he hoped to see mediation kick into gear in a " more detailed manner " by next week.Al-Ansari said while it was still too early to provide details on postwar Gaza , his government has had discussions about its general position.He said there needs to be a " Palestinian decision " on who will govern , with the West Bank and Gaza under a unified leadership.He also said Qatar , which played a big role in rebuilding Gaza after previous conflicts , would be open to joining a broader reconstruction effort if political conditions allow . " We will support any international effort when it comes to rebuilding , " he added . " We will not abandon the Palestinian people . We will not abandon the people of Gaza . But this time , it needs to be an international effort . " " The whole international community should be supportive of whatever governance model is chosen by the Palestinian people , " he told reporters on the sidelines of the Doha Forum.Video shows Syrian prime minister escorted by armed menDAMASCUS , Syria -- A video shared on Syrian opposition media showed a group of armed men escorting Syrian Prime Minister Mohammed Ghazi Jalali out of his office and to the Four Seasons hotel on Sunday.Syrians in Lebanon flock to the border crossingMasnaa , Lebanon -- Syrians have crowded the Lebanese side of the Masnaa border crossing Sunday waiting to cross back into Syria after the fall of Bashar Assad.Lebanon 's General Security closed the crossing overnight but reopened it in the morning , allowing Syrians to freely cross out of Lebanon while restricting their entry from Syria into the country.Lebanese officials have long complained about the country 's population of refugees -- the largest per capita in the world . As of Sept. 30 , some 768,353 Syrian refugees were registered with the U.N . refugee agency in Lebanon , with hundreds of thousands more believed to be unregistered.Many fled Lebanon after the escalation of the conflict between Israel and the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah in late September , but others crossed back from Syria into Lebanon in recent days as insurgents marched toward Damascus.With Syrian officials having abandoned the Syrian side of the border , an Associated Press photographer who crossed from Lebanon into Syria said he saw some people taking the opportunity to loot the duty-free store between the two borders.Qatari official says there is regional consensus on engaging all parties in SyriaDOHA , Qatar -- Qatar 's foreign ministry spokesman and adviser to the prime minister , Majed bin Mohammed al-Ansari , says participants of the emergency meeting of foreign ministers and top officials from eight countries with interests in Syria , agreed on the need " to engage all parties on the ground and be inclusive in our engagement . " The late Saturday meeting , hosted by Qatar , included Iran , Saudi Arabia , Russia and Turkey.Al-Ansari also said that would include the HTS , the main rebel group that has taken control of Damascus , branded a terrorist organization by the U.S. and United Nations.He said the meeting participants were caught off guard by how quickly Assad was toppled and that the Syrian leader had not reached out to Qatar , but had spoken to other countries in the region in his final days . He said he did not know where Assad was.Al-Ansari said the international community must now work together to create conditions where all Syrians can live in peace , regardless of their religious or ethnic group.The main concern is " stability and safe transition , " he said . " No one group or party should feel unsafe in a future Syria . " Al-Ansari spoke to reporters on the sidelines of the Doha Forum.American military presence will continue in eastern SyriaMANAMA , Bahrain -- Daniel B. Shapiro , a deputy assistant secretary of defense for the Middle East , said the U.S. presence was " solely to ensure the enduring defeat of ISIS and has nothing to do with other aspects of this conflict , " he said , using an acronym for the Islamic State group . " We call on all parties in Syria to protect civilians , particularly those from Syria 's minority communities , to respect international humanitarian norms and to work to achieve a resolution through an inclusive political settlement , " Shapiro said . " Multiple actors in this conflict have a terrible track record to include Assad 's horrific crimes , Russia 's indiscriminate aerial bomb bombardment , Iranian-back militia involvement and the atrocities of ISIS . " Shapiro , however , was careful not to directly say Assad had been deposed by the insurgents . " If confirmed no one should shed any tears over the Assad regime , " he added . Associated Press writer Jon Gambrell in Manama , Bahrain , contributed to this report.Syrians celebrate in the heart of Damascus and storm presidential palaceBrimming with excitement , people flocked to Ummayed Square in the heart of the Syrian capital to mark the fall of Bashar Assad 's government.The square houses the building of the Ministry of Defense.Men on the streets and some riding in the back of pickup trucks fired celebratory shots , as plumes of smoke could be seen in the distance . Some waved the green flag that represented Syria 's uprising against the Assad dynasty , the first such instance in well over a decade before the mass protests spiraled into civil war.A few kilometers ( miles ) away , Syrians stormed the presidential palace , taking down portraits of Assad from the palace 's guest quarters where the fallen president hosted heads of state.Yemeni government minister hails Assad 's fall as a blow to IranCAIRO -- Moammar al-Eryani , Information Minister of Yemen 's internationally recognized government , said Iran 's " expansionist project , which used sectarian militias as tools to complete the Persian Crescent , sow chaos , undermine the sovereignty of states ... is collapsing " as rebel groups took over the Syrian capital , Damascus.He also expressed hope that Yemenis would drive out the Iran-backed Houthi rebels , who seized the capital , Sanaa , and much of the country 's north in 2014 . " The Yemenis , with their wisdom and steadfastness , are able to thwart the plans of Iran and its Houthi tool to violate their land and tamper with their destiny , just as those plans failed in Syria and Lebanon , " he wrote social media platform X.Senior Emirati diplomat declines to answer if Bashar Assad was heading to UAEMANAMA , Bahrain -- Anwar Gargash faced a series of direct questions over Syria , particularly as the UAE in recent years had sought to rehabilitate Assad 's image in the Arab world.Asked if Assad was heading to the UAE , Gargash said : " When people ask where is Bashar al-Assad going to , I say , you know , when you really look at this , this is really at the end of the day a footnote in history . I 'm reminded a little bit by Kaiser Wilhelm II in 1918 when he went into a long exile . " He added : " But I do n't think when you look at that period , this is really critical . " Gargash later refused to answer when repeatedly pressed by journalists on whether his answer was an acknowledgment that Assad was in the UAE.There has been speculation Assad could flee to the oil-rich , where his extended family is known to own properties in Dubai . Flight-tracking data showed private jets moving between Damascus , Syria , and the UAE on Saturday.Gargash spoke Sunday at the International Institute of Strategic Studies ' Manama Dialogue in Bahrain . Associated Press writer Jon Gambrell in Manama , Bahrain , contributed to this report.Israel deploys forces in a demilitarized buffer zone along the northern frontier with SyriaTEL AVIV , Israel -- The Israeli military said Sunday it also sent troops to " other places necessary for its defense , " and that the force deployment was meant to provide security for residents of the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights.It added it was " not interfering with the internal events in Syria . " Israel captured that territory from Syria in the 1967 Mideast war and later annexed it , a move not recognized by much of the international community , which views the territory as occupied.A later ceasefire agreement created a demilitarized buffer zone between the two countries ' territories , prohibiting military presence or activity from either side in the area . United Nations peacekeepers have patrolled the area since 1974 . Head of U.S.-backed Kurdish-led forces hails Assad 's fallBEIRUT -- " This change presents an opportunity to build a new Syria based on democracy and justice that secures the rights of all Syrians , " Mazloum Abdi , the leader of the Syrian Democratic Forces , said in a written statement , praising the fall of the " authoritarian regime in Damascus . " The Kurdish-led group has a significant presence in northeastern Syria , where they have clashed with the extremist Islamic State group and Turkish-backed militias over the years.Syrian prime minister says he does n't know Assad 's whereaboutsBEIRUT -- Mohammad Ghazi al-Jalali said early Sunday he did n't know the whereabouts of Bashar Assad and his defense minister.He told the Saudi television network Al-Arabiyya that they lost communication Saturday night.A video statement on Syrian state TV says Assad has been overthrownDAMASCUS , Syria -- The video statement by a group of men said that President Bashar Assad was overthrown and all prisoners have been set free.The man who read a statement said the Operations Room to Conquer Damascus is calling on all opposition fighters and citizens to preserve state institutions of " the free Syrian state . " " Long live the free Syrian state that is to all Syrians and all " their sects and ethnic groups , they said.Organizations close to Assad start distancing themselves from fallen presidentDAMASCUS , Syria -- Syria 's al-Watan newspaper , historically pro-government , wrote : " We are facing a new page for Syria . We thank God for not shedding more blood . We believe and trust that Syria will be for all Syrians . " It added that media workers should not be blamed for publishing government statements in the past . " We only carried out the instructions and published the news they sent us , " it said . " It quickly became clear now that it was false . " A statement from the Alawite sect -- to which Assad belongs and which has formed the core of his base -- called on the youth to be " calm , rational and prudent and not to be dragged into what tears apart the unity of our country . " " We were and still are advocates of peace and advocates of unity , " it said . It called for " the language of reason and dialogue to prevail over all parties in the service of Syria and its great people . " Crowds gather to celebrate in the central squares of DamascusDAMASCUS , Syria -- Crowds have gathered to celebrate in the central squares of Damascus , chanting anti-Assad slogans and honking car horns . In some areas , celebratory gunshots rang out.Some gathered to pray in the city 's mosques , chanting : " God is great . " Soldiers and police officers had left their posts and fled , and looters broke into the headquarters of the Ministry of Defense.Many of the capital 's residents were in disbelief at the speed with which Assad 's hold on the country had fallen after nearly 14 years of civil war . " I did not sleep last night and I did not accept to sleep until I heard the news of his fall , " said Mohammed Amer Al-Oulabi , 44 , who works in the electricity sector . " From Idlib to Damascus , it only took them ( the opposition forces ) a few days , thank God . May God bless them , the heroic lions who made us proud . " " My feelings are indescribable , " said Omar Daher , a 29-year-old lawyer . " After the fear that he ( Assad ) and his father made us live in for many years , and the panic and state of terror that I was living in , I ca n't believe it . " Daher said his father had been killed by security forces and his brother was in detention , his fate unknown . Assad " is a criminal , a tyrant and a dog , " he said . " Damn his soul and the soul of the entire Assad family , " said Ghazal al-Sharif , another reveler in central Damascus . " It is the prayer of every oppressed person and God answered it today . -- Abdulrahman Shaheen reported from Damascus.Leader of Syrian insurgent group prohibits fighters from getting close to state institutionsBEIRUT - The leader of the largest insurgent group in Syria has prohibited his fighters from getting close to state institutions saying they will remain under the supervision of the country 's prime minister at the present time.Abu Mohammed al-Golani , leader of the jihadi Hayat Tahrir al-Sham group , or HTS , also banned his fighters from opening fire in the air in the capital Damascus . " Public institutions will remain under the supervision of the prime minister until they are officially handed over , " he said in a statement published on his group 's social media outlets.Al-Golani 's comments came as Syrian Prime Minister Mohammed Ghazi Jalali said he is extending his hand to the opposition adding that he wants to guarantee that state institutions function.Syria 's government appears to have fallen after lightning offensive by insurgentsDAMASCUS , Syria -- Syria 's government appears to have fallen in a stunning end to the 50-year rule of the Assad family after a lightning offensive by insurgents this week.The apparent fall came after the head of a Syrian opposition war monitor said early Sunday that President Bashar Assad left the country for an undisclosed location , fleeing ahead of insurgents who said they had entered Damascus after a stunning advance across the country.Rami Abdurrahman told The Associated Press that Assad took a flight from Damascus and left early Sunday.Then Syrian Prime Minister Mohammed Ghazi Jalali said the government was ready to " extend its hand " to the opposition and hand over its functions to a transitional government . " I am in my house and I have not left , and this is because of my belonging to this country , " Jalili said in a video statement.White House National Security Council spokesman Sean Savett said President Biden and his team are closely monitoring the extraordinary events in Syria and staying in constant touch with regional partners.Syria 's prime minister is ready to hand over the government to the oppositionDAMASCUS , Syria -- Syrian Prime Minister Mohammed Ghazi Jalali said in a video statement that the government is ready to " extend its hand " to the opposition and hand over its functions to a transitional government . " I am in my house and I have not left , and this is because of my belonging to this country , " Jalili said.He said he would go to his office to continue work in the morning and called on Syrian citizens not to deface public property.He did not address reports that President Bashar Assad has left the country.There was no immediate comment from the United Arab Emirates on Assad 's whereabouts . Assad 's family has extensive real estate holdings in Dubai.Military command of Syria 's opposition says Damascus is ' free ' of Bashar Assad 's ruleBEIRUT - The military command of the Syrian opposition says its fighters have entered the capital Damascus claiming that it is " free " of President Bashar Assad 's rule.The so-called Military Command Administration said Assad had fled without giving further details.Assad 's departure marks the end of the 54-year of Assad family rule of Syria with an iron fist . His father Hafez Assad came to power in a bloodless coup in 1970 and ruled until his death in 2000 . Bashar Assad was elected weeks after his father 's death and ruled Syria until he was overthrown on Sunday.The command declared the end of " the dark period and the beginning of a new era in Syria . " State television in Iran , Assad 's main backer in the years of war in Syria , reported that " terrorists " had entered Damascus and that Assad had left the capital . It cited Qatar 's Al Jazeera news network for the information and did not elaborate.Syrian opposition war monitor says President Bashar Assad has left the countryBEIRUT -- The head of a Syrian opposition war monitor says Syria 's President Bashar Assad has left the country for an undisclosed location.Rami Abdurrahman tells The Associated Press that Assad took a flight from Damascus and left early Sunday.Abdurrahman 's comments came after the protesters took over the Syrian capital.An Associated Press journalist in Damascus reported seeing groups of armed residents along the road in the outskirts of the capital and hearing sounds of gunshots . The city 's main police headquarters appeared to be abandoned , its door left ajar with no officers outside.Another AP journalist shot footage of an abandoned army checkpoint , uniforms discarded on the ground under a poster of Assad 's face . <p> Crowds gathered in Syria 's Damascus on Sunday to celebrate the fall of Bashar Assad 's government with chants , prayers and the occasional gunfire after opposition fighters entered the capital following a stunning advance . <p> Rami Abdurrahman of the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , a Syrian opposition war monitor , said Assad took a flight from Damascus and left early Sunday . There was no immediate official statement from the Syrian government and Assad 's whereabouts remain unknown . <p> Advertisement <p> It was the first time opposition forces had reached Damascus since 2018 when Syrian troops recaptured areas on the outskirts of the capital following a yearslong siege . <p> The night before , opposition forces had taken the central city of Homs , Syria 's third largest , as government forces abandoned it . <p> The rapidly developing events have shaken the region . Lebanon said it was closing all its land border crossings with Syria except for one that links Beirut with Damascus . Jordan closed a border crossing with Syria , too . <p> <p> Here 's the Latest : <h> President Biden speaks out about the collapse of the Syrian government <p> Speaking at the White House , Biden said the U.S. was not sure of Assad 's whereabouts , but was monitoring reports he was seeking refuge in Moscow . <p> Biden credited action by the U.S. and its allies for weakening Syria 's backers -- Russia , Iran and Hezbollah . He said " for the first time " that they could no longer defend Assad 's grip on power . <p> " Our approach has shifted the balance of power in the Middle East , " Biden said . <h> Russian news agency reporting that Assad has arrived in Moscow <p> Russian state news agencies reported that ousted Syrian President Bashar Assad has arrived in Moscow with his family and been given asylum . <p> The agencies , Tass and RIA , cited an unidentified Kremlin source . The Associated Press was not immediately able to verify the reports but had contacted the Kremlin for comment . <h> Arab League condemns Israel for seizing territory in Golan Heights <p> CAIRO -- The Arab League on Sunday condemned Israel for taking advantage of Syrian President Bashar Assad 's downfall by moving into more Syrian territory . <p> Hours after Assad 's overthrow , Israel announced it had seized a buffer zone in the Golan Heights that was established by a cease-fire agreement with Syria in 1974 . <p> In a statement , the Arab League said Israel illegally sought to occupy more territories . <p> But Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the 50-year-old agreement regarding Syrian territory had collapsed and that Syrian troops had abandoned their positions , necessitating Israel taking over as a " temporary defensive position . " <h> United Nations secretary-general marks the ' fall of the dictatorial regime ' in Syria <p> UNITED NATIONS -- The United Nations secretary-general is marking the " fall of the dictatorial regime " in Syria and says the future of the country is " is a matter for the Syrians to determine . " <p> A statement by Antonio Guterres also called for calm and the protection of the rights of all Syrians as well as of diplomatic and consular facilities in Syria . He said there is much work ahead to ensure an " orderly political transition to renewed institutions , " and he called on the international community to ensure that " any political transition is inclusive and comprehensive and that it meets the legitimate aspirations of the people of Syria , in all their diversity . " <h> Top Ukraine diplomat says Assad is a ' dictator ' who relied on Russia to prop up his rule <p> KYIV , Ukraine - Ukraine 's top diplomat on Sunday responded to Assad 's ouster by describing him as a " dictator " who relied on Russia to prop up his rule - a reference to the military campaign Moscow has waged in Syria since September 2015 , teaming up with Iran to allow Assad 's government to fight armed opposition groups and reclaim control over most of the country . <p> " Assad has fallen . This has always been and will be the case with all dictators who bet on Putin . He always betrays those who rely on him , " foreign minister Andrii Sybiha said in a post on X. <p> In a separate update on the social network , Sybiha said Kyiv was ready to take steps towards restoring relations with Syria , severed months into Russia 's full-scale invasion of the neighboring state . <p> Kyiv broke off diplomatic ties after Damascus in June 2022 recognized Kremlin-occupied parts of eastern Ukraine as independent territories , in a move welcomed by Moscow and decried by the West as a clear violation of Ukrainian sovereignty . <h> Israeli military issues warning to residents of five villages in southern Syria <p> JERUSALEM -- The Israeli military has issued a warning to residents of five villages and towns in southern Syria to stay inside their homes for their safety . " The fighting in your area is forcing the IDF to act , " the IDF 's Arabic-language spokesman said on X. <p> The military did n't respond to questions . Earlier , Israel said its troops had seized a buffer zone in the Golan Heights established in 1974 , saying it was to protect Israeli residents after Syrian troops abandoned their positions . <p> Defense Minister Israel Katz said on X that the IDF has been instructed to " seize the buffer zone and control points to ensure the protection of all Israeli communities in the Golan Heights -- Jewish and Druze -- so that they are not exposed to threats from the other side . " <p> Israel captured the Golan in the 1967 Mideast war and later annexed it . The international community , except for the United States , views it as occupied . <h> Head of Syria 's biggest rebel faction in first appearance since Assad 's fall calls it " a victory to the Islamic nation . " <p> BEIRUT - The leader of the largest insurgent group in Syria visited the Syrian capital 's sprawling Umayyad Mosque and declared that the victory against President Bashar Assad " is a victory to the Islamic nation . " <p> Ahmad al-Sharaa , who was formerly known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani , made his first public appearance and remarks since fighters entered Damascus . He told hundreds of people at the historic mosque that Assad had made Syria " a farm for Iran 's greed . " He added that Assad made Syria a base for the illegal amphetamine Captagon that brought cash to Assad 's circles . <p> Al-Sharaa , the leader of the jihadi Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or HTS , said Sunday that the victory was achieved because of " God and the blood of martyrs . " <p> He said that he left Syria 20 years ago and since then his heart has longed for this movement . <h> British Prime Minister welcomes end of Assad 's rule , calls for protection of civilians <p> LONDON -- British Prime Minister Keir Starmer welcomed the end of Assad 's rule as he called for peace and the protection of civilians . <p> " The Syrian people have suffered under Assad 's barbaric regime for too long and we welcome his departure , " Starmer said . <p> He said the U.K. was focused on a political solution to restore peace and stability . <p> " We call on all sides to protect civilians and minorities and ensure essential aid can reach the most vulnerable in the coming hours and days , " he said . <h> China hopes for stability soon in Syria <p> BEIJING -- China said it was closely monitoring the situation in Syria and that it hoped stability would return as soon as possible , according to a statement published Sunday on the Foreign Ministry 's website . <p> Beijing said it has been helping Chinese nationals who wish to leave Syria to do so in a safe manner and that it remained in contact with those still in the country . <p> " We urge relevant parties in Syria to ensure the safety and security of the Chinese institutions and personnel in Syria , " the statement read . " The Chinese Embassy is still up and running and carrying out its duty in Syria . We will continue to make every possible assistance to Chinese nationals in need . " <h> Opposition forces announce curfew in Damascus <p> BEIRUT -- The command of the Syrian armed opposition says it will impose Sunday a curfew in Damascus , starting at 4 p.m. local time till 5 a.m. on Monday . <p> The Military Operations Administration , which posted the decision on Telegram , did not give a reason for the curfew . <h> Russia claims Assad left Syria after giving instructions to transfer power peacefully <p> MOSCOW -- Russia 's Foreign Ministry claimed Sunday that Bashar Assad had left Syria after negotiations with rebel groups , and gave " instructions " to " transfer power peacefully . " <p> In a post on the Telegram messaging app on Sunday , the ministry said Moscow had not directly participated in these talks . It also said it has been following the " dramatic events " in Syria " with extreme concern . " <p> It also said Russian troops stationed in Syria have been put on high alert and that as of early afternoon Sunday , there was " no serious threat " to the security of Russia 's military bases there . <p> Russia has waged a military campaign in Syria since September 2015 , teaming up with Iran to allow Assad 's government to fight armed opposition groups and reclaim control over most of the country . <p> While Russia now concentrates the bulk of its military resources in Ukraine , it has maintained a military foothold in Syria and keeps troops at its bases there . <h> Turkey-backed forces are about to wrest control of city from a U.S.-backed and Kurdish-led force <p> ANKARA , Turkey - Turkish security officials said Sunday that Turkey-backed opposition forces were close to wresting control of the city of Manbij from a U.S.-backed and Kurdish-led force . <p> The opposition group , known as the Syrian National Army , SNA , was now in control of 80% of Manbij , after pushing back against the Syrian Kurdish People 's Protection Units , the YPG , the officials said . They provided the information on condition of anonymity due to regulations . <p> Last week , the Turkish-backed force similarly expelled YPG fighters from the city of Tal Rifaat . <p> The Syrian Kurdish militia group is a key U.S. ally in the fight against the Islamic State group in Syria . Turkey however , considers the YPG to be a terrorist organization due to its link to the banned Kurdistan Workers ' Party , or PKK , which has led a decades-long insurgency in Turkey . <p> Turkey has conducted several incursions into Syria since 2016 to push the YPG away from its borders with Syria . <h> France welcomes the fall of Bashar Assad <p> PARIS -- The French Foreign Affairs ministry said France " welcomes " the fall of Bashar Assad 's government " after more than 13 years of violent repression against its own people . " <p> The ministry said in a statement : " The Syrian people have suffered too much . Bashar Assad has bled dry country , emptied of a large part of its people who , if not forced into exile , have been massacred , tortured and bombarded with chemical weapons by the regime and its allies . " <p> France also called for a peaceful political transition that respects the diversity of the Syrian people and protects civilians and minorities and on its international partners to help the Syrian people move towards " reconciliation and reconstruction , " saying France is ready to " play its full part " in the process . <h> UN envoy for Syria expresses hope but warns of immense challenges <p> DOHA , Qatar -- The U.N . envoy for Syria says the ouster of President Bashar Assad has created an opportunity to address the country 's deep problems and create a brighter future after years of conflict . But he says " immense " challenges remain . <p> Geir Pederson told reporters that the changes in Syria now raise hope for millions of refugees , internally displaced , political prisoners and families whose loved ones have disappeared . <p> " Today we look forward to the cautious hope for the opening of a new time for the peace , reconciliation , dignity and inclusion of all Syrians , " he said . <p> He said the U.N . was closely monitoring the situation on the ground and urging all groups to avoid violence , protect civilians and respect human rights . <p> " Let me stress that there must be a collective effort to secure peace and dignity for all , and that I stand ready to support the Syrian people in their journey toward a stable and inclusive future , decided and shaped by the Syrian people themselves , " Pederson said at the Doha Summit . <p> He said he did not know where Assad has fled to and declined to say whether the former president should be prosecuted for war crimes . <p> Pederson said international efforts should focus now on a stable and peaceful transition before addressing deeper questions like justice for Assad . <p> " First things first , " he said . <h> Turkish foreign minister calls on world to help stabilize Syria <p> BEIRUT -- Hakan Fidan said Sunday that " Syria has reached a stage where the Syrian people will shape the future of their own country , " calling on the international community to support Syrians . <p> Fidan is attending the Qatari diplomatic forum that started late Saturday and is hosting eight countries with an interest in Syria , including the U.S. and Iran . <p> " The new administration must be established in an orderly manner . The principle of inclusiveness must never be compromised , " the Turkish foreign minister told reporters . " There must never be a desire for revenge . It is time to unite and reconstruct the country . " <p> When asked where Bashar Assad was , he said : " I can not say for sure . " Hakan Fidan , adding , " he is somewhere , but I can not comment on that " and that he was " probably outside of Syria . " <p> Fidan , who on Saturday met with his counterparts from Russia and Iran , the main backers of the Assad regime , said regional and global powers should try " to act with prudence and calm and to refrain from steps that could further destabilize the region . " <p> Turkey has been in contact with Syrian opposition factions to ensure terrorist groups do not take advantage of the situation , Fidan added , referring to the Islamic State group and Kurdish militants . He also stressed that any chemical weapon stockpiles should be secured . <p> Fidan also addressed the rapid advance of rebel fighters across Syria , saying it was helped by the " slow decay and collapse " of a regime that did not tackle the country 's problems . <h> Trump says Russia and Iran are in a weakened state <p> U.S. President-elect Donald Trump posted on social media platform Truth Social Sunday , saying that Assad " has fled his country . His protector , Russia ... led by Vladimir Putin , was not interested in protecting him any longer . " <p> He also wrote that Russia " lost all interest in Syria because of Ukraine , where close to 600,000 Russian soldiers lay wounded or dead . " <p> He added that " Russia and Iran are in a weakened state right now , one because of Ukraine and a bad economy , the other because of Israel and its fighting success . " <h> German foreign minister warns Syria must not fall into the hands of radicals <p> BERLIN -- German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock expressed understanding for the relief Syrian people felt after the fall of Bashar Assad 's government , but warned that " the country must not now fall into the hands of other radicals . " <p> " Several hundred thousand Syrians have been killed in the civil war , millions have fled , " Baerbock said in a statement emailed by her office Sunday . " Assad has murdered , tortured and used poison gas against his own people . He must finally be held accountable for this . " <p> Baerbock also called " on the parties to the conflict to live up to their responsibility for all Syrians . " <p> " This includes the comprehensive protection of ethnic and religious minorities such as Kurds , Alawites or Christians and an inclusive political process that creates a balance between the groups , " the German foreign minister said . <h> Syrian refugees in Beirut say they want to go home <p> BEIRUT -- Syrian refugees in Beirut rejoice Assad 's downfall on Sunday , with some saying they are considering returning to Syria . <p> " After all these years of suffering , God granted us relief , " Hilal Youssef , a Syrian from Hama , said on Sunday . " We will go back to Syria with pride and joy . We got rid of this army . We got rid of the injustice that we lived before and freed Syria . Now we can go there anytime we want . " <p> " For sure we want to go back , " said Bilal al Khleif , also from Hama . Refugees will return " to Hama , to Damascus , to Idlib and all areas and chant ' Freedom , ' " he said . <h> Syrian state TV briefly resumes programs and hosts a rebel commander <p> DAMASCUS , Syria -- Syrian state TV briefly continued its programs , with an anchorman calling on all employees at the station to return to work adding that they are safe . <p> " This is Damascus , the capital of Syria where the gates of freedom have opened for the first time in many years . This is a historic day in Syria 's modern history " the anchorman said Sunday morning . <p> He later hosted Anas Salkhadi , a rebel commander among the fighters who stormed the capital . Salkhadi said that the rebels would protect state institutions . <p> " Our message to all the sects of Syria is that we tell them that Syria is for everyone , " Salkhadi said . " We will not do what Assad family did , " he said . <p> As Salkhadi spoke , the sound was cut and the broadcast suddenly stopped . A red banner then appeared on screen with writing in Arabic that said : " The victory of the great Syrian revolution and the fall of Assad 's criminal regime . " <h> Syrians in Berlin celebrate the downfall of Assad 's government <p> BERLIN -- Hundreds of Syrians took to the streets to celebrate the fall of Bashar Assad 's government . <p> Some cheered and rejoiced in front of a Syrian bakery on the German capital 's Sonnenallee Boulevard in the neighborhood of Neukoelln , famous for its many Arabic stores , restaurants and coffee shops . <p> Hundreds of thousands of Syrians fled the civil war in their home country and reached Germany by crossing the Mediterranean on flimsy rubber boats and trekking up the Balkan , often for days and weeks by foot . <h> Qatari official says renewed mediation efforts between Israel and Hamas still in early stages <p> DOHA , Qatar -- Majed bin Mohammed al-Ansari , Qatar 's foreign ministry spokesman , said the revived efforts to push for a ceasefire between the two sides were still in the early stages despite e new " momentum . " <p> Qatar recently renewed its role as mediator after suspending efforts last month in frustration over what it said was a lack of willingness by the sides to make progress . <p> Al-Ansari said his government has been only engaging with the individual sides . However , he said he hoped to see mediation kick into gear in a " more detailed manner " by next week . <p> Al-Ansari said while it was still too early to provide details on postwar Gaza , his government has had discussions about its general position . <p> He said there needs to be a " Palestinian decision " on who will govern , with the West Bank and Gaza under a unified leadership . <p> He also said Qatar , which played a big role in rebuilding Gaza after previous conflicts , would be open to joining a broader reconstruction effort if political conditions allow . <p> " We will support any international effort when it comes to rebuilding , " he added . " We will not abandon the Palestinian people . We will not abandon the people of Gaza . But this time , it needs to be an international effort . " <p> " The whole international community should be supportive of whatever governance model is chosen by the Palestinian people , " he told reporters on the sidelines of the Doha Forum . <h> Video shows Syrian prime minister escorted by armed men <p> DAMASCUS , Syria -- A video shared on Syrian opposition media showed a group of armed men escorting Syrian Prime Minister Mohammed Ghazi Jalali out of his office and to the Four Seasons hotel on Sunday . <h> Syrians in Lebanon flock to the border crossing <p> Masnaa , Lebanon -- Syrians have crowded the Lebanese side of the Masnaa border crossing Sunday waiting to cross back into Syria after the fall of Bashar Assad . <p> Lebanon 's General Security closed the crossing overnight but reopened it in the morning , allowing Syrians to freely cross out of Lebanon while restricting their entry from Syria into the country . <p> Lebanese officials have long complained about the country 's population of refugees -- the largest per capita in the world . As of Sept. 30 , some 768,353 Syrian refugees were registered with the U.N . refugee agency in Lebanon , with hundreds of thousands more believed to be unregistered . <p> Many fled Lebanon after the escalation of the conflict between Israel and the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah in late September , but others crossed back from Syria into Lebanon in recent days as insurgents marched toward Damascus . <p> With Syrian officials having abandoned the Syrian side of the border , an Associated Press photographer who crossed from Lebanon into Syria said he saw some people taking the opportunity to loot the duty-free store between the two borders . <h> Qatari official says there is regional consensus on engaging all parties in Syria <p> DOHA , Qatar -- Qatar 's foreign ministry spokesman and adviser to the prime minister , Majed bin Mohammed al-Ansari , says participants of the emergency meeting of foreign ministers and top officials from eight countries with interests in Syria , agreed on the need " to engage all parties on the ground and be inclusive in our engagement . " <p> The late Saturday meeting , hosted by Qatar , included Iran , Saudi Arabia , Russia and Turkey . <p> Al-Ansari also said that would include the HTS , the main rebel group that has taken control of Damascus , branded a terrorist organization by the U.S. and United Nations . <p> He said the meeting participants were caught off guard by how quickly Assad was toppled and that the Syrian leader had not reached out to Qatar , but had spoken to other countries in the region in his final days . He said he did not know where Assad was . <p> Al-Ansari said the international community must now work together to create conditions where all Syrians can live in peace , regardless of their religious or ethnic group . <p> The main concern is " stability and safe transition , " he said . " No one group or party should feel unsafe in a future Syria . " <p> Al-Ansari spoke to reporters on the sidelines of the Doha Forum . <h> American military presence will continue in eastern Syria <p> MANAMA , Bahrain -- Daniel B. Shapiro , a deputy assistant secretary of defense for the Middle East , said the U.S. presence was " solely to ensure the enduring defeat of ISIS and has nothing to do with other aspects of this conflict , " he said , using an acronym for the Islamic State group . <p> " We call on all parties in Syria to protect civilians , particularly those from Syria 's minority communities , to respect international humanitarian norms and to work to achieve a resolution through an inclusive political settlement , " Shapiro said . <p> " Multiple actors in this conflict have a terrible track record to include Assad 's horrific crimes , Russia 's indiscriminate aerial bomb bombardment , Iranian-back militia involvement and the atrocities of ISIS . " <p> Shapiro , however , was careful not to directly say Assad had been deposed by the insurgents . <p> " If confirmed no one should shed any tears over the Assad regime , " he added . <h> Syrians celebrate in the heart of Damascus and storm presidential palace <p> Brimming with excitement , people flocked to Ummayed Square in the heart of the Syrian capital to mark the fall of Bashar Assad 's government . <p> The square houses the building of the Ministry of Defense . <p> Men on the streets and some riding in the back of pickup trucks fired celebratory shots , as plumes of smoke could be seen in the distance . Some waved the green flag that represented Syria 's uprising against the Assad dynasty , the first such instance in well over a decade before the mass protests spiraled into civil war . <p> A few kilometers ( miles ) away , Syrians stormed the presidential palace , taking down portraits of Assad from the palace 's guest quarters where the fallen president hosted heads of state . <h> Yemeni government minister hails Assad 's fall as a blow to Iran <p> CAIRO -- Moammar al-Eryani , Information Minister of Yemen 's internationally recognized government , said Iran 's " expansionist project , which used sectarian militias as tools to complete the Persian Crescent , sow chaos , undermine the sovereignty of states ... is collapsing " as rebel groups took over the Syrian capital , Damascus . <p> He also expressed hope that Yemenis would drive out the Iran-backed Houthi rebels , who seized the capital , Sanaa , and much of the country 's north in 2014 . <p> " The Yemenis , with their wisdom and steadfastness , are able to thwart the plans of Iran and its Houthi tool to violate their land and tamper with their destiny , just as those plans failed in Syria and Lebanon , " he wrote social media platform X. <h> Senior Emirati diplomat declines to answer if Bashar Assad was heading to UAE <p> MANAMA , Bahrain -- Anwar Gargash faced a series of direct questions over Syria , particularly as the UAE in recent years had sought to rehabilitate Assad 's image in the Arab world . <p> Asked if Assad was heading to the UAE , Gargash said : " When people ask where is Bashar al-Assad going to , I say , you know , when you really look at this , this is really at the end of the day a footnote in history . I 'm reminded a little bit by Kaiser Wilhelm II in 1918 when he went into a long exile . " <p> He added : " But I do n't think when you look at that period , this is really critical . " <p> Gargash later refused to answer when repeatedly pressed by journalists on whether his answer was an acknowledgment that Assad was in the UAE . <p> There has been speculation Assad could flee to the oil-rich , where his extended family is known to own properties in Dubai . Flight-tracking data showed private jets moving between Damascus , Syria , and the UAE on Saturday . <p> Gargash spoke Sunday at the International Institute of Strategic Studies ' Manama Dialogue in Bahrain . <h> Israel deploys forces in a demilitarized buffer zone along the northern frontier with Syria <p> TEL AVIV , Israel -- The Israeli military said Sunday it also sent troops to " other places necessary for its defense , " and that the force deployment was meant to provide security for residents of the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights . <p> It added it was " not interfering with the internal events in Syria . " <p> Israel captured that territory from Syria in the 1967 Mideast war and later annexed it , a move not recognized by much of the international community , which views the territory as occupied . <p> A later ceasefire agreement created a demilitarized buffer zone between the two countries ' territories , prohibiting military presence or activity from either side in the area . United Nations peacekeepers have patrolled the area since 1974 . <h> Head of U.S.-backed Kurdish-led forces hails Assad 's fall <p> BEIRUT -- " This change presents an opportunity to build a new Syria based on democracy and justice that secures the rights of all Syrians , " Mazloum Abdi , the leader of the Syrian Democratic Forces , said in a written statement , praising the fall of the " authoritarian regime in Damascus . " <p> The Kurdish-led group has a significant presence in northeastern Syria , where they have clashed with the extremist Islamic State group and Turkish-backed militias over the years . <h> Syrian prime minister says he does n't know Assad 's whereabouts <p> BEIRUT -- Mohammad Ghazi al-Jalali said early Sunday he did n't know the whereabouts of Bashar Assad and his defense minister . <p> He told the Saudi television network Al-Arabiyya that they lost communication Saturday night . <h> A video statement on Syrian state TV says Assad has been overthrown <p> DAMASCUS , Syria -- The video statement by a group of men said that President Bashar Assad was overthrown and all prisoners have been set free . <p> The man who read a statement said the Operations Room to Conquer Damascus is calling on all opposition fighters and citizens to preserve state institutions of " the free Syrian state . " <p> " Long live the free Syrian state that is to all Syrians and all " their sects and ethnic groups , they said . <h> Organizations close to Assad start distancing themselves from fallen president <p> DAMASCUS , Syria -- Syria 's al-Watan newspaper , historically pro-government , wrote : " We are facing a new page for Syria . We thank God for not shedding more blood . We believe and trust that Syria will be for all Syrians . " <p> It added that media workers should not be blamed for publishing government statements in the past . <p> " We only carried out the instructions and published the news they sent us , " it said . " It quickly became clear now that it was false . " <p> A statement from the Alawite sect -- to which Assad belongs and which has formed the core of his base -- called on the youth to be " calm , rational and prudent and not to be dragged into what tears apart the unity of our country . " <p> " We were and still are advocates of peace and advocates of unity , " it said . It called for " the language of reason and dialogue to prevail over all parties in the service of Syria and its great people . " <h> Crowds gather to celebrate in the central squares of Damascus <p> Some gathered to pray in the city 's mosques , chanting : " God is great . " <p> Soldiers and police officers had left their posts and fled , and looters broke into the headquarters of the Ministry of Defense . <p> Many of the capital 's residents were in disbelief at the speed with which Assad 's hold on the country had fallen after nearly 14 years of civil war . <p> " I did not sleep last night and I did not accept to sleep until I heard the news of his fall , " said Mohammed Amer Al-Oulabi , 44 , who works in the electricity sector . " From Idlib to Damascus , it only took them ( the opposition forces ) a few days , thank God . May God bless them , the heroic lions who made us proud . " <p> " My feelings are indescribable , " said Omar Daher , a 29-year-old lawyer . " After the fear that he ( Assad ) and his father made us live in for many years , and the panic and state of terror that I was living in , I ca n't believe it . " <p> Daher said his father had been killed by security forces and his brother was in detention , his fate unknown . Assad " is a criminal , a tyrant and a dog , " he said . <p> " Damn his soul and the soul of the entire Assad family , " said Ghazal al-Sharif , another reveler in central Damascus . " It is the prayer of every oppressed person and God answered it today . <p> -- <p> Abdulrahman Shaheen reported from Damascus . <h> Leader of Syrian insurgent group prohibits fighters from getting close to state institutions <p> BEIRUT - The leader of the largest insurgent group in Syria has prohibited his fighters from getting close to state institutions saying they will remain under the supervision of the country 's prime minister at the present time . <p> Abu Mohammed al-Golani , leader of the jihadi Hayat Tahrir al-Sham group , or HTS , also banned his fighters from opening fire in the air in the capital Damascus . <p> " Public institutions will remain under the supervision of the prime minister until they are officially handed over , " he said in a statement published on his group 's social media outlets . <p> Al-Golani 's comments came as Syrian Prime Minister Mohammed Ghazi Jalali said he is extending his hand to the opposition adding that he wants to guarantee that state institutions function . <h> Syria 's government appears to have fallen after lightning offensive by insurgents <p> DAMASCUS , Syria -- Syria 's government appears to have fallen in a stunning end to the 50-year rule of the Assad family after a lightning offensive by insurgents this week . <p> The apparent fall came after the head of a Syrian opposition war monitor said early Sunday that President Bashar Assad left the country for an undisclosed location , fleeing ahead of insurgents who said they had entered Damascus after a stunning advance across the country . <p> Rami Abdurrahman told The Associated Press that Assad took a flight from Damascus and left early Sunday . <p> Then Syrian Prime Minister Mohammed Ghazi Jalali said the government was ready to " extend its hand " to the opposition and hand over its functions to a transitional government . <p> " I am in my house and I have not left , and this is because of my belonging to this country , " Jalili said in a video statement . <p> White House National Security Council spokesman Sean Savett said President Biden and his team are closely monitoring the extraordinary events in Syria and staying in constant touch with regional partners . <h> Syria 's prime minister is ready to hand over the government to the opposition <p> DAMASCUS , Syria -- Syrian Prime Minister Mohammed Ghazi Jalali said in a video statement that the government is ready to " extend its hand " to the opposition and hand over its functions to a transitional government . <p> " I am in my house and I have not left , and this is because of my belonging to this country , " Jalili said . <p> He said he would go to his office to continue work in the morning and called on Syrian citizens not to deface public property . <p> He did not address reports that President Bashar Assad has left the country . <p> There was no immediate comment from the United Arab Emirates on Assad 's whereabouts . Assad 's family has extensive real estate holdings in Dubai . <p> BEIRUT - The military command of the Syrian opposition says its fighters have entered the capital Damascus claiming that it is " free " of President Bashar Assad 's rule . <p> The so-called Military Command Administration said Assad had fled without giving further details . <p> Assad 's departure marks the end of the 54-year of Assad family rule of Syria with an iron fist . His father Hafez Assad came to power in a bloodless coup in 1970 and ruled until his death in 2000 . Bashar Assad was elected weeks after his father 's death and ruled Syria until he was overthrown on Sunday . <p> The command declared the end of " the dark period and the beginning of a new era in Syria . " <p> State television in Iran , Assad 's main backer in the years of war in Syria , reported that " terrorists " had entered Damascus and that Assad had left the capital . It cited Qatar 's Al Jazeera news network for the information and did not elaborate . <h> Syrian opposition war monitor says President Bashar Assad has left the country <p> BEIRUT -- The head of a Syrian opposition war monitor says Syria 's President Bashar Assad has left the country for an undisclosed location . <p> Rami Abdurrahman tells The Associated Press that Assad took a flight from Damascus and left early Sunday . <p> Abdurrahman 's comments came after the protesters took over the Syrian capital . <p> An Associated Press journalist in Damascus reported seeing groups of armed residents along the road in the outskirts of the capital and hearing sounds of gunshots . The city 's main police headquarters appeared to be abandoned , its door left ajar with no officers outside . <p> Another AP journalist shot footage of an abandoned army checkpoint , uniforms discarded on the ground under a poster of Assad 's face . 
@@118652661 <h> Israel and Hamas exchange lists of names as cease-fire talks make strides : report <p> MISGAV-AM , Israel -- Israel and Hamas have reportedly exchanged a list of names as negotiations that would secure the release of some Israeli hostages continue -- with one Israeli senior official optimistic that a deal could happen " within a week or two . " <p> A Hamas delegation was in Cairo over the weekend and presented a list of sick and elderly hostages who would be released during the initial phases of a proposed two-month truce , sources familiar with the recent developments told the Qatari-owned news outlet al-Araby al-Jadeed . <p> Hamas additionally provided the names of four US hostages , who are not sick or elderly , who would be included in the deal . <p> " Conditions are ripe for a hostage deal . It could happen within a week or two , " one senior official told Israeli newspaper Ynet . <p> " The United States needs to put its foot down and say , ' This is not what we Trump meant . We do n't want a partial deal . You need to give back all the hostages now , otherwise all hell will break loose , ' " she told The Post in Israel Monday . <p> Nova festival site survivor Neria Sharabi , whose friend Yosef-Haim Ohana is still being held hostage by Hamas , agreed that this deal falls short of what is needed . <p> " The only deal that 's supposed to be made should only be with all of the hostages released . It can not be half and half , because there is no guarantee the others will be released , " he told The Post . <p> " You can not do a negotiation with the terror organization , because they can lie . They can not respect all the rules and all the agreements , and that 's it . We need to bring them all home , " he said , noting that his friend was not included in any of the previous hostage deals . <p> The promising talks -- which reportedly include the US , Egypt , Qatar and Turkey -- come after negotiations repeatedly failed to reach another agreement for more than a year since the last deal in November 2023 , when 105 hostages were released over a week-long truce . <p> The latest proposal , which was put forth by Egypt , would include a phased Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip over a two-month cease-fire , during which both sides would discuss a more permanent end to the 14-month conflict , according to the al-Araby al-Jadeed report . 
@@118652965 <h> Hundreds walk in Plainview to honor Omer Neutra , call for the release of Hamas hostages <p> The " Run for Their Lives " walk paid tribute to Omer Neutra , the 21-year-old Plainview native and soldier in the Israeli Defense Forces who was killed in the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack on Israel . Credit : Newsday/James Carbone <p> In his eighth-grade yearbook , Omer Neutra , the Plainview native who would eventually join the Israeli Defense Forces , wrote a poignant , and as it turned out , prescient note : " Leave no one behind . " Those words rang true Sunday for several hundred people who gathered in Plainview to walk and remember Neutra , and demand that hostages still held captive by Hamas be returned home . <p> Until last Monday , when the IDF announced on X that the 21-year-old Neutra had died in the attack Oct. 7 , 2023 , by Hamas militants across Israel 's southern border , his family believed he was being held hostage and hoped to see him again . <p> On Sunday morning outside Country Pointe Plainview , a condominium complex , supporters of Neutra and others still in captivity began a 1 ? -mile walk to the Mid-Island JCC as part of a global effort called " Run for Their Lives . " Every Sunday since the attacks , supporters of those captured have made the walk , calling for Hamas to release them . <p> Among the Plainview walkers Sunday was Rabbi Joel Levenson , of the Midway Jewish Center in Syosset , where Neutra became a bar mitzvah at 13 . The announcement that he had died in the Oct. 7 attack did n't end the trauma over losing him , Levenson said . <h> WHAT NEWSDAY FOUND <p> Supporters of the late Omer Neutra and hundreds believed held hostage by Hamas took part in a walk in Plainview to urge their release . <p> Neutra , a Plainview native and a soldier in the Israeli army , died in the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack on Israel . <p> Some at Sunday 's walk carried signs that read , " Bring them home . " Other participants draped Israeli flags on their backs . <p> " Omer 's body is being held captive in Gaza , " said Levenson , whose synagogue held a service for Neutra last Tuesday before more than 700 attendees . <p> Sign up for the Nassau news this week newsletter <p> The biggest news , politics and crime stories in Nassau County , in your inbox every Friday at noon . <p> Hayden Roth , Neutra 's childhood friend , stood at a podium Sunday at the JCC on Manetto Hill Road after the walk , looking out into a somber crowd . The boys met in eighth grade as part of United Synagogue Youth , a Jewish community organization . <p> After high school , Neutra and Roth planned to attend Binghamton University together once Neutra finished a gap year in Israel . But Neutra deeply connected to his new Israeli friends , Roth said . 
@@118653079 <h> Syria 's revolution could impact US gas prices . Here 's how . <p> People dance as they celebrate the overthrow of Syrian President al-Assad , in Damascus , Syria , Dec. 9 , 2024 . <p> Hasan Belal/EPA via Shutterstock <p> The price of oil climbed about 2% in early trading on Monday in the wake of the sudden collapse of the Assad regime in Syria . <p> Syria , which is not a major oil producer , has endured severe economic damage over the course of a nearly 15-year civil war . <p> The nation occupies a key strategic post in the oil rich Middle East , neighboring regional powers Israel and Turkey . The Assad regime had allied closely with Iran , one of the world 's key oil exporters . <p> The tumult in Syria poses little immediate threat to oil or gasoline prices in the U.S. , since Syria plays no meaningful role in global oil supply . Further unrest in the region , however , could disrupt oil output and send prices higher , according to experts . <p> " The immediate effect is an unexpected shock but it does n't really change oil prices , " Timothy Fitzgerald , a professor of business economics at the University of Tennessee who studies the petroleum industry , told ABC News . <p> The slight bump in oil prices on Monday owed to the lack of clarity about the transfer of power in Syria and the implications of what may follow it , Fitzgerald added , saying a potential wider conflict could further hike prices . <p> " There is some uncertainty about what 's going to arise in the place of the Assad regime , " Fitzgerald said . <p> Oil prices make up the primary input that determines the price of gasoline at the pump . A rise in oil prices can also increase costs for an array of consumer goods as a result of higher transport expenses . After rising on Monday , the price of a barrel of oil stands at about $68 , well below this year 's peak of $87 in April . <p> After civil war broke out in 2011 , the Syrian economy deteriorated . Between 2010 and 2019 , Syria 's gross domestic product shrank by as much as nearly 80% , a World Bank study found . Earlier this year , the World Bank estimated that about seven out of every 10 people in Syria lived in poverty . <p> Even before the civil war , Syria was not a major oil producer , but the industry made up an important part of the country 's economy . Once war broke out , production plummeted . Oil output fell from an average of 400,000 barrels a day before the war to 25,000 barrels a day in May 2015 , according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration a government agency . <p> " Syria is not a meaningful producer , " Gian Maria Milesi-Ferretti , a senior fellow in economic studies at the Brookings Institution 's Hutchins Center for Fiscal and Monetary Policy , told ABC News . <p> " Repercussions would have to come from the fallout elsewhere in the region -- but those at the moment are very unclear , " Milesi-Ferretti added . <p> Conflict in the Middle East has escalated since last year . <p> The ceasefire in Lebanon is holding despite ongoing Israeli airstrikes on Hezbollah targets , which Israeli officials say are responses to ceasefire violations by the Iranian-backed militant group . The Israel Defense Forces continues its intense airstrike and ground campaigns in Gaza . <p> Tensions also remain high between Israel and Iran after tit-for-tat long-range strikes in recent months and threats of further military action from both sides . <p> A man stops to fill up his car at a gas station on Rhode Island Avenue , Nov. 26 , 2024 , in Washington , D.C. <p> Andrew Harnik/Getty Images <p> Some experts who spoke to ABC News identified Iran as the most likely site of a potential oil price shock if further conflict emerges in the region . <p> Iran is the fourth-largest crude oil producer in OPEC , an alliance of oil-producing countries with significant influence over global oil prices , the EIA says . The country accounts for roughly 3% of global oil production , EIA data shows . <p> Iran also asserts control over the passage of tankers through the Strait of Hormuz , a trading route that facilitates the transport of about 15% of global oil supply . <p> " The Assad regime has been an important surrogate for Iran , " Fitzgerald said . " Iran has the ability to affect oil markets a lot more than Syria . Anything that affects their future trajectory of exports matters . " <p> A surge in U.S. production over recent years would help limit the impact of a possible supply disruption , though oil prices are set on a global market , where a major supply shock could not be entirely accounted for with U.S. oil output . <p> Omar Dahi , a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Middle East Center who studies Syria , echoed the view . <p> " At the international level , oil prices wo n't be affected by Syrian production , which is minimal . But it might be if there 's further regional escalation , for example against Iran , " Dahi said . <p> To be sure , some experts emphasized other factors that may affect oil prices , including lower interest rates in China that could boost demand , as well as a possible increase in U.S. production under President-elect Donald Trump . <p> The ultimate outcome of events in Syria remains uncertain , leaving the implications for U.S. oil and gas prices largely unknown . <p> " In the long run , it really depends on what develops , " Fitzgerald said . <p> ABC News ' David Brennan and Meredith Deliso contributed to this report . 
@@118654467 <h> Israel strikes flour distribution line , kills 50 across Gaza <p> Palestinians outside Al-Aqsa Hospital in central Gaza carry the covered bodies of the Hirzallah family members , killed in an Israeli air raid on their home Mohammed Saber/EPA <p> Published On 9 Dec 20249 Dec 2024 <p> Dozens of Palestinians -- including women and children -- have been killed in Israeli attacks in Gaza , health authorities say , as a power outage threatens the lives of more than 100 patients at a hospital in the besieged territory 's north . <p> Gaza 's Health Ministry said on Monday that 50 people were killed the previous day and 84 others were injured as Israeli forces committed three " massacres " in the territory . <p> " The victims were trying to leave their home in search of food in the vicinity of their neighbourhood when they were targeted by a drone , " said Al Jazeera 's Hani Mahmoud , reporting from central Deir el-Balah in Gaza . <p> " They were killed right away . Their bodies are still in the street and nobody has the ability to get to the bombed site and remove the bodies from the street . " <p> Overnight , an Israeli attack in the southern city of Rafah also killed 10 people while they had lined up to buy flour . <p> Mahmoud said because of the limited delivery of humanitarian aid going through the southern border , scenes of hunger similar to northern Gaza were also happening in the south . <p> In central Gaza , where our correspondent is reporting from outside Al-Aqsa Hospital , bodies were also piling up at the medical facility 's morgue following the latest Israeli bombing of a residential building in the Bureij refugee camp . <p> At least nine members of one family , most of them women and children , were killed in the attack , Mahmoud said . <p> " The agony keeps on unfolding here at Al-Aqsa Hospital , where survivors and relatives showed up early this morning to collect the bodies from the morgue of the hospital , " he said . <p> " At some point , the morgue of the hospital was packed with the bodies and there was not enough room for more bodies . " <h> ' Extremely dangerous ' <p> Meanwhile , in northern Gaza 's Kamal Adwan Hospital , the head of the facility , Hussam Abu Safia , said the lives of more than 100 patients were in danger after electricity , oxygen and water supplies were cut . <p> Abu Safia said recent Israeli shelling and bombing had severely damaged the hospital and cut the water and electricity supply to parts of it . <p> " The situation is extremely dangerous . We have patients in the intensive care unit and others awaiting surgeries . Access to the operating rooms is only possible after restoring electricity and oxygen supply , " he said . <p> Advertisement <p> Abu Safia added that the hospital currently had 112 wounded patients , including six in intensive care and 14 children . <p> Continued shelling near the hospital was " preventing us from conducting repairs " , he said . <p> Israel on Friday said it was operating around the facility but had not fired directly on the hospital in Beit Lahiya , which is near the besieged Jabalia refugee camp . <p> The hospital is one of the last operational medical facilities in the north of the territory . <p> On Friday , an Israeli attack killed four of its staff . <p> Israel 's offensive has killed at least 44,758 Palestinians in the Gaza Strip since the start of the war , according to local health authorities ; most of the victims are women and children . 
@@118654469 <p> The Yemeni group says it will continue its ' support operations ' until Israel ends its war and siege on the Gaza Strip . <p> No injuries are reported in the attack , according to the Israeli army Chen Kalifa Levi/Reuters <p> Published On 9 Dec 20249 Dec 2024 <p> Yemen 's Houthi group says it has carried out a drone attack in central Israel 's Tel Aviv area in " a specific military operation " in support of Palestinians in Gaza . <p> The Houthis said in a statement on Monday that their forces struck " a sensitive target of the Israeli enemy " . <p> An Israeli military statement said a drone hit a building in the city of Yavne after air defence systems failed to detect it and an investigation into the failure is under way . <p> The Houthis said the operation " achieved its objective " without providing details . <p> No injuries were reported in the attack , which caused damage to several apartments in the building , according to Israeli media reports . <p> The Houthis said the attack was in response to Israel 's " massacres " against Palestinians in the besieged Gaza Strip , where Israel has been waging a devastating assault for more than a year . <p> The Houthis -- who control large areas of Yemen , including the capital , Sanaa , and present themselves as the country 's official armed forces -- pledged to continue their attacks on Israel until the end of the war on Gaza . <p> Advertisement <p> " The Yemeni Armed Forces confirm that they will confront any Israeli aggression against our country with more specific military operations and that their support operations for the Palestinian people will not stop until the aggression stops and the siege on the Gaza Strip is lifted , " the group said in a statement . <p> The Houthis have been carrying out attacks on shipping lanes in and around the Red Sea in a campaign that they said aims to pressure Israel to end its assault on Gaza . The Iran-allied Yemeni group has also launched missiles and drones directly at Israel over the past year . <p> The United States is leading a military coalition that has been bombing Houthi targets in Yemen . Israel has also carried out air strikes against areas under the control of the group . But these efforts have failed to stop the Houthi attacks . <p> Monday 's drone strike suggests that the Houthis are continuing their attacks on Israel even after a ceasefire in Lebanon came into effect on November 27 , putting an end to another Gaza " support front " by Iran-allied Hezbollah . <p> The Houthis and Hezbollah are both part of the Tehran-led " Axis of Resistance " . <p> Hezbollah began launching strikes at Israel in October 2023 in a push that it said aimed to end the war on Gaza . <p> But under the terms of the truce that followed more than 62 days of intense Israeli bombardment of Lebanon , Hezbollah and Israel agreed to cease their attacks . <p> The deal also says Hezbollah must withdraw its forces to the north of the Litani River , about 30km ( 20 miles ) north of the Israeli border , and dismantle its military infrastructure in southern Lebanon . <p> Advertisement <p> In Gaza , Israel 's assault has killed more than 44,700 people , many of whom are women and children . The offensive has also wiped out large parts of the territory and displaced nearly its entire population . More than 100,000 people have been wounded , according to health authorities in the besieged enclave . <p> United Nations experts and rights groups , including Amnesty International , have accused Israel of committing genocide in Gaza . 
@@118656978 <h> Kamala Harris <p> Angela Weiss/AFP / Getty Images <p> The vice president and 2024 Democratic presidential nominee lost to President-elect Donald Trump after becoming the party 's nominee less than three months before the election . She clinched the nomination just weeks after President Joe Biden announced he would not be running for reelection in the wake of a disastrous debate performance against Trump . <h> Benjamin Netanyahu <p> Sean Gallup / Getty Images <p> The Israeli prime minister became a polarizing figure amid a multifront war in Gaza and Lebanon . Health officials in Gaza said that 44,000 Palestinians have been killed by Israeli forces in the wake of the Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack in which Israeli officials said some 1,200 people were killed and around 250 taken hostage by Hamas . Israel 's Cabinet approved a ceasefire with Hezbollah on Nov. 26 to end hostilities in Lebanon . The International Criminal Court issued an arrest warrant for Netanyahu in November for alleged war crimes -- charges that Netanyahu 's office called " antisemitic " and " absurd . " <h> Jerome Powell <p> Andrew Harnik / Getty Images <p> The chairman of the Federal Reserve has been under the spotlight all year while trying to navigate a " soft landing " from inflation by deciding on any interest rate cuts . He also has become a target for President-elect Donald Trump , who nominated Powell in 2017 during his first administration . Powell said in November that he would not resign if asked by Trump , asserting that he would not be legally required to leave until his term ends in 2026 . He also has weighed in with comments about cryptocurrency amid the meteoric rise of bitcoin . <h> Joe Rogan <p> James Gilbert / Getty Images <p> The most popular podcaster in America also became a prominent figure in the presidential race when he interviewed President-elect Donald Trump in October during Trump 's campaign . Tens of millions of people listened to the interview , showing the rising power of podcasts and the reach of nontraditional media . Democratic nominee Kamala Harris was invited onto the podcast but did not appear , which also became a campaign story . <h> Claudia Sheinbaum <p> Manuel Velasquez / Getty Images <p> Sheinbaum made history as Mexico 's first female president and first of Jewish heritage when she took office in October . The former mayor of Mexico City most recently sparred with President-elect Donald Trump , who has threatened to impose a 25% tariff on all goods imported from Mexico until Mexico stops the flow of fentanyl and crime over the U.S. border . Sheinbaum responded to Trump in December by saying Mexico 's people " are being killed by the crime that is responding to the demand in your country . " <h> Donald Trump <p> Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images <p> Trump will become the first U.S. president since Grover Cleveland in the late 1800s to return to office after losing a previous presidential race , completing a stunning political comeback from the end of his first term in 2020 . He defeated Kamala Harris 312-226 in the Electoral College and won the popular vote as Republicans took control of the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives . Most recently , his controversial nominees for Cabinet positions in his second administration have come under scrutiny . <p> Scott Stump is a trending reporter and the writer of the daily newsletter This is TODAY ( which you should subscribe to here ! ) that brings the day 's news , health tips , parenting stories , recipes and a daily delight right to your inbox . He has been a regular contributor for TODAY.com since 2011 , producing features and news for pop culture , parents , politics , health , style , food and pretty much everything else . 
@@118696762 <p> Sign up for the Slatest to get the most insightful analysis , criticism , and advice out there , delivered to your inbox daily . <p> Pope Francis has had quite a notable month . Last week , the Vatican announced that Mercedes-Benz had given him a fully electric Popemobile , as part of the Vatican 's goal to make all of its vehicles zero emissions by 2030 . And on Saturday , Francis unveiled two Nativity scenes for the holidays : one , in St. Peter 's Square , imagined with Italian fisherman 's huts ; and another , in a Vatican audience hall , depicting the Christ child in a cradle made from a kaffiyeh . <p> " Enough with wars , enough of violence , " the pope said during the unveiling , which was attended by Palestinian ambassadors to the Vatican . The scene had been crafted by two artists from Bethlehem , the birthplace of Jesus Christ , which is today a Muslim-majority city in the Israeli-occupied West Bank . <p> Francis has n't been silent about Israel 's war in Gaza ; in November , he called for an investigation into whether Israel was committing genocide . But the display of the kaffiyeh , a symbol of Palestinian national identity , was perhaps the clearest message he has yet sent about his sympathies for the Palestinian people . <p> The pope is about to turn 88 , and it seems he may -- as he ponders his legacy -- be caring a bit less about what his critics think . For progressive Catholics , the week in Vatican news was promising . <p> But the most promising piece of news for these Catholics was neither the Popemobile nor the kaffiyeh , nor even his plea for the U.S. to stop executing prisoners , but a recent hiring spree . <p> In a ceremony on Saturday , Francis formally welcomed 21 new cardinals into the church 's top leadership rank . It was the 10th time in 12 years that he has elevated another crop of cardinals , which means he has named 110 of the 140 men currently eligible to vote for the next pope . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> In doing so , he has all but guaranteed that his successor will not be a conservative Italian looking to restore the church 's medieval character ; the cardinals who will vote at the next conclave come from all over the world and have very different approaches to engaging with modern society . A couple of the new cardinals have even refused the cardinals ' signature red vestments -- choosing , in Francis ' model , to wear modest clothes as a symbol of humility . <p> Advertisement <p> Popes tend to appoint cardinals they see as allies ; it 's not unusual to staff the College of Cardinals with ideologically aligned clerics . But Francis , who is from Argentina , has done it at such a rate that it seems he 's determined to remake the church into a less European institution . According to the National Catholic Reporter , Francis has elevated cardinals from almost 30 countries that had never before been represented in the college . <p> A new Brazilian cardinal told reporters on Saturday that the cardinals must advance " a church that is closer to the people , a church that is simpler , a poorer church . " A couple of days before that , the recently elevated Ukrainian Greek Catholic cardinal living in Australia promised to advocate for Ukraine and stressed that Russia " should be punished . " A new British cardinal is famous for challenging the church to embrace LGBTQ+ acceptance and more rights for women in the church ; he told reporters that " all the church offers is love . " <p> There have been plenty of moments when progressive Catholics have been disappointed by Francis ' leadership , including when he was defensive about a Chilean bishop accused of sexual abuse . Or when his much-hyped and multiyear Synod of Bishops ( basically , a large leadership meeting ) concluded without any radical changes on the matter of female leadership or LGBTQ+ Catholics ' rights . Or when the Vatican declared that " sex changes " and " gender theory " were threats to society . Or when Francis -- while cautioning against admitting gay men into the priesthood -- allegedly used a homophobic slur , twice . ( Francis ' defenders have argued that because he was not speaking in his native language , he had made a genuine mistake . " The Pope never intended to offend or express himself in homophobic terms , " the Vatican said , in a rare apology . Critics noted that the original argument was itself still homophobic . ) <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> But Francis ' controversies have more often stemmed from his efforts to shake up the centuries-old institution . In 2013 he famously asked " Who am I to judge ? " regarding a gay priest . Last year , he allowed priests to bless people in same-sex relationships . He has said transgender people can be godparents and witnesses at church weddings ; he has washed the feet of Muslim and Christian prisoners . He is so widely reviled by radical traditionalist Catholics that some conservative Catholic groups have launched a multiday event to pray for the pope 's " conversion . " <p> If Francis fails to live up to his own ambitions for his papacy , he may hope that his successor , picked by his allies , can be even bolder . On Saturday , Francis elevated the first cardinal of Palestinian origin . The cardinal , who is based in Chile , has promised to push for peace in Gaza . 
@@118697460 <h> Netanyahu finally takes the stand in his corruption trial <p> TEL AVIV -- Outside the courthouse , he is one of the most powerful men in the Middle East , overseeing Israel 's military campaign in the Gaza Strip , its occupation of southern Lebanon , and recent strikes in Syria . <p> As he stepped into a cramped and sweltering underground courtroom in Tel Aviv on Tuesday morning , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel became the defendant in Case 67104-01-20 -- charged with bribery , fraud , and breach of trust . <p> Eight years after the police started investigating him and four years after his trial began , Israel 's longest-serving prime minister was taking the stand for the first time to respond to accusations of corruption that have defined and disrupted Israeli public life for nearly a decade . <p> " Like everyone who is brought to the witness stand , you are charged with speaking the truth , the whole truth , and nothing but the truth , " said Rivka Friedman-Feldman , one of three judges hearing the case . <p> An audience of roughly 100 journalists , lawmakers , government ministers , and lawyers craned their necks to catch his response . <p> Advertisement <p> " I have waited eight years for this moment -- to tell the truth , the truth as I remember it , " replied Netanyahu , gripping the sides of a wooden lectern as he stood to the left of the judges . <p> It was a humbling moment -- a sitting prime minister , forced to answer accusations of graft , before a courtroom filled with his peers . It was also a moment Netanyahu seemed determined to transcend . <p> " I am shocked by the magnitude of this absurdity , " Netanyahu said . <p> " I am the prime minister , I am running a country , I am running a war , " he said . " I am not occupying myself with my future , but rather with that of the state of Israel . " <p> For nearly a decade , the corruption charges against Netanyahu have divided Israel , leading to years of political turmoil . The electorate has been roughly evenly split on the question of whether Netanyahu should remain in office while he stands trial -- a dynamic that has created an electoral stalemate , leading to five elections in less than four years . <p> Apart from a brief court appearance to plead not guilty in 2021 , Netanyahu 's day-to-day schedule had rarely been affected by the trial proceedings . <p> Advertisement <p> Prosecutors and defense lawyers spent years interviewing witnesses instead of the defendant himself . The hearing Tuesday -- 1,661 days since the trial began -- was Netanyahu 's first full day in court . <p> Netanyahu is charged with bribery , fraud , and breach of trust in three separate but related cases . The charges center on claims that he gave regulatory favors and diplomatic support to prominent businesspeople in exchange for gifts , including cigars and Champagne , and sympathetic media coverage . <p> The trial is expected to continue for years , and Netanyahu will likely take the stand several times a week for several months . <p> To Netanyahu 's critics , the trial is a litmus test for democracy : a chance to see whether a sitting prime minister , who has refused to resign , can be held to account for crimes he is accused of committing in office . <p> To his supporters , it constitutes an attack on democracy : an attempt by the country 's liberal establishment to oust Netanyahu on spurious legal grounds after failing to do so at the ballot box . <p> " Persecution , " said Itamar Ben-Gvir , one of several government ministers who attended the hearing in solidarity with their leader . <p> Netanyahu had sought to delay his testimony by several months , arguing that his management of the war campaign had disrupted his preparations . But the court agreed to a postponement of only a few days . <p> Still , in recognition of the threat Netanyahu faces as a wartime prime minister , the judges agreed to hold the hearing in a more secure , underground courtroom in Tel Aviv instead of the East Jerusalem courthouse where the trial usually takes place . <p> Advertisement <p> For most of the day , Netanyahu was interviewed by his lawyer , Amit Hadad ; the prosecution will cross-examine Netanyahu in the coming weeks . <p> Haddad 's opening questions allowed Netanyahu to describe how , as a busy prime minister , he has little time to devote to corrupt activity -- or to the trial . <p> " Sometimes I even indulge in a cigar , although I ca n't even finish it all at once , because I 'm having so many meetings and briefings , " Netanyahu said . <p> As if to illustrate his point , the prime minister 's aides approached the stand several times to pass him notes , apparently about matters of state . At one point during the morning session , the trial was briefly paused to allow Netanyahu to deal with what he said was an urgent matter . <p> " There needs to be a balance between the necessities of the trial -- which I appreciate -- and the necessities of the country , " the prime minister said of the notes . <p> Still , neither Netanyahu nor his lawyer were in a rush to discuss the substantive parts of the prosecution 's case . <p> For more than an hour , Haddad asked open-ended questions about Netanyahu 's life and opinions , allowing the prime minister to expand at length about his political achievements . At times , Netanyahu 's words felt more like a political speech aimed at his right-wing base than the responses of a defendant in a courtroom . <p> As the afternoon wore on , Netanyahu began to speak to some of the specific corruption charges against him . In one case , prosecutors say he authorized regulatory benefits for an Israeli telecoms magnate , Shaul Elovitch , in exchange for favorable coverage on Elovitch 's popular news site , Walla . Elovitch is also on trial and has denied wrongdoing . <p> Advertisement <p> Netanyahu dismissed Walla as a " negligible news site , " rebuffing accusations that he would seek to shape its content . " It 's a site of dogs and cats , " he said . <p> He also disputed the idea that he had signed off on regulatory changes specifically to favor Elovitch , saying that he simply signed documents that civil servants had presented him . <p> " Many times you do n't even know what you 're signing , " Netanyahu said . " It comes from the bureaucracy , so you sign . " <p> The court 's granular and domestic focus stood in stark contrast to the grander accusations leveled at Netanyahu by the International Criminal Court in The Hague . The court has issued an arrest warrant for Netanyahu , accusing him of war crimes during the ongoing war in Gaza . <p> At the courthouse Tuesday , the main reminder of Gaza came from a group of left-wing demonstrators who stood outside the courthouse calling for a cease-fire. 
@@118697762 <p> Sonnenfeld is the Lester Crown Professor of Leadership Practice and President of the Yale Chief Executive Leadership Institute . He has been an informal advisor to five U.S. Presidents and assisted Jared Kushner in the 2019 Peace through Prosperity conference in Bahrain , which outlined the Abraham Accords and a global investment fund to lift the Palestinian and neighboring Arab state economies , and fund a $5 billion transportation corridor to connect the West Bank and Gaza . <p> Herbst is a former U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine and Uzbekistan and Senior Director of the Atlantic Council 's Eurasia Center . He served for 31 years as a foreign service officer in the U.S. State Department . He worked to enhance U.S.-Ukrainian relations and helped ensure the conduct of a fair Ukrainian presidential election and prevent violence during the Ukrainian revolution . <p> Hormats , former U.S. Undersecretary of State , has been a senior official in the administration of five American presidents across political parties . He also served as Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs International and Vice Chair of Kissinger Associates , and is now managing director at Tiedemann Advisors . He was a top-level envoy with Henry Kissinger during the shuttle diplomacy in the Mideast with frequent negotiations with Syria 's Assad regime . <p> Henriques is a senior research fellow at the Yale Chief Executive Leadership Institute and a former consultant to McKinsey &amp; Co with expertise in the Aerospace &amp; Defense industry . <p> Vladmir Putin is running out of time with his crumbling economy and overstretched , faltering army trying to advance his ill-advised invasion of Ukraine , while attempting to suppress pro-democracy activists in several nations around his intended sphere of influence . Now , almost three years into his big invasion of Ukraine that was supposed to be won in three days , he has been counting on the return of Donald Trump to the White House to undermine allied support for Ukraine . It need not happen that way . <p> The next 50 days provide a historic opportunity for the assertion of national independence from Putin 's control in several Eastern European lands . In 1946 , the revered U.S. diplomat George Kennan prophetically warned of a " Domino Theory " of nations around Russian falling into a larger Soviet Union . Now , we may be on the brink of seeing a reverse domino effect , as we did in the 1990s when nations broke away from Russia . <p> As the Syrian rebel force , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , swept through Aleppo and then Damascus in a matter of hours , toppling the 60-year reign of the Al-Assad family dynasty , cheers and chants are echoing throughout the streets of the capital celebrating the downfall of an authoritarian regime long-supported by Russia and Iran . Both countries have used Syria as a strategic regional outpost in service of their commercial and military interests . <p> However , the vast resources Russia and Iran once held have either been destroyed and committed to other failing conquests . In fact , it is the collapse of support from Russia , Iran , and Hezbollah that contributed to the surprise sweep of Syria as the demoralized military under President Bashar Al-Assad 's strict control reportedly did nothing to resist rebel forces . What happens in Syria next is unclear , but the U.S. should certainly be working with Turkey to stabilize the situation while closely coordinating with all parties in the anti-Assad coalition . <p> Some 700 miles to the north , the shouts of protesters and pops from their fireworks can be heard in the streets of Tbilisi , Georgia , where demonstrators continue their weeks-long call for an end to the pro-Russian ruling party in parliament and entry into the European Union . The exiled opposition leader from Belarus , Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya , has called on her comrades to ignore the farcical presidential " elections " in January -- in peaceful protest -- that will hand the Russian-backed President Alexander Lukashenko a seventh term . <p> The house of cards that Vladimir Putin has so carefully stacked over more than two decades is folding before our eyes . Not only are his satellite states rejecting Kremlin influence , but the Russian economy is crumbling , lurching towards severe stagflation . <p> Moreover , defense spending has reached 8% of GDP , a post-Cold-War high , exacerbating Russia 's fiscal health . The National Wealth Fund , used as a " rainy day fund " to supplement heightened wartime expenses , will be depleted by early 2025 . What happens once the reserves are spent remains a question , as current federal " borrowing does n't provide the funds needed to cover budget deficit , " according to a report by Vladimir Milo of the Free Russia Foundation . <p> The desperate situation has forced Elvira Nabiullina , governor of the Russian central bank , to hike interest rates up to an astounding 21% , with trader estimates expecting a rate of 25% by the year 's end . Such economic tumult has produced an unusual internal power struggle in Moscow over the direction of monetary policy . Russian oligarchs have begun to express their dissatisfaction with Nabiullina 's monetary tightening campaign . Most notably , in a rare public speech , Sergei Chemezov , CEO of Rostec and a close ally of Putin , complained to parliament , " All profits are eaten up by the interest that we have to pay ... If we continue to work like this , most companies will go bankrupt . " <p> The combination of these domestic economic pressures and the international challenges in Syria , Georgia , and Belarus are reminiscent of another era all too familiar to those in the Kremlin . It was , after all , economic stagnation and military overextension that spurred the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 . The slow decline of USSR leader Mikhail Gorbachev began in a similar manner to today , with satellite states revolting against Russian Communist rule . Lech Walesa led Poland on a path to oust their Communist president , General Wojciech Jaruzelski , and install a democratic system of government . Soon after , Hungary , East Germany , Romania , and other states declared their independence . <p> An unraveling of George Kennan 's Domino Theory -- which rightly feared one country would fall after another into Communism in the aftermath of World War II -- in the famed " LongTelegram " took effect . But it was the failure of Gorbachev 's perestroika , or economic restructuring , that led to his ultimate demise . We are , again , seeing the reverse domino effect with nations again breaking away from Russia rather than falling towards it as feared in the 1950s . <p> Now , as Putin 's modestly rebuilt union of misfits could very well face its demise , President-elect Trump and his team would be wise to remember these lessons from history . Representative Mike Waltz , Trump 's nominee for national security adviser , has outlined the incoming administration 's sentiment recently stating , " The question through this presidential transition and into Trump 's second term is , how do we drive the Russia-Ukraine deal ? " <p> An end to Moscow 's aggression in Ukraine will only come via negotiations . When those negotiations begin and under what pretenses will shape the outcome . The path chosen will be the most important factor in determining not only Putin 's and Ukraine 's future but also the state of U.S. global leadership . <p> A sober approach starts by recognizing Putin 's aim remains full political control of Ukraine . Putin believes he can win this war by outwaiting the west . That strategy worked for him in 2008 with Georgia and in 2014 with his seizure of Crimea , and he is now encouraged to see growing impatience among western countries towards the cost of aid to Ukraine . <p> To have any chance of bringing Putin to the negotiating table , the U.S. and its allies must strengthen Ukraine 's position on the battlefield . If the new Trump Administration cuts aid to Ukraine , it must find other ways to keep U.S. weapons flowing . Finally convincing G7 partners that Ukraine can legally use the nearly $300 billion in frozen Russian state assets for defense and economic purposes is one option . Another option would see the U.S. provide Ukraine a loan secured by their vast deposits of rare earth and other valuable minerals . <p> Trump recognizes the logic of peace through strength . He should dismiss the timid policy of the outgoing administration and send more advanced weaponry to Ukraine , such as the Tomahawks that a then-President Trump used effectively against Syria . If Kyiv not only stops all Russian gains but also begins taking back territory , Putin would finally have an incentive to consider a real peace agreement , and not a temporary ceasefire . <p> An economic element also exists in pushing Putin to the negotiating table . Top of mind for the President-elect is to greatly increase U.S. production , and export , of oil and natural gas . The surge in supply would push the prices of Russia 's hydrocarbon exports -- the chief source of funding Kremlin aggression -- further down . Additionally , stronger enforcement of existing sanctions and the introduction of tariffs on Russian goods , in addition to the goods of its backers -- weakening Putin 's grip on power and the Russian economy . <p> An alternative approach would be the simple wind down of U.S. engagement . This na ? ve notion , backed by some supporters of the incoming administration , would reduce U.S. involvement in the war to a minimum , forcing Europe to provide all remaining support , a near impossible feat . Sanctions would remain for symbolism but be more leniently enforced . Any new assistance to Ukraine would be inconsequential . As a result , Putin would be emboldened to press for more gains on the battlefield -- with a high likelihood of success . However , the ramifications would be even broader . U.S. retreat would implicitly greenlight future aggression by Putin or other bad actors , such as Iran or North Korea . It is a defeatist policy . <p> Only a policy of peace through strength , recognizing that Putin considers the U.S. his principal adversary , will provide the U.S. and its allies the greatest leverage and minimize the chance of adverse outcomes , especially the use of nuclear weapons . While each choice brings with it considerable consequences -- namely financial burdens , inventory drawdowns on critical weapons and munitions , escalation on and off the battlefield , and shifts in geopolitical power and influence -- the current situations in Russia can not be ignored . Ukraine may be strained , but Russia is edging the precipice of disaster . <p> Russia is at a classic " tipping point " in its long , admirable history , as Putin desperately hangs on in hope that Trump will wind down U.S. engagement and permit Russia to seize Ukraine in stages . Putin 's fate may very well be in the hands of Trump but so too are critical American interests as well as those of its allies and Ukraine . Putin 's hopes for Trump may well be disappointed . The president-elect has said Ukraine 's survival is important to the U.S. He , therefore , does not want to broker a peace deal that only imposes conditions on the victim and allows the aggressor to come back for the rest of Ukraine . Brokering an enduring peace is the road to a Nobel Prize . A weak ceasefire that enables Putin to take all of Ukraine would be a notably greater U.S. national security defeat , even greater than the disaster of Biden 's Afghanistan withdrawal . <p> A U.S. exit imposing an appeasement plan would be the equivalent to Neville Chamberlain handing Hitler the Sudetenland -- which , of course , only fueled that tyrant 's territorial ambitions . The good news for Ukraine is that Trump likes to negotiate a favorable deal , and Russia is growing weaker by the day . <p> In just a few days last week , the loose coalition of resistance fighters ended a cruel tyrannical dynastic rein in Syria as Russia and Iran were too distracted to bring air cover to their ally , the despotic President al-Assad . If Syrians could seize this moment , perhaps so too can Eastern Europeans as they themselves did in rapid succession during the 1990s. 
@@118698162 <p> In a shocking development last week , Amnesty International effectively exonerated Israel of genocide . <p> This was easy to miss , and not just because of the recent crush of news . Amnesty 's report , titled " ' You Feel Like You Are Subhuman ' : Israel 's Genocide Against Palestinians in Gaza , " buried the lede , as journalists say . And most of the media coverage reflected that . <p> The New York Times ' headline read : " Amnesty International Accuses Israel of Genocide in Gaza . " The Los Angeles Times ' was similar : " Amnesty International says Israel is committing genocide in Gaza . " <p> As public opinion of Donald Trump , climate change and more show , the press is not as important as journalists and their detractors claim , especially now . <p> Dec. 3 , 2024 <p> Before I get to Amnesty 's overlooked acquittal of Israel , it 's worth noting that calling its report unfair would be a profound understatement . Here 's the first sentence : " On 7 October 2023 , Israel embarked on a military offensive on the occupied Gaza Strip ... of unprecedented magnitude , scale and duration . " <p> In other words , the story of the Israel-Hamas war , as far as the storied human rights group is concerned , begins not with Hamas ' unprecedented terrorist attack on civilians that day , which included killings , rapes , kidnappings and other forms of staggering , premeditated barbarity . Rather , it begins with the Israeli response to the aggression of Hamas , an organization that was literally founded on the principle of genocidal eradication of Israel . <p> This is a bit like beginning a report on America 's " genocide " in Japan by stating , " On April 18 , 1942 , the United States embarked on a military offensive on the Japanese nation of unprecedented magnitude ... " -- leaving out , until some 50 pages later , that whole Pearl Harbor thing . <p> In theory , Trump could solidify and build on his winning coalition , but that would require disappointing the people insisting he has a mandate to do whatever he wants . <p> Nov. 12 , 2024 <p> None of this is to say that the Israel-Hamas war has n't been horrific . Nor is it to say that Israel deserves no criticism for its conduct of the war -- even if I think most of the criticisms are exaggerated , often for ideological reasons . <p> But the Genocide Convention of 1948 is very clear about what constitutes actual or attempted genocide : " acts committed with intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group . " <p> The idea that Israel is dedicated to genocide of the Palestinians has been routinely bandied about for decades at the United Nations and by anti-Israel governments and organizations . But the Palestinian population has grown more than eightfold since Israel 's founding , according to the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics , and the population of the Gaza Strip has increased 600% since 1960 . <p> Advertisement <p> One of the most important words in the U.N . ' s definition of genocide is " intent . " And if Israel , which even its enemies characterize as supremely competent and lethal , intends genocide , it 's really , really , bad at it . Indeed , if genocide were the goal , you would think Israel would stop warning civilians to evacuate areas it 's about to attack and sending Palestinians caravans of aid . <p> Which brings us back to Amnesty International 's exoneration . On page 101 of its 296-page report , the authors acknowledge that the question of intent is a huge problem for those who accuse Israel of genocide . But they go on to reject " an overly cramped interpretation of international jurisprudence ... that would effectively preclude a finding of genocide in the context of an armed conflict . " <p> If Israel were actually trying to eliminate the Palestinians as a people , I think it would be obvious and easy for Amnesty and others to prove . But the point is that the report essentially concedes that Israel is n't committing genocide under prevailing interpretations of international law . <p> Imagine if a prosecutor noted during a murder trial that under the existing statutes and case law , the defendant was not guilty . That might be considered an important concession . <p> As Commentary 's Seth Mandel writes , " So Amnesty International dissents from international law . That 's fine . Just be up-front about it : Amnesty is not accusing Israel of ' genocide , ' it is accusing Israel of a different crime which Amnesty has named ' genocide , ' just so it could use that word . " <p> It would be one thing if Amnesty issued a report calling for a more capacious definition of genocide under international law . I 'd be open to such a recommendation . The existing definition still has the taint of the Soviet Union 's meddling to ensure it did n't cover its crimes in Ukraine . A better , fairer definition of genocide would n't be bad news for Israel , but it would for Russia and China . <p> Advertisement <p> Amnesty did n't want a discussion about the proper definition of genocide , though . It wanted headlines alleging that Israel committed the crime -- and it got them . <p> Jonah Goldberg is editor in chief of the Dispatch and has been a Los Angeles Times Opinion columnist since 2005 . He holds the Asness Chair in Applied Liberty at the American Enterprise Institute . He was previously senior editor at National Review and lives in Washington , D.C. 
@@118699460 <p> For more than half a century , Syria had been ruled with an iron fist by the Assad regime . It all came to an end this weekend with lightning speed , as rebels took control of the capital city of Damascus , and with it , the country . What lies ahead now for Syria and the Middle East is an open question . Hassan Hassan , founder and editor in chief of New Lines magazine , joins John Yang to discuss . <h> Read the Full Transcript <p> Notice : Transcripts are machine and human generated and lightly edited for accuracy . They may contain errors . <p> John Yang : <p> Good evening , I 'm John Yang . For more than a half century , Syria had been ruled with an iron fist by the Assad regime . First Hafez Al Assad , then his son Bashar . It all came to an end this weekend with stunning lightning speed as rebels moved into the Syrian capital of Damascus , took the city , and with it , the country . <p> Across Syria today , gunfire , chanting in cheers in celebration of the end of an era . The rebels faced no opposition as they advanced overnight , Russian state media said President Bashar al-Assad fled to Moscow where he was granted asylum . <p> At a mosque in the capital city , the leader of the largest insurgent group addressed his fighters . <p> Abu Mohammed Al-Golani , Syrian Rebel Commander : <p> This victory , my brothers , is for the Islamic nation . This victory is a new history for the region . <p> Across the country , symbols of the Assad family 's repressive 53 years in power came toppling down . In 1974 , President Nixon became the first U.S. president to visit Syria , meeting with Hafez al-Assad , who had seized power in a coup . Hafez and son Bashar ruled Syria by relying heavily on security forces to crush dissent . And they forged alliances with Russia and Iran . <p> A civil war ignited in 2011 killed hundreds of thousands and forced millions of Syrians to flee their homeland . Today , the Syrian diaspora celebrated in Erbil , Iraq , in Istanbul , in Paris . <p> Hariri Lama : <p> A renewal , we are starting on new foundations without all the tyranny . <p> John Yang : <p> And in Berlin . <p> Man : <p> This day to day last night has the same meaning as the fall of the Berlin Wall . This is freedom . <p> John Yang : <p> The speed of Assad 's collapse surprised many around the world . At the White House today , President Biden spoke of the days ahead . <p> Joe Biden , U.S. President : <p> The fall of the regime is a fundamental act of justice . It 's a moment of historic opportunity for the long suffering people of Syria to build a better future for the proud country . It 's also a moment of risk and uncertainty . <p> John Yang : <p> The rebel supporters wasted no time in unfurling the opposition flag at Syrian embassies around the world . <p> John Yang : <p> Even as these events unfolded , U.S. Central Command said it carried out airstrikes against known ISIS camps in Syria , hitting more than 75 targets . What lies ahead for Syria and the Middle East is an open question . <p> Hassan Hassan is the founder and editor-in-chief of New Lines magazine . So , a regime that controlled Syria for more than half a century has been erased in what feels like a week and a half . How big a deal is this ? What 's the significance of this ? <p> Hassan Hassan , Founder and Editor-in-Chief of New Lines Magazine : It 's a big deal , not just for Syria , for the entire region . The regime has been slow kind of disintegration over the past decade or so . It needed to be saved twice . First by Iran in 2013 , when the regime looked like it was losing very fast major parts of the country . And then later in 2015 by Russia , when also the regime started to feel under so much pressure by the rebels , you know , Iran failing to save it the second time . <p> John Yang : <p> What do we know about the main insurgent group , Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham , which the State Department classifies as a terrorist group , and the leader of that group , Abu Mohammed al-Golani ? <p> Hassan Hassan : <p> We know quite a bit of it . It 's been a prominent part of the Syrian rebel groups over the past . Like I said , over the course of the conflict they started . They evolved over time , I think like at least three , four times over the course of the conflict . First started as part of ISIS in Iraq to just keep it simple , and then left ISIS and then joined al-Qaeda and then still left al-Qaeda and clashed with both , and then evolved from a kind of a jihadist dominated force into still a jihadist organization , but away from global jihad into kind of a Syria focused organization . It 's been evolving since . <p> John Yang : <p> Is there any hint or sense of what government or what 's going to be next for Syria or is there a power vacuum that could cause problems ? <p> Hassan Hassan : <p> So a lot of people kind of think , is this another Iraq chaos and then civil wars and so on and so forth kind of a long saga of kind of just violence . Or Libya and other places also face the same thing . <p> I think to me , Syria start not from stage one of the Iraq War , but advanced stages when , you know , after civil wars , after exhaustion , people start to kind of try to work together and try to find something . Remember the Syrian rebels who just taken over Syria have anywhere from five to 10 years of governing in Syria , and they 've gone through all the civil wars , fighting each other and fighting until they succeeded in the past few years to unify their ranks , become more organized , become better at governing and working together through coalitions , getting training as well . <p> They 've been preparing for this moment for many years as the Assad regime has been weakening , especially over the past week -- past year , when the Assad regime , other Iranian allies in the region have been entered this relentless campaign by Israel . Hezbollah in Lebanon . Hezbollah has been key ally of the Assad regime . Without Hezbollah , without Iran , the Assad regime can not contain and continue sustain , unsustain fighting in Syria . <p> That 's why when Hezbollah has been weakened , when Iranian -- the Iranians have become -- it 's become harder for them to freely operate in Syria . That 's when the Assad regime has become so exposed to such an attack . Then obviously , do n't forget that Russia has been also entangled in the Ukrainian war . So Assad is left without allies and the rebels are filling the gap . <p> John Yang : <p> You mentioned that this is a big deal not just for Syria , but for the region . Talk about that . What has this done to the balance of power in the region ? <p> Hassan Hassan : <p> I think the best way to think about it is Syria is a piece in the puzzle , in the Iranian in the region , but also as part of the Iranian axis . And like I said , Israel , the fall of Assad has to be seen in the context of Hezbollah just being finished essentially in Lebanon , or weakened significantly , severely reduced to kind of a small , you know , faction as opposed to the previous power that the jewel of Iranian access in the region . <p> So it 's a kind of two in a row . Hezbollah has been weakened by Israel . A day , in fact , after Hezbollah had to sign what looked like it 's a kind of a surrender deal with Israel , the Syrian rebels launched this operation . So now you have two of the most important allies of Iran in the region essentially either weakened or gone . <p> And Iran is left with almost no influence or very little influence in the Levant , Gaza . Hamas has been weakened . Hezbollah in Lebanon has been weakened , and Assad is out of the picture . So now Iran is left with Iraq , influence in Iraq . And there are -- there 's chatter that Iraq is going to be next in terms of pressure by Iranian like Israel and others who will take on Iran -- in Iraq and obviously Yemen with the Houthis . <h> Go Deeper <p> John Yang is the anchor of PBS News Weekend and a correspondent for the PBS News Hour . He covered the first year of the Trump administration and is currently reporting on major national issues from Washington , DC , and across the country . <p> Lorna Baldwin is an Emmy and Peabody award winning producer at the PBS NewsHour . In her two decades at the NewsHour , Baldwin has crisscrossed the US reporting on issues ranging from the water crisis in Flint , Michigan to tsunami preparedness in the Pacific Northwest to the politics of poverty on the campaign trail in North Carolina . Farther afield , Baldwin reported on the problem of sea turtle nest poaching in Costa Rica , the distinctive architecture of Rotterdam , the Netherlands and world renowned landscape artist , Piet Oudolf. 
@@118705562 <p> * Pentagon pick clarifies remarks : Hegseth said he would support women serving in the military in response to previous comments he made in which he said women service members should not serve in combat roles . Meanwhile , GOP Sen. Joni Ernst , a key potential swing vote and member of the Senate Armed Services Committee , said she would " support Pete through this process . " <p> * Trump 's legal woes : The New York attorney general and the Manhattan district attorney both said Tuesday they will not dismiss their historic cases against Trump now that he 's been reelected president . Trump 's lawyers are arguing the civil and criminal verdicts should both be dropped . <p> " Andrew has a proven record of standing up to Big Tech censorship , and protecting Freedom of Speech in our Great Country , " Trump wrote in a post on Truth Social on Tuesday . <p> Ferguson currently serves as a commissioner of the FTC , and according to his biography , he once clerked for Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas . <p> Trump also said he is selecting Mark Meador to be a FTC commissioner . <p> " Mark has also worked as an antitrust enforcer at both the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice Antitrust Division , and in private practice at Paul , Weiss , Rifkind , Wharton &amp; Garrison LLP , " Trump said in another post . <p> Trump 's reelection has raised questions about how his administration will handle ongoing antitrust cases against tech giants , including Apple and Amazon . Google also awaits a decision on whether a federal judge will accept the US government 's recommendation that it should be forced to sell off Chrome after its search business was ruled a monopoly . <p> The new administration could also toss out any current FTC investigations . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Trump chooses longtime ally Tom Barrack as his pick for ambassador to Turkey <p> From CNN 's Brian Rokus <p> President-elect Donald Trump has chosen longtime ally Tom Barrack as his pick to be the US ambassador to Turkey . <p> " For three decades , Tom successfully managed a global private equity firm . He is a well respected and experienced voice of reason to a wide range of thought leaders in both political and business circles , " Trump said in a Truth Social post Tuesday . <p> In 2022 , Barrack and an associate were acquitted of foreign lobbying charges . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Trump chooses Kimberly Guilfoyle as his pick for Greece ambassador <p> From CNN 's Brian Rokus and Kristen Holmes <p> Kimberly Guilfoyle appears on stage at the Republican National Convention in Milwaukee , Wisconsin , on July 17 . <p> Andrew Harnik/Getty Images <p> President-elect Donald Trump has named Kimberly Guilfoyle as his pick to be the US ambassador to Greece . <p> " For many years , Kimberly has been a close friend and ally . Her extensive experience and leadership in law , media , and politics along with her sharp intellect make her supremely qualified to represent the United States , and safeguard its interests abroad . Kimberly is perfectly suited to foster strong bilateral relations with Greece , advancing our interests on issues ranging from defense cooperation to trade and economic innovation , " Trump said in a Truth Social post Tuesday . <p> Guilfoyle had been engaged to Donald Trump Jr . and is close to the Trump family . <p> CNN has previously reported on Trump 's selection of family members for key posts in his next administration . <p> Murkowski is one of the key GOP senators who Hegseth will have to win over in order to be successfully confirmed . The Alaska Republican has expressed some hesitancy about Hegseth as allegations have emerged about his treatment of women , alcohol use and professional management issues . <p> Murkowski , for her part , said she " appreciated the opportunity " to meet Hegseth . <p> " It was a good exchange , I 'll leave it at that , " she said . <p> Murkowski would n't specify if she and Hegseth spoke about women in combat during their conversation , and when asked if she would meet with him again , the senator said she has a " pretty full schedule . " <p> " Keep in mind , people , there 's a there 's a lot of time between now and when President Trump actually takes office , " the Alaska senator said . <p> Hegseth earlier addressed his second meeting on Monday with GOP Sen. Joni Ernst of Iowa , who put out a positive statement but has n't fully committed to backing him . <p> " We 're grateful that she said she 's going to support us through that process and that 's what we talked about . It 's been substantive and meaningful and her background is significant on all these issues and I welcome the conversations , " he said . <p> The post was updated with Murkowski 's comments on her meeting with Hegseth . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Trump claims any person or company who invests $1 billion will receive expedited government approvals <p> From CNN 's Kayla Tausche and Alejandra Jaramillo <p> US President-elect Donald Trump said on Truth Social that under his administration the government will offer a special benefit to investors who contribute significant capital to the economy . <p> Trump said any person or company investing $1 billion or more in the United States of America will be granted expedited processing for any necessary government approvals , " including , but in no way limited to , " all environmental approvals . <p> Trump has frequently dangled cuts to red tape as an invitation to do business . In his 2018 State of the Union address , where he proposed a $1.5 trillion infrastructure bill that never came to pass , he demanded such legislation include language cutting the regulatory approval process to " no more than two years , and perhaps even one " for companies interested in participating . <p> Nixing or streamlining regulations , a high priority of Trump 's first term , is also expected to be a hallmark of his second , beginning with executive orders to freeze all ongoing rulemaking processes so his administration can take stock of them . <p> During the early days of his first term , Trump signed an executive order commanding federal agencies cut two regulations for every new regulation they proposed . <p> Link Copied ! <h> White House says Biden " will have more to announce on pardons and commutations " <p> From CNN 's Donald Judd <p> White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said Tuesday the Biden administration " will have more to announce on pardons and commutations " before President Joe Biden leaves office next year , but declined give any additional details . <p> " Certainly we will have more to announce on pardons and commutations , as I 've said many times before , but there 's a process I 'm just not going to get into any specifics from here at this time , " Jean-Pierre told CNN . " When he 's ready to make announcements , we 'll certainly , obviously share that with all of you . " <p> Earlier this month , Biden announced he was pardoning his son , Hunter Biden , over federal gun and tax evasion charges , reversing course after pledging for months he 'd allow the judicial process to play out without stepping in and using his presidential clemency powers for his son . <p> In a gathering with reporters following the pardon , Jean-Pierre said reporters " could expect more announcement , more pardons and clemency at the end of this term , " but stopped short of offering a timeline on when they may happen . <h> After Trump 's election win , Democrats come out against bipartisan bill that would create new federal judges <p> From CNN 's Tierney Sneed <p> Inside a courtroom at the Byron R. White US Courthouse in Denver , Colorado . <p> Buyenlarge/Archive Photos/Getty Images <p> President Joe Biden and key Democrats have come out against a once broad bipartisan bill that would create 63 new permanent judgeships -- now that President-elect Donald Trump would be the one to fill 22 of them . <p> The White House said Tuesday that Biden would veto the bill -- passed unanimously by the Senate this summer and set for a House vote this week -- that would add judgeships to the most overburdened federal courthouses in the country . <p> Judges across the ideological spectrum have warned that staffing shortages have created a major backlog in cases . The apparent collapse in support for legislation that would address the judicial shortfall shows how polarized the political environment around the judiciary has become has become , and how any measure that would expand the already-large imprint that Trump has made on the courts is deemed toxic to Democrats . <p> The bill 's Senate champions and outside supporters had hoped that the House would take up the bill before the election , when neither party would know which side would initially benefit from its passage . Democrats are now pointing to House GOP leadership 's failure to do so as reason while they 're reversing their support of the bill . <p> " Under this legislation , we all promised to give the next three unknown presidents a certain number of judges , " New York Rep. Jerry Nadler , the top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee , said at a House hearing on the bill Monday . " Because no one can tell the future we were all at an equal disadvantage , but for this deal to work , the bill had to be passed before Election Day . " <p> House Republicans have said they would have taken up the bill regardless of who won last month , and that they were unable to vote on it before the election because work that needed to be done for it and also because of the must-pass legislation that was before Congress before the election . <p> Judges -- including in interviews with CNN -- have said that the judiciary faces a staffing crisis that is undermining litigants ' right to speedy justice . The bill 's architects used the recommendations of the Judicial Conference , the policymaking body of the judiciary , to decide which courthouses would additional judges -- all for trial courts -- under the bill , the " Judicial Understaffing Delays Getting Emergencies Solved Act " or JUDGES Act . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Democratic senators dismiss Trump 's comments that January 6 committee members should go to jail <p> From CNN 's Morgan Rimmer and Manu Raju <p> Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and newly sworn in Sen. Adam Schiff dismissed President-elect Donald Trump 's comments that members of the January 6 Committee , including Schiff , should go to jail . <p> " The bottom line is we all know that Senator Schiff did a very , very good job on the hearings , he broke no laws whatsoever , and the truths stands for itself , " Schumer told CNN . <p> Schiff added that he was " proud " of their work on the committee , and that he does not believe that he or his colleagues from the panel should receive preemptive pardons . <p> " I do n't think the incoming president should be threatening his political opponents with jail time . That 's not the kind of talk we should hear from a president in a democracy , nor do I think that a pardon is necessary for the members of the January 6th committee , " Schiff said . <p> " We 're proud of the work we did on that committee . It was a fundamental oversight obligation to investigate the first attempt to interfere with a peaceful transfer of power in our history . Many of you were here in this building during that violent attack , and we 're proud of the work we did to expose what went into that once in history effort to interfere with the transition of power , " he continued . <p> Schumer added that Schiff " did a great job and that will stand for itself . " <p> The Democratic leader also said he had a " good and productive meeting " with GOP Sen. Marco Rubio , Trump 's pick to lead the State Department . " We had good discussions about Ukraine , the Middle East , Haiti and China , " Schumer told reporters . <p> " I 've worked with him in the past , we have a good relationship . I think he 's qualified for the role , and I certainly do n't start out with any negative disposition " <p> Link Copied ! <h> The task force investigating Trump assassination attempts released its final report . Here 's what it said <p> From CNN 's Annie Grayer <p> The bipartisan task force investigating the two assassination attempts against President-elect Donald Trump released its final report on Tuesday that includes a final series of recommendations and legislative suggestions that have largely been included in preliminary reports . <p> The recommendations are based on more than 18,000 pages of documents in response to requests to agencies , 46 transcribed interviews , an evidence presentation at the FBI laboratory in Quantico , Virginia , briefings from federal agencies , two hearings , and walk throughs of the sites where the assassination attempts took place . <p> The report focuses primarily on the preparation , security and communication failures related to the first assassination attempt against Trump on July 13 during a campaign event in Butler , Pennsylvania . <p> The report 's recommendations : As a result of the lack of experience among those who led the site security for the Butler rally , the task force proposes a robust training process for Secret Service agents . It suggests various ways to streamline communication given the failure to share threat intelligence surrounding Trump was not communicated to all law enforcement partners and all asset requests were not met . The lawmakers also recommend expanding the coverage zone of a given event to mitigate line of site issues . <p> While the task force maintains that the events in Butler " were preventable and should not have happened , " it said the US Secret Service 's handling of the September 15 attempt at Trump International Golf Club " demonstrated how properly executed protective measures can foil an attempted assassination . " <p> As a result of the second attempt , the task force recommends that the Secret Service use a vehicle while a protectee is playing golf , and increase reliance on K9 sweeps to better secure golf courses . <p> The task force points out that the US Secret Service is still conducting its mission assurance review of the assassination attempt in West Palm Beach , Florida , and has not shared its contents with the panel . <p> The report also makes a series of legislative recommendations including reducing the number of individuals being protected to eliminate some of the strain on the system and evaluating whether the Secret Service should remain within the Department of Homeland Security . <p> In a show of continued support , Donald Trump 's transition team on Tuesday released a video of some GOP senators previously praising Pete Hegseth , the president-elect 's pick to lead the Department of Defense , as Hegseth faces an uphill confirmation battle . <p> The video features praise of Hegseth from GOP Sens . Markwayne Mullin of Oklahoma , Tommy Tuberville of Alabama and Rick Scott of Florida . <p> Mullin , talking to reporters on Capitol Hill , praised Hegseth 's experience in the military and said , " He 's perfect . He 's a , he 's a decorative combat veteran . He 's got two Bronze Stars . 20 years of service . He retired as a major and he 's a civilian . He knows this , it 's not like he has no experience inside the military . " <p> Tuberville said , " We need a drill sergeant in the military . We need somebody to straighten the military out , to get the woke , the DEI affiliation , out and go from there . " <p> Scott spoke to reporters after meeting with Hegseth and said , " When he goes to Department of Defense , he 'll walk in with the mentality that he 's going to take care of our war fighters . He 's going to make sure they have the right equipment and they 're not put in harm 's way when they should n't be put in harm 's way . He 's not going to support forever wars . He 's not going to support going into battle when we do n't even have a plan , so I think he 's going to do a great job . " <p> " I 'm going to do whatever that can to make sure he 's confirmed as the Secretary of Defense , " Scott added . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Manhattan DA and state AG say Trump 's criminal and civil cases in New York should n't be dismissed <p> From CNN 's Kara Scannell , Jeremy Herb and Lauren del Valle <p> Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg stands with members of his staff at a news conference following the conviction of Donald Trump in his hush money trial on May 30 , in New York City . <p> Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg , a Democrat , argued in a filing made public Tuesday that Trump 's May conviction on 34 felony counts of falsifying business records should not be dismissed just because he 's returning to the White House . The district attorney also said it 's possible for the judge to delay sentencing until after Trump is out of office or to impose a sentence without jail time . <p> " President-elect immunity does not exist , " the DA 's office wrote , adding that even when Trump is president , dismissing the conviction and the indictment would be an " extreme remedy " that is unwarranted . <p> And the New York attorney general 's office wrote in a letter to Trump 's attorneys Tuesday that Trump 's appeal of his $454 million civil fraud judgement poses no burden to his future presidency . <p> Trump was already seeking to dismiss both the felony hush money conviction and the civil fraud judgement before the November election , but now that he 's returning to the White House , his lawyers are arguing the civil and criminal verdicts should both be dropped . <p> Both fights over Trump 's legal fate are likely to extend into Trump 's time in the White House . His initial appeal to dismiss the civil fraud case is pending in a New York appeals court , and the decision on the hush money conviction is now resting with New York Judge Juan Merchan . <p> This post has been updated with more details on Trump 's legal challenges . <p> GOP Sen. Lindsey Graham told CNN that Pete Hegseth is " better off this week than he was last week , " after previously warning of " difficulties " getting him confirmed as President-elect Donald Trump 's defense secretary . <p> " The accusations are anonymous . The police report I 've read -- right now , he 's in pretty good shape . I think he 's very smart , " said Graham . <p> " The accusations about mismanaging money and about non-consensual behavior , if they come forward , I will listen to those accusations , but they have to be credible , and they have to be presented in a fashion that Pete can rebut . So he 's much better off this week than he was last week , " he added . <p> Graham was leaving his meeting with Trump 's pick to lead the FBI , Kash Patel , when he spoke with reporters . The South Carolina Republican said it was a " good " meeting , and noted that he would accept current FBI Director Chris Wray being pushed out , despite having three years left in his term . <p> " I think it 's pretty obvious that he ( Trump ) wants a new FBI director , " said Graham . <p> He added , " I like Director Wray , but I think the -- it 's time for a fresh start at the FBI . People on the conservative side of the aisle believe it has been used to kind of have its thumb on political matters , and that needs to end , but I have nothing against him personally . " <p> Graham noted that he would like to set up another meeting with Tulsi Gabbard , Trump 's choice for director of national intelligence , to discuss Syria . Graham and Gabbard met yesterday evening . <p> President Joe Biden speaks about his administrations economic playbook and the future of the American economy at the Brookings Institution in Washington , DC , on Tuesday , December 10 . <p> Susan Walsh/AP <p> President Joe Biden on Tuesday said he prays " to God " that his predecessor and successor will do away with the Project 2025 blueprint for Donald Trump 's second term . <p> " I pray to God the president-elect throws away Project 2025 , " Biden said Tuesday , referencing the Heritage Foundation 's blueprint for a second Trump term . Trump has distanced himself from the project , even as it is led by many of his top allies . <p> " I think it 'd be an economic disaster for us in the region , " Biden said . His remarks at the Brookings Institution were centered on his handling of the economy -- which Biden considers one of his term 's strongest accomplishments even if many Americans still felt a financial pinch this election cycle . <p> Biden , whose successful run for president four years ago was centered on bringing Americans together and keeping Trump out of office , offered a preview of what his post-presidency life will look like , saying he still intends to be involved in public life after his presidency ends in January . <p> " I 'm leaving the presidency but I 'm not going away -- bad news for y'all -- because I think we can , we 've got to bring this country back together , " Biden said . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Here 's what GOP senators are saying about Cabinet picks Hegseth and Patel as they meet on Capitol Hill <p> From CNN 's Lauren Fox , Manu Raju , Clare Foran and Morgan Rimmer <p> GOP Sen. Markwayne Mullin of Oklahoma told CNN that he will back Kash Patel to be FBI director after meeting with him on Capitol Hill . <p> Mullin also said that he thinks Trump 's defense secretary pick , Pete Hegseth , is doing a " phenomenal job " in his meetings with senators and said , " there 's not one single Republican that 's opposed any of these nominations that are out there right now . " <p> " I do , " Mullin said , when asked if he feels comfortable voting for Patel for the position . " I was comfortable beforehand . I 've had the privilege of knowing Kash and we 've sat down and talked . " <p> Asked if he 's concerned that Trump will have to expend too much political capital on some of his more controversial nominees , Mullin downplayed the suggestion and argued that all of the picks currently under consideration are in good shape . <p> GOP North Carolina Sen. Thom Tillis , a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee who is up for reelection in 2026 , defended Trump 's nominees , saying he does not have concerns about them . <p> " No , I do n't ( have concerns ) , " Tillis told CNN . " I know everybody 's trying to get that ' gotcha ' question that you know kind of creates friction between a member and the president . I voted for every nomination that ultimately got voted on in President Trump 's first term , " he said . <p> GOP Texas Sen. John Cornyn , who also serves on the judiciary panel , agreed that it will take some time to figure out if all of these picks are confirmable . " We have n't had a single hearing or a single FBI background check completed . So , I think as frustrating as it is for some people , there 's a process , and I 'm for seeing the process through so we can make informed decisions , " he said . <p> After meeting with Hegseth Tuesday morning , Cornyn said he will support Trump 's pick for defense secretary . <p> " I will support Pete Hegseth , as I always say , barring any unforeseen circumstances . But I 've known him a long time , I was satisfied with his answers , and I think this is going to be a hard process on him and his family , and some of it will be enormously unfair , " he said to reporters . <p> This post has been updated with additional reactions from lawmakers . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Biden says Trump will inherit a strong economy and it is his " profound hope " he 'll preserve it <p> From CNN 's Michael Williams <p> President Joe Biden delivers remarks on the economy at the Brookings Institution in Washington , DC , on December 10 . <p> Kevin Lamarque/Reuters <p> President Joe Biden on Tuesday touted his administration 's economic record , saying President-elect Donald Trump will inherit a strong economy . The president said it is his " profound hope " that Trump will keep it that way . <p> " Most economists agree the new administration is going to inherit a fairly strong economy - at least at the moment , an economy going through fundamental transformation that 's laid out a stronger foundation , sustainable , broad-based highly productive growth " Biden said in remarks from the Brookings Institution on Tuesday . <p> " That is my profound hope , that the new administration will preserve and build on this progress , " the president added . <p> The president acknowledged , however , that " this economic growth is not without pain . " <p> " The entire world faced a spike in inflation due to disruptions from the pandemic and Putin 's war in Ukraine , " the president added , acknowledging how a broad base of America felt about their economic positions in the run-up to Trump 's victorious election run this year . <p> Sens . Richard Blumenthal and Mazie Hirono , both senior judiciary Democrats , pushed back on the idea of President Joe Biden issuing preemptive pardons to protect President-elect Donald Trump 's targets from retribution . <p> " My concern about preemptive pardons , and I strongly oppose them , is that it seems to be an acknowledgement of culpability , or it would probably protect only the top-level officials , leaving the underlings exposed . And the way to confront a bully is to stand up to him , not run and hide , which preemptive pardons would imply doing , " Blumenthal told CNN . <p> " I think that the way to confront Donald Trump , if he uses the justice system for retribution improperly , corruptly , is to push back as strong as possible and form a defense fund , get together a group of lawyers -- I 'd volunteer -- and make sure that we acquit anyone who is unjustly and illegally pursued , " he added . <p> Hirono argued that there should be set criteria for those who can receive presidential pardons . " I think the use of presidential pardon powers is really unfettered and vast , and what I 'm looking for , at this point is some kind of criteria , limitations on the use of presidential pardon powers , and that 's where I 'd like to go , " she said . <p> " I regretted that President Biden was put in a position of having to protect his son from retribution , which was explicitly threatened against him , " said Blumenthal . " And I regret also that the way he granted that pardon was to disparage the criminal justice system . I think we should have faith in the criminal justice system to find not guilty anyone who has done nothing wrong . " <p> Hirono added that Hunter Biden 's pardon is " part of " her concerns about pardon power overall . <h> Biden seeks to reshape economic legacy ahead of Trump 's takeover <p> From CNN 's Kayla Tausche and Betsy Klein <p> Just weeks before leaving office , President Joe Biden is seeking to reshape the narrative on his economic legacy after four years where strong demand , supply chain snarls , and high government spending pushed the cost of living to a high not seen since the 1980s . <p> In the leadup to the election , public proclamations by the White House that the economy was great were paused amid acknowledgement that the Biden-Harris administration risked looking out of touch on voters ' resentment on inflation . <p> " It was just such a political albatross , " one senior administration official tells CNN . <p> Privately , Biden has aired frustrations that his record on other parts of the economy could n't step out of that shadow , despite efforts to highlight investments in infrastructure , small business , and manufacturing that have led growth and jobs to outpace economists ' expectations . The White House -- with the president 's backing -- has even trolled some of those very economists , who called for a recession that never materialized . <p> Biden 's core belief , one longtime aide says , is that he 's served as " a damn good president " that history should remember fondly even if his present-day popularity is underwater . The speech on his economic legacy Tuesday is expected to be one of several on issues central to his term as it comes to a close . <p> Shortly after announcing his own plans to run for re-election , Biden 's aides rolled out a countrywide tour with " Bidenomics " branding to reshape public opinion . While some senior officials suggested that the message would land with voters over time as inflation eased , they also acknowledged that -- given the country 's hyperpartisan dynamic -- some of those negative views likely had ossified . <p> Trump 's team seized on the " Bidenomics " term during the campaign , spending millions on ads highlighting a soundbite of Vice President Kamala Harris declaring , " Bidenomics is working . " <p> And ultimately , Americans held largely negative views about the US economy and took those perceptions to the ballot box . According to CNN exit polls , 46% of voters trusted Harris more to lead the economy , compared to 53% for Trump . But Biden and his lieutenants are n't accepting that argument . <p> " We are handing off the strongest economy in history to the next administration , " Biden 's acting Labor Secretary Julie Su told CNN . <p> The Justice Department secretly obtained phone records from two members of Congress and 43 staffers . <p> Patel also declined to answer questions about if he though January 6 rioters should be pardoned or if Jan 6 committee members should be investigated or jailed <p> Link Copied ! <h> White House : Trump and Biden national security teams in contact amid developments in the Middle East <p> From CNN 's Sam Fossum and Betsy Klein <p> President Joe Biden meets with President-elect Donald Trump in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington , DC , on November 13 . <p> Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images <p> President Joe Biden 's national security team remains in communication with the key officials on President-elect Donald Trump 's team amid the rapidly changing landscape in the Middle East , White House national security spokesperson John Kirby told reporters Tuesday . <p> " Those conversations have happened , they are still happening , and I have every expectation that going forward , Jake Sullivan and other leaders here in the National Security Council will , as appropriate , continue to keep the incoming team informed , " Kirby told reporters . <p> Trump has urged a hands-off approach to the conflict , saying Saturday before rebel groups reached Damascus that the US should not get involved and let the situation play out . <p> But after the fall of the Assad regime , he offered his view on what the news could mean for Russia , which has been a key ally of Assad . <p> " Assad is gone . He has fled his country . His protector , Russia , Russia , Russia , led by Vladimir Putin , was not interested in protecting him any longer , " Trump said in a post to social media , adding that Russia " lost all interest in Syria because of Ukraine , " adding that he knows Russian President Vladimir Putin well and , " This is his time to act . " <p> Kirby said while the two sides have been communicating , Biden is still setting his own foreign policy agenda . He also said that he has no updates on any call between Trump and Biden specifically on national security issues . <p> " We remain in touch with ... the people he 's designated as his key national security team leaders , and certainly that includes Jake 's ongoing conversations with Congressman Waltz , " he said . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Republican women will likely not chair any House committees <p> From CNN 's Annie Grayer <p> As House Republicans are filling their committee chair slots for next Congress , it is looking increasingly likely that the GOP will not have any women in those key leadership roles . <p> House Speaker Mike Johnson downplayed this by telling reporters , " the chairman of committees are very important positions , but we really do engage all the membership . We have extraordinary women serving in Congress and in the Republican conference . In fact , we elected some really strong women in this upcoming freshman class . " <p> " We value those voices and everybody has an equal say at the table " Johnson added . <p> Meanwhile , House and Senate Democrats each have five female lawmakers leading committees and Senate Republicans could have four Republicans leading their panels by the time internal elections wrap up . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Johnson says he will meet with Trump on Saturday to discuss sequencing of agenda <p> From CNN 's Annie Grayer <p> House Speaker Mike Johnson talks to reporters as he departs a news conference following a House Republican Conference Caucus meeting on Capitol Hill on December , 10 , in Washington , DC . <p> Kent Nishimura/Getty Images <p> House Speaker Mike Johnson told reporters that he will be meeting with President-elect Donald Trump on Saturday to discuss " in depth " the sequencing of next year 's legislative priorities . <p> Republicans have different ideas about which agenda item to focus on first and are haunted by failures in 2017 , the last time there was a GOP trifecta in government . <p> " President-elect Trump and I will be talking about this in depth this weekend before the Army-Navy game " Johnson said . <p> More background : House and Senate Republicans have different views on what to prioritize in Trump 's first 100 days , from border security and energy production to a tax bill . <p> Republicans have been looking to use reconciliation , a process that allows lawmakers to bypass the 60-vote threshold typically required for breaking filibusters and moving legislation forward , to fast-track key aspects of Trump 's agenda . But there is a disagreement about what goes in it . <p> " The sequence and the use of reconciliation is really important . There are thoughtful discussions going on right now . They will be all day " Johnson , who said he has a late meeting with committee chairs of jurisdiction on this tonight . <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's nominee to be FBI Director Kash Patel arrives at Sen. Joni Ernst 's office for a meeting in the Russell Senate Office Building on December 9 , in Washington , DC . <p> Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images <p> During a sweeping leak investigations , during Donald Trump 's first term , the Justice Department secretly obtained phone records from two members of Congress and 43 staffers -- including Kash Patel , the president-elect 's pick to lead the FBI , according to a watchdog report released on Tuesday . <p> The new report from the Justice Department 's inspector general raises concerns about how the department tried to root out reporters ' sources from a sprawling and bipartisan list of federal employees who had access to classified information because of their job . <p> Patel and the two members of Congress are not named in the report , but two sources familiar with the matter tell CNN that Patel was targeted along with Democratic Reps . Adam Schiff and Eric Swalwell . Patel was a staffer for the GOP-led House intelligence committee at the time ; Schiff has since been elected to the Senate and took office Monday . <p> Prosecutors also sought records including emails from journalists at CNN , The Washington Post and The New York Times , according to the report . <p> The report found that DOJ investigators issued a broad sweep based on who may have had access to the sensitive information that was leaked . <p> Seeking records based only on " the close proximity in time between access to classified information and subsequent publication of the information ... risks chilling Congress 's ability to conduct oversight of the executive branch , " the inspector general wrote . <p> That 's because such a move " exposes congressional officials to having their records reviewed by the Department solely for conducting Congress ' constitutional authorized oversight duties and creating , at a minimum , the appearance of inappropriate interference by the executive branch in legitimate oversight activity by the legislative branch , " the inspector general added . <p> The inspector general did not recommend charges against anyone in their review , and did not find any indication that the career prosecutors assigned to the leak investigation were motivated by politics . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Hegseth says meetings with GOP lawmakers " have been great " <p> From CNN 's Danya Gainor and Aileen Graef <p> Pete Hegseth arrives to meet with lawmakers on Capitol Hill on December 5 . <p> Andrew Harnik/Getty Images <p> Pete Hegseth , President-elect Donald Trump 's pick for secretary of defense , said on Tuesday the meetings he has been having with senators as he tries to get the votes for confirmation " have been great . " <p> " It 's a great process and we are honored to be a part of it . We 're just going to keep going , " he said . <p> When asked if he had the support of GOP Iowa senator and member of the Senate Armed Services Committee , Joni Ernst , he said , " I 'd never speak for Senator Ernst but I appreciate the time . It was an amazing conversation -- She 's a wonderful combat vet , and I welcome all of her insight . " <p> Ernst is seen as a key vote as he tries to convince skeptical senators after negative comments about women in combat , reports of heavy drinking and a sexual assault accusation that did not result in criminal charges and which Hegseth has denied . <p> In a new letter released Tuesday morning , Democratic senators are asking President Joe Biden to extend more protections to immigrants using executive actions ahead of President-elect Donald Trump 's inauguration . <p> " As Senators who represent diverse states across our nation and who collectively represent millions of immigrant families , we write to express our deep concern about the threat the incoming administration poses to immigrants in our communities , " the senators said in the letter to the president . <p> " We write now because the window to secure and finalize your administration 's policies is closing rapidly . We urge you to act decisively between now and the inauguration of the President-elect to complete the important work of the past four years and protect immigrant families , " they added . <p> Trump doubles down on promises : The letter comes after Trump laid out parts of his immigration agenda during an interview that aired on NBC News on Sunday . Trump said his administration 's mass deportation efforts will target people with criminal histories , but indicated it could go beyond deporting criminals -- without specifying who the " other people outside of criminals " would be . When asked whether he plans to deport every person who has entered the country illegally , he said , " I think you have to do it . " <p> Asked about families with mixed immigration status -- where parents are in the country illegally but their children are not -- Trump said , " I do n't want to be breaking up families , so the only way you do n't break up the family is you keep them together , and you have to send them all back . " <p> Trump also doubled down on his campaign promise to end birthright citizenship . Trump did say , however , that he 's open to working with Democrats to preserve the legal status of " Dreamers " -- an often-used term for immigrants who were brought to the US as children . <p> Link Copied ! <h> These are Trump 's picks for his Cabinet <p> From CNN staff <p> President-elect Donald Trump has moved swiftly to announce his selections for his next Cabinet and key administration posts . Since CNN projected on November 6 that Trump would win election for a second term , the incoming president has announced more than two dozen choices to lead key agencies and policy areas . <p> Cabinet members include the vice president and the heads of the 15 executive departments in the presidential line of succession . A president may also choose to elevate other roles to join the Cabinet . The following list includes roles that were Cabinet-level in Trump 's first Cabinet or that he specified in the announcement will be included this term . <p> Vice President Mike Pence and Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi preside over a joint session of Congress on January 6 , 2021 in Washington , DC . <p> Erin Schaff/The New York Times/Pool/Getty Images/File <p> Donald Trump derailed his 2020 election subversion indictments by winning back the White House , but dozens of his allies still face state criminal prosecutions that he , even as president , ca n't shut down or short-circuit with pardons . <p> Since the election , Democratic prosecutors in ? Georgia , ? Michigan , Arizona ? and Wisconsin have pledged to move ahead with cases against Trump allies who were involved with the " fake electors " plot , which tried to overturn his 2020 defeat in those states . <p> Nevada Attorney General Aaron Ford , another Democrat , also told CNN he is planning to soon bring a new indictment re-charging the ? 2020 fake electors ? from his state . ( His original case was thrown out by a judge due to jurisdictional issues . ) <p> " I do n't make decisions based on who is the president , " Ford said . " I make decisions based on the rule of law . And these state electors , in our estimation , violated laws of the state of Nevada that are worthy of prosecution , " Ford said , adding , " This case is not going away . " <p> A total of 45 Trump allies and aides are currently facing charges across these four states , with another six expected to be re-indicted soon in Nevada . While many defendants are state party officials or little-known GOP activists , some are prominent figures from Trump 's orbit including former White House chief of staff ? Mark Meadows , his former personal attorney ? Rudy Giuliani , and adviser Boris Epshteyn . <p> The federal election subversion indictment against Trump , filed by Justice Department special counsel Jack Smith , has ? already been dismissed . And while the Georgia case against Trump and his ? 14 co-defendants ? remains in limbo , the state likely wo n't move forward with charges against Trump while he 's the sitting president . Trump 's lawyers recently asked a court to throw out his charges , citing his reelection . <p> " It all speaks to the uniqueness of the legal issues surrounding President Trump , " said Elliot Williams , a CNN legal analyst and former Justice Department prosecutor . " What happens where a defendant is the only person in the country immune from prosecution , but has co-defendants charged with the same conduct ? Every other defendant is stuck . " <h> Biden 's administration is racing to secure a ceasefire in Gaza with Trump 's support <p> Palestinians inspect damage at the site of an Israeli strike on a house at the Nuseirat refugee camp in the central Gaza Strip on December 7 . <p> Ramadan Abed/Reuters <p> The Biden White House is working increasingly closely with officials from the incoming administration as it races to try to reach a ceasefire and hostage deal to halt the war in Gaza between Israel and Hamas before Donald Trump is inaugurated on January 20 , according to multiple people familiar with the discussions . <p> Not only would the Biden White House like to finally reach a ceasefire in its final weeks in office , but Trump 's desire to start his second term with both the Lebanon and Gaza conflicts wrapped up and the hostages held by Hamas released has breathed new life into a framework that collapsed several months ago . <p> Five sources familiar with the conversations said there has been close coordination , with Trump 's team being kept apprised of the sensitive and painstaking work by Joe Biden 's administration . <p> The primary efforts are still being guided by Biden 's team and the two officials driving the ceasefire deal , CIA Director Bill Burns and the White House 's Brett McGurk . Their counterpart in the Trump camp is Steve Witkoff , Trump 's recently named Middle East envoy . <p> Witkoff visited both Israel and Qatar at the end of November , two sources familiar with his travel said . In his meeting with the Qatari prime minister , a principal mediator of the talks , they discussed the war in Gaza and the potential for a ceasefire deal . <h> Analysis : There is growing momentum for Cabinet picks who could define Trump 's second term <p> It 's mostly about Trump himself , and the kind of presidency he wants , the one he will end up getting , and the hopes of his MAGA movement that he 'll stand firm on his vow to shake the federal administrative state to its core and enact his and their revenge . <p> The stakes were laid bare in recent days by a fierce pressure campaign on social and conservative media targeting Sen. Joni Ernst over her reservations about Trump 's Pentagon pick , Hegseth . His candidacy became increasingly important after Trump lost his first pick for attorney general , Matt Gaetz , over alleged sexual misconduct claims that the former lawmaker denies . <p> Last week , the Iowa Republican 's hesitations about Hegseth left the former Fox News anchor 's confirmation hopes imperiled due to the GOP 's narrow incoming Senate majority . Amid concerns about sexual assault and drinking allegations and his past opposition to women serving in the military , some of her colleagues had even floated Ernst , an Iraq war veteran who 's fought sexual abuse in the military , as a possible replacement candidate . <p> But on Monday , after rapidly rising pressure , including in her home state , Ernst said in a statement after another meeting with Hegseth that she would " support Pete through this process " and looked forward to a " fair hearing " while not committing to vote for his confirmation . ( Hegseth has denied any sexual misconduct and was not charged over a 2017 incident in California ) . <p> The Iowa Republican had faced warnings on social media that she 'd encounter a primary challenge in 2026 if she did n't shelve her reservations about Hegseth . <p> Hungary 's prime minister , Viktor Orb ? n , shared a post on X on Monday showing he visited with Donald Trump and tech billionaire Elon Musk at the president-elect 's Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida . <p> " USA today . The future has begun ! An afternoon in Mar-a-Lago with @realDonaldTrump , @elonmusk and @michaelgwaltz , " Orb ? n wrote in the post , which featured photos with Musk and Trump . <p> Some context : Trump has embraced Hungary 's far-right prime minister , touting Orb ? n 's backing and hosting him at Mar-a-Lago in March . <p> Orb ? n has successfully centralized power throughout his 14 years as prime minister , much to the chagrin of his critics and the European Union . In 2022 , the European Parliament voted that Hungary can no longer be considered a true democracy , and the chamber has decried Orb ? n 's introduction of anti-LGBTQ laws , his expanded control over the judiciary and his so-called peace missions to Russia and China amid the war in Ukraine . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Analysis : The case for tariffs as a $3 trillion bargaining chip <p> From CNN 's Matt Egan <p> President-elect Trump has threatened to impose tariffs on all $3 trillion of US imports , a move that mainstream economists warn could reignite inflation . <p> Bing Guan/Reuters/File <p> President-elect Donald Trump views tariffs as a not-so-secret weapon -- one that can be deployed to pressure friends and foes alike to address issues from drug trafficking and illegal immigration to threats to the dominance of the US dollar . <p> Trump 's love of tariffs -- and , more specifically , the threat of tariffs -- reflects a high-risk , high-reward strategy that 's designed to build maximum pressure on other nations , forcing them to come to the negotiating table . <p> And there is a case to be made for using tariffs as a potent bargaining chip , albeit one that risks raising prices on consumers already hurting from the high cost of living . <h> Trump 's Pentagon pick pledges to support women in the military <p> Pete Hegseth , center , and his wife Jennifer Rauchet arrive for meetings in the Russell Senate Office Building on Capitol Hill on December 9 , in Washington , DC . <p> Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images <p> Pete Hegseth , President-elect Donald Trump 's pick to lead the Department of Defense , said Monday he would support women serving in the military , addressing previous comments he made in which he said women service members should not serve in combat roles . <p> Hegseth said during a Fox News interview that if he 's confirmed as defense secretary , he would support women service members , who he called " some of our greatest warriors , " while seeking to " clarify comments that have been misconstrued " about his views on the roles women military members should be allowed to hold . <p> " I also want an opportunity here to clarify comments that have been misconstrued , that I somehow do n't support women in the military , " Hegseth said . " Some of our greatest warriors , our best warriors out there , are women who serve , raise their right hand to defend this country and love our nation , want to defend that flag , and they do it every single day around the globe . " <p> " I 'm not presuming anything , but after President Trump asked me to be his secretary of defense , should I get the opportunity to do that , I look forward to being a secretary for all our warriors , men and women , for the amazing contributions they make in our military , " he added . <p> Hegseth 's response comes after he said during a podcast interview last month that " we should not have women in combat roles . " <p> The controversy around Hegseth 's comments about women service members is one of the issues plaguing the former Fox News anchor 's embattled confirmation process , following reports of his alleged sexual misconduct and excessive drinking . Hegseth said Monday he 's eager to have his background scrutinized to clear his name amid the accusations , which he has denied . <p> Hegseth has been in meetings on Capitol Hill in recent weeks to earn support among senators . He met with Iowa Sen. Joni Ernst for the second time on Monday and told Fox News , " It was a great meeting . " <p> Hegseth said he plans to meet with two of the most moderate members of the Republican Senate caucus later this week . He said he will meet with Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski on Tuesday and Maine Sen. Susan Collins on Wednesday . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Trump announces picks for OMB general counsel and assistant attorney general for civil rights <p> From CNN 's Alejandra Jaramillo <p> Harmeet Dhillon at the 2023 Republican National Committee Winter Meeting in Dana Point , California , on January 27 , 2023 . <p> Patrick T. Fallon/AFP/Getty Images <p> President-elect Donald Trump on Monday announced Harmeet K. Dhillon , a conservative attorney who has represented Trump , as his selection for assistant attorney general for civil rights at the Justice Department . <p> " In her new role at the DOJ , Harmeet will be a tireless defender of our Constitutional Rights , and will enforce our Civil Rights and Election Laws FAIRLY and FIRMLY , " Trump wrote in a post on Truth Social . <p> Trump also announced that Mark Paoletta , another conservative attorney , will be rejoining his administration as the general counsel of the Office of Management and Budget . <p> In a Truth Social post , Trump described Paoletta as a " brilliant and tenacious lawyer " and highlighted his previous work in this same role in the first Trump administration . <p> The president-elect said that Paoletta will work closely with the Department of Government Efficiency ( DOGE ) " to cut the size of our bloated Government bureaucracy , and root out wasteful and anti-American spending . " 
@@118708975 <p> Against larger Hollywood trends towards embracing cultural identity , Jewish characters on TV are still depicted as hiding or playing down their Jewishness , according to a new study from USC Annenberg Norman Lear Center 's Media Impact Project . <p> The study , undertaken with the support of the Jewish Institute for Television and Cinema Hollywood Bureau , also confirmed that " Jewface " really does exist , noting that only about half of Jewish characters are played by confirmed Jewish actors . It also pointed out that Jewish actresses are 21 percent less likely to be cast as Jewish characters than their male counterparts are . <h> Related Stories <p> The study is the first of its kind to focus on Jewish representation since 1999 and predates the Oct. 7 Hamas attack on Israel and ensuing war in Gaza , which has led to an explosive 60 percent increase in antisemitic hate crimes . Still , incidents of antisemitism rose in the period covered by the study , which analyzed 108 Jewish characters in 49 episodes from 15 scripted TV series that aired between 2021 and 2022 . <p> Only 18 percent of Jewish characters reference their Judaism , the study finds . When you omit characters who are in Jewish careers like rabbis or funeral directors , as well as Orthodox Jews , the number of Jews who reference their culture goes down to 13 percent . <p> The study took a deeper look at depictions of the Orthodox community in film and TV , finding that half of the Orthodox characters are portrayed with " judgment and othering , " while one in five have a " generally cold demeanor " and are " dissatisfied with their lives . " <p> A third of all references to Orthodox Jews happen without an Orthodox Jew present -- meaning they are being spoken about " as opposed to speaking for themselves . " <p> The study also detected a trend of Jews leaning away from their identities , with as many as 31 percent of characters embracing other cultures over their own . ( An example are Hallmark Channel movies like Double Holiday and Holiday Date , where a Jewish character must learn the meaning of Christmas to keep her relationship alive . ) <p> It found almost no diversity among the Jews on TV , all of whom are depicted as white or Ashkenazi Jews . Jews of color , Mizrahi Jews and LGBTQ-identifying Jews were not represented . <p> The report also found certain antisemitic tropes , some that date back to Shakespeare 's times -- the greedy Shylock , the nebbish man , the overbearing Jewish mother -- are still alive . <p> Two percent of Jewish characters were shown being " cheap " ( e.g. arguing over a $1 Ferris wheel ticket ) , while 5 percent were shown committing a violent act and 7 percent were portrayed as generally unsympathetic . <p> To promote more diverse and nuanced depictions of Jewish Americans , the study recommended elevating Jewish characters whose stories often remain untold ; being mindful of tropes that associate Jews with money or power ; and giving voice to Jewish pride and joy . <p> It also recommends allowing Orthodox characters to speak for themselves and depicting Orthodox Jews as " the people next door . " 
@@118717473 <h> From Liam Payne to Crowdstrike , here are the top trending searches of 2024 , according to Google <p> Interest in Donald Trump surged higher than interest in Kamala Harris . People ate up content on Dubai chocolate bars . And the Yankees really did win . These and more insights are all from Google 's annual list of top trending searches , which it released today . <p> We 'll go through some of the results below , but first , let 's dwell a little more on what Google is measuring . First of all , these are not the most popular search terms for 2024 . Google tells me that if it built that list , the most popular searches would be for words like " weather , " and they do n't really change over the years . <p> " Year in Search " instead takes note of what surged in popularity in 2024 , specifically which queries " had a high spike in traffic over a sustained period in 2024 as compared to 2023 . " The aim is to sift out perennial favourites like " weather " to identify what people were curious about this past year . <p> Google told TechCrunch the list is put together just from text-based searches on google.com . It does n't include searches on other Google properties like YouTube , or queries passed through its Gemini generative AI chatbot . The one exception to all that is a list of trending " hum " searches , the tool which lets you hum a tune to figure out what it actually is . <p> You have to wonder how these lists will look in future years if current trends hold . Recent research ( via eMarketer ) found that in the U.S. , younger adults have turned away from using Google for online searches , with Gen Z 25% less likely to use it compared to Gen X. Instead , they favour social media sites like TikTok to discover trends , news and answers to questions they may have . That might spur Google to include more data over time from YouTube , which still holds strong with those younger demographics . <p> The rise of Generative AI is also a factor . So far , OpenAI 's ChatGPT seems to be the only bot to have broken into the top 10 list of most popular websites in the world according to SimilarWeb . Google has a decent and formidable card to play there : It 's already incorporating Generative AI results into some of its search in addition to offering it in standalone apps . This gives it the option to offer it as a complement to its basic search experience -- a better alternative than cannibalizing its own product . <h> Top global search trends <p> These are fascinating , mainly because they underscore just how much Google is used outside of the U.S. The top search term in 2024 was a soccer ( football ) tournament , the Copa Am ? rica , followed by another soccer tournament , the UEFA European Championship . Those were followed by two cricket sporting events , the ICC Men 's T20 World Cup , and one specific " test match " between India and England . <p> Overall , six of the top ten search trend terms were for sporting events ( Olympics only made number 9 ) . The top term in the list was for Liam Payne , the One Direction singer who died earlier this year , Donald Trump came in at number five . iPhone 16 and Catherine , Princess of Wales , round out the list . <p> Searches ( Global ) <p> Copa Am ? rica <p> UEFA European Championship <p> ICC Men 's T20 World Cup <p> India vs England <p> Liam Payne <p> Donald Trump <p> India vs Bangladesh <p> iPhone 16 <p> Olympic Games Paris 2024 <p> Catherine , Princess of Wales <p> Election insights <p> Are Google searches a fascinating reflection of what is going on in the real world , or are they shaping what the real world ends up doing ? Donald Trump , who won the U.S. presidential election , also topped his opponent Kamala Harris in Google searches . He appears in the top 10 global search trends ( Harris does not ) ; he was the No. 1 name on the global list of people search trends ( Kamala was number three ) ; and his gunshot incident even made it into the top 10 list for global news events . Trump outranked Harris similarly in U.S.-only trends . <p> Top news trends <p> In 2023 , Google said that Israel/Gaza topped the news trends , and it 's telling that it did n't continue to surge in 2024 . Instead , this year the U.S. election topped the list for news events , alongside the Olympics , Rafah and Iran , and bizarrely , the Menendez brothers . Natural weather disasters continued to permeate the list , and the Crowdstrike outage was a big enough mess that it too broke into the top 10 . <p> Dubai chocolate bars <p> Google may be wilfully ignoring search trends on social platforms in its rankings , but it ca n't really avoid them . Dubai chocolate bars -- a chocolate bar with a rich and crunchy pistachio-pastry filling -- made it into multiple lists this year : Top global and U.S. food recipes and viral foods . But why ? <p> It comes down to TikTok : The bars became a sensation after a food influencer out of Dubai , where the bar first was produced , posted about it and her TikTok video went viral . That eventually bled into a million other media outlets writing about it , and voila : you have a Google search trend in the making . <p> Nancy Meyers and her many guises <p> Fashion inspiration , they say , can come from anywhere . In 2024 , it came from middle-aged women in films . Filmmaker Nancy Meyers has been active since the early 1980s , but her real heyday was in the 1990s and early 2000s , when she turned folksy , sentimental , family-friendly comedy into box office gold -- like the remake of The Parent Trap , Father of the Bride , and What Women Want . <p> Many of her films feature iconic female characters who are well-off without being filthy rich , their position embodied in their relaxed fashion sense . Some of that has clearly started to speak to women in the 2020s . Behold the rise of Coastal Grandmother and her 2024 incarnation , the Coastal Granddaughter . Once again , thanks to prompts on social platforms like TikTok and Instagram , Meyers and Granddaughter both made it onto Google trending lists this year . <p> Burnt toast and orange peels : No , these are not food trends <p> People are somewhat obsessed with food , so it 's not a surprise that the top-two " internet theories " that trended in the U.S. in 2024 are references to eating . They are , in fact , totally unrelated otherwise . <p> The burnt-toast theory is a modern-day , more optimistic version of what has been described variously as fatalism or determinism in philosophy : All the small things in life , including what appear to be setbacks , are all part of a bigger picture and happen for a reason . <p> The orange peel theory is about how you can understand if someone is considerate of you : If you ask a person to peel an orange for you and they do , you 've got a keeper . Or so the theory goes . Again , both of these got their viral starts on TikTok . <p> Ingrid is a writer and editor for TechCrunch , joining February 2012 , based out of London . <p> Before TechCrunch , Ingrid worked at paidContent.org , where she was a staff writer , and has in the past also written freelance regularly for other publications such as the Financial Times . Ingrid covers mobile , digital media , advertising and the spaces where these intersect . <p> When it comes to work , she feels most comfortable speaking in English but can also speak Russian , Spanish and French ( in descending order of competence ) . 
@@118741372 <h> Loading .... <p> I spoke in support of the Belfast City Council 's decision to divest from entities complicit in Israel 's genocide of Palestinians . I could not have been more grateful for the council 's courageous decision . Unfortunately , as happened when the Portland City Council voted to divest , the weaponization of antisemitism appeared in Belfast , and now in Bangor as well , as reflected in a recent opinion piece by the deputy director of ADL New England published in the Bangor Daily News . <p> Statements from Jewish Voice for Peace make clear the difference between antisemitism and anti-Zionism : " Antisemitism is discrimination , targeting , violence , and dehumanizing stereotypes directed at Jews because they are Jewish . " Anti-Zionism is opposition to the " political ideology of Zionism , which resulted in the expulsion of 750,000 Indigenous Palestinians from their land and homes . " Anti-Zionism rejects " the creation of a nation-state with exclusive rights for Jews above others on the land . " <h> ABOUT THE AUTHOR <p> Connie Jenkins , a Belfast resident , is a member of Pax Christi , an international Catholic peace and social justice movement . <p> There is no relationship between antisemitism and anti-Zionism and any attempt to conflate the two is historically inaccurate and , too often , anti-Palestinian propaganda . For those who may not be familiar with the unvarnished history of how Israel came into existence , books such as " The Ethnic Cleansing of Palestine " by Israeli historian Ilan Pappe and " The Iron Cage " by Rashid Khalidi , who heads the Middle East Institute at Columbia University , are invaluable resources . <p> What is happening in Gaza is not the result of a " conflict between Israel and Hamas " or a " war . " It is the outcome of resistance to illegal occupation , ethnic cleansing and genocide of Palestinians . And it is the next step in a 75-year-old campaign to form what Israeli Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich recently referred to as the " Greater Israel project , " which would " have Israeli statehood extend into Jordan , Lebanon , Egypt , Syria , Iraq and Saudi Arabia . " <p> Smotrich has also openly declared his stance that there is no such thing as a " Palestinian people , " that his family are the " real Palestinians . " Though shocking , his inflammatory statements are not surprising , given the position of other members of the right-wing Likud Party such as former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , who stated 14 months ago , " We are imposing a complete siege on Gaza . There will be no electricity , no food , no water , no fuel , everything will be closed . We are fighting against human animals . " <p> For 14 months , the slaughter , torture , displacement and starvation of Palestinians , and the complete destruction of Gaza , have been aided and abetted by our country . This is despite multiple reports of Israeli war crimes , ignoring the Leahy Law , which forbids the provision of weapons to military units that are grossly violating human rights . <p> The fact that President Biden , Secretary of State Blinken , Secretary of Defense Austin and members of Congress have chosen not to enforce the Leahy Law has caused indescribable suffering to more than 2 million children , women and men in Gaza . On Nov. 27 , less than a day after the much-vaunted , U.S.-backed ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon was announced , the Biden administration moved forward on a $680 million arms package to Israel . As noted by Reuters , " The package follows a $20 billion sale in August of fighter jets and other military equipment to Israel . " Our tax dollars have supported genocide for 14 months . We are complicit . <p> When I spoke at the City Council meeting , it was for reasons beyond being a resident of Belfast . I recognized that it was my responsibility as a retired health care provider and a Christian peace activist to do so . There is no more urgent issue than to stop the genocide in Gaza and the West Bank . My hope is that the action of the Belfast and Portland city councils will be an inspiration to other communities , such as Bangor , to stand against genocide. 
@@118747761 <h> Alsobrooks can be an advocate for Israeli women in Hamas captivity GUEST COMMENTARY <h> Share this : <p> Prince George 's County Executive Angela Alsobrooks , the Democratic candidate for the Maryland U.S. Senate seat , answers questions during an interview with the editorial board at the Baltimore Sun . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) <p> It 's December 2024 , and multiple women have been held hostage in Gaza for nearly 450 days . UN Women , the organization responsible for advocating for justice for Romi Gonen , Naama Levy , and all other female victims of Hamas ' sexual violence , has been mostly silent regarding their abduction and the massive sexual violence that took place on Oct. 7 , 2023 . Every day that passes is another day that Israeli women are subject to sexual violence . <p> In an interview with The 19th in April , you spoke about your time in public office , saying , " I loved fighting for women , and I also loved , after the cases were done , talking to them in my office -- supporting and encouraging the women who had had horrible things happen to them , to their children and families . " Your record of advocating for justice for women has been beyond exceptional . It is your passion for justice and your record of leadership that has led us to call upon you for help . <p> We urge you to publicly support Israeli women who were sexually assaulted by Hamas during the Oct. 7 terrorist attack and who are being assaulted in Gaza right now , and to condemn sexual violence by saying that you believe Israeli women . Rape and sexual assault have no place in war and it is important to stand in solidarity with these victims . Your advocacy is all the more important because of the recent wave of antisemitism , misogyny and atrocity denial that is affecting survivors and harming more general efforts to combat sexual assault . <p> On Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas terrorists attacked Israel , killing nearly 1,200 people and kidnapping 251 people , holding them as hostages . During the attack , many Israeli women and girls were subjected to sexual violence and extreme acts of cruelty . In many cases , they were gang-raped , tortured and mutilated before they were killed . Videos of naked and bloodied women filmed by Hamas , photographs of bodies and eyewitness accounts provide abundant evidence of gender-based violence and brutality , intended to cause as much pain to victims as possible . For Hamas , the cruelty of this sexual violence was the point . <p> Political attacks , propaganda , overwhelming post-traumatic stress and shame have been inflicted on survivors of these assaults , thus making many of them reluctant to come forward . Despite these obstacles , the Association of Rape Crisis Centers in Israel found that sexual violence was systematic , widespread and a " clear operational strategy " of Hamas . <p> There is further evidence that the Israeli hostages in Gaza are still being sexually assaulted . A horrifying video posted on Oct. 7 showed a young woman named Naama Levy being dragged by her hair and forced into the back of a Jeep , with her ankles slashed and her sweatpants stained with blood . Released hostages said that Levy was alive but wounded and being abused . The former hostage Amit Soussana testified to both doctors and reporters about how she was tortured and sexually assaulted during her captivity and urged that a deal be reached , so the remaining hostages can be freed . <p> As American-Jewish feminists , we have witnessed the deafening silence coming from countless champions of feminist causes , from the Women 's March to the United Nations . We need our leaders on all levels of government to set the standard that all survivors of sexual violence deserve to be believed . <p> Senator-elect Alsobrooks , please believe Amit . Please believe Naama . Please believe us when we say we are in dire need of leadership to demand justice for our murdered and abducted sisters . Please say , " I believe Israeli women " and support a deal to free the hostages , so that the women who are being abused and tortured can be liberated and return to their families and friends . <p> Michael DeLong and Beth Vander Stoep are local advocates with the community organization Baltimore Area Jewish Feminists . 
@@118754761 <h> The Google summary divided the most popular searches into categories , ranging from terms related to the war in Gaza and Lebanon , to pop culture and sports . <p> Eden Golan and her song " Hurricane " topped trending Google search terms for 2024 among Israelis , according to a summary published by Google on Sunday , KAN News reported . <p> The summary divided the most popular searches from Israel into categories , ranging from terms related to the war in Gaza and Lebanon , such as ' Home Front Command ' and ' Iran , ' to pop culture and sports , KAN News wrote . <p> In the TV series category , Manayek , KAN 11 's police corruption drama , ranked second , while Mekif Milano from KAN Educational came in eighth place . <h> Euro 2024 and Eurovision <p> In sports , Euro 2024 , the European Football Championship , was the leading search this year , along with the names of athletes such as 17-year-old Lamin Yamal , who led Spain to victory , as well as Israeli athletes Raz Hershko , Tom Reuveni , Oren Smedja , and Peter Palczyk , KAN News added . <p> In music , " Hurricane , " performed by Israeli singer Eden Golan for Eurovision amid violent threats and antisemitism , took first place in search results , followed by searches for Ness &amp; Stila and Omer Adam . Eden Golan represents Israel in the Eurovision final in Malmo , Sweden ( credit : REUTERS/Leonhard Foeger ) <p> KAN News also noted that popular searches included the US presidential election between Donald Trump and Kamala Harris , concert tickets for Omer Adam , and trendy Tel Aviv restaurants . 
@@118762677 <p> All across the United States , pro-Palestinian protesters are continuing to organize marches to express solidarity with the Palestinians in Gaza , who they think are being victimized by the Israelis . <p> Some of these marches are taking place in Jewish neighborhoods with the intent of terrorizing innocent Jewish Americans . <p> Mark Levin plays a clip of one such march , during which the protesters were claiming that the streets belonged to them . <p> Although the footage is recent , it 's reminiscent of " Skokie , when the Nazis marched through a Jewish neighborhood in Chicago " in 1977 , says Levin . <p> " Our nation 's being populated with terrorist-supporting thugs like this . Our universities are graduating them , and they 're being funded by foreign sources , " he says , calling it " the enemy within . " <p> " My great fear is that domestic terrorism will be on the rise , " Levin confesses , pointing to the " open border , " " the immigration policies of this current administration , and this homegrown crap " as the gasoline fueling the fire . <p> To see the harrowing footage of the march and hear more of Levin 's commentary , watch the clip above . <h> Want more from Mark Levin ? <p> To enjoy more of " the Great One " -- Mark Levin as you 've never seen him before -- subscribe to BlazeTV -- the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America , defend the Constitution , and live the American dream . 
@@118764368 <p> Coming off a year that debuted indie successes ranging from box office winner Thelma to Oscar contender A Real Pain , the Sundance Film Festival has announced its official 2025 lineup , complete with big stars and beloved filmmakers . <p> Perhaps the most eye-popping title on the list , Bill Condon 's musical take on Kiss of the Spider Woman will debut in the Premieres section of the festival only a few months after completing filming . The project is based on Terrence McNally 's Broadway hit , which swept the Tonys back in the ' 90s ; Manuel Puig 's original 1976 novel of the same name previously spawned an Oscar-winning 1985 film starring William Hurt and S ? nia Braga . Best known for his Oscar-nominated Chicago screenplay and for directing Dreamgirls , Condon cast Diego Luna and Jennifer Lopez in Spider Woman 's lead roles . <p> The Premieres selection sees the return of several Sundance favorites . Ira Sachs , whose last movie , Passages , premiered in Park City before going on to receive Indie Spirit and Gotham award nominations for best feature , is back with Peter Hujar 's Day.Passages ' Ben Whishaw portrays the iconic eponymous photographer opposite Rebecca Hall as his friend Linda Rosenkrantz.Sing Sing 's Greg Kwedar and Clint Bentley are back with Train Dreams , an elegiac turn-of-the-century character study set against the American railroad system and starring awards darlings Joel Edgerton , Felicity Jones , and Kerry Condon.Fire Island director Andrew Ahn is also returning to Sundance for the first time since his feature debut , Spa Nights , with his anticipated remake of The Wedding Banquet , led by Lily Gladstone , Bowen Yang , and Kelly Marie Tran . Other stars figuring into Premieres with juicy lead roles include Benedict Cumberbatch ( The Thing With Feathers ) , Rose Byrne ( If I Had Legs I 'd Kick You ) , Olivia Colman ( Jimpa ) , and Chlo ? Sevigny ( Magic Farm ) . <p> Benedict Cumberbatch in The Thing With Feathers <p> Anthony Dickenson <p> Over in the US Dramatic Competition section , major producers have put their weight behind several promising first-time feature filmmakers . Eva Victor stars in her own movie , Sorry , Baby , backed by Moonlight Oscar winners Barry Jenkins and Adele Romanski . Award-winning actor Andr ? Holland ranks among the producers of Rachael Abigail Holder 's Love , Brooklyn , a portrait of friendship in a changing city that also stars Holland alongside Nicole Beharie and DeWanda Wise . And the buzzy war satire Atropia , written and directed by Hailey Gates , is produced by her Challengers director , Luca Guadagnino . ( The film stars Alia Shawkat and Callum Turner . ) There 's plenty of fun to be had in the Midnights section too , which spotlights horror and genre fare : Ayo Edebiri top-lines the A24 chamber thriller Opus , while spouses Alison Brie and Dave Franco get trippy in Together . <p> Over in the nonfiction selection , Marlee Matlin gets the documentary treatment in Shoshannah Stern 's Not Alone Anymore , while David Osit 's Predators examines the complex phenomenon of the series To Catch a Predator . Multiple films delving into the Israel-Gaza war will also bow in Park City . The documentary Coexistence , My Ass ! follows the comedian Noam Shuster-Eliassi struggling to explore the topic in a one-person show , while Cherien Dabis 's narrative feature All That 's Left of You examines the events surrounding a Palestinian teen 's confrontation with Israeli soldiers at a protest in the West Bank . <p> All eyes will be on Sundance next year as the festival makes a final decision on its potential move out of Park City -- and as it continues to refine its innovative hybrid model of in-person and digital screenings , which has expanded access for attendees since the COVID-19 pandemic . See the full program and more information here . <h> David Canfield <h> Hollywood Correspondent <p> David Canfield is a Hollywood correspondent at Vanity Fair , where he reports on awards season and co-hosts the Little Gold Men podcast . He joined VF from Entertainment Weekly , where he was the movies editor and oversaw awards coverage , and has also written for Vulture , Slate , and IndieWire . David is a ... Read more 
@@118785475 <h> Hamas concedes on Israeli security demands amid hostage-deal push <p> Jonathan Dekel-Chen , whose son has been held captive for more than a year , reacts to the possibility of a deal for Hamas to release hostages . <p> Israeli Prime Minster Benjamin Netanyahu is " ready to do a deal " to secure the release of hostages still held in Gaza , White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan said on Thursday . <p> " I got the sense from the prime minister he is ready to do a deal , " Sullivan told reporters during a Tel Aviv press conference , according to multiple reports . " The prime minister indicated he wants to get it done . " <p> Biden 's national security adviser , who met with the Israeli prime minister on Thursday , was pressed on whether Netanyahu was stalling cease-fire negotiations with Hamas in a move to wait for the incoming Trump administration , to which Sullivan said , " No , I do not get that sense . " <p> " We want to close this deal this month . I would n't be here today if I thought this is waiting until after Jan. 20 , " he said . <p> White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanayhu in Tel Aviv on Dec. 12 , 2024 , in an effort to secure a cease-fire in Gaza . ( David Azagury/ U.S. Embassy Jerusalem ) <p> Sullivan 's comments came just two days after he met with the family members of American hostages who have been held captive by Hamas for more than 430 days following the Oct. 7 , 2023 , attacks in Israel . <p> Hope that a hostage deal could finally be on the horizon after more than a year since the last hostage release was agreed to in November 2023 , resurfaced late last month after Jerusalem and Hezbollah agreed to a cease-fire under a 13-point deal . <p> A report this week by the Wall Street Journal further suggested that Hamas has conceded on two key Israeli demands and reportedly told mediators the terrorist network would allow Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) soldiers to remain in Gaza during a pause in the fighting . <p> The group also apparently agreed to drop its demands for a permanent end to Israel 's campaign and handed over a list of hostages , including Americans , who would be exchanged under a " cease-fire pact . " <p> It remains unclear how many hostages Hamas would hand over or which of the seven Americans still in Gaza -- three of whom are still believed to be alive -- were on this list . <p> Families of the hostages , both in the U.S. and in Israel , have been calling on Netanyahu for months to seek a truce and secure the release of the hostages . This plea became increasingly urgent after a cease-fire deal collapsed in late summer , and ultimately failed to secure the release of American hostage Hersh Goldberg-Polin , who , along with two other Israelis shortlisted for release , were killed alongside three other hostages by Hamas in August . <p> The United Nations General Assembly on Wednesday issued a sweeping demand that Israel and Hamas reach a cease-fire agreement and that all hostages be freed from captivity . <p> The resolution , which was adopted with 158 votes in favor of the 193-member body , called for an " immediate , unconditional and permanent cease-fire , to be respected by all parties , and further reiterates its demand for the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages . " <p> Though U.N . General Assembly resolutions are not binding , they are significant as they portray the international position regarding an issue . <p> Demonstrators and relatives of hostages taken by Hamas protest on the National Mall in Washington , D.C. , on July 23 , 2024 . ( Graeme Sloan/Bloomberg via Getty Images ) <p> Nine countries voted against the resolution , including the U.S. and Israel , while 13 other nations abstained . <p> In an address to the assembly following the vote , Deputy U.S. Ambassador to the U.N . Robert Wood said , " The draft resolution on a cease-fire in Gaza risks sending a dangerous message to Hamas that there 's no need to negotiate or release the hostages . " <p> " Even as the Gaza resolution before us today does nothing to advance a realistic diplomatic solution , the United States will continue to pursue a diplomatic solution that brings peace , security , and freedom to Palestinian civilians in Gaza , " he added , saying now is the time to put more pressure on Hamas . <p> The White House national security adviser is expected to travel from Israel this week to Qatar and then to Egypt , where he will meet with top officials to secure a cease-fire and the release of hostages . <p> Caitlin McFall is a Reporter at Fox News Digital covering Politics , U.S. and World news . <h> Antisemitism Exposed <p> Fox News ' Antisemitism Exposed " newsletter brings you stories on the rising anti-Jewish prejudice across the U.S. and the world . " <p> Arrives Weekly <p> By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button , you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use , and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News . You understand that you can opt-out at any time . 
@@118786162 <h> Trump says he does n't ' trust ' Netanyahu -- but vows to bring Israel-Hamas war to an end <p> President-elect Donald Trump has pledged to finalize a peace deal between Israel and Hamas and end the war in the Gaza Strip during his second term , but does n't place trust in anyone else to bring that about -- not even Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> " I do n't trust anybody , " Trump , 78 , bluntly told Time magazine in his " Person of the Year " interview published Thursday when asked about his confidence in the Israeli leader . <p> Time also asked the incoming president whether he was still in favor of a two-state solution put forward by his first administration or if he would support Netanyahu annexing more territory in the West Bank . <p> " What I want is a deal where there 's going to be peace and where the killing stops , " Trump responded . <p> Trump halted Netanyahu from absorbing the West Bank during his first term as president , but seemed open to reversing course in his second go-round , noting Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , massacre left more than 1,000 dead . <p> Donald Trump shakes hands with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu as they pose for a photo during their meeting at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach , Florida , on July 26 , 2024 . Israeli Government Press Office <p> A Palestinian woman stands next to the debris outside a building targeted by an Israeli airstrike on December 12 , 2024 , near the Nuseirat refugee in the central Gaza Strip . AFP via Getty Images <p> Trump 's pick for ambassador to Israel , former Arkansas Gov . Mike Huckabee , has previously supported the development of Israeli settlements and in a recent interview proclaimed he was open to annexing Judea and Samaria , also known as the West Bank . <p> " Well , of course , " Huckabee told Israel 's Army Radio in a mid-November interview about the possibility of annexation , before adding : " I wo n't make the policy , I will carry out the policy of the president . " <p> Huckabee also did n't rule out US support for Israeli settlements in Gaza . <p> " I have n't had time to process that , " he added . " I do n't want to make any comments about policy because those wo n't be mine to make . " <p> Trump 's pick for ambassador to Israel , former Arkansas Gov . Mike Huckabee , has previously supported the development of Israeli settlements . Getty Images <p> Trump 's overall assessment of the war was that it will be easier to solve that the Ukraine-Russia war . <p> He 's met with Netanyahu at his estate at Mar-a-Lago and has long vowed he would bring peace to the Middle East . <p> " As we speak , things are happening very productively on the Middle East , " Trump told Time . " I think the Middle East is going to get solved . I think it 's more complicated than the Russia-Ukraine , but I think it 's , it 's , it 's easier to solve . " <h> Video <h> Now on Decider <p> Trump and White House senior adviser Jared Kushner meet with Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the King David Hotel on May 22 , 2017 , in Jerusalem , Israel . Getty Images <p> Donald Trump shakes hands with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu as they pose for a photo during their meeting at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach , Florida , on July 26 , 2024 . Israeli Government Press Office <p> A Palestinian woman stands next to the debris outside a building targeted by an Israeli airstrike on December 12 , 2024 , near the Nuseirat refugee in the central Gaza Strip . AFP via Getty Images <p> Trump 's pick for ambassador to Israel , former Arkansas Gov . Mike Huckabee , has previously supported the development of Israeli settlements . Getty Images 
@@118787365 <p> President-elect Donald Trump said in an interview that bringing down grocery prices will be " very hard , " after he repeatedly promised during his campaign to cut costs , a major factor in winning over voters dissatisfied with the economy . <p> In a wide-ranging interview on Nov. 25 that was published Thursday as part of his Time " Person of the Year " honor , Trump said he would pardon people convicted of participating in the Jan. 6 , 2021 , attack on the U.S. Capitol within hours of his inauguration , sought to distance himself from anti-transgender messages that Republicans used effectively against Democrats in the election and described the Middle East as an " easier problem " to resolve than Russia 's war against Ukraine . <p> Throughout the campaign , Trump vowed to reduce the cost of food and energy as he blamed price hikes on Vice President Kamala Harris , who had promised to push for a federal ban on price gouging . In August at his club in Bedminster , New Jersey , Trump stood near a table of produce such as milk , eggs , cereal and coffee and attributed the price hikes to Harris . <p> At a rally in North Carolina , Trump told the crowd , " From the day I take the oath of office , we 'll rapidly drive prices down and make America affordable again . " He vowed : " Prices will come down . You just watch . They 'll come down fast . " <p> In the interview with Time , Trump offered a more realistic assessment , with no promises on how he would cuts costs . He said he would address energy costs and the supply chain , which he said would bring down food prices . <p> Trump also has vowed to impose tariffs on all imported goods from China , Mexico and Canada , a step that could trigger retaliation and higher prices for Americans . <p> " I 'd like to bring them down . It 's hard to bring things down once they 're up . You know , it 's very hard . But I think that they will , " he said in the interview . <p> Trump said he would pardon people convicted in the Jan. 6 assault within hours or minutes of taking office , meaning the new president could grant pardons while still in the building that the rioters stormed after he falsely claimed he won the 2020 election . Trump did not specifically say which of the rioters would receive pardons , but he said he would review the cases individually and said " a vast majority of them should not be in jail . " <p> Trump distanced himself from the conservative culture-war issue of barring transgender people from certain bathrooms , saying he did not believe that transgender people using the bathroom corresponding with their gender identity was a major issue - after he and other Republicans had made anti-transgender policies a central point of their closing arguments . Republicans spent $215 million on network TV ads that painted transgender people as a threat , according to a Washington Post analysis of data compiled by AdImpact . " I do n't want to get into the bathroom issue . Because it 's a very small number of people we 're talking about , and it 's ripped apart our country , so they 'll have to settle whatever the law finally agrees , " Trump said in the interview . <p> He also said he agreed with incoming congresswoman Sarah McBride ( D-Delaware ) , who is transgender and has said there are more important issues to focus on after Rep. Nancy Mace ( R-South Carolina ) proposed a resolution barring the Democrat from using women 's restrooms in the Capitol . However , Trump also said he would consider rolling back President Joe Biden 's expansion of Title IX protections , which includes prohibitions against harassment of transgender students . <p> Trump said he did not give up on his previous selection for attorney general , former congressman Matt Gaetz ( R-Florida ) , but he said he told Gaetz that he did n't " think this is worth the fight . " Trump said he spoke with senators , mentioning five who were " hard no 's " on the embattled pick , before Gaetz announced he would withdraw from the confirmation process . <p> Trump rejected that his choosing Project 2025 contributors for Cabinet posts was a reversal of his campaign trail position that he would have nothing to do with the Heritage Foundation project . " I do n't disagree with everything in Project 2025 , but I disagree with some things , " Trump told Time . " Now , if we had a few people that were involved , they had hundreds of them . " Trump had posted on his social media platform Truth Social in July that he had " no idea " who was behind the controversial blueprint of what his second term might look like . " Anything they do , I wish them luck , but I have nothing to do with them , " he wrote at the time . <p> Trump declined to say if Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had given any assurances that he would end the war in Gaza , and Trump also did n't offer any specifics about what a solution might look like in Israel . " I do n't want people from either side killed , and that includes whether it 's Russia , Ukraine , or whether it 's the Palestinians and the Israelis and all of the , you know , the different entities that we have in the Middle East . There 's so many different entities . But I do n't want people killed , " Trump said . Asked if he trusted Netanyahu , an allied leader with whom Trump has previously had a mercurial relationship , Trump said , " I do n't trust anybody . " He also said , " I think that the Middle East is an easier problem to handle than what 's happening with Russia and Ukraine . Okay , I just want to say that up front . The Middle East is going to get solved . " <p> Trump declined to answer a question about whether he had talked with Russian President Vladimir Putin after reporting that the two had spoken after Trump won the election as well as several times after Trump left office . " I ca n't tell you . It 's just inappropriate , " Trump said in response to the Time question about if they had spoken . Asked three times if he would protect Ukraine 's sovereignty in negotiations to end the war with Russia , Trump said " I want to reach an agreement , and the only way you 're going to reach an agreement is not to abandon . " <p> Trump promised " a virtual closure of the Department of Education , " adding that while he believes most education policy should be decided by the states , " you 're going to need some people just to make sure they 're teaching English in the schools . Okay , you know English and mathematics , let 's say . " His campaign promise to close the Department of Education had appealed to libertarian and small-government conservatives who have long protested the department 's existence . " We will shut down our out-of-control federal Department of Education and give it back to the states and local governments , " he said at the Libertarian National Convention in May . <p> If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site , we may receive compensation . By using this site , you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks , interactions , and personal information may be collected , recorded , and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy . 
@@118800260 <h> Singer Avraham Tal performs in honor of ZAKA at Jpost Gala <h> " You are so brave for the things that you do " . <p> Jerusalem PostConferences Avraham Tal invites ZAKA CEO Dubi Weissenstern and volunteer Simcha Greinman , Deputy Commander of ZAKA for the city of Modi'in to the stage at the Jpost Gala in Miami ( photo credit : Elliot La-Mer - DEMAGIC ) <p> Avraham Tal , the noted Israeli singer , musician , and musical producer , performed at the Gala event on Monday evening , launching the 2024 Jerusalem Post Summit . During the performance , Tal invited ZAKA CEO Dubi Weissenstern and volunteer Simcha Greinman , Deputy Commander of ZAKA for the city of Modi'in , to the stage to honor the organization for their work and sang the song " Shema Yisrael , " which he composed in the first days of the war with David Broza and Mika Ben Shaul . Said Weissenstern , " Singing helps us and gives us great strength . " <p> Greinman recounted ZAKA 's work in the Gaza communities , during which volunteers spent months searching house by house for materials that needed to be buried according to Jewish law . <p> " One of the families called me and said , ' We survived , and the mezuzot certainly survived as well . ' " He then displayed a mezuzah that he had saved from the destruction in Gaza and said , <p> " This is a mezuzah that I was able to take with me to show in front of the world , to speak about the atrocities , and tell about what happened to the Jewish people . " 
@@118800263 <h> Measures were taken by an arbitration committee following off-wiki coordination endeavors <p> Wikipedia webpage in use on a laptop computer is seen in this photo illustration taken in Washington , January 17 , 2012. ( photo credit : REUTERS/GARY CAMERON ) <p> An Arbitration Committee set by Wikipedia for " Palestine-Israel Cases " has banned two editors indefinitely and imposed restrictions on three others . <p> These measures were taken against the said editors following attempts at " canvassing , " which is regarded by Wikipedia as bringing fellow editors into a discussion regarding a specific edit " with the intention of influencing the outcome of a discussion in a particular way , and is considered inappropriate . " According to Wikipedia 's standards , such instances of canvassing are deemed inappropriate " because they compromise the normal consensus decision-making process , and therefore ( it ) is generally considered disruptive behavior . " <p> The Committee highlighted the off-wiki misconduct in the Palestine -- Israel topic area , accusing editors of making edits in the Palestine -- Israel topic area after off-wiki canvassing requests and " encouraging other users to game the extended confirmed restriction and engage in disruptive editing . " <p> " Wikibias , " an X account that examines these attempts and exposes anti-Israel bias on the Free Encyclopedia , lauded the decision taken by the committee , adding that other " toxic editors " are still manipulating information in articles such as " Use of Human Shields by Hamas . " The outlet continued : " it is high time the Arbitration Committee takes immediate action to thoroughly investigate and hold all editors ... accountable for their distortion of Wikipedia content . " Tourists look from Casa Batllo at people holding Palestinian and Lebanon flags during a protest to express support for Palestinians in Gaza , a day ahead of the anniversary of the October 7th attack , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , in Barcelona , Spain October 6 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/NACHO DOCE ) <h> A history of anti-Israel coordination efforts <p> Wikipedia , a self-described endeavor where anyone can contribute to the world 's common knowledge , is owned by the Wikimedia Foundation , an NGO which , as a matter of principle , rarely interferes in the content and editing process of specific entries , even when facing stories of widespread bias and misinformation . <p> In August , the blog " The Wikipedia Flood : Documenting Wikipedia 's Anti-Israel Bias " , published an expose showing how pro-Hamas editors were using Wikipedia as a battlefield to promote their anti-Israel agendas . This included off-wiki coordination endeavors through personal correspondence on email and social media platforms such as Discord , despite the fact that Wikipedia 's own standards prohibit these . <p> According to the blog , these groups of editors collaborated to set up " war rooms " with weekly meetings to coordinate editing efforts , with some in the group self-describing as an " instrument of the Gaza war for the elimination of Israel . " <p> Last month , The Jerusalem Post published an investigative report ( LINK ) on the bigotry , misinformation and bias found on Wikipedia 's Arabic version , which included a plethora of examples from offensive generalizations against Jews to denial and downplaying Arabic Wikipedia 's distinctive editing pool which limits automatically accepted edits to a closed group of editors , differing from the English version which mostly allows editing freely.Advertisement <p> The Post 's investigation also interviewed Ashley Rindsberg from Pirate Wires , who himself published an in-depth expose of the group of pro-Hamas editors which he deemed to be " hijacking Wikipedia . " In the expose , Rindsberg pointed to roughly 40 editors who have worked together to delegitimize Israel on the website , also removing the terror group 's of expressions of antisemitism as shown on their 1988 charter . He also exposed that following October 7th , a group named Tech for Palestine launched a campaign to coordinate the editing endeavors of 8,000 articles on Wikipedia , but when they were exposed -- they proceeded to delete all of the pages and chats they were operating . <p> Disdain toward the bias on the Free Encyclopedia is not limited to activists and reporters only . Larry Sanger , one of the founders and creators of Wikipedia , has also voiced his concerns regarding the bias on Wikipedia , being cited in 2021 as saying that he would n't trust it as a source despite being amongst its creators . Sanger warned that Wikipedia " has changed " , implying that it is no longer " committed to neutrality " as it used to be , due " a big , nasty , complex being made behind the scenes to make the article say what somebody wants them to say . " 
@@118800266 <p> Hamas has agreed to yield to two of Israel 's " key demands " for a ceasefire deal in Gaza , the Wall Street Journal reported on Wednesday , confirming a previous Jerusalem Post report , citing Arab mediators . <p> In July , the Post reported that Hamas dropped two of its demands , including a permanent ceasefire and a complete withdrawal from the Gaza Strip , including the Philadelphi Corridor . <p> According to the WSJ report , Hamas told the mediators for the first time that it would agree to a deal allowing the IDF to remain in Gaza temporarily during the pause in fighting . <p> It also added that Hamas handed over a list of hostages that included US citizens . The listed hostages would then reportedly be released under a " ceasefire pact . " <p> Hamas has not released hostages since November last year . Illustrative image of a Hamas terrorist . ( credit : Canva , Hamas Military Wing/Handout via REUTERS , REUTERS/Ramadan Abed ) <p> The new plan was reportedly proposed by Egypt and backed by the US . The WSJ added that the plan " seeks to build on the momentum generated by the cease-fire in Lebanon , " which was enacted last month . <p> This comes as hostage deal talks have picked up in recent days . <p> On Wednesday , Mossad chief David Barnea met with Qatari Prime Minister Mohammed bin Abdulrahman al-Thani in Doha to discuss the Gaza hostage deal and the ceasefire negotiations , according to two sources familiar with the details . <p> Barnea 's visit to Qatar was part of efforts to achieve a breakthrough in negotiations for a deal and transition to direct talks between Israel and Hamas to finalize an agreement before US President-elect Donald Trump 's inauguration on January 20 of next year . 
@@118800267 <h> Pe ? a took office last year and shortly afterward announced the embassy 's move back to Jerusalem . <p> Paraguay formally opened its new Jerusalem embassy in Israel on Thursday in a ceremony attended by President Santiago Pe ? a and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , following a back-and-forth struggle over the diplomatic seat that kicked off in 2018 . <p> The South American nation 's embassy had for decades been located in the coastal Israeli city of Tel Aviv , but in 2018 former President Horacio Cartes ordered its move to Jerusalem . Months later , the facility was moved back to Tel Aviv after an abrupt reversal announced by Cartes ' successor , Mario Abdo . <p> Cartes , a Netanyahu ally , is also a close confidant of Pe ? a , with both men coming from Paraguay 's conservative Colorado Party . <p> A historic day for Israel-Paraguay relations ! Honored to welcome President @SantiPenap and First Lady Leticia Pe ? a to Jerusalem , our eternal capital . Today , we proudly inaugurated Paraguay 's embassy in Jerusalem -- a powerful testament to truth , courage , and the enduring ... **26;1871;TOOLONG <h> Pe ? a 's political journey <p> Pe ? a took office last year and shortly afterward announced the embassy 's move back to Jerusalem . He traveled to Israel to officially open it on Thursday . <p> " This step symbolizes our commitment to shared values and the strengthening of the ties that build a future of peace , development and mutual understanding , " he said at the new embassy 's opening ceremony . <p> The president did not refer to the war in Gaza , or other recent IDF operations in Lebanon or Syria . 
@@118800269 <h> Trump , in TIME ' Person of the Year ' interview , says he told Netanyahu to end war <h> Time noted that ranges of people , from his biggest supporters to biggest critics , all were living in the " Age of Trump . " <p> US president-elect Donald Trump attends a viewing of the launch of the sixth test flight of the SpaceX Starship rocket , in Brownsville , Texas , US , November 19 , 2024. ( photo credit : BRANDON BELL/REUTERS/POOL ) <p> TIME Magazine officially named President-elect Donald Trump as its " Person of the Year , " via an announcement on X/Twitter on Thursday . In his exclusive interview with the publication , Trump discussed moves to bring the war in Gaza to an end , as well as extend the Abraham Accords to several other Arab states , including Saudi Arabia . <p> The publication used the opportunity to recognize Trump as the greatest influencer of the year on global affairs , for better or for worse . <p> In the interview , Trump elaborated on his commentary and advice to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on bringing the war in Gaza to a close by the time of the transition of power . He told TIME that Netanyahu knows his intention to end the war . When prompted and asked if he knew trusted Israel 's prime minister , he stopped and said that he does n't trust anyone . <p> Time touted Trump 's solidification of the Abraham Accords as " the most comprehensive plan for a two-state solution since President Clinton . They also noted that Trump 's appointee for US ambassador to Israel , Mike Huckabee , was a major supporter of the settlement movement and actively calls for Israeli annexation of the West Bank . <p> Trump first appeared with the title when he rose to the US presidency , shaking up expected results . Now , the story is framed as a " remarkable comeback and a resurgence that has the potential to upend modern American politics , " CNN wrote . <p> Trump rang the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange to celebrate the unveiling of the magazine cover , US media reported . <p> Time noted that ranges of people , from his biggest supporters to biggest critics , all were living in the " Age of Trump . " <p> " He dispatched his Republican rivals in near record time . For weeks , he campaigned largely from the New York ? courtroom where he would be convicted on 34 felony counts . His sole debate with President Joe Biden in June led to his opponent 's eventual exit from the race . Sixteen days later , he survived an assassination attempt at a campaign rally . In the sprint that followed , he outlasted Vice President Kamala Harris , sweeping all seven swing states and emerging from the election at the height of his popularity , " Time wrote . <p> They noted how political rivals and allies have aligned themselves to match him . <p> In his interview with the publication , he touched on several important world issues , including the ongoing war in Ukraine.Trump wins Time 's ' Person of the Year ' distinction for 2024. ( credit : MAARIV ) <h> Critical of Ukraine , Russia War <p> US President-elect Donald Trump criticized Ukraine 's use of US-supplied missiles for attacks deep into Russian territory in a Time magazine interview published on Thursday , comments that suggest he would alter US policy toward Ukraine . <p> " It 's crazy what 's taking place . It 's crazy . I disagree very vehemently with sending missiles hundreds of miles into Russia . Why are we doing that ? We 're just escalating this war and making it worse . That should not have been allowed to be done , " Trump said in an interview coinciding with him being named Time 's Person of the Year . <p> President Joe Biden last month lifted the US ban on Ukraine using US-supplied longer-range missiles for strikes deep inside Russia , his latest attempt to boost Kyiv in its battle to repel a Russian invasion force from his country . <p> The decision came after pleas from Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky . The White House cited Russia 's deployment of 15,000 North Korean troops along the battlefront as the main reason why Biden changed his mind . <p> Trump has said he would like to bring a quick end to the nearly three-year-old war . He told Time he had a " very good plan " to help but that if he reveals it now " it becomes almost a worthless plan . " <p> Trump , who takes office on Jan. 20 , met last weekend with Zelensky and French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris . <p> He told Time that the number of people dying in the conflict is not sustainable . <p> " I 'm talking on both sides . It 's really an advantage to both sides to get this thing done , " he said . 
@@118800271 <h> The German company that provides serves to the PFLP admitted to BR24 that it had done so , and that it had taken appropriate action . <p> PALESTINIANS TAKE part in a rally marking the 55th anniversary of the founding of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine , in Gaza City in 2022 . Samidoun 's terrorist designation is for its role as ' a sham charity ' for the PFLP , the writer notes. ( photo credit : IBRAHEEM ABU MUSTAFA/REUTERS ) <p> The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine ( PFLP ) was operating its website with the help of German and Canadian servers until mid-October 2024 , German public broadcaster BR24 revealed following an investigation . An IT expert confirmed the findings . <p> According to BR24 's report , the site regularly distributed antisemitic , anti-Israel , and anti-Western content and included references to the PFLP 's Telegram channels . <p> Stephen Stalinksy of the research institute MEMRI told BR24 that the PFLP was involved in the October 7 massacre : " The organization posted videos of its members participating in the attack in real-time . " <p> BR24 , citing the German Interior Ministry , said that EU sanctions prohibit any business activity with terrorist organizations , including making financial resources available to them . <p> Samen Nazari of Alliance4Europe - an organization that works to identify and combat disinformation - called for increased enforcement of these sanctions . <p> Germany 's security services reported to BR24 that the PFLP recruits " through its activists or members for propaganda activities and gatherings , " denies Israel 's right to exist , and openly advocates for armed resistance against the Jewish state . However , surprisingly , the PFLP is not officially banned in Germany . <h> EU terror list <p> Hans-Jacob Schindler of the Counter Extremism Project told BR24 that there is a complete lack of understanding that , while the PFLP is designated a terrorist organization by the EU , it is not banned in Germany . <p> German MP Stephan Thomae of the FDP demanded that the SPD-led Internal Affairs Ministry take action : " We must not give space to terrorist organizations . Germany must act accordingly on the EU 's terror list . " <p> Chief Rabbi Pinchas Goldschmidt , president of the Conference of European rabbis , told BR24 that the fact that the PFLP has not yet been banned in Germany is " scandalous . " <p> He added that the " lax attitude over the years toward terrorist organizations like Hamas , Hezbollah and the PFLP , and towards terrorist supporters like Iran , demonstrates the naivete with which politicians deal with security risks , which European companies subsequently profit from . " <p> The German company that provides services to the PFLP admitted to BR24 that it had done so and that it had taken appropriate action . 
@@118800272 <h> Signees said , they urged an end to the repeated " demeaning of women , the use of hateful language against those who hold different views , and the persistent coarsening of our political culture . " <p> Reform Jews in a prayer service for Israel at a Los Gatos CA temple. ( photo credit : EMMA STEINBERG ) <p> More than 5,000 members of the Reform Jewish Movement and its allies penned a letter to President-elect Donald Trump on Wednesday urging him to return to the Oval Office with " integrity and compassion , working to heal the division in our nation and uphold the rights and dignity of all Americans . " <p> In a statement , Rabbi Jonah Pesner , Director of the Religious Action Center of Reform Judaism , said the letter represents a heartfelt call to action rooted in Jewish values and democratic principles . <p> " As an American and a Reform Jew , I am committed to the protection of the orphan , the widow , and the stranger , " the letter said . " I will support any serious effort by your administration to combat antisemitism , and I will champion a strong US-Israel relationship that fosters democracy in and security for the Jewish state and demands the rights , well-being , and national aspirations of Palestinian civilians in Gaza and the West Bank are upheld . " <p> The letter continued , " I will join in fierce opposition to any further efforts to eviscerate reproductive rights , to target the safety and rights of the LGBTQ+ community , to harm communities of Color , or to undermine the health of our air , water , and land . " <h> Defending the vulnerable <p> The signees said they will join in defense of the security of immigrants and the right to claim asylum and will " vehemently oppose the weaponization of political power against individuals and institutions that are core to our democracy , including the courts and the press . " Republican presidential nominee , former U.S. President Donald Trump takes the stage during a campaign rally at the J.S. Dorton Arena , Raleigh , North Carolina , Nov. 4 , 2024. ( credit : CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES ) <p> And above all , the signees said , they urged an end to the repeated " demeaning of women , the use of hateful language against those who hold different views , and the persistent coarsening of our political culture . " <p> " We are all made more whole when we treat others with the respect every human being deserves , " according to the letter . " Please , help heal the wounds our nation bears and govern as a president for all Americans . " 
@@118800273 <h> The Cinemamed Brussels Mediterranean Film Festival announced last Wednesday that it would not be screening Yolande Zauberman 's The Belle from Gaza . <p> People take part in a protest in support of Palestinians in Gaza , as the conflict between Israel and Palestinian terrorist group Hamas continues , in Brussels , Belgium , November 11 , 2023. ( photo credit : YVES HERMAN/REUTERS ) <p> A Belgian film festival canceled last Wednesday the screening of a documentary about transgender Palestinians because of the threat of protest by anti-Israel activist who viewed the film as promoting a pro-Israel narrative . <p> The Cinemamed Brussels Mediterranean Film Festival announced last Wednesday that it would not be screening Yolande Zauberman 's The Belle from Gaza that day . The cancelation was the first in Cinemamed 's 30 years , and the festival expressed concern that the move could establish a precedent . <p> " We regret that the reasons why we had selected The Belle from Gazacould not be heard and that the public did not have the opportunity to form their own opinion on the film , " said Cinemamed . <p> Organizers said in a statement that they were forced to make the decision due to calls for boycott and protest in front of the Cinema Palace theater where the screening was to be held . Cinemamed felt that they had did not want the rest of the festival and entries to be disrupted by the anti-Israel activists . <p> The activist group Brussels Against Genocide had called for the boycott , protest of the film 's screening , and email campaign , claiming on a December 2 Instagram post that the film was part of Israel 's " pinkwashing " strategy -- a theory that the state of Israel uses LGBTQ rights issues to divert attention from the conflict with Palestinians . <h> ' Dehumanizing Palestinians , ' critics allege <p> The film , which details the experience of Palestinian transgender people who fled Gaza to live in Tel Aviv , " provides an orientalist and dehumanizing representation of Palestinians , especially those in Gaza , who are uniformly described as anti-gay and therefore deserving of murder and expulsion , " said Brussels Against Genocide . <p> " The Belle from Gaza is not only misleading but also indifferent to the decade-long collective suffering Palestinians have been enduring , particularly those in Gaza , subjected to genocide for over a year now , " the activist group continued . <p> Cinemamed disagreed that the documentary contributed to such a " pinkwashing " narrative or agenda , as it addressed the " difficulty of trans identity today and in all societies . " <p> " We saw a series of intimate portraits of women in search of freedom , " said Cinemamed . " The film does not evade the precariousness or the dangerousness of the existence of these women in Tel Aviv . The dangers that threaten them are as much due to the men who come to observe them , harass them , and threaten them . " 
@@118800277 <h> Abbas said in a statement that he thanked the pope " for his positions in support of achieving a just peace in Palestine based on the two-state solution . " <p> Pope Francis met Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas at the Vatican on Thursday , their first face-to-face encounter in three years , as the pontiff has become more vocal in his criticism of Israel 's military campaign in Gaza . <p> The two men held private talks for a half-hour , the Vatican said , but offered few other details about the meeting . <p> A statement said Abbas also met afterward with the Catholic Church 's top diplomatic officials to discuss the " very serious humanitarian situation in Gaza , where it is hoped that there will be a ceasefire and the release of all hostages as soon as possible . " <p> Abbas said in a statement that he thanked the pope " for his positions in support of achieving a just peace in Palestine based on the two-state solution . " <p> Abbas is in Rome for a brief visit this week . He is also due to meet Italian President Sergio Mattarella and Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni on Friday . Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas meets Pope Francis at the Vatican , December 12 , 2024. ( credit : Vatican Media/ ? Handout via REUTERS ) <p> The pope , as leader of the 1.4-billion-member Roman Catholic Church , is usually careful about taking sides in conflicts , but has recently been more outspoken about Israel 's campaign in its ongoing conflict with the terror group Hamas . <p> In November , Francis suggested the global community should study whether Israel 's campaign in Gaza constitutes a genocide of the Palestinian people . The comment , in a forthcoming book , drew a public rebuke from Israel 's ambassador to the Holy See . <h> The last meeting in 2021 <p> Abbas and Francis last met in person in November 2021 . During their visit together on Thursday , Francis gifted the president a bronze artwork inscribed with the words " Peace is a fragile flower , " a gift the pope has also given other world leaders . <p> Abbas ' trip to Rome comes as Lebanese Prime Minister Najib Mikati is also due to make a visit to Italy . Mikati is scheduled to meet Francis on Friday . <p> The pope has also criticized Israel 's airstrikes in Lebanon as going " beyond morality . " 
@@118800278 <h> Crypto seizures announced by the Israeli security services since 2021 have frequently singled out Tron 's use by terrorists , including Hamas . <p> A crypto venture recently unveiled by US President-elect Donald Trump and his new Middle East envoy , billionaire Steve Witkoff , has partnered with a crypto platform that authorities and financial experts say has been used by criminals and Iran-backed terror groups Hamas and Hezbollah . <p> World Liberty Financial Inc. , founded by the Witkoff family two months before November 's US election with Trump as a financial beneficiary , presents concerns over ethics and conflicts of interest , say six specialists in US government ethics . <p> Among their biggest concerns is World Liberty 's new partner : Tron crypto platform . <p> Quicker and cheaper than Bitcoin , the Tron network has overtaken its rival as a vehicle for crypto transfers associated with groups designated as terror organizations by Israel , the United States and other countries , Reuters reported in 2023 , citing interviews with seven financial crime experts and cryptocurrency investigations specialists . <p> Tron announced last month it was investing $30 million in World Liberty . Tron 's founder , Chinese-born entrepreneur Justin Sun , will join the Trump-Witkoff venture as an advisor , Sun and World Liberty said on social media platform X. The British Virgin Islands-registered Tron is now World Liberty 's largest investor , Sun said.US President Donald Trump delivers remarks recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel ( credit : JONATHAN ERNST / REUTERS ) <p> Crypto seizures announced by the Israeli security services since 2021 have frequently singled out Tron 's use by terrorists , including Hamas , whose 2023 attack on Israel killed 1,200 people , according to Israeli authorities , and triggered the Gaza war . <p> Israel 's National Bureau for Counter Terror Financing ( NBTCF ) , which is responsible for such seizures , froze 186 Tron wallets since July 2021 , saying they were used by a " designated terrorist organization " or for a " severe terror crime . " Of those , Israeli authorities linked 84 Tron wallets to Hamas or Hamas allies , including Islamic Jihad , 39 to Hezbollah , and 63 to unspecified terrorist groups or money changers . The most recent Tron seizure was announced on March 28 . <p> Reuters could not independently determine Tron 's use by terror groups , and the NBTCF did not provide evidence for its assertions or respond to requests for more details . Hamas and Hezbollah did not respond to requests for comment . <p> Tron , which profits from transaction fees on its network , told Reuters its technology " has attracted both lawful users and those with illicit motives " but did not specifically respond to claims it has been used by terrorists . The company " has taken proactive measures to address the risk of illicit activities on its network , " a Tron spokesperson said in response to questions for this story . A collaboration with law enforcement launched in September froze $70 million in illicit funds , the spokesperson said . Sun , the founder , did not respond to a request for comment . <p> On the sidelines of a crypto conference in Abu Dhabi , Eric Trump told Reuters that the use of crypto by criminal groups was " everybody 's foremost concern " but said traditional financial institutions were also used to funnel " bad money . " " Anything can be manipulated if used by the wrong people , and you have to crack down on it , " Trump 's second son said , adding that the crypto industry will do " a great job " of policing itself when it comes to illicit flows . <p> The US Treasury Department has also seized Tron wallets , including an account linked to a group that the department said raised money for Hamas in the wake of the 2023 attack on Israel . In March , the Treasury leveled sanctions against a Lebanon-based money changer who it said provided Hezbollah officials with crypto accounts , including a Tron wallet , to receive funds from Iran . <p> Tron 's investment in World Liberty raised concerns among ethics experts . <p> " There are red flags all over this , " said Kathleen Clark , a professor at Washington University in St. Louis who specializes in government ethics . Her concerns include the significant size of Tron 's investment in World Liberty , whether Trump could benefit financially from it , and the alleged use of Tron by terrorists , including Hamas and Hezbollah . <p> She also highlighted an investigation of Tron founder Sun by the US Securities and Exchange Commission . In 2023 , the SEC charged Sun with fraud , accusing him of artificially inflating trading volume and concealing payments to celebrities to promote his companies . Sun , who is based in Switzerland and is a citizen of Grenada , said the SEC charges " lack merit . " The case is ongoing . <p> Clark questioned whether World Liberty 's close relationship with Sun would pose a conflict of interest for Trump once his administration takes over the SEC in January . <p> Spokespeople for Trump and his transition team did not directly respond to questions about Trump 's financial ties to World Liberty , the Tron investment and potential conflicts . " President Trump did n't get into politics for profit , " said transition spokesperson Karoline Leavitt . " He 's fighting because he loves the people of this country and wants to make America great again . " <p> Terror groups and criminals like Tron because it gives users the option to conceal their identities , charges low fees and can be converted into cash easily , according to some crypto experts . <h> Potential conflicts <p> Witkoff co-founded World Liberty and has a stake in a company -- WC Digital Fi , LLC -- that is entitled to some of World Liberty 's revenues , according to the company 's terms . He is a close friend of Trump 's and a donor to his Republican presidential campaign . <p> He plans to put all his investments in a " blind trust , " said a person familiar with Witkoff 's plans who declined to be identified . The source , however , said Witkoff would retain ownership of his assets . Typically , in a blind trust , an outside manager controls an official 's assets , selling off those that pose a conflict and reinvesting the proceeds into investments unknown to the owner . <p> Witkoff declined to comment . World Liberty did not respond to requests for comment about potential ethical issues and Tron 's investment in the company . <p> Even with a trust , World Liberty sets up potential conflicts of interest , the ethics specialists told Reuters . <p> Witkoff 's Middle East policy recommendations could be affected by what he sees as best for World Liberty as opposed to the United States , they said . Even if Witkoff sets up a trust and is n't involved in World Liberty 's day-to-day operations , potential conflicts exist so long as he maintains a financial stake in the company , said Richard Painter , ethics counsel to former president George W. Bush and a University of Minnesota professor . <p> " Whether you 're involved in the management of the company or not , that 's not relevant at all . What 's relevant is if you own a financial interest that could be directly impacted by your government work , " said Painter . <p> Trump also faces potential conflicts from World Liberty , the experts said . <p> Trump is listed as " chief crypto advocate " on World Liberty 's website and is entitled to a cut of its revenues , according to the company 's terms and conditions . <p> World Liberty sells a proprietary token that can not be traded , those terms and conditions say , unlike Bitcoin and other crypto tokens . Trump and other unnamed " affiliates " are entitled to 75% of some World Liberty revenues , according to the terms , raising the possibility of people buying World Liberty coins to try to gain favor with him . <p> " Is this an alternative way of ingratiating yourself with Trump ? " Clark said of World Liberty . <p> Trump 's business dealings drew close scrutiny in his first term . While he was in office , at least 20 governments , including Saudi Arabia and China , collectively spent more than $7.8 million at his hotels and other properties , according to a report published by congressional Democrats in January . Trump did not face legal consequences for that spending . <p> The Trump transition team did not respond to a request for information on what steps he would take to address any conflicts from World Liberty . <p> World Liberty 's connection with Trump features heavily on the company 's website . A picture of Trump , ear bandaged after the July assassination attempt on him , greets visitors on the home page . The first people listed as members of the World Liberty team are Trump and his three sons , Don Jr. , Eric and Barron , who are described as " Web3 ambassadors . " Trump himself , along with relatives and associates , unveiled the business during a live event on X in September . Don Jr . and Barron did not respond to requests for comment . <p> Through World Liberty , Trump and his family could also benefit from possible regulatory changes that his administration makes involving crypto , the experts said . During the campaign , Trump vowed to name a new SEC chair to replace Gary Gensler , who took on the crypto industry with various lawsuits . Last week , he tapped crypto-friendly Washington lawyer Paul Atkins for the role . <p> Witkoff 's sons , Alex and Zach , are also listed as co-founders of World Liberty . They did not respond to requests for comment . Eric Trump told Reuters he is " very involved " in World Liberty . <p> If foreign governments or sovereign wealth funds were to invest in World Liberty , that could place Witkoff and Trump in violation of the US Constitution 's " emoluments " clause , designed to thwart corruption and improper influence on government , said Larry Noble , a professor at American University and former general counsel of the Federal Election Commission . The clause bars federal officials from accepting gifts or other advantages from foreign governments without congressional approval . <p> Diplomats said they were surprised when Witkoff , a New York real-estate investor , was named special Middle East envoy on Nov. 12 given his lack of foreign policy experience . He will assume the job at a time of heightened regional tensions , including the Gaza conflict , turmoil in Syria and the risk of a direct confrontation between Israel and Iran . <p> Witkoff donated $250,000 to the pro-Trump super PAC spending group MAGA Inc in December 2023 . He is worth at least $1 billion , according to Forbes . <p> Already , the lines between Witkoff 's business venture and his diplomatic role are blurring . Witkoff spoke on Monday at the Abu Dhabi crypto conference . The program listed him as Trump 's special envoy to the region and also mentioned the crypto business in his biography . " A forward-thinking entrepreneur , Steve is now focused on the intersection of real estate , Bitcoin , and crypto , " the conference website read . Those attending paid as much as $9,999 to access special sessions , which were closed to the media . Tron 's Sun was also listed as a speaker . <p> Witkoff did not respond to questions about the conference . <h> Special envoy , few rules <p> Witkoff 's new role of special envoy is not defined by law and may not require confirmation by the US Senate . The incoming administration could define him as a " special government employee , " a designation meant for temporary roles , said Scott Greytak , director of advocacy at Transparency International 's Washington office . <p> In that case , " unlike regular government employees , he can continue receiving outside income without limits , " he said . " However , he must file a financial disclosure form and can not take any official actions that would financially benefit himself . " <p> Witkoff should also sign an agreement with the State Department that he will not talk with foreign government officials about crypto while on official business , said Meredith McGehee , an independent ethicist and former policy director of nonprofit watchdog the Campaign Legal Center . " That should be a wall . You ca n't say : ' By the way , what 's your government going to do on crypto ? ' " McGehee said . <p> Special envoys under Biden , former President Barack Obama , and Trump 's own first administration were typically not from the business sector , Reuters found in a review of the emissaries . None had founded a major company linked to a presidential candidate weeks before the election . <p> Some had extensive investments in the private sector , however . Multimillionaire John Kerry divested assets identified by government ethics officers as potentially conflicting with his role as Biden 's special climate envoy , according to a 2021 certificate of divestiture from the US Office of Government Ethics . <p> Trump has appointed a close business associate before . In 2016 , he tapped the Trump Organization 's chief legal officer , Jason Greenblatt , as Special Representative for International Negotiations , a key role in Israeli-Palestinian talks . Greenblatt told Reuters he left Trump 's company before taking up his White House role . He did not recall whether he sold his investments before working as a special envoy , but said he would have followed applicable rules . 
@@118800669 <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- The White House on Thursday announced what it called the first-ever national strategy to counter Islamophobia , detailing more than 100 steps federal officials can take to curb hate , violence , bias and discrimination against Muslims and Arab Americans . <p> The proposal follows a similar national plan to battle antisemitism that President Joe Biden unveiled in May 2023 , as fears about increasing hatred and discrimination were rising among U.S. Jews . <p> Officials worked on the anti-Islamophobia plan for months , and its release came five weeks before Biden leaves office -- meaning implementation will mostly fall to President-elect Donald Trump , if his administration chooses to do so . <p> In a statement announcing the strategy , the Biden administration wrote that " Over the past year , this initiative has become even more important as threats against American Muslim and Arab communities have spiked . " It said that included the October 2023 slaying of 6-year-old Wadee Alfayoumi , an American Muslim boy of Palestinian descent , who was stabbed to death in Illinois . <p> The plan details actions the Executive Branch can take , along with more than 100 other calls to action across all sectors of society . <p> The strategy has four basic priorities : increasing awareness of hatred against Muslims and Arabs while more widely recognizing these communities ' heritages ; broadly improving their safety and security ; appropriately accommodating Muslim and Arab religious practices by working to curb discrimination against them ; and encouraging cross-community solidarity to further counter hate . <p> Many of those state goals are similar to the ones the Biden administration laid out in its plan to reduce antisemitism -- especially the emphasis on improving safety and security and building cross-community solidarity . <p> " While individuals have sometimes been targeted because they are thought to be Muslim , it is also crucial to recognize that Arabs are routinely targeted simply for being who they are , " the announcement of the strategy states , noting that Muslims and Arab Americans have helped build out the nation since its founding . It says that new data collection and education efforts are " increasing awareness of these forms of hate as well of the proud heritages of Muslim and Arab Americans . " <p> The plan calls for more widely disseminating successful practices of engaging Muslim and Arab Americans in the reporting of hate crimes , and that federal agencies are now more clearly spelling out that " discrimination against Muslim and Arab Americans in federally funded activities is illegal . " <p> The White House 's plan also urges " state , local , and international counterparts , as well as the nongovernmental sector , to pursue similar initiatives that seek to build greater unity by recognizing our common humanity , affirming our shared values and history , and embracing equal justice , liberty , and security for all . " <p> Pro-Palestinian groups decrying his administration 's full-throated support of Israel in its war with Gaza , frequently disrupted Biden campaign events , as well as those of Vice President Kamala Harris after Biden abandoned his reelection bid in July . <p> Trump , who implemented a travel ban on people from several Muslim-majority countries during his first term , won the largest majority-Muslim US city in last months elections . Yet some Arab Americans who backed Trump have begun expressing concerns about his some of his choices to fill out his Cabinet and other picks for his incoming administration . <h> United States News <p> McALLEN , Texas ( AP ) -- SpaceX is launching a new mission : making its Starbase site a new Texas city . Billionaire Elon Musk ' s company on Thursday sent a letter to local officials requesting a election to turn what it calls Starbase -- the South Texas site where SpaceX builds and launches its massive Starship rockets -- ... <p> HONOLULU ( AP ) -- A Hawaiian Airlines flight crew 's decision to fly over a hazardous storm cell instead of deviating around it was the probable cause for hitting severe turbulence that injured passengers and crewmembers in 2022 , the National Transportation Safety Board said in a final report Thursday . Three passengers and a crew member suffered serious ... <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- President-elect Donald Trump on Thursday voiced his support for the dockworkers union before their contract expires next month at Eastern and Gulf Coast ports , saying that any further " automation " of the ports would harm workers . The incoming president posted on social media that he met Harold Daggett , the president of the International ... <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- The White House on Thursday announced what it called the first-ever national strategy to counter Islamophobia , detailing more than 100 steps federal officials can take to curb hate , violence , bias and discrimination against Muslims and Arab Americans . The proposal follows a similar national plan to battle antisemitism that President Joe Biden unveiled ... <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- The man charged with killing UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson was never a client of the medical insurer and may have targeted it because of its size and influence , a senior police official said Thursday . NYPD Chief of Detectives Joseph Kenny told NBC New York in an interview Thursday that investigators have ... <p> UNITED NATIONS ( AP ) -- The deputy executive director of the U.N . World Food Program has been on whirlwind visits to hotspots in the Middle East and Sudan to assess dire humanitarian situations and escalating demands for food from millions of people trapped or fleeing conflicts . But Carl Skau said in an interview with The Associated ... 
@@118809369 <h> Share on Social Media <p> The action group Pens for Swords has launched a letter-writing campaign to protest the International Documentary Association 's decision to cancel the advertising contract it had with the film " We Will Dance Again , " charging that the move shows " anti-Israeli discrimination " and is " effectively sabotaging the documentary film 's Academy Awards chances . " <p> Pens for Swords , an action group that focuses on antisemitism and anti-Israeli bias , also appealed to the California State Attorney General and the Los Angeles County District Attorney , asking for an inquiry into the IDA 's actions and to reconsider the organization 's nonprofit status . <p> Representatives for the film have rejected the arguments made by an attorney for the IDA last week in a Dec. 4 letter to the filmmakers and to TheWrap that characterized the claims of anti-Israeli bias as " fictional . " That letter and the IDA 's arguments , said a spokesperson for the film , are " defamatory actions . " <p> TheWrap reached out to the IDA and to the law firm of Singh , Singh &amp; Trauben , LLP , which wrote the letter defending the IDA . They have not responded to requests for comment . <p> " We Will Dance Again , " which was nominated by the Producers Guild of America on Tuesday in its documentary category and is currently playing on Paramount+ , deals with the 2023 Nova Music Festival , at which 364 people were killed or injured as part of the Oct. 7 attack on Israel by Hamas . <p> The filmmakers signed a contract with the IDA on Nov. 15 to have the organization send seven email blasts ( called " eBlasts " in the contract ) and one " weekly digest " ad to its members between Nov. 18 and Dec. 8 , leading up to the Dec. 9-13 voting for the Academy Award shortlist in the Best Documentary Feature category . <p> After the first eBlast went out , the IDA canceled the rest of the ad buy , saying that it had limited inventory for the blasts and had to give priority to films that were nominated for the IDA Documentary Award . ( " We Will Dance Again " was not submitted for that award . ) <p> According to the letter sent by Pens for Swords ( and available for others to sign and send here ) , that cancellation seriously damaged the film 's awards prospects by withholding the ads from potential Oscar voters . <p> The Academy 's Documentary Branch consists of about 700 voting members around the world , but it is unknown exactly how many of them are also members of the IDA . The IDA 's website says that it has more than 3,000 members , with documentary filmmakers and doc fans eligible to join under seven different levels of membership , from " Doc Lover Membership " at $55 to " Advocate Membership " at $5,000 . <p> The letter from Pens for Swords asks the IDA ( which it initially misidentifies as the Independent Documentary Association rather than the International Documentary Association ) to reverse course and honor its media contract with " We Will Dance Again " " before causing more irreparable harm " -- although with shortlist voting ending on Dec. 13 , there 's little time to fulfill a contract calling for more than half a dozen items . <p> It goes on to say , " The IDA has purposely breached a media distribution contract with the producers of ' We Will Dance Again ' ... We are forwarding this letter to the Los Angeles District Attorney 's Office and the Office of the Attorney General of California because the IDA 's anti-Israel discrimination likely violates California 's Unruh Civil Rights Act. 2 In addition , under California law , as a nonprofit , the IDA is considered a public accommodation , ' so we recommend that IDA 's nonprofit status be reconsidered should allegations of discriminatory behavior be confirmed . " <p> The letter , and representatives for " We Will Dance Again , " also addressed specific comments made by the IDA 's attorneys in their Dec. 4 communication , which said that the film 's complaints " reflect a fundamental misunderstanding of IDA 's advertising insertion order process . " The attorneys said that at least 12 other films were also rejected for eBlasts and marketing -- but according to Pens for Swords , those other films were simply inquiries from movies that did not have existing contracts , making " We Will Dance Again " the only film whose contract was canceled . <p> " Furthermore , " the letter said , " the claim that IDA has a limited ' inventory ' for email blasts is implausible in the digital era . The eBlast that the producers paid $21,000 for is literally a click of a button for the IDA . " <p> While the IDA said it offered replacement email blasts that would take place after voting had closed for the IDA Documentary Awards , spokespersons for the film say concrete replacements were never offered and that the IDA was " non-responsive during the entire controversy " until TheWrap approached them for comment last week . <p> We are writing to you as concerned members of the community , unaffiliated with the filmmakers and producers of the documentary We Will Dance Again . The mission of the Independent SIC Documentary Association ( IDA ) is to " support the vital work of documentary storytellers and champion a thriving and inclusive documentary culture . " 1 Contrary to this mission , it has come to our attention that , for reasons of anti-Israel discrimination , the IDA has purposely breached a media distribution contract with the producers of We Will Dance Again , effectively sabotaging the documentary film 's Academy Award prospects . We are forwarding this letter to the Los Angeles District Attorney 's Office and the Office of the Attorney General of California because the IDA 's anti-Israel discrimination likely violates California 's Unruh Civil Rights Act. 2 In addition , under California law , as a non-profit , the IDA is considered a " public accommodation , " so we recommend that IDA 's non-profit status be reconsidered should allegations of discriminatory behavior be confirmed. 3 But there is still time to change course ! We urge the IDA to dispel its bigotry and immediately honor its media contract with We Will Dance Again before causing more irreparable harm . <p> Although the IDA calls these charges of anti-Israel bias a " fiction , " 4 the evidence paints a much different picture . The producers of We Will Dance Again signed a contract with the IDA for $21,000 for an " eBlast " of media distribution on November 18 , 2024 . On November 15 , 2024 , IDA personnel confirmed the timeline for the eBlast and requested final materials for media distribution . However , when the media campaign came across the desk of Zaferhan Yumru , IDA 's director of marketing , the producers of the film suddenly received a form letter of cancellation . <p> It has come to light that Zaferhan Yumru has a long history of anti-Israel activism and rhetoric online. 567 We Will Dance Again is a film that documents the minute-by-minute events that occurred at the Nova Music Festival on October 7 , when Hamas , a designated terrorist organization , slaughtered , raped , tortured , and burned alive 380 festival attendees. 8 It appears that Zaferhan Yumru 's cancellation of the media distribution contract was motivated by anti-Israel animus , aiming to silence the important humanitarian message at the heart of the film and sabotage the prospects of it garnering an Academy Award nomination . <p> IDA 's contention that the cancellation was a simple clerical misunderstanding does not hold water . Canceling an existing contract to accommodate other " priorities " 4 clearly reflects " deprioritizing " a film it does not want to promote due to personal and institutional discrimination . Furthermore , the claim that IDA has a limited " inventory " for email blasts is implausible in the digital era . The eBlast that the producers paid $21,000 for is literally a click of a button for the IDA . IDA also asserts that rejecting 12 other films proves there was no discrimination . However , the other films did not have existing contracts . Only the We Will Dance Again contract was canceled . <p> This is not an isolated incident . The filmmakers and producers of We Will Dance Again reached out to other documentary filmmakers of Jewish and Israel-focused films and discovered numerous examples of similar treatment by Zaferhan Yumru and the IDA , establishing a pattern of discriminatory behavior . The keynote speaker at IDA 's 2024 Getting Real conference was Jemma Desai , 9 a fervent anti-Israel activist who frequently posts " Fuck Israel " and red Hamas triangles on social media . On October 9 , 2023 , just two days after the worst massacre of Jews since the Holocaust and before Israel entered Gaza , Desai organized a protest in solidarity with the perpetrators. 10 Further evidence of IDA 's anti-Israel stance occurred at Thursday night 's awards ceremony , where IDA granted three prestigious awards to anti-Israel documentaries . No documentaries with pro-Israel or neutral perspectives received nominations. 11 In celebration of one of the anti-Israel documentaries ' wins , Zaferhan Yumru posted " From the River to the Sea , Palestine Will Be Free Free Free " on the official IDA Instagram account. 7 <p> We strongly urge the IDA to cease its discriminatory behavior and uphold its mission of inclusivity . To avoid further civil rights violations and jeopardizing its non-profit status , IDA must immediately honor its media distribution contract with the producers of We Will Dance Again . <h> Subscribe to Breaking News . <p> Steve Pond has been writing about film , music , pop culture and the entertainment industry for more than 40 years . He has served as TheWrap 's awards editor and executive editor , awards since joining the company in 2009 . Steve began his career writing about music for the Los Angeles Times , where he remained a contributor for more ... <h> Steve Pond <p> Steve Pond 's inside look at the artistry and insanity of the awards race , drawn from more than three decades of obsessively chronicling the Oscars and the entertainment industry . 
@@118830267 <p> Israel ordered troops Friday to prepare to remain throughout winter on Mount Hermon -- a strategic peak inside a buffer zone that has existed for decades with Syria but which Israeli forces have seized in the wake of the Assad regime 's collapse . <p> It was the latest sign that Israel may maintain a presence in Syria for a prolonged period , defying international pressure to halt its advances and airstrikes as the world hopes to secure a peaceful transition in the country . <p> On Friday crowds massed in central squares across Syria to celebrate the overthrow of President Bashar al-Assad , urged on by the head of the Islamist group who led the stunning rebel advance . <p> The U.S. has defended Israel 's actions in Syria . Washington 's latest bid to prevent wider conflict in the Middle East has raised hopes of a cease-fire deal with Hamas , despite local officials in Gaza reporting that dozens were killed in the latest Israeli airstrike on a refugee camp in the Palestinian enclave . <h> Israel to keep troops on Mt Hermon <p> Israel has said that its actions in Syria are temporary and defensive , but backlash has grown over what United Nations chief Ant ? nio Guterres on Thursday called " extensive violations of Syria 's sovereignty and territorial integrity " as he urged Israeli forces to withdraw from the buffer zone . <p> He also expressed concern over hundreds of Israeli strikes on locations across Syria following the toppling of the Assad regime , which Israel has said are aimed at preventing the regime 's arsenal falling into the hands of militants . <p> " Due to what is happening in Syria , there is a huge security importance to our holding of the Hermon peak and everything must be done to ensure the IDF 's preparations in the area , to allow the troops to stay there in the difficult weather conditions , " Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said in a statement Friday . <p> He shared a photo on X that he said showed him with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu overlooking Mount Hermon with binoculars , saying the site had " returned to Israeli control after 51 years . " <p> Netanyahu 's office has said that the collapse of the Assad regime " created a vacuum on Israel 's border and in the buffer zone , " which was established as part of a ceasefire between the countries following the 1973 Arab-Israeli War . <p> " Israel will not permit jihadi groups to fill that vacuum and threaten Israeli communities on the Golan Heights , " his office said . <p> Israel occupied and later annexed the Golan Heights after the 1967 Mideast war , a move not recognized by most of the international community . <p> At over 9,000 feet , Mount Hermon stands as the highest peak in the eastern Mediterranean coast . Israel has drawn swift backlash over its seizure of the area in the past week , with critics accusing the country of exploiting the situation with a land grab . <p> In Syria , tens of thousands gathered across the country for mass rallies celebrating Assad 's ouster after worshippers gathered for the first Friday prayers since his family 's 50 years of brutal rule was brought to an end . <p> Abu Mohammad al-Jolani , the leader of the main rebel group that ousted Assad , called on Syrians in a video message to " take to the squares to celebrate the victory . " <p> But he urged revelers to celebrate without firing bullets or causing a commotion " so that we can then move on to building this country . " <p> People attend the first Friday prayers since the fall of the Assad regim , inside the Umayyad Mosque in Damascus old city.Ammar Awad / ReutersA rebel fighter stands on a carpet bearing the portrait of ousted president Bashar al-Assad in Damascus on Friday.Aris Messinis / AFP - Getty Images <h> Deadly strikes continue in Gaza <p> Concerns over Israel 's actions in Syria come as Israeli forces also continued their campaign in Gaza , where Palestinian health officials said dozens of people were killed in an assault on the Nuseirat refugee camp on Thursday . <p> Dr. Marwan Al-Hamas , Director of the Field Hospitals in Gaza , told NBC News that at least 36 people were killed and 43 injured after Israeli forces struck a post office building and several homes in the area in central Gaza . <p> The Israel Defense Forces said it was targeting a " senior terrorist in the Islamic Jihad " whom it said was " responsible for leading terror attacks against Israeli civilians an IDF troops . " <p> The IDF said an initial inquiry suggested that " secondary explosions " occurred due to numerous weapons in the area . The IDF did not provide evidence for the claim and said it was reviewing reports of casualties related to the strike . <p> Video captured by NBC News ' crew in Gaza showed harrowing scenes of people being rescued from a mass of rubble . At one point , a young child could be seen being carried into a hospital , with their face heavily bloodied and their body motionless . <p> The child was laid down in a room where the bodies of those killed were being wrapped in shrouds . Another small child could also be seen lying on the floor . <p> It comes as the Biden administration has continued to push for a truce between Israel and Hamas in its final months . <p> National security adviser Jake Sullivan said in Tel Aviv on Thursday that he was optimistic about the prospect of reaching a deal . <p> He also defended Israel 's actions in Syria , saying the U.S. ally had perceived an " immediate threat " in the collapse of a longstanding regime and that Israel has " a right to self-defense . " <p> Sullivan met with Israeli President Isaac Herzog on Friday to discuss efforts to secure the release of hostages and the changing landscape in the region . 
@@118830965 <p> While the massacre of Oct. 7 , 2023 , was one of the most traumatic events in modern Jewish history , it 's obvious now that it was a massive , perhaps existential , blunder by the Islamic State and a stunning defeat for its allies both in the Middle East and Washington . <p> Oct. 7 transformed the Middle East in ways that seemed impossible only a few years ago . Hamas , perhaps the most immediate threat to both Jewish and Arab lives in the region , is largely eradicated . Hezbollah , the theocratic militia that 's kept Lebanon in a state of turmoil and war for decades , is reeling . Indeed , it was Israel 's success against the latter that helped send Bashar Assad , a real-world genocidal dictator , into Russian exile . Most of all , events have left Iran , which spent decades building its proxies throughout the Middle East , impotent . <p> It 's no surprise that on their way out , Barack Obama cronies in the Biden administration approved another $10 billion in sanctions relief for the mullahs by waiving restricted payment transfers from the Iraqi government . These are the same people who had attempted to lift Hamas and propped up its benefactors in Iran with planeloads of cash . And the same people did everything possible to handcuff Israel in its war against Hamas and Hezbollah . <p> Not only had the White House threatened to withhold aid if the Israeli military went into Rafah to eliminate Hamas battalions cowering behind women and children , when Israel pulled off its ingenious pager operation , wounding and killing hundreds of Hezbollah operatives , our uncannily misguided secretary of state , Antony Blinken , warned that " all parties " should " avoid escalating conflict , " treating our close allies and Islamists , in this case a group that once murdered 220 Marines in Beirut , as equals . <p> Fortunately , Israel ignored Biden and eliminated Nasrallah , who was involved in those murders , and decimated much of Hezbollah 's capacity to wage war . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , far more risk-averse and far less hawkish than his critics maintain , was compelled by the popular will to settle all family business after Oct 7 . The conventional wisdom has been that Israel , a small nation , is impelled to finish wars quickly or risk an economic crash . That was surely the case in the conventional wars of the past . The Jewish state proved it could engage in a prolonged conflict , striking one decisive victory after the next . <p> Conventional wisdom also said that Israel would be unable to effectively strike deep within Iran . Yet , after the Islamic regime launched 500 ballistic missiles and drones in its direction , Israel slipped 100 jets into the Iranian territory and calmly engaged in precision strikes -- a warning that it could mete out far more devastation if it felt like it . And perhaps it will in the future . <p> On Oct. 8 , Israelis woke up to a gruesome massacre and perhaps the most devastating security failure in their country 's history -- behind only the Yom Kippur War . On Wednesday , they woke up to the news that Israel was annihilating the Syrian air force , its armaments , and perhaps chemical weapons storehouses , ensuring that no advanced weaponry falls into the hands of jihadis . It also secured a more defensible border while cutting off Hezbollah from Iran . <p> Politics in the Jewish state remains as raucous and unpredictable as ever . Whatever happens , however , the deadly experiment of an autonomous Gaza is also over . Until there 's a profound cultural change within Palestinian society , which entails not only living peacefully with their neighbors but accepting history , there will never be a Palestinian state in Judea and Samaria or Gaza . And it wo n't matter how many U.N . resolutions are passed , how many Ivy Leaguers protest , or how many ICC arrest warrants are issued . While it might come as a shock to many Westerners , there 's a strong chance an Arab " Palestine " may never exist . And there is no moral or historical imperative to make it happen . The two-state solution is unnecessary . There is already a 24-state solution in place -- only one of them Jewish . <p> It is possible that Oct. 7 also had a broader impact on American domestic politics than is acknowledged . Starting with its deadly Afghanistan withdrawal , the Biden foreign policy agenda undermined our standing in the world and its standing among American voters . There is no place in the world I can think of that is better off today than it was before Biden was elected . <p> But once progressives began rationalizing and justifying wanton murders and rapes of Oct. 7 , the average voter got a good look at the extremism that had taken over higher education , swaths of the media , and Washington . The subsequent coddling of Islamist-friendly protesters by virtually every national Democrat who was n't named Sen. John Fetterman ( D-PA ) lent to the general ( and accurate ) impression that progressivism had gone off the rails . Even voters who do n't care very much about foreign affairs surely understand that people who romanticize Hamas also detest the United States . BLM , Antifa , Queers for Palestine , et al are all propelled by the same mind virus . <p> Then there 's the Jewish vote , which was largely immovable for many decades . Defining " Jewish voter " is no easy feat , but it 's clear that a consequential number of them moved away from the Democrats . Whereas most Jewish voters had overlooked the Farrakhan and Squad factions , the post-Oct. 7 mainstreaming and dramatic spread of Jew-hatred and " anti-Zionism " among the activist Left was probably a bit much . <p> Oct. 7 also allowed many Jews to see the true colors of leftists such as Sen. Bernie Sanders ( I-VT ) and other Democrats who follow his lead in voting to deny Israel , not Egypt or Saudi Arabia or Qatar , weaponry for what they are . And the massacre also pulled back the veil on progressive Jewish front organizations that revoltingly support the enemies of their ethnic brethren and the U.S. <p> There is a chance for peace in the region . Though it is difficult to be pollyannaish about such things . When the Taliban , Palestinians , Turkey , and Qatar shower praise on a movement , as they do on the al-Qaida-affiliated group that has conquered Syria , the world has reason to be concerned . The Turkish government would like to set up its own proxy state in Syria , though the Arabs tend to detest the Turks . And the Turks , of course , detest the Kurds , who are being ethnically cleansed as we speak . ( No college campus protests for a Kurdish state , alas . ) And , of course , the Christians and Alawites are now in danger from Islamists . <p> Or , in other words , the Middle East is still the Middle East . <p> The Trump administration had already dispelled the prevailing myth that peace in the Middle East can only be achieved by placating the intractable Palestinians . But the Biden administration immediately overturned Trump-era policy , releasing hundreds of millions of dollars of funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency and the Palestinians , abetting the Oct. 7 attack on our ally , and the murder of American citizens . <p> Power and strength , not capitulation and mollification , work in the Middle East . And the world is a better place today because of Israel 's victories . It 's not outlandish to believe that Iranians might now be more open to making a genuine deal with President-elect Donald Trump , rather than risking implosion . What would be best for the world , of course , is if the U.S. exerted its economic pressure and precipitated the fall of the mullahs in Iran , a country that has no real geopolitical reason to be at war with Israel or the West . <p> Whatever happens , though , the Middle East has been forever transformed by Oct 7. 
@@118833165 <p> Russian President Vladimir Putin during a meeting with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad ( left ) at the Kremlin in Moscow , Russia , September 13 , 2021 . Photo Credit : REUTERS <p> Story so far : Ousted Syrian President Bashar al-Assad was granted asylum by Moscow on Monday ( December 9 , 2024 ) , mere hours after Syrian rebels overthrew his 24-year regime . Russia 's deputy foreign minister , Sergei Ryabkov , told NBC News , that Mr. Assad and his family was transported very securely to Russia by its forces and refuted any reason to hand over the Syrian dictator for trial . A lightning rebel offensive which began on November 27 ended the 50-year Assad regime in Damascus , in just twelve days . <p> Mr. Assad 's flight to Moscow was necessitated because the Syrian rebel opposition led by militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) successfully recaptured Aleppo , Hama , Homs and finally Damascus , in the face of minimal resistance from the Syrian military . As per reports , both Iran and Russia , who have military presence in Syria refused to aid Mr. Assad at that time . While Russia is still embroiled in the Ukraine war , Iran is involved in a proxy war with Israel via militant groups Hamas and Hezbollah . <p> The fall of Mr. Assad has thrown into sharp focus Moscow 's diminished military due to its prolonged war with Kyiv . " Events in Syria demonstrate the weakness of Putin 's regime , which is incapable of fighting on two fronts and abandons its closest allies for the sake of continued aggression against Ukraine , " stated Ukraine 's Foreign ministry . Moreover , Moscow had initially tried to explain Mr. Assad 's departure as an organised one claiming he had left the country after giving orders for a peaceful transfer of power . Within hours , Russian President Vladimir Putin personally cleared the Assad family 's plea for asylum . <p> Here 's a look at Russian backing of Assad regime and what his fall means <h> Historic ties ( 1944-2014 ) <p> Russia and Syria established diplomatic relations in 1944 and Moscow has backed the country 's independence from French colonial in 1946 . During the Cold War era , Russia expanded its presence in West Asia backing Syrian Baath party supporters ' coup in 1970 led by Hafez al-Assad , the ousted president 's father . <p> During Assad Sr. 's tenure , the Soviet Union opened its naval base in Tartus in 1971 , provided aid to Syria during the 1973 Arab-Israeli war ( Yom Kippur war ) , signed a 20-year Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation . Russia is also one Syria 's biggest arms supplier . <p> After the senior Assad 's death , the Russia-Syria relations were strengthened further under his son Bashar al-Assad and Russian President Vladimir Putin . By 2011 , pro-democracy protests broke across West Asia stirring anti-government public movement against the Assad regime . Throughout 2011-12 , violent protests breakout across Syria as wide-spread defections from the Syrian military to the ' Free Syrian Army ' , a loose rebel coalition , took place , opposing Assad 's rule . Opposition forces and jihadists captured swathes of territories including Raqqa , Der Ezzour and parts of Aleppo . Assad 's forces were accused of using chemical weapons in East Ghouta , a Damascus suburb , during the civil war in 2013 . <h> Russian intervention ( 2015 onwards ) <p> By 2014 , the Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi-led Islamic State of Iraq and Syria ( ISIS ) rampaged across Syria capturing most parts of the country . ISIS captured Raqqa , Der Ezzour and Palmyra . Jabhat Al-Nusra , an al-Qaeda arm , took Idlib and parts of Aleppo . When the regime came under serious pressure , Russia sent its forces into Syria in September 2015 . In its air strikes , Kremlin claimed targetting ISIS-controlled regions , but as per US-based Foreign Policy Research Institute ( FPRI ) , the strikes hit Western and Turkish-backed groups in northern Syria . As full-scale war broke out , U.S. and Russia negotiated a Memorandum of Understanding ( MoU ) to deconflict air operations over Syria between them . <p> Through 2017 , Russian involvement in the Syrian war increased as Mr.Assad 's forces recaptured Homs , Dayr-Az-Zawr , Mayadin . As SDF recaptured Raqqa , US and Russia agreed to a deconflicting channel for both air and ground forces . Ghouta and Der'a fell to Mr. Assad 's forces in 2018 . Russia and Turkiye agreed to de-escalation around Idlib . However , all hell broke lose as US President Trump withdrew forces from Northern Syria in 2019 , opening up the region to Turkish attacks . Mr.Assad 's forces entered the SDF-controlled area to counter Turkish strikes , bombarding Idlib . Fresh wave of strikes and counter occurred between Turkiye and Russian forces through before Mr. Putin and Turkish President Recep Erdogan agree to another de-escalation deal in Idlib in March 2020 . <p> Since 2020 , Russian airstrikes across provinces held by the rebel groups and jihadists continued , however Mr. Putin 's focus turned towards Ukraine in 2022 , where he launched a full-scale invasion . <h> Why has Russia backed Assad ? <p> The decision to stick with Assad inspite of his growing unpopularity in Syria served three purposes for Russia -- pushback against a US attempts to overthrow the regime , establish Russian power in the area and acquire military bases for easy access to Africa , explains Washington institute . By complying with U.S. forces on attacking ISIS strongholds , Russia 's military offensive was limited primarily to airstrikes , naval support and a small number of elite ground troops , leaving the heavy-lifting to Iran and its proxies , apart from the Syrian Army . <p> Russia was granted an air base in Khmeimim apart from its naval base in Tartus established in 1971 <p> By backing Assad , Russia was granted a permanent air base in Khmeimim apart from its naval base in Tartus . These bases are critical for Russia to project force across West Asia . It also assures Russia a strong presence in Black Sea , which has been bolstered since Russia annexed Crimea , which hosted its Black Sea fleet since the late 19th century , in 2014 . <p> Since 2021 , conflicts in the area remained ' frozen ' except Idlib and northeast Syria where isolated attacks between Turkiye and Russian-backed Assad forces . According to the U.S. Institute of Peace , Russia 's ' endgame ' in Syria largely seemed to establish itself as a platform for engagement across West Asia , erode a U.S.-led international order and clinch a political settlement favourable to Russia and Assad . However , these aims lay in disarray with the fall of Assad . <h> What does his fall mean ? <p> Hamas ' attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 played a pivotal point in Russia 's foreign policy . Banking on US ' continued support for Israel inspite of its brutal attack on Gaza , Russia gained support in South Asia by backing UN resolutions condemning Israel , advocating for a ceasefire which U.S. voted against . <p> " The unfolding conflict in the region underscored how little a role Russia could actually play . No one turned to Moscow for a resolution of the conflict ; all eyes turned to Washington , " opined Thomas Graham , a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations . With the fall of Assad , Russia 's influence in West Asia has further diminished . <p> Its immediate concern is to secure its military bases . Russia is holding on to its naval and air bases in Syria , even as it pulls back its forces from smaller outposts , reported Interfax . Keen to keep is bases functional , Russia is direct contact with the HTS ' political committee and the talks were ' proceeding in constructive fashion ' , said Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov to Interfax . However , as a precaution , Russia has temporarily brought its ships out of its Tartus port with two guided missile frigates moored about 13 km off the Syrian coast , reports BCC . <p> Apart from that , Turkiye , which is a major supporter of HTS could persuade the rebel group to let Russian troops stay to counterbalance the Israeli and US presence , opined Mr. Graham . All three nations -- Russia , Iran and Turkiye have discussed Syria and the fate of Kremlin 's bases and Mr. Trump 's inclination to pull US troops out of eastern Syria in the recent conference in Doha , Qatar . Inspite of diminished influence , Russia will remain involved in Syria , militarily or politically , to maintain its reputation as a great power . <h> Comments <p> Comments have to be in English , and in full sentences . They can not be abusive or personal . Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments . <p> We have migrated to a new commenting platform . If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in , you may continue to engage with our articles . If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments . Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. 
@@118843760 <h> Tower Hamlets school faces criticism over planned " fast for Gaza " to raise money for UNICEF as Jewish families raise concerns about their children 's safety in the school . <p> An illustrative image of a class in an elementary school. ( photo credit : SHUTTERSTOCK ) <p> A London secondary school has asked students and staff to " come together in a collective fast " to support the people of Palestine , according to the school 's website . <p> The " fast for Gaza " is set to take place on Friday , December 13 , at George Green 's School in Tower Hamlets , a school where more than half of students qualify for free school meals . <p> The school 's website featured a post promoting the fast , along with two bake sales and two sports tournaments , with the aim of raising money for UNICEF . <p> An anonymous parent of a Jewish student reportedly told The Jewish Chronicle that her child has been hiding their identity and has been made to feel that being Jewish at the school is " subversive . " <p> " The school organizing something like this causes a sense of shame for the Jewish kids . The school has a point of view , and it is against Jewish students , " the parent was quoted as saying . <p> " The school has decided who is good and who is bad . Judaism has been portrayed as bad . No one is going to go out and announce they are Jewish at that school , " the JC further cited the parent as saying . <p> According to the parent , a Palestinian flag had been placed outside the school for the month after October 7 . The parent also reportedly added that there had been incidents in which swastikas were inscribed in some classrooms and stairwells . <h> Previous fast <p> Jon Ryder , the school 's principal , told the publication that the " collective fast event " was " organized in response to student voices on this issue and follows on from a similar event we ran a year ago , which raised several thousand pounds . " <p> " As a Unicef Gold Award Rights Respecting school , we take any acts of discrimination incredibly seriously and will always investigate and take appropriate action if we are made aware of it , in line with our behavior policy , " he reportedly added . 
@@118853278 <h> Follow Us <h> Ukraine , Syria key focus of Biden talks with G7 <p> Burning buildings are seen on site after a Russian drone attack in Chernihiv region , Ukraine , Dec. 13 , 2024 . <p> Share <p> Ukraine , Syria key focus of Biden talks with G7 <p> share <p> WASHINGTON -- <p> U.S. President Joe Biden met virtually with G7 leaders Friday to secure support for Kyiv 's fight against Russia 's invasion , less than six weeks before President-elect Donald Trump , a skeptic of aid to Ukraine , is set to take office . <p> The talks followed Washington 's $20 billion disbursement earlier this week to a new World Bank fund that will provide economic support for Ukraine . The money is part of a new $50 billion loan for Kyiv from the Group of Seven democracies that will be paid back with interest income earned from Russian sovereign assets immobilized in G7 countries . <p> Earlier this week Biden approved a new security assistance package for Ukraine that will provide Kyiv with additional air defense , artillery , drones , and armored vehicles -- the 72nd such drawdown package announced by Washington since Russia 's invasion . <p> " As the president made clear , we 're going to continue to provide additional packages right up until the end of this administration , " White House National Security spokesperson John Kirby said during a news briefing Thursday . <p> A woman holds a torch as she stands in a dark street during partial power cuts following a Russian attack on Ukrainian energy facilities , amid Russia 's attack on Ukraine , in central Kyiv , Ukraine , Dec. 13 , 2024 . <p> On Jan. 20 , Biden will hand over power to Trump , who has been critical of using American taxpayers ' money to help Kyiv . Without providing details , Trump often boasts he can swiftly end the war -- a statement that many in Europe fear would mean forcing Ukraine to capitulate . <p> " We are likely to see the G7 redouble support for Ukraine in part because of concerns that President Trump may reduce support , " said William Courtney , adjunct senior fellow at the RAND Corp , to VOA in an interview . <p> Additional sanctions on Russia appear to be in the works , Courtney told VOA . <p> Syria aftermath <p> G7 leaders also focused on fast-moving events related to the momentous transition of power in Syria following the ouster of President Bashar al-Assad . <p> On Thursday , the leaders said in a statement they " stand ready to support a transition process that leads to credible , inclusive , and non-sectarian governance " in Syria . <p> Support for the new government is conditional upon " respect for the rule of law , universal human rights , including women 's rights , the protection of all Syrians , including religious and ethnic minorities , transparency and accountability , " the leaders ' statement said . <p> Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , the rebel group that toppled Assad , is a U.S.-designated foreign terrorist organization . Its leader , Abu Mohammed al-Jolani , has a $10 million bounty on his head . The U.S. and other G7 countries have signaled that HTS ' delisting from their terror list would be dependent upon how inclusive the new government would be . <p> In recent years , Jolani has distanced himself from extremist ideology . Since the rebels ' victory , he has sought to assure his non-sectarian stance to Syria 's ethnic and religious minorities , which include Christians , Kurds , Druze and the Alawite community , a sect from which the Assad family originates . <p> Trump has also signaled that he wants the U.S. to stay out of the Syrian conflict . " This is not our fight , " Trump said on social media in response to Assad 's ouster . " Let it play out . Do not get involved ! " <p> It 's unclear whether a new U.S. administration would be able to maintain a hands-off approach that Trump said he wants . There are approximately 900 American troops stationed in Syria , and Washington has close ties with all of Syria 's neighbors including allies Turkey and Israel . Both are already making military maneuvers to secure their interests . <p> Two days after the Syrian rebels took control of Damascus on Dec. 8 , Israel launched airstrikes across the country , further weakening what remains of the Assad regime 's military , once a stalwart-ally of Israel 's archnemesis , Iran . Since then , Israeli troops have advanced deeper into the U.N.-patrolled buffer zone separating the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights and Syrian territory . <p> FILE - Syrians look for metal and unexploded ammunition at the site of the previous evening 's Israeli airstrike that targeted shipments of weapons that belonged to Syrian government forces in Qamishli , in mainly Kurdish northeastern Syria , on Dec. 10 , 2024 . <p> The United Nations said Israel 's actions violate the country 's 1974 Disengagement Agreement with Syria . The U.S. said it is in line with Israel 's right to self-defense , to avoid weapons falling into extremists ' hands amid a vacuum in power . <p> Meanwhile , Syrian Kurds near the northern border with Turkey have been displaced amid clashes between U.S.-backed Kurdish forces and Ankara-backed rebels . The U.S. brokered a ceasefire deal between the groups on Wednesday but it is unclear whether the fragile truce will hold . <p> U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan are currently in the region for talks , hoping to ensure a smooth transition in Damascus and making a last-ditch diplomatic push to achieve a deal to end fighting between Israel and Hamas in Gaza . 
@@118871275 <h> Readers write to us about the murder of health insurance executive Brian Thompson , democracy and health care , fixing Chicago 's problems together and the suffering of Gazan children . <p> Luigi Mangione is led from the Blair County Courthouse after an extradition hearing Tuesday in Hollidaysburg , Pennsylvania . Mangione is accused of shooting of United Healthcare CEO Brian Thompson in New York . <p> SEND LETTERS TO : letters@suntimes.com . To be considered for publication , letters must include your full name , your neighborhood or hometown and a phone number for verification purposes . Letters should be a maximum of approximately 375 words . <h> Democracy , decency are in decline <p> Please excuse this brief journey through the looking glass . But as the health of our democracy worsens , so apparently is the health of our common decency . These are related to the general level of political disengagement in America . Hold a mirror to my argument and see the current , revived conversation around insurance and health care after the murder of Brian Thompson in New York reflected back . At least for those who care to look . <p> Those who do not understand the relationship between health care and political representation , between truth and democracy , tend to favor solutions within the grasp of only the most willfully ignorant among us . For some to praise and sympathize with someone ( whatever their health issues or GQ-ready looks ) for a murderous attack on a law-abiding individual ( whatever their faults or perceived lack of scruples ) reveals the same overarching attitude that allows some others to elect as president an individual that will make nearly every issue that concerns us -- the well-being of our country -- even worse . <p> Both are done from the shallow perspective of punitiveness . And that is a recipe for the destruction of our democracy as well as of our personal health . <p> I would suggest that looking at the state of things ( i.e. health care and insurance ; political representation or the lack of it ; guns and the likelihood of dying by them ; ad infinitum ) is much like looking at the state of your own house : if you do n't like what you see , where to put the blame is obvious . <p> Having said that , I can only imagine the miserable state , especially of reflective surfaces , in much of the country 's homes . It being apparent that so few of us are able to see the connection -- the real solutions -- between ourselves and our surroundings , is it really any surprise that , societally , we get what we 've earned through ignorance and disengagement with the work of democracy ( as this last election 's voter non-participation numbers can attest ) ? <p> Yes , the country needs and voted for change . But as evidenced by such positive reaction to Brian Thompson 's murder , the change that 's coming seems to be reflected only in broader displays of crassness , brought on by a deepening sense of isolation and helplessness ( notice I have n't yet even gone down the rabbit hole of willful consumption and spreading of disinformation ) . <p> If not before , perhaps by the 2026 midterms we can begin to collectively change course ( for the better this time ) to being a more helpful , just society . It may require a number of us to take a long , hard look in a freshly polished mirror to realize just how sick we 've become . But the consequences of our failure to do so will not be denied , can not be defended and will accept no delay . <p> Jim Koppensteiner , Niles <h> We need Medicare for all <p> Congratulations to the Sun-Times for the article " Chicagoans Vent Anger Over Health Insurance after New York Slaying of Executive . " Staff reporter Violet Miller presented a very clear picture of why people are angry with our health care system . <p> But beyond venting anger , the article , and many others like it , does n't offer much hope for ending the long nightmare of U.S. health care . We know what the problem is : investor control of our health care financing system . But how can we solve that problem ? <p> Well , a solution is already in Congress and ready to go . It 's called the Medicare for All Act and is House of Representatives Bill 3421 . More than 100 Democrats have co-signed it . It 's the best solution because it does n't try to restrain the greedy behavior of the U.S. health insurance companies or pass reforms that tinker around the edges of a brutal and corrupt system . <p> Rather , it gets to the heart of the matter by eliminating the role and power of investor-owned insurance companies altogether . Private for-profit insurance companies , like UnitedHealthcare play no useful role in U.S. health care . They waste our money outrageously , keep us in the dark about coverage and give us poor health outcomes compared to other wealthy countries . <p> So , let 's get rid of them ! Let 's have Medicare for All instead . We 'll save a lot of money , get expanded benefits , achieve better health outcomes and help restore people 's confidence in American society and government . <p> Bill Bianchi and Cathleen Jensen , Illinois Single Payer Coalition <h> Do n't count on Trump to fix health care <p> I find it rather ironic that Americans have erupted into a collective rant about the sad state of health care in America , just a few short weeks after electing the one man who is the least likely to do anything about it . <p> Sean C. Nettle , Homewood <h> Blame Congress for health care woes <p> Do n't blame the insurance and pharmaceutical companies for exorbitant prices . Blame members of Congress who have been taking legal bribes and gifts for years . These corporations have been the biggest contributors to Congress for years . Wake up ! <p> John Maloney , Edgewater <h> Indigenous should be honored in new flag design <p> Not one of the new flag designs for Illinois has any reference to our first inhabitants . That is unacceptable . What an insult to our Native community . None should be voted on until this is corrected , <h> Stop ignoring suffering of Gazan children <p> According to a needs assessment sponsored by the charity War Child Alliance , death feels imminent for 96% of Gaza 's children , the Guardian reported . <p> Moreover , almost half of the children in Gaza want to die as a result of war-related trauma , 92% of the children in the survey were " not accepting of reality , " 79% suffer from nightmares and 73% exhibit symptoms of aggression . <p> Here are the results of the vote on Dec. 11 : In favor : 158 . Against : 9 . Abstain : 13 . <p> Where is the public outrage at our government for this vote ? Are we unable to see Palestinians as fellow human beings ? <p> Terry Hansen , Milwaukee <h> Package thieves steal holiday cheer <p> Last year , more than 120 million packages were stolen in the U.S. Many cities are fighting these porch pirates with decoy packages that contain trackers . Unfortunately , Chicago police are not doing this , so the thieves have little to fear and will continue stealing our packages . <p> Having packages delivered to access points is a good idea , but for many deliveries , only the shipper can change the address . In addition , many delivery drivers drop off packages on porches , ignoring instructions to ring doorbells or to place the packages in secure places . <p> Merry Christmas . <p> Larry E. Nazimek , Logan Square <h> Hat tip for newspaper delivery <p> It was 10 degrees outside Thursday and I did n't expect my Sun-Times to be delivered , but there it was in the lobby of my building , as usual , thanks to my carrier , Joy Sansone . Do n't forget your carrier this Christmas . <p> Juanita Jarard , Tinley Park <h> Seeking common ground to fix Chicago 's problems <p> I came across a news feed of a town hall meeting where Chicago residents expressed frustration over local officials ' spending on migrants . A young woman gave a passionate speech while wearing a T-shirt titled " Chicago Flips Red . " However , not all Chicagoans share that sentiment . Although I understand the frustration , many of our challenges could not have been avoided , even by elected officials . <p> Chicago became a sanctuary city in 1985 under Mayor Harold Washington . This order became law in 2006 and was reaffirmed during the Trump administration . However , there has never been a clear plan for how to house or provide resources for people who settle in our great city . <p> Chicago , a large city already grappling with homelessness , debt and a variety of other challenges , faces additional pressures that significantly strain its residents . <p> Past and present administrations have yet to develop effective strategies to address these issues . Consequently , the overcrowding of homeless women , men , children and the city 's native population has created a troubling situation on our streets . <p> Chicago has the potential to be a great city , but it requires exemplary leadership to make that happen . Unfortunately , we have not seen an administration capable of bringing this vision to life . <p> When addressing the various challenges Black individuals face in today 's society , it 's crucial to acknowledge and understand the valid concerns that arise . If you 're feeling a sense of frustration related to migration issues , it 's worth reflecting on the historical context surrounding this topic . <p> Many Black Americans can trace their lineage to ancestors who were part of the Great Migration , a significant movement between 1916 and 1970 . This migration involved millions of Black Americans relocating from the rural south to urban areas in the north and west , motivated by a desire to find better economic opportunities , escape systemic racism and leave behind the harsh realities of Jim Crow laws that enforced racial segregation and discrimination . <p> Instead of assigning blame , seeking solutions to our challenges is more productive . Adopting this positive approach opens the door to collaboration and understanding . If we all work together , we may discover common ground that allows us to support one another effectively and create a more constructive environment for everyone involved . <p> April Jones , Streeterville <h> Tough times <p> With all of the vitriol and divisiveness for so many years . I 've gone through all the stages : denial , anger , bargaining , depression and now , finally acceptance . Is that really the best thing for me , for our society ? <p> Bradley Rasch , Roselle <h> Thumbs down to U.S. Rep. Nancy Mace <p> Putting that ignorant publicity hound , U.S. Rep. Nancy Mace , on the front of our city newspaper was disgraceful . Please stop caving to these pandering pukes who have infiltrated our government with a mind to corrupt society with right-wing nonsense . I would hate to cancel a free subscription , but I do not want to pad your numbers by even one with that garbage . <p> John Winters , Huntley <h> They 're here <p> Those are n't drones flying the night skies above New Jersey . Those are the extraterrestrials mapping out the new planet . They ca n't fool us . <p> Sweat is invested in the Bears ' future and vice versa . He 's in the first year of a four-year , $98 million contract extension the Bears gave him after acquiring him from the Commanders for a second-round draft pick in the middle of last season . <p> The man , 26 , was getting out of a parked vehicle that had four others inside , including two off-duty police officers , in the 100 block of South Mayfield Avenue at 1:28 a.m. when he was shot , police said . 
@@118877571 <h> McConnell slams polio vaccine critics in apparent warning to RFK Jr . <h> Donald Trump taps RFK Jr . to lead HHS <p> President-elect Donald Trump has tapped Robert F. Kennedy Jr . to head the Department of Health and Human Services ( HHS ) . LiveNOW 's Austin Westfall discusses the appointment with Dr. Georges Benjamin , executive director of the American Public Health Association . <h> The Brief <p> Robert F. Kennedy Jr . ' s lawyer once asked the FDA to revoke its approval of the polio vaccine . <p> Kennedy is Donald Trump 's pick to lead the Department of Health and Human Services . <p> Republican leader Mitch McConnell , a polio survivor , had a stark warning for anyone who brings anti-vaccine views to the Senate floor . <h> Mitch McConnell 's boyhood polio <p> Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell walks to his office at the US Capitol in Washington , DC , on Wednesday , Nov. 13 , 2024 . McConnell survived polio as a child , but the lingering effects are with him to this day . ( Photographer : Graeme Sloan/Bloomber <p> McConnell contracted polio when he was a small child , years before the vaccine was widely available , according to The Associated Press . The disease left his left leg paralyzed . He eventually recovered after two years of treatments at the same center in Georgia where then-President Franklin Roosevelt received polio care . But the lingering effects of polio still impact him to this day . McConnell has a wobbly , uneven gait and has trouble climbing stairs . <p> " From the age of two , normal life without paralysis was only possible for me because of the miraculous combination of modern medicine and a mother 's love . But for millions who came after me , the real miracle was the saving power of the polio vaccine , " McConnell said in his statement . " Anyone seeking the Senate 's consent to serve in the incoming Administration would do well to steer clear of even the appearance of association with such efforts . " <h> What is polio ? <h> Polio outbreak in Gaza : new vaccination campaign <p> A polio case was reported in Gaza for the first time in 25 years . A 10-month-old boy contracted the disease , and is now paralyzed in the leg . The U.N . health agency is launching a vaccination campaign on Sunday . The goal is to vaccinate 640,000 Palestinian children against polio . Dr. Peter Chin-Hong , infectious disease expert , joins LiveNOW from FOX to explain the dangers of the disease , and the importance of the vaccinations . <p> Polio is a highly infectious disease , mostly affecting young children . It attacks the nervous system and can lead to spinal and respiratory paralysis , and in some cases death , according to the World Health Organization . <p> A major outbreak in New York City in 1916 killed more than 2,000 people . The nation 's worst outbreak in 1952 claimed more than 3,000 lives . <p> Many who survived the disease were left with lifelong impacts and needed leg braces , crutches or wheelchairs . Some had to use the iron lung , an artificial respirator designed to treat polio patients . <p> By 1950 , polio was killing or paralyzing more than 500,000 people a year . <p> Dr. Jonas Salk created the first successful polio vaccine in 1953 , eventually leading to mass vaccination campaigns around the world . Although polio has not been completely eradicated , cases have decreased by more than 99% , according to the U.S. Center for Disease Control and Prevention . <h> RFK 's anti-vaccine views <p> Kennedy has long advanced the debunked idea that vaccines cause autism . He has also pushed other conspiracy theories , such as that COVID-19 could have been " ethnically targeted " to spare Ashkenazi Jews and Chinese people , comments he later said were taken out of context . He has repeatedly brought up the Holocaust when discussing vaccines and public health mandates . <p> Kennedy has insisted he is not anti-vaccine , saying he only wants vaccines to be rigorously tested , but he also has shown opposition to a wide range of immunizations . Kennedy said in a 2023 podcast interview that " There 's no vaccine that is safe and effective . " In a 2021 podcast he urged people to " resist " CDC guidelines on when kids should get vaccines . <p> No medical intervention is risk-free . But doctors and researchers have proven that risks from disease are generally far greater than the risks from vaccines . <p> If confirmed by the Senate , Kennedy will control the world 's largest public health agency , and its $1.7 trillion budget . <h> The Source <p> This report includes information from the office of Sen. Mitch McConnell , the World Health Organization , the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , The New York Times and the Associated Press . 
@@118902278 <p> The enclave was pushed closer to the grim milestone by Israeli airstrikes that killed at least 26 people Sunday , including 16 at a school sheltering displaced Palestinians in northern Gaza . <p> Oren Marmorstein , a spokesperson for Israel 's Foreign Affairs Ministry , confirmed to NBC News on Sunday that Israel had filed the appeal against the ICC warrants . <p> The warrants were related to " crimes against humanity and war crimes committed from at least 8 October , 2023 until at least 20 May 2024 , " including " the war crime of starvation as a method of warfare ; and the crimes against humanity of murder , persecution , and other inhumane acts . " <p> A woman touches the cheek of a child killed by an Israeli airstrike Saturday.Omar Al-Qattaa / AFP - Getty Images <p> Marmorstein said Israel , which is not a member of the ICC , " categorically rejects the baseless accusations " and is " determined to defend the justice of its positions and to strongly oppose the miscarriage of justice . " <p> Foreign Minister Gideon Saar also said he ordered the closure of Ireland 's embassy in the country because of " the extreme anti-Israel policies of the Irish government . " <p> The Irish government said last week it would ask the International Court of Justice to broaden its definition of genocide , claiming Israel has engaged in the " collective punishment " of people in Gaza . <p> While the closure is another step in Israel 's growing isolation from the international community , Netanyahu 's spokesperson , Omer Dostri , has confirmed that Netanyahu spoke with President-elect Donald Trump on Saturday about regional developments in Lebanon , Syria and Gaza and the threat posed by Iran . <p> Netanyahu 's office said Sunday his government has approved plans to expand settlements in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights , allocating over $11 million to a plan aimed at " doubling " its population , currently around 20,000 . In 2019 , Trump signed an order recognizing Israeli sovereignty over the area , which was seized from Syria in 1967 . <p> Meanwhile in Gaza , Israel bombed clusters of houses and set some ablaze in three towns , also attacking Khalil Aweida , a school-turned-shelter , before it stormed it and ordered displaced families to head toward Gaza City , according to Reuters , citing medics and residents . <p> Mohammed Abu Afash , director of Palestinian Medical Relief , a nongovernment organization , warned Sunday of an " environmental disaster " in the northdue to the accumulation ofbodies in the streets and " their devouring by stray dogs and cats , " adding that the World Health Organization had delivered limited fuel and medical supplies amid the siege . <p> The Israeli military did not immediately respond to a request for comment . <p> A Palestinian man carries a child killed by an Israeli airstrike through a cemetery in Deir el-Balah on Sunday.Eyad Baba / AFP - Getty Images <p> Israel attacked the school-turned-shelter after it launched a wave of airstrikes Saturday , which killed at least 49 people , seven of them during an attack on another school sheltering displaced Palestinians , health officials said . <p> They said women and children were among the dead , including a girl who was only 2 days old . <p> The Israeli military has been operating in northern Gaza for over two months , though the siege of the Gaza Strip has lasted for 15 months , a response to the Oct. 7 , 2023 , terrorist attack in which roughly 1,200 people were killed in Israel and around 250 people were taken hostage . <p> Since then , nearly 45,000 people have been killed in Gaza , most of them women and children , while over 105,000 people have been injured , and many victims remain buried under rubble . <p> Meanwhile , in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , tensions have escalated after at least one person was killed following violent clashes between Palestinian Authority forces and Palestinian militants in the city of Jenin . <p> Western-backed PA forces have set up checkpoints in the city and claimed their forces were undertaking security operations to restore law and order in the refugee camp suburb , a stronghold of militants alienated from Palestinian leadership . <p> Philippe Lazzarini , commissioner-general of the U.N . agency for Palestinian refugees , said Saturday that it had suspended services in Jenin Camp for another day following the violence , with children unable to attend school and residents cut off from health care and other essential services . <p> " All sides of these internal confrontations need to uphold the basic principles of international law that guarantee the safety of civilians &amp; their access to basic services in all situations , " Lazzarini said on X. 
@@118908278 <p> Israel 's Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar announced the closure of the country 's embassy in Ireland on Sunday , accusing Ireland of " extreme anti-Israel policies . " <p> " The actions and antisemitic rhetoric used by Ireland against Israel are rooted in the delegitimization and demonization of the Jewish state , along with double standards . Ireland has crossed every red line in its relations with Israel , " Sa'ar said , according to a foreign ministry statement . <p> " Israel will invest its resources in advancing bilateral relations with countries worldwide according to priorities that also take into account the attitudes and actions of these states toward Israel , " he added . <p> The statement pointed to action taken by the Irish government , including Ireland 's decision to recognize a Palestinian state , and its support for South Africa 's legal action against Israel in the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) . <p> Yair Lapid , Israel 's opposition leader , criticized the move in a post on X , calling it a " victory for anti-Semitism and anti-Israel organizations . " <p> " The way to deal with criticism is not to run away , but to stay and fight ! " <p> His comments sparked backlash from Sa'ar , who on his own X account wrote : " Shame on you , Yair ! ... This is clear anti-Semitism based on delegitimization , dehumanization and double standards towards the Jewish state . " <p> Demonstrators rally beside the Israeli embassy during a " Stand with Palestine " march in solidarity with Gaza , in Dublin , Ireland , October 14 , 2023 . <p> Clodagh Kilcoyne/Reuters <p> " I utterly reject the assertion that Ireland is anti-Israel . Ireland is pro-peace , pro-human rights and pro-International law , " he wrote on X. <p> Ireland announced in May that it would formally recognize the State of Palestine . " There is never a wrong time to do the right thing , " Prime Minister Harris told CNN 's Christiane Amanpour at the time . In response , Israel ordered the immediate recall of its ambassador to Ireland . <p> The case was first brought to the ICJ by South Africa , and in an initial ruling in January , the court ordered Israel to " take all measures within its power " to prevent genocidal acts in Gaza , but stopped short of accusing it of genocide. 
@@118911377 <p> Recent reports have indicated that Hamas may be having an internal crisis at a time when surveys show that there is less support for the group . If the reports are based partly on reality , then Hamas could be at risk of falling apart in Gaza . However , if that is the case , then Israel would need to prepare for the end of Hamas rule . <p> A report in Saudi Arabia 's Elaph was referenced in a new report at Israel Hayom . According to these reports , a Hamas official in Turkey said , " Hamas is suffering from a genuine leadership crisis . The Al-Aqsa Flood attack backfired on us , submerging us in a sea of blood and crises . The most recent blow was the fall of Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria , with which Hamas had been attempting to rebuild relations . " <p> Another survey being shared online claims to show that only seven percent of respondents think Hamas should govern Gaza when the war with Israel is over . That survey , which was prepared for the Tony Blair Institute , surveyed 1,400 Palestinian adults in the West Bank , Gaza , and East Jerusalem in July and August . One question asked , " Which entity would you prefer to govern Gaza immediately after the war ? " In Gaza , it seems only seven percent wanted Hamas to stay in charge . In the West Bank , it was more . <p> What do these small bits of data point to ? It 's possible that a deal with Hamas in Gaza could bolster it , but it 's also possible it could be overthrown in a popular uprising , similar to how the Assad regime was overthrown . One thing making it harder to overthrow Hamas is the decision since the war began to move civilians in Gaza into areas controlled by Hamas . There are around 2 million people in Gaza . When they are evacuated , they move to areas run by Hamas . For instance , in October , the IDF launched an operation in Jabalya . The 70,000 people were asked to move from there into areas controlled by Hamas . <h> Multiple opportunities to test alternative authorities in Gaza <p> No attempt has been made in Gaza to create an alternate authority . This is despite the opportunities to do so . For instance , when the IDF cut off parts of northern Gaza from Gaza City in October as it prepared to enter Jabaliya , there was an opportunity to put a new governing authority in charge of Beit Lahiya , Beit Hanoun , and other small areas . This could have provided a test for a new authority . However , it is not clear what authority that would be . Israel appears reticent to rely on the Palestinian Authority because of fears it might unite the Palestinians or lead to Hamas gains in the West Bank.Palestinian security forces take position during clashes with gunmen in Jenin in the West Bank , December 14 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/RANEEN SAWAFTA ) <p> The Palestinian Authority Security Forces have begun new operations in the West Bank . " Over the past week , Palestinian security forces have intensified operations against terror groups in refugee camps across the West Bank . On Saturday , exchanges of gunfire erupted in Tulkarm between armed groups and Palestinian forces . Meanwhile , both Tulkarm and Jenin saw protests supporting terror organizations , accompanied by tire burnings and demonstrations against the Palestinian Authority 's security actions , " Ynet reported . <p> As the PA pushed forward , it could create a backlash . It 's possible that even if Hamas does n't fall , the PA could actually be in jeopardy . Sources also say that Israel is concerned about the fallout from Syria affecting Jordan . Jordan supports the PA and has done airdrops in Gaza to help people . Meanwhile , the US has asked Israel to facilitate the transfer of military equipment to the PA amid its attempt to crackdown on terrorists in Jenin . The PA 's success in Jenin could be a model for it to rule Gaza . But Israel does n't likely want that . This leaves a big gap in the question of what happens if Hamas falls or if there is an opening to remove it . In the absence of such a plan , it is likely Hamas will continue to rule Gaza . 
@@118966473 <p> During a wide-ranging impromptu press conference at Mar-a-Lago on Monday , President-elect Donald Trump signaled an eagerness to wrap up the conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East as quickly as possible -- suggesting he would call on some of the combatants to make significant compromises . <p> " We 've been doing our best and we 'll see what happens , " Trump said . " Since the election , I 've been working every day to put the world at ease a little bit , to get rid of the wars . " <p> Trump has previously insisted he would need only 24 hours to end the war between Russia and Ukraine , which has now pressed on for more than 1,000 days . But on Monday , he said he anticipated that would be " more difficult " to resolve than the current turmoil in the Middle East , which is rooted in the century-old Israeli Palestinian conflict . <p> " I see that as more difficult , " Trump said , before decrying the Biden administration 's recent decision to loosen restrictions on Ukraine 's use of American-supplied arms in recent weeks , allowing Kyiv to strike deeper inside Russian territory . <p> " I do n't think that should have been allowed , " he said . " Certainly not just weeks before I take over . <p> Trump then said he might reverse the decision , adding " I thought it was a very stupid thing to do . " <p> The president-elect also suggested he might expect Kyiv to hand over land to Russia as part of negotiated peace , signaling a departure from the Biden administration 's longstanding policy that Ukraine should steer any discussion on making territorial concessions in order to end the war . <p> " All those cities are destroyed , " he said . " It 's nice to say they want their land back , but the cities are largely destroyed . " <p> Trump said he would speak to Russian leader Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy before weighing in on how much land Ukraine should cede , but said it was still possible a deal to end the war could be reached before he entered the White House . <p> He also spoke about the devastation the war had caused in vivid terms , without expressly blaming Moscow for igniting it . <p> " It 's a carnage that we have n't seen since the Second World War . It 's got to be stopped . And I 'm doing I 'm doing my best to stop it , " he said . <h> On Syria 's Assad : ' We have to get on with our lives ' <p> The president-elect was also asked by ABC 's Selina Wang if the Kremlin should have to hand over former Syrian dictator , Bashar al-Assad , who fled rebel fighters by escaping to Russia . <p> " Well , I had n't thought of it . I think we have to get on with our lives . I have to see what happens , " Trump responded . <p> The president-elect said he was already actively engaged on other matters related to the Middle East , saying he had a " very good talk " with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu over the weekend . <h> Tough talk on Israeli hostages in Gaza <p> Trump also reiterated a demand he made in a post on his Truth Social site earlier this month that all hostages held in Gaza should be released prior to his inauguration , saying otherwise there would be " ALL HELL TO PAY . " <p> Asked about what the consequences Hamas would face if all the detainees were not freed by that point , Trump responded " they 're going to have to determine what that means . " <h> Some progress on Gaza ceasefire <p> Trump 's statements come as the State Department and some Israeli officials are signaling progress towards a limited deal to exchange some of the hostages held by Hamas for a temporary ceasefire in Gaza . <p> According to two U.S. officials familiar with the negotiations , Hamas has shown more willingness to compromise in recent days -- indicating it would temporarily tolerate the presence of some Israeli forces in the enclave during a ceasefire . The group has also provided information on some hostages Hamas said it would release as part of an agreement , they added . <p> " We are we are pushing as hard as we know how to do at this point , and we believe we can get to a deal , " State Department spokesperson Matthew Miller said on Monday . " It remains incumbent on Hamas and Israel agreeing to those final terms and getting it over the line . And I ca n't good conscience tell you stand here and tell you that that 's going to happen , but it should happen . " 
@@118967261 <h> Feds charge a Natick man , and an Iranian man , in connection to fatal drone strike abroad <p> U.S. Attorney for Massachusetts Joshua Levy speaks during a December press conference . ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Federal officials announced charges on Monday against two men for violating U.S. export laws to supply Iran with materials for a drone strike that killed U.S. service members in Jordan earlier this year . <p> U.S. Attorney for Massachusetts Joshua Levy detailed charges against Mahdi Mohammad Sadeghi , a naturalized U.S. citizen living in Natick , and and Mohammad Abedininajafabadi , a Iranian citizen who was arrested in Milan , Italy . <p> Levy said that since 2016 , the two conspired to violate American export laws by giving sensitive American technologies to Iran . Sadeghi works for a U.S. semiconductor company based in Massachusetts . Abedininajafabadi is chief executive of a Tehran-based company with ties to the Iranian military , government and the IRGC , which the U.S. considers a terrorist organization . <p> Both are charged with conspiring to violate U.S. export laws ; Abedininajafabadi was also charged with conspiracy to provide material support to a terrorist organization . <p> Federal officials are seeking to extradite Abedininajafabadi from Italy to face charges in the U.S. <p> " As alleged in this criminal complaint , the grave potential damage from the leak of American technology overseas came to fruition , " Levy said at the Moakley Federal Courthouse in Boston Monday evening . <p> Abedininajafabadi 's company allegedly manufactured the navigation system used in the drone attack . <p> Sadeghi has been an employee at Analog Devices Inc . ( ADI ) in Wilmington since 2020 , according to a LinkedIn profile with his name . When asked about its employee and the allegations , the company issued a statement to WBUR : <p> " ADI takes its compliance obligations and role in national security very seriously , " stated Ferda Millan , of its external communications . " We have cooperated fully with federal law enforcement and will continue to do so throughout the proceedings . ADI is committed to preventing unauthorized access to and misuse of our products and technology . " <p> According to ADI 's website , Sadeghi received his Ph.D . in electrical engineering from the University of Michigan , Ann Arbor , in 2014 . His thesis involved unmanned air vehicles . <p> Advertisement <p> The LinkedIn profile shows a Sadeghi with the title of technology group product marketing manager , who focuses on the design , fabrication and validation of micro electronic mechanical systems . <p> The drone attack in northeastern Jordan on the military outpost known as Tower 22 in January 2024 killed three U.S. soldiers and injured more than 47 service members . <p> U.S. officials blamed the attack on the Islamic Resistance in Iraq , an umbrella group of Iran-backed militias that includes Kataib Hezbollah . <p> The one-way attack drone may have been mistaken for a U.S. drone that was expected to return back to the logistics base about the same time and was not shot down . Instead , it crashed into living quarters , killing the three soldiers and injuring more than 40 . <p> Tower 22 held about 350 U.S. military personnel at the time . It is strategically located between Jordan and Syria , only 6 miles from the Iraqi border , and in the months just after Hamas ' Oct. 7 attack on Israel , and Israel 's blistering response in Gaza , Iranian-backed militias intensified their attacks on U.S. military locations in the region . <p> Following the attack , the U.S. launched a huge counterstrike against 85 sites in Iraq and Syria used by Iran 's Revolutionary Guard and Iranian-backed militia and bolstered Tower 22 's defenses . <p> With reporting by WBUR 's Amy Gorel and Christine Willmsen , and The Associated Press <p> Editor 's note : a previous version of this story used a shortened version of Abedininajafabadi 's name listed by the Department of Justice . 
@@118967879 <h> Grieving the Gaza granddad who wept for the ' soul of his soul ' <p> Khaled Nabhan grieved peacefully for his granddaughter Reem last year . On Monday , Israel killed him in Gaza , too . <p> Khaled Nabhan with the ' soul of his soul ' , Reem Screen grab/ Al Jazeera <p> By Mohamed Solaimane <p> Published On 17 Dec 202417 Dec 2024 <p> Deir el-Balah , Gaza -- Maysa Nabhan weeps silently in the living room , flipping through her phone for images of her father Khaled Nabhan with her children . <p> " He was everything to us . He held this family together . When my children died , he was the one who comforted me every day , " she says , her voice breaking as she scrubs tears off her face with her hand . <p> Eight-year-old Ahmed sat beside his mother , bursting into tears whenever she wept , only calming down as she stopped or reached a black-clad arm to comfort him . <p> " Grandpa 's gone , " he repeated tearfully , over and over . <p> In an overcrowded home where she has taken refuge with Ahmed , Maysa has little space to grieve her dad , who inadvertently became an icon of Gaza 's suffering a little more than a year ago . <h> ' Soul of my soul ' <p> At 2am on November 29 , 2023 , in the shattered remains of Deir al-Balah , Khaled Nabhan cradled his granddaughter 's small , lifeless body . <p> An Israeli air strike had killed three-year-old Reem and her five-year-old brother Tarek , the two youngest children of his eldest daughter , Maysa . <p> Advertisement <p> Gently kissing Reem 's closed eyes , he whispered that she was " Ruh al-ruh " ( soul of my soul ) and the moment was caught on camera , making the 54-year-old grandfather an icon of Gaza 's agony . <p> It was a moment of peaceful surrender to God 's will that captured hearts everywhere . <p> Since that moment , more videos were shared of Khaled Nabhan as he navigated his loss and worked to help as many people as he could . <p> He focused on comforting others , even consoling people calling from around the world to offer their condolences . <p> When they would bemoan their inability to do anything to stop the bloodshed , he would ask them to pray for Gaza . <p> " There 's nothing more valuable than your prayers ... pray for Allah to be with us , " he told a tearful caller . <p> Khaled Nabhan loved his children and grandchildren . Reem , the youngest , had a special place in his heart Screen grab/Al Jazeera <h> A symbol <p> The world watched Khaled Nabhan be himself . He fed stray cats -- traumatised and starving like Gaza 's population -- and played with his surviving grandchildren and youngest daughter , 10-year-old Ratil , and took care of his elderly mother . <p> His son Diaa , 29 , recalls how Khaled Nabhan kept working as a labourer whenever he could find work , despite being hungry and malnourished himself . <p> " He worked ... scraping by to provide for us , " recalls Diaa . <p> " But you 'd never know how much he struggled during the war on Gaza . He starved himself to make sure we had enough food . " <p> After his farewell to Reem went viral , Khaled " turned into a one-man relief agency " , Diaa said . <p> Advertisement <p> As love and compassion for him flooded in from around the world , he funnelled that support to those in need , collecting tents , food , and clothing for those left with nothing . <p> Khaled Nabhan in February , moving his family to their second place of refuge , Rafah , which they had to flee again shortly afterwards Mohamed Solaimane/Al Jazeera <p> On the rare occasions when Khaled complained , it was about life in displacement and the humiliation it brought upon others as Israel continued to obstruct the entry of nearly all aid to Gaza . <p> " There is no greater indignity than this , " he said in February from the back of a horse-drawn cart that had his family 's possessions piled on it as he moved them to Rafah , their second displacement location that they eventually had to flee . <p> " People reach out to me for help who do n't even have the bare minimum of clothes to shield them from the elements , " he said . 
@@118980360 <h> Israel 's security needs and challenges in 2025 <h> 2025 will be a challenge for Israel and its only steadfast ally , the United States . Expect the unexpected , as the Middle East never follows predictable paths . <p> Israeli police inspectors and bomb squad unit are seen at the scene where Israeli Border Police forces shot at a driver who allegedly attempted to ram his vehicle into security personnel in az-Za'ayyem checkpoint near Ma'ale Adumim , November 25 , 2020. ( photo credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <p> Before October 7 , 2023 , Israel was on the verge of a political normalization with Saudi Arabia . Its only perceived external existential threat was the Iranian nuclear program . <p> One of the most important and far-reaching consequences of Israel 's wars with Iran and its proxies -- Hezbollah , Hamas , the Houthis , and the militias in Syria and Iraq -- was the restored unity of the Israeli people and their resilience to fight seemingly endless battles on seven fronts . <p> This is Israel 's secret recipe beyond the innovative power of the Start-Up Nation.Read More ... <p> When the war started on Oct. 7 , 2023 , Iran , Hamas , and Hezbollah believed Israel was vulnerable because of its disunity , televised from the streets of Tel Aviv and Jerusalem in the weekly Saturday night protests against judicial reform . They mistakenly believed Israel was a fragile , divided society , open for attack , not noticing that both sides of the divide were waving hundreds of Israeli flags at every rally . They also thought that democracy and " freedom to speak " were weaknesses of the West , with Israel the lone Western outpost in the authoritarian Middle East . <p> After October 7 , Israeli reserve units were 150% oversubscribed , with reserve soldiers abroad catching the first flights back to join their comrades . Thousands have served for more than a year as Israel was finally able to turn the tide , decimating Hezbollah , Hamas , and most recently , the Iranian defense system , making the Islamic Republic vulnerable to an attack on its nuclear infrastructure . <p> Suppose the US can overcome isolationist impulses and the hangover of two misadventures in Iraq and Afghanistan to prioritize regime change in Iran as part of its long-term foreign policy . In that case , contrary to conventional wisdom , the US will have created a path to a more stable Middle East and decrease the chance of being drawn into a regional war . And yes , it can be done without any American boots in Iran . President-elect Donald Trump , this will be your time to act , just as you bravely did in your first term ! IDF RESERVIST with his toddler outside Jerusalem 's Mount Herzl , May 9. ( credit : FLASH90 ) <h> Lebanon <p> The fragile ceasefire in Israel 's North was accepted in part because of the fatigue of the Israeli soldiers and logistic analysts projecting inconsistent supply lines to sustain the fight in both Gaza and Lebanon . However , American pressure and threats were likely the deciding factor for Israel to accept a suboptimal truce . Hezbollah chose a ceasefire , or better said , Iran allowed Hezbollah to accept a truce because the Supreme Leader is afraid of losing his most crucial proxy force in their ring of fire surrounding Israel . Since Hezbollah is not a party to the ceasefire , which is a surprise to most people , and the Lebanese Armed Forces ( LAF ) will not be ready for months or years or ever to be willing or capable of confronting Hezbollah , expect hostilities to resume . <p> The international ostracism of Israel will be led by French President Emmanuel Macron , a primary party to monitor the agreement . Expect Macron to act like Charles De Gaulle in 1967 , hostile to Israel . Accepting France as a watchdog for Israeli violations of the ceasefire was a disaster . Macron will turn on Israel and falsely claim the LAF needs more time to control Hezbollah . <p> The reality is that Hezbollah is weakened , but it is not going anywhere and will be resupplied unless Iran is financially squeezed and the Iranian regime becomes unstable . The French are , unfortunately , more than willing to trade with Iran and thwart any plans the Trump administration has to rein in the Islamists in Tehran . US negotiator Amos Hochstein was just a little behind the French in the one-sided condemnation of Israel less than a week after the tenuous ceasefire was announced . His marching orders are to preserve outgoing President Joe Biden 's semblance of a success at all costs . Biden 's statement that the Lebanese ceasefire was " historic " and would lead to " permanent " peace is detached from reality . We have to wonder whether Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu agreed to the Lebanon ceasefire to focus resources on Iran or was an excuse to deflect attention from what some call a premature ceasefire without establishing a buffer zone to give reassurance to the northern residents to return . <p> Opposition leader Benny Gantz , writing in the Wall Street Journal , has an ambitious list of goals . Most are worthwhile , some are impractical , but all are likely to be contested or not implemented . He is correct that Israel needs " not only operation(al) freedom against immediate threats ... but against any ( Hezbollah ) force building far from the border , " as well as unlimited air surveillance . Two of his recommendations are sensible but are unlikely to occur : a UN weapons embargo on Hezbollah , and direct talks between Lebanon and Israel . Unfortunately , Hezbollah , though weakened , still holds a veto , so it will not happen anytime soon -- unless you think a Lebanese Shia parliamentarian under the thumb of Hezbollah is a legitimate representative of the Lebanese . However , Gantz 's call for expanding UNIFIL 's mandate to use force is not practical or possible , while his recommendation for US CENTCOM to demilitarize and ensure deconfliction will be limited , as no US boots should be on the ground . <h> Iran <p> Will Netanyahu , who has been accused of too much military restraint during his terms in office , risk attacking nuclear facilities beyond what Israel did in Parchin in late October , an undeclared atomic weaponization site ? However , without American diplomatic backing and weapons support , providing or using bunker-buster missiles and the means to deliver them , the opportunity to significantly delay the Iranian weapons program for a decade or more may be lost unless Israel has something up its sleeve beyond what is known of its military capabilities . President-elect Trump could thank Israel for destroying Iran 's anti-missile systems in April and October and launch a limited joint US-Israeli attack to decimate its nuclear program . Contrary to conventional thinking , it would create a more stable Middle East with Iran weakened and its proxies bankrupt . It is better to deal with an angry , non-nuclear Iran than with a hegemonic jihadist power feeling invincible with its new atomic bombs . If the US will not strike Iran and Israel is capable , it should unilaterally enforce the Begin Doctrine , never to allow an enemy state to have nuclear weapons , especially when it repeatedly says its ultimate goal is the extermination of the Jewish state . Israel may not be given another chance like this , as Iran with its Axis of Aggression will rebuild its defense system in a shorter time than you might think . If there is no preemptive attack , America will be dealing with a Middle East nuclear arms race within the decade , the worst scenario for US and Israeli interests . <h> Gaza and the West Bank ( Judea and Samaria ) <p> Israel 's security in Gaza is dramatically better if your only metric is that , for the time being , Hamas can not initiate an October 7 attack for years to come . However , the Muslim Brotherhood outfit still hides in dozens of miles of undiscovered tunnels , with thousands of terrorists in small units that will terrorize the population and , in effect , control or at least prevent another entity from coming into Gaza and governing . The Egyptians , Saudis , and Emiratis are unlikely to put their soldiers in harm 's way , knowing Hamas will be sniping and sending its young men back in body bags . That is why it is so crucial that the Trump team be convinced to support Israel 's fight in Gaza for years to come in a protracted guerrilla war against Hamas in both Gaza and the West Bank . The West Bank has become a Hamas stronghold with Iranian weapons , and we can expect the IRGC to double down in supplying weapons . An excellent Israeli first step is building a more advanced fence in the Jordan River Valley to prevent arms transfers . The cost will be billions of shekels for an economy already in difficult straits . <h> The Saudis and Palestinians <p> The Saudis backed themselves into a corner , demanding a path to a Palestinian state in exchange for normalization . The Trump team should reintroduce the Peace to Prosperity plan , which will give the Saudis cover , as the corrupt PA will reject it outright . The Saudis are anxious for an upgraded US defense relationship , and their interests lie in moving ahead with a peace treaty similar to the Abraham Accords . The Trump administration should make this a priority in foreign policy . <h> Lawfare <p> Israel 's security in 2025 will be challenged on its eighth front , the international community boycott and sanctions movement to delegitimize Israel . I am confident that the Trump administration will not only protect Israel against the lawfare being thrown against Israel in the UN , the ICJ , and the ICC but will also defund the biased , antisemitic , and anti-American UN Human Rights Council . Domestically , the new administration should be encouraged to create an effective plan to end Iranian support of pro-Hamas protesters in the US and end foreign funding of US universities by governments that have supported terror . Number one in the crosshairs is Qatar . <h> Israeli unity <p> If Israel 's societal unity breaks down , its overall external security challenges will be magnified . In the future , judicial reform can be managed as most people want some reform , but not the extreme legislation advanced in 2022-23 . The more challenging domestic problem is the friction between the more secular society and the growing numbers of ultra-orthodox haredim , who participate minimally in the military and secular education , and demand that the rest of society support them economically . Why are religious Zionists who pay the greatest price in blood and treasure not leading the charge to enlist or defund the haredim until they fully contribute to society ? After the physical and emotional sacrifice religious Zionists have paid in this war , they need to put aside coalition concerns and demand that the haredim not become institutionalized freeloaders . This is a profound security concern as hundreds of thousands of reservists can not be called on repeatedly while their fellow citizens sit on the sidelines . <h> The forecast <p> In the long term , unless Iran is dealt with by the US and Israel , it will remain an existential threat as long as it continues in its march to gain nuclear weapons . In the short term , Israel faces low-scale kinetic wars of attritionagainst Iranian proxies . Expect weakened jihadists to increase terror against soft targets not only against Israel and Jews but also on Western civilians to induce European nations to pressure Israel . 2025 will be a challenge for Israel and its only steadfast ally , the United States . Expect the unexpected , as the Middle East never follows predictable paths . As Walter Russell Mead wrote in the Wall Street Journal , " The Middle East never loses its capacity to surprise . " However , what October 7 teaches is not to underestimate your adversary , remain innovative , and create the mechanisms for rapid decision-making . <p> With some quiet in kinetic activity likely in 2025 , official investigations must begin for Israel 's colossal intelligence failure . Uncompromising inquiries were carried out in the past after security failures like the 1973 Yom Kippur War and the 2006 Second Lebanon War , and Israel 's ability to fight the inevitable next war requires this painful inquiry . Israel was bloodied but has emerged as the undisputed power in the Middle East , while Iran and its proxies have been weakened . The incoming US president respects strong nations like Israel that can fight by themselves and prevail . <p> That is a winning formula for Israel for the next four years . ? <p> The writer is the director of MEPIN , the Middle East Political Information Network , and regularly briefs members of the US Congress and their foreign policy aides on the Middle East . 
@@118980362 <h> Visionary individuals on both sides of the political divide must come together to propose a pardon for Netanyahu in exchange for retirement from public life . <p> Back on May 26 , 2020 , when Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu gave his opening statement at the commencement of his criminal trial in Jerusalem , we wrote that he " managed to shift the focus ... away from the image of a prime minister on trial to the image of a prime minister being lynched by a crooked system out to get him . " <p> Now , four-and-a-half years later , amid the marathon trial that has heard dozens of witnesses , has experienced numerous delays , and has taken place through both the judicial reform upheaval and more than a year of war in Gaza and Lebanon , Netanyahu has finally taken the witness stand as he mounts his defense . <p> Like his opening statements , his strategy has been to emphasize his importance to the country and minimize the " trumped-up " charges against him . The trial has taken on the trappings of a circus , with urgent notes being passed to the prime minister from his aides , controversy from both supporters and detractors over the court ruling that Netanyahu would be testifying three times a week , and a nation 's eyes on every nuance emanating from defendant No. 1 on the witness stand . <p> The spectacle could be something that is taken in stride -- even applauded -- for the ethos that nobody is above the law -- if it were n't for the state of the country . <p> We are in the midst of a 14-month all-consuming war that has seen thousands of Israelis killed , 100 hostages still unaccounted for who are languishing in Gaza , and major regional upheavals to Israel 's North -- not to mention the myriad of internal issues that must be addressed . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu arrives at the District Court in Tel Aviv , December 16 , 2024 ( credit : YOSSI ZELIGER/FLASH90 ) <h> Clemency for all <p> Put it all together , and it seems a bit surreal for the trial to take up any bandwidth of the country 's attention . But , it does . This is why it behooves us to revisit President Isaac Herzog 's remarks last week at a conference hosted by the Makor Rishon newspaper . <p> When asked : " Do you think the time will come for clemency -- not just for Netanyahu , but for all citizens of Israel ? " Herzog replied , " I believe it is our duty to uphold the rule of law , and no one is above it . <p> " That said , it was not a happy day to see the prime minister in court , and I believe every citizen should feel that way . I wo n't comment on the specifics of the trial itself . I will always exercise my powers according to my conscience and the law . But for now , clemency is not on the table . " <p> What was left unsaid , but implied , was that if a proposal was made to pardon Netanyahu of the charges against him in exchange for retirement from public life , this was something the president would consider . <p> The idea of a presidential pardon has been floated since Netanyahu was first indicted in 2019 . Back in 2022 , The Jerusalem Post 's then-editor-in-chief Yaakov Katz wrote , " There is no good outcome for Israel 's criminal justice system in this trial . If Netanyahu is found guilty , his followers will continue to stand by him . They will now claim -- as he has since the police investigation began -- that the case was rigged from the outset . <p> " On the other hand , if Netanyahu is acquitted of the charges against him ... Israel will find itself in a constitutional and legal crisis never seen before . With no trust in the courts , there will be little trust in the rule of law , " according to Katz . <p> Dragging the country through a drawn out trial has not been healthy , and the outcome -- whether Netanyahu is acquitted or convicted -- will be fraught with dissent . Just as importantly , Israel needs a full-time prime minister focused solely on the country 's critical issues . <p> Now is the time for visionary individuals on both sides of the political divide to come together and officially propose a pardon for Netanyahu in exchange for his withdrawal from public life . <p> Netanyahu , who has accomplished so much in his career -- and has done so much to build Israel and promote its cause -- can save his legacy , and spare the country the distraction of an ongoing trial that takes the focus away from the vital issues . <p> We 're facing many more months of testimony from Netanyahu , who will be incapacitated for much of the week . And in the likelihood of a conviction at the end of the trial , the country will revisit the shame of yet another prime minister being sentenced and sent to prison . <p> Israel can not afford either right now . So where are the cool heads that can see beyond partisanship and go to the president with a plan to get us beyond this crisis ? Are they out there ? 
@@118980367 <p> One 12-year-old student described to The Jewish Chronicle how the mob was swearing antisemitic profanities at the group and then threw rocks at them while screaming , " F*** Israel . Nobody likes you . F*** off you bitches . " <p> This antisemitic attack did not occur in a vacuum . From Paris to London to New York and San Francisco , antisemitism is on the rise across the West , leaving Jewish students vulnerable . In such a violent atmosphere , we must appreciate a country like Azerbaijan , where incidents like this simply do not happen . <p> Jewish civilization in Azerbaijan dates back over 1,500 years . Oral tradition states that Jews first arrived in the South Caucasus country during the eighth century BCE . <h> Jews living in peace <p> Since then , the Jews of Azerbaijan have been living in peace and harmony , without experiencing any antisemitism except during the relatively brief invasions by Nadir Shah and the Soviet Union . Since Azerbaijan broke away from the Soviet Union and declared independence , Jewish life in Azerbaijan has been flourishing , especially since the country opened an embassy in Israel last year . Azerbaijan &amp; Israel Cooperation ( credit : PIXABAY ) <p> In a world torn apart by antisemitic hatred and intolerance , multicultural and religiously diverse Azerbaijan stands out as a role model for other countries . It is an example of how Jews and Muslims can coexist peacefully and be friends , celebrating each other 's holidays and the diversity that the South Caucasus country has to offer . <p> Jewish children who travel home from school in Baku , Quba , Oghuz , Ganja , and other Azerbaijani cities are not harassed by antisemitic mobsters . They are encouraged to share their culture and way of life with the greater Muslim population as well as the other religious groups that live in Azerbaijan . <p> No one in Azerbaijan taunts them about their connection to Israel . On the contrary , over 40% of Israel 's oil originates in Azerbaijan , and over 120 Israeli firms operate within the South Caucasus country , with many more exploring the possibility of relocating . <p> In fact , Azerbaijanis not only refrain from taunting Jewish students , but they have profound admiration and respect for Israel because they see many parallels between Israeli history and their own . They feel that the United States and France have given Azerbaijan the " Israel treatment " on more than one occasion . <p> Much in the way that the world criticizes Israel 's conduct in Gaza and Lebanon , Azerbaijan experienced similar criticism during the Second Karabakh War and the subsequent military operation . <p> Thirty years ago , the Armenians -- with support from the Russians and the Iranians -- captured Karabakh and the seven Azerbaijani districts , comprising one-fifth of Azerbaijan , in violation of four UN Security Council resolutions , which resulted in close to a million Azerbaijanis being displaced from their homes . <p> For 30 years , Armenian settler colonialists occupied these lands and committed crimes against humanity while the world looked on silently as an area larger than Lebanon endured a brutal occupation . <p> However , when Azerbaijan decided to reassert her national sovereignty and enforce international law , the West turned on Azerbaijan , a country that had helped the US fight the Taliban in Afghanistan and had provided Europe with energy security in the wake of the war in Ukraine . <p> Similarly , today , the same world that cried with Israel as 1,200 Israelis were massacred , mutilated , and raped , and over 250 others were abducted to Gaza by Hamas terrorists on October 7 , 2023 , is now critical of Israel for defending herself in the face of such brutal terrorism . Azerbaijan has great sympathy for Israel 's position because they are in the same position . <p> For this reason , Jews will always need to have friends like Azerbaijan , who stand beside us in our hour of need , and should do everything to stand in solidarity with Azerbaijan . 
@@118980370 <p> In a surprise , the movie from Palestine , From Ground Zero , a collection of short films from Gaza , made the shortlist in the Best International Feature category . <p> It had not been on any of the lists of predictions in this category compiled by major Oscar-watching websites . The short film , An Orange from Jaffa , by Gaza-born director , Mohammed Almughanni , made the shortlist for Best Live-Action Short . <p> One Jewish-themed film made the Live Action Short shortlist , The Ice Cream Man by Robert Moniot , about a Jewish ice-cream parlor owner during the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands . <p> Yariv Mozer 's We Will Dance Again , a hard-hitting film about the massacre at the Supernova music festival , was one of the eligible films that was passed over this year in the Best Documentary Feature category . YARIV MOZER , director of ' We Will Dance Again ' with some of the survivors of the Supernova music festival . ( credit : Hanna Taieb ) <h> Several hopefuls were passed over <p> Hopes had been high for the winner of this year 's Ophir Award for Best Picture , Come Closer by Tom Nesher , to make the Best International Feature shortlist . <p> It won the Viewpoints award at the Tribeca Festival , which shows it has appeal for viewers abroad , and it has been a hit with both critics and audiences . But although it did not make the cut , it already has a US distributor . <p> Perhaps this year 's shortlists can definitively lay to rest the myth that Jews control Hollywood . The last time an Israeli movie made the shortlist was Samuel Maoz 's Foxtrot in 2017 and the last time an Israeli film was nominated in this category was Joseph Cedar 's Footnote in 2012 . <p> Members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences will now choose five out of the 15 movies on these shortlists for the final nominations , which will be announced on January 17. 
@@118980374 <p> At the 2024 Jerusalem Post Miami Summit , photojournalist Chen Schimmel participated in a powerful panel discussion moderated by Jerusalem Post 's Economics Correspondent Eve Young , alongside artist Ron Agam and activist Daniel Braun . Schimmel recounted her work this past year , and presented her upcoming book , October 7th : Bearing Witness , while sharing significant encounters that have stayed with her even now . <p> Schimmel shared the motivations behind her work , emphasizing that her photography goes beyond words to capture the pain and resilience of those affected by conflict . " It is a historical document of our people ; of the mourning , the loss and the pain but also the resilience of our nation , " she said , describing her book as a promise to preserve the memories of those lost , ensuring their stories endure . <p> Schimmel mentioned she felt to document the aftermath of the October 7 attacks , as well as the ongoing violence in Gaza and Lebanon . Schimmel 's photographs reflect the devastating impact of war and the strength of the people enduring it . As a photojournalist , " she explained , " the lens does sometimes act as a shield . But there are moments when that buffer shatters , when the weight of what I 'm witnessing becomes impossible to ignore . " <p> Schimmel recounted moments of deep emotional connection with her subjects , such as when she shared a cup of tea with a grieving mother , only to later learn of her daughter 's death in Gaza . " This was n't just documentation anymore . It was personal , " she concluded , revealing the emotional toll her work often takes . 
@@118980379 <h> Israel is likely to finally respond to Yemen 's Houthis , ' Post ' has learned <h> The Jerusalem Post learned that Israel has lost patience with the Houthis and may be ready to act . <p> Supporters of Yemen 's Houthis attend a rally in solidarity " with the people of Gaza " in the Houthi-controlled capital Sanaa on December 13 , 2024. ( photo credit : Mohammed Huwais/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> Israel is likely to finally respond to Yemen 's Houthis in the coming weeks , The Jerusalem Post learned on Monday following yet another ballistic missile attack by the Iranian proxy . <p> The IDF air defense intercepted a ballistic missile fired by Yemen 's Houthis on Monday , setting off sirens across central Israel , the army announced at 3:23 p.m . <p> The IDF added that the missile did not cross into Israeli territory . However , alerts were triggered due to the possibility of falling debris from the interception . <p> Generally , only the Arrow missile defense system is capable of shooting down ballistic missiles , as opposed to the Iron Dome , which shoots down lower-grade rockets . <p> Moreover , the cost of shooting down ballistic missiles can be as high as two to three million dollars per interceptor when the Arrow 2 or 3 is used . Israeli security forces at the scene where a drone fired from Yemen hit a building in Yavne , December 9 , 2024 ( credit : LIRON MOLDOVAN/FLASH 90 ) <p> Estimates are that the Houthis have fired around a dozen ballistic missiles and drones at Israel since the start of November , including several in the last two weeks . <p> Despite these ongoing attacks , Israel has failed to respond since October . <h> Tackling the Houthi threat <p> The ballistic missile on December 1 was shot down outside of Israeli territory . No Israelis were killed or injured directly from the missile , but some shrapnel did land in certain central Israel areas , and a small number of persons got injured rushing for shelter . <p> Also , that missile -- like Monday 's missile -- set off warning sirens for almost all of central Israel since it was unclear exactly where it might hit if it had penetrated Israel 's air defense . <p> Because no one was killed or injured , because Israel had recently wrapped up a ceasefire with Hezbollah , because Israel has been hoping to wrap up a deal with Hamas as well , because Yemen is more than 1,800 km. away , and because some of Israel 's grand strategy for the region is waiting for US President-elect Donald Trump to enter the White House on January 20 , there were no signs whatsoever to date of an Israeli response . <p> If Yemen had not attacked again after December 1 , Israel might have chosen not to respond at all . <p> Unlike the other two instances when the Houthis attacked in July and September and top Israeli officials quickly vowed a response , here officials were largely silent -- until Monday . <p> But on Monday , sources finally indicated a loss of patience with the Houthis . <p> On September 29 , the IDF undertook a massive strike against the Houthis , which greatly exceeded the massive strike on Hodeidah in July . <p> Each of these attacks achieved some temporary quiet from the Houthis , but in both cases , within a month or so after Israel 's counterstrike , the Houthis started to attack Israel again . <p> US efforts to stop Houthi aggression beyond their country have also failed to date . <p> THE IDF on Monday announced that the volume of suspected West Bank terrorists it has arrested crossed the 6,000-person mark since the start of the current war 14 months ago . <p> While at the start of the war , around 60% or more of those arrested were members of Hamas , already in early 2024 , the ratio was reversed and the majority of those arrested were not necessarily affiliated with Hamas . <p> At this point , the IDF said that 2,350 -- or around 39% , a low for the war -- are members of Hamas . <p> Those arrested who are not members of Hamas can be members of Islamic Jihad or the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine ( PFLP ) , but more recently have been local gangs and militias who are not affiliated with wider terror groups . <p> Some of the arrests made overnight were unusual , such as the arrests of more than 10 suspects and the seizure of over NIS one million in terror funds from Jericho , villages in the Etzion bloc , and other areas . <p> There were also arrests and seizures of terror funds in northern Samaria near Salem , including confiscating some weapons . Eight suspects were arrested in northern Samaria and three in the other areas . <p> According to the human rights NGO HaMoked and based on data from the Israel Prison Service , as of December 2024 , Israel holds 10,154 different categories of security prisoners -- by far the largest number since the First Intifada of 1987-1991 . <p> Of these , 2,003 are sentenced prisoners , 2,951 detainees are remanded in custody pending their trials , and 3,428 administrative detainees are being held outside standard criminal proceedings . Most of these Palestinians come from the West Bank . <p> Israel also holds 1,772 people as " unlawful combatants , " though this number has continually dropped after having reached thousands at the start of the war . Periodically and quietly , Israel has sent many of the unlawful combatants back to Gaza if and when it does not feel it has sufficient evidence to indict them . <p> Israel has also killed over 750 Palestinians in the West Bank , though IDF sources have told The Jerusalem Post that only around 3% , or around 25 Palestinian civilians , have been mistakenly killed during gunfights between the IDF and Palestinian terrorists in urban settings . <p> Israel has been criticized for the number of arrests and especially the number of administrative detainees . However , so much criticism has focused on alleged war crimes in Gaza , that there has been less attention this year to alleged violations by Israel against Palestinians in the West Bank . <p> On the other end of the spectrum , Israelis living in the West Bank have criticized the IDF for being too lenient and slow to attack and arrest suspected Palestinian terrorists , which they say has led to an unprecedented number of terror attacks throughout the war . <p> In Gaza , the Israel Air Force struck Hamas terrorists operating in a command and control center embedded in what had previously been the UNRWA " Sheikh Jamil School " in Khan Yunis on Sunday , the military said on Monday morning . <p> The school , also dubbed the " Ahmed Abdul Aziz School , " was located within the Khan Yunis humanitarian zone in southern Gaza , the IDF added . <p> The military further noted that the terrorists had planned to carry out terror activities against IDF troops and the State of Israel from within the training compound in the area . <p> Before the strike , the IDF implemented extensive precautions to minimize civilian harm , including the use of aerial surveillance , intelligence , and precision munitions , the military said . <p> " The terrorists operated from a structure that previously served as a school , which is yet another example of how the terrorist organization systematically operates within civilian population , " the IDF stated . <p> " The terrorist organizations in the Gaza Strip systematically violate international law , exploiting civilian infrastructure and the Gazan population as human shields for terrorist activity , " it added . 
@@119015078 <p> Tehran , Iran -- Tens of millions of people across Iran are facing major disruptions as authorities shut down services in the face of an exacerbating energy and currency crisis amid historic regional tensions . <p> This week , government offices , schools , banks and businesses in major provinces and in the capital Tehran have been largely closed due to worsening fuel and power shortages as temperatures dropped to subzero levels . <p> Energy Minister Abbas Aliabadi said on Wednesday that 13 power plants are out of commission due to a lack of fuel . <p> " If the fuel is provided , there will be no problem in providing the electricity , as power plants have undergone necessary repairs and are ready for winter . The petroleum ministry is following up on providing fuel , " he told reporters after a cabinet meeting . <p> There have been renewed power outages to homes across the country , most of which have come unannounced and lasted for hours . <p> There have also been massive industrial power cuts , impacting not just large energy-intensive industries but also many small and medium-sized enterprises across the country . <p> Advertisement <p> This comes a month after President Masoud Pezeshkian announced blackouts -- ones that were rolled out within days -- claiming electricity will be cut because the government does not wish to burn cheap fuel that would pollute the air . <p> But Tehran and major cities have been constantly drowning in a sea of smog that has been visible even in satellite images , while the blackouts -- which at times are also accompanied by communications outages as cell towers and internet substations go offline -- have persisted . <p> Despite holding the second-largest proven natural gas reserves in the world and ranking fourth in terms of proven crude oil reserves , Iran has been facing gas shortages during winter for years . <p> The power outages were largely within the summertime before now , but have recently hit with winter 's first cold , with even state television experts issuing stern warnings that next year could potentially be far worse . <p> Authorities have largely been putting the onus on the public , arguing that Iranians consume significantly higher levels of energy , especially natural gas , than people in other countries . <p> The gas shortage , in turn , either puts power plants out of commission or forces them to burn cheap , dirty and low-yield fuels like mazut , a low-quality , heavy oil that has been a major driver of rampant air pollution in Iran in recent years . <p> Advertisement <p> Earlier this month , Deputy Health Minister Alireza Raisi said 15 percent of all deaths in Tehran are caused by air pollution , with thousands of victims each year . <p> Health Minister Mohammad Reza Zafarghandi said last week that Iran suffers at least $12bn in costs and damages due to air pollution annually , and some calculations put the figure close to $20bn . <p> The president apologised to the public on Monday for the fuel shortages , signalling the situation is unlikely to change during the winter . <p> " God willing , we will try next year so these things wo n't happen , " Pezeshkian said . <h> Rial takes a beating <p> For now , his government has launched a nationwide initiative that calls on the people to decrease the average temperature of their homes by 2 degrees Celsius ( 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit ) in order to help manage the energy crisis . <p> Government ministers are filming themselves pledging to remain committed to the initiative , while lights are reportedly shut off in the courtyard of the president 's office . <p> Lights have also been turned off in major highways and expressways in Tehran and other places , plunging them into total darkness at night in a move that the police force has said could cause fatalities and undermine public order . <p> The energy crisis bears down on the country as Iran 's national currency , the rial , continues to hit new all-time lows on a near-daily basis . <p> The battered rial broke above 770,000 per US dollar on Wednesday on the unofficial currency market , continuing a trend that has picked up pace since the start of Israel 's war on Gaza last year , and specifically in the aftermath of the fall of longtime President Bashar al-Assad in Syria last week . <p> Advertisement <p> Tehran lost an ally of four decades and a major staging ground for its " axis of resistance " with the collapse of the al-Assad dynasty , stoking concerns that the conflict could edge closer to Iranian territory . <p> Israel , which launched the first known direct air strikes on Iranian soil since the 1980s in late October , has threatened further attacks on Iran 's nuclear and energy infrastructure . <p> Tensions are only expected to grow with the incoming administration of US President-elect Donald Trump , who in 2018 , in his first term in office , began the so-called " maximum pressure " campaign against Iran after unilaterally abandoning its 2015 nuclear deal with world powers . 
@@119022378 <p> A slate of Democratic senators are pressing President Joe Biden to give extra deportation protections to Palestinians before he leaves office , but border hawks say such a move comes with blatant national security risks . <p> " Joe Biden barely knows what day of the week it is , meanwhile his pro-Iran , pro-Hamas staff are trying to jam through a policy to bring thousands of unvetted Palestinians to the United States before his term ends , " Montana Rep. Ryan Zinke , speaking in reaction to Democratic lawmakers ' request , told the Daily Caller News Foundation . " We already know Hamas has infiltrated refugee populations and put their terrorists in civilian groups to plan future attacks . " <p> Zinke , like other border hawks in Washington , D.C. , expressed concern over the possibility of extremist elements within the Palestinian population , and previously drafted legislation that would outright prohibit Palestinians from entering the U.S. Nevertheless , Sens . Peter Welch of Vermont , Dick Durbin of Illinois , Tim Kaine of Virginia and others in their caucus are publicly calling on the Biden administration to roll out deportation protections for this specific group of foreign nationals . <p> TOPSHOT -- An Israeli soldier arranges artillery shells at a position near the border with the Gaza Strip in southern Israel on November 6 , 2023 amid the ongoing battles between Israel and the Palestinian group Hamas in the Gaza Strip . ( Photo by JACK GUEZ / AFP ) ( Photo by JACK GUEZ/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> " For over a year , Israeli bombing and extensive ground operations in Gaza have left over 43,000 Palestinians dead , and core civilian infrastructure largely incapacitated , " the Democrats wrote in their Dec. 12 letter , which appeared to be a critical framing of Israel 's response to the Oct. 7 terrorist attack against its civilian population . " The stability of the West Bank has also worsened since October 7 , 2023 , as violent settlers have increasingly destroyed homes , stolen livestock , demolished olive orchards , and wounded and killed hundreds of Palestinian civilians , including children . " <p> " The presence of this ' ongoing armed conflict ' would clearly ' pose a serious threat ' to the personal safety of Palestinians forced to return home , " the letter continued . <p> TPS and DED are similar in that both designations provide a level of deportation protections and work privileges for foreign nationals living in the U.S. , according to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services . However , DED is an administrative stay of removal made by the president which has no statutory basis , whereas TPS can be made at the Department of Homeland Security 's discretion and carries statutory power . <p> Biden granted DED to some Palestinians in the U.S. in February 2024 , but Democrats argue that action did n't go far enough . Meanwhile , immigration hawks are raising major national security questions over such an action , pointing out that the Palestinian territories are rife with members from designated terrorist organizations and it 's difficult to properly screen migrants from the region . <p> " Every time our government offers TPS to the citizens of a terrorist-run pseudo-state like Palestine it endangers the public safety and national security of the United States , " Matt O'Brien , investigations director for the Immigration Reform Law Institute , stated to the DCNF . " It is not possible to vet Palestinians . " <p> " And Palestine itself is administered by a complex web of shadowy terror groups , many of which serve as proxies for nations that are overtly hostile to the U.S. , such as Iran and Syria , " O'Brien continued . " Palestinian government officials are not folks who will share derogatory information on migrants with the U.S. , in fact they usually have a vested interest in hiding it , so they can smuggle in terrorists and spies . " <p> Questions over Palestinian refugees in the U.S. have been raised since the Hamas massacre of Israeli civilians on Oct. 7 , 2023 , which sparked the ongoing Israel-Hamas war . Internal federal government documents leaked to the media in April indicated that the Biden White House was even considering options on how to provide permanent safe haven to Palestinians living in war-torn Gaza . <p> GAZA , GAZA STRIP -- FEBRUARY 04 : Masked gunmen attend a press conference while Abu Thaer ( not pictured ) a Palestinian spokesman of the Al-Aqsa Brigades the military wing of the Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas movement Fatah , speaks to the media in Gaza City on February 4 , 2008 to claim joint responsibility with Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades , a military wing of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine ( PFLP ) , for the suicide bombing at a shopping centre in the Israeli desert town of Dimona . ( Photo by Abid Katib/Getty Images ) <p> Immediately after news of the possible Biden plan surfaced , Iowa GOP Sen. Joni Ernst led a delegation of 34 Republican senators in demanding the White House pump the brakes . In their letter to Biden , the GOP lawmakers noted the incredibly high number of Gazans currently supporting Hamas and how , because of the numerous logistical hurdles that come with importing migrants from a war-torn region halfway around the world , it would be nearly impossible to conduct proper vetting of all of them . <p> A poll released by the Palestinian Center for Policy and Research in March found that a staggering 71% of Palestinians supported Hamas ' Oct. 7 massacre on Israeli civilians . Additionally , just 5% of the Palestinians surveyed said they believed the Oct. 7 attack to be a war crime . <p> TPS has become an incredibly popular tool to allow foreign nationals from countries experiencing upheaval to remain in the U.S. As of Sept. 30 , there were roughly 1,095,115 individuals from 17 different countries enjoying TPS designation , according to a new report from the Congressional Research Service . <p> President-elect Donald Trump -- who won election in an electoral landslide after campaigning on a hardline immigration platform -- has pledged to bolster border security and lead a sweeping crackdown on illegal immigration in the interior of the country , and has already tapped a number of border hawks to lead this initiative . The president-elect has also suggested he 'd target TPS . <p> " Once these individuals get a legal foothold in the United States it 's near impossible to track and remove them , " Zinke said to the DCNF . " This is a long-used tactic by radical Islamic terror organizations and the Biden Administration knows it . " <p> " They also know that on Day One President Donald J. Trump is going to remind the world what America First looks like and that terrifies the globalist deep staters , " the Montana lawmaker continued . <p> All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation , an independent and nonpartisan newswire service , is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience . All republished articles must include our logo , our reporter 's byline and their DCNF affiliation . For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us , please contact **39;1359;TOOLONG . <h> What does Founders Club include ? <p> Readers , <p> Instead of sucking up to the political and corporate powers that dominate America , The Daily Caller is fighting for you -- our readers . We humbly ask you to consider joining us in this fight . <p> Now that millions of readers are rejecting the increasingly biased and even corrupt corporate media and joining us daily , there are powerful forces lined up to stop us : the old guard of the news media hopes to marginalize us ; the big corporate ad agencies want to deprive us of revenue and put us out of business ; senators threaten to have our reporters arrested for asking simple questions ; the big tech platforms want to limit our ability to communicate with you ; and the political party establishments feel threatened by our independence . <p> We do n't complain -- we ca n't stand complainers -- but we do call it how we see it . We have a fight on our hands , and it 's intense . We need your help to smash through the big tech , big media and big government blockade . <p> We 're the insurgent outsiders for a reason : our deep-dive investigations hold the powerful to account . Our original videos undermine their narratives on a daily basis . Even our insistence on having fun infuriates them -- because we wo n't bend the knee to political correctness . <p> One reason we stand apart is because we are not afraid to say we love America . We love her with every fiber of our being , and we think she 's worth saving from today 's craziness . <p> Help us save her . <p> A second reason we stand out is the sheer number of honest responsible reporters we have helped train . We have trained so many solid reporters that they now hold prominent positions at publications across the political spectrum . Hear a rare reasonable voice at a place like CNN ? There 's a good chance they were trained at Daily Caller . Same goes for the numerous Daily Caller alumni dominating the news coverage at outlets such as Fox News , Newsmax , Daily Wire and many others . <p> Simply put , America needs solid reporters fighting to tell the truth or we will never have honest elections or a fair system . We are working tirelessly to make that happen and we are making a difference . <p> Since 2010 , The Daily Caller has grown immensely . We 're in the halls of Congress . We 're in the Oval Office . And we 're in up to 20 million homes every single month . That 's 20 million Americans like you who are impossible to ignore . <p> We can overcome the forces lined up against all of us . This is an important mission but we ca n't do it unless you -- the everyday Americans forgotten by the establishment -- have our back . <p> Please consider becoming a Daily Caller Patriot today , and help us keep doing work that holds politicians , corporations and other leaders accountable . Help us thumb our noses at political correctness . Help us train a new generation of news reporters who will actually tell the truth . And help us remind Americans everywhere that there are millions of us who remain clear-eyed about our country 's greatness . <p> In return for membership , Daily Caller Patriots will be able to read The Daily Caller without any of the ads that we have long used to support our mission . We know the ads drive you crazy . They drive us crazy too . But we need revenue to keep the fight going . If you join us , we will cut out the ads for you and put every Lincoln-headed cent we earn into amplifying our voice , training even more solid reporters , and giving you the ad-free experience and lightning fast website you deserve . <p> Patriots will also be eligible for Patriots Only content , newsletters , chats and live events with our reporters and editors . It 's simple : welcome us into your lives , and we 'll welcome you into ours . 
@@119057862 <p> Jan. 31 During Boston 's annual homeless census , Mayor Michelle Wu and Jim Greene , the city 's assistant director of street homelessness initiatives , talk with a man spending the night next to the Old State House . <h> February <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Feb. 9 Outside of Symphony Hall , the B in the BSO sign is shut off to illuminate only Seiji Ozawa 's initials the day his death was announced . The Red Sox-loving Japanese maestro led the orchestra for 29 years . He paved the way for greater diversity in classical music . <p> ( Robin Lubbock/WBUR ) <p> Feb. 13 A vehicle wades through seawater flooding Long Wharf in Boston . Instead of dumping 3 inches of snow , the storm brought wet weather and flooding to many parts of Boston and the South Shore . <p> ( Robin Lubbock/WBUR ) <p> Feb. 14 Harlequin , an African penguin and mother of a new egg , goes for a swim at the New England Aquarium . The aquarium is one of about 50 facilities working to protect the penguins from extinction . A key part of the plan is a carefully controlled breeding program to preserve the species ' genetic diversity . <p> ( Robin Lubbock/WBUR ) <p> Feb. 14 A bust of the orator , activist and writer Frederick Douglass is installed in the Massachusetts State House Senate Chamber . It is the first state-commissioned bust of a Black person in the government building . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Feb. 15 MBTA riders get on and off an Orange Line train in North Station . Thousands of commuters were stuck waiting on cold platforms , in stalled trains and in darkened stations due to a widespread power outage that brought a halt to service on the Green , Blue and Orange lines . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Feb. 27 Taylor Avitabile is shocked at the condition of the Rockland apartment she and her husband own . They rented it to a tenant who did n't pay rent for nearly two years . After months of legal proceedings and appeals by the tenant , they finally reclaimed the apartment , only to find it in complete disarray . The whole experience cost the couple nearly $80,000 and consumed their lives for two years . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Feb. 28 Amber Haggstrom sifts through documents related to her mother 's body donation to Harvard Medical School . Her mother , Donna Pratt , donated her body after her death for study at the prestigious medical school during the time that Cedric Lodge , the morgue manager , was allegedly stealing and selling donor remains . <h> March <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> March 7 Protesters with the activist group IfNotNow flood the intersection of Summer Street and Atlantic Avenue in Boston to block traffic in an act of disruptive civil disobedience to call for a ceasefire in Gaza ahead of President Biden 's State of the Union address . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> March 7 Graciella Carter and her son , Oscar , climb on logs at a park in Northampton . They 'd been sitting on the huge waitlist for a state-subsidized apartment for nearly five years . State officials promised to get more families into public housing after a WBUR investigation in 2023 found that more than 2,000 state-funded units were vacant . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> March 25 Ebony Gill sifts through the archive of Boston-area music fanzines at UMass Boston 's Healey Library . She started the popular Boston Urban Archive on Instagram , sharing research on hip-hop and the genre 's history in Boston , taking advantage of the college 's Massachusetts Hip-Hop Archive . <h> April <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> April 8 Children watch the moon blot out the sun in front of the Vermont State House in Montpelier . People from Texas to Maine , gathered along the path of totality to view the rare eclipse . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> April 17 Artist Jean Shin 's face glows from the reflection off the copper she is attaching to a tree stump as part of her exhibit , " Perch , " at the Trustees ' Appleton Farms . Shin 's project around the farm 's fields features 18 sculptures where the migratory bobolinks will perch , highlighting the birds ' ecologically complex habitat . <h> May <p> ( Robin Lubbock/WBUR ) <p> May 6 College students in Boston joined protests across the country calling for a ceasefire in Gaza . These students at MIT had set up an encampment to draw attention to the plight of the displaced Palestinian people . After police ordered them to leave their camp , protesters flattened the metal fence to re-occupy the Kresge Oval . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> May 26 Chappell Roan performs at the Boston Calling Music Festival . The pop singer 's fame skyrocketed this year after performing at a number of high-profile music festivals . <p> ( Robin Lubbock/WBUR ) <p> May 30 Graduates protesting the war in Gaza walk out of MIT 's commencement ceremony . They condemned the university for disciplining protesters involved in anti-war encampments . Ceremonies at several Boston-area colleges saw similar demonstrations . <h> June <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> June 5 Surya Reis , executive director of the medicinal plant laboratory at Massachusetts General Hospital , looks at the cells of " mini brains " created from stem cells . She 's trying to see how the cells react to potentially psychoactive compounds . <p> ( Robin Lubbock/WBUR ) <p> June 6 Nancy Sch ? n 's duckling sculptures in the Boston Public Garden are dressed in green to support the Celtics in the NBA playoffs . <p> June 21 Jayson Tatum hoists the Larry O'Brien NBA Championship Trophy during the Boston Celtics victory parade . Thousands of fans lined the streets of downtown Boston to celebrate the team 's 18th championship title -- a record for the league . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> June 24 Tara and Peter Franklin reminisce over photographs and memorabilia from their days running the Cool Dogs business . Actress Ayo Edebiri went on " Late Night with Seth Meyers " to promote her show " The Bear . " Both performers grew up in New England , so naturally talk turned to things only New Englanders know about . One of them ? A novelty ice cream treat called the Cool Dog . <h> July <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> July 11 Kaili Turner screams during a scene of Company One 's " Hoops " during a dress rehearsal at the Strand Theatre in Boston . The performance shared a collection of vignettes exploring the complicated relationship between people of color and the iconic earrings . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> July 31 Bumper-to-bumper traffic snakes along Airport Road into the Ted Williams Tunnel -- a result of the Sumner Tunnel 's weeks-long closure for repairs . The scheduled work caused epic delays for drivers traveling from Logan Airport and East Boston . <h> August <p> ( Robin Lubbock/WBUR ) <p> Aug. 8 Protesters at the Massachusetts State House call on Gov . Maura Healey to reconsider new restrictions to the family shelter system . She had just implemented a five-day limit on stays in " temporary respite centers , " which were backups for the already-full shelter system . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Aug. 27 Timothy Edwards uses a power drill to fasten a frame for solar panels together as Narkeisha Gilbert and Lhoucine Bouhaddou hold it in place during a solar installation training in Boston . Organizers said the program 's goal is to tackle poverty through climate action centered on clean energy . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Aug. 29 Retired Andover High School teacher Tom Meyers leaves literature in support of the Question 2 ballot question at a home in Lawrence . The initiative , which ultimately passed in November , sought to end the use of the MCAS exam as a graduation requirement for high schoolers . <h> September <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Sept. 1 A sign notifies people that Carney Hospital in Dorchester is closed . The hospital as well as Nashoba Valley Medical Center in Ayer shut down on Sept. 1 as part of the bankruptcy proceedings for Steward Health Care . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Sept. 20 A woman sits among her belongings near South Common Park in Lowell . The city has seen an increase in people living on the streets in recent years . Data from the city 's annual homeless census in January show the number of people living outdoors in Lowell almost doubled since early 2020 . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Sept. 24 A decommissioning crew works above a pit filled with nearly a million gallons of filtered wastewater in the Pilgrim Nuclear Power Station reactor . The nuclear waste has been sitting there in the half-decade since the plant shut down . Getting rid of it has become a flashpoint in communities around Plymouth . <h> October <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Oct. 1 At Cape Gun Works , owner Toby Leary shoots a tactical pistol banned , along with other guns , under a state law that took effect in October . Leary and others hope the law will be repealed , either by courts or a possible ballot measure . <p> ( Robin Lubbock/WBUR ) <p> July 15 Saxophonist Jonathan Suazo plays the Charles River Jazz Festival at Herter Park Amphitheater in Boston . The musician was selected as one of WBUR 's Makers , local artists of color pushing boundaries in their crafts . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Sept. 23 Photographer and multimedia artist Feda Eid holds up and examines a piece of fabric she hemmed for a new gown . Also selected as one of WBUR 's Makers , Eid had created the garment for her next self-portrait inside her Boston Center for the Arts studio . <p> ( Robin Lubbock/WBUR ) <p> Oct. 24 The view over Franklin Park toward downtown Boston on a fall evening . In the center is White Stadium , a 75-year-old venue where Boston high school athletes play . Efforts are underway to renovate the stadium to become home to Boston 's new professional women 's soccer team , BOS Nation FC , starting in 2026 . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Oct. 28 A smoke haze hangs over the Massachusetts State House and Beacon Hill as wildfires blazed in towns nearby . Drought conditions and warm temperatures this fall sparked fires with notably devastating effects across the state . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Oct. 30 Artist Jeffrey Gibson looks at his piece titled " Your Spirit Whispers in My Ear " suspended over a stage at MASS MoCA in North Adams . It 's part of the immersive experience " Power Full Because We 're Different " at the museum , exploring the two-spirit experience embraced by many Indigenous people . <p> ( Robin Lubbock/WBUR ) <p> Oct. 31 After two decades , the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston installed a new leader : Archbishop Richard Henning . In this photo , he walks into the Cathedral of the Holy Cross in Boston for his installation Mass . He replaced retiring Cardinal Sean O'Malley . <h> November <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Nov. 5 Voters wait in a long line down a spiral staircase before the polls open at 7 a.m. at the Charlestown Boys and Girls Club in Boston to cast their vote in the presidential election between Kamala Harris and Donald Trump . <p> Nov. 5 Simmons University student Bella Santos reacts to results coming in during a watch party at the school on election night . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Nov. 14 A new sculpture depicting Nipmuc descendant Andre StrongBearHeart Gaines Jr . is placed onto a large plinth outside the Museum of Fine Arts entrance in Boston . The sculpture is one of two created by Alan Michelson , collectively called " The Knowledge Keepers , " on display outside the museum . They join a century-old sculpture by Cyrus Dallin , " Appeal to the Great Spirit , " that has been criticized for its depiction of Native Americans . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Nov. 15 Teachers walk through Marblehead Center during their two-week strike . Three teachers unions walked out of the classrooms this fall on the North Shore , advocating for higher wages and better parental leave benefits among other conditions . <p> ( Robin Lubbock/WBUR ) <p> Nov. 16 In the wake of Donald Trump 's re-election to the presidency , anti-abortion activists hosted a so-called " Men 's March " along a roughly three-mile stretch in Boston . The demonstrators stand behind a row of police after counter-protesters , many dressed as clowns to mock the men , meet them in Kenmore Square . <h> December <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Dec. 3 Worcester firefighters march to Franklin Street Firehouse , the site of a former abandoned warehouse where a tragic fire broke out 25 years ago . Six Worcester firefighters lost their lives . <p> Dec. 6 Boston City Councilor Tania Fernandes Anderson leaves federal court after her arraignment on public corruption charges . Federal investigators allege she stole thousands of dollars in public funds in a " kickback scheme " orchestrated with a family member on her staff . <p> ( Jesse Costa/WBUR ) <p> Dec. 11 A man walks over Longfellow Bridge during a winter storm that brought heavy rainfall , gusty winds and a surge of unseasonable warmth to the Boston area . 
@@119058560 <p> Washington , DC -- The United States has imposed new sanctions targeting the Houthis as the Yemeni group continues to trade attacks with Israel amid the war on Gaza . <p> The US Department of the Treasury announced penalties on Thursday on Hashem al-Madani , the governor of the central bank in Houthi-controlled Sanaa , and several Houthi officials and associated companies , accusing them of helping the group acquire " dual-use and weapons components " . <p> The US Treasury described al-Madani as the " primary overseer of funds sent to the Houthis " by the Quds Force of Iran 's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps . <p> Yemen has two competing central banks , one in the Houthi-controlled capital Sanaa that serves areas of the country controlled by the rebel group , and another in Aden for the areas of the country controlled by the internationally recognised government and other anti-Houthi groups . <p> Treasury official Bradley Smith said the sanctions aim to disrupt Houthi efforts to " secure additional revenue " . <p> " The United States will continue to expose these schemes and will hold accountable those who seek to enable the Houthis ' destabilizing activities , " Smith said in a statement . <p> Advertisement <p> Thursday 's measures suggest that Washington will continue to ramp up economic pressure on the Houthis as the US and Israeli militaries target areas that the group controls in Yemen militarily . <p> The penalties block the assets of firms and individuals in the US and make it largely illegal for Americans to engage in financial transactions with them . <p> The US sanctions came hours after Israel bombed targets in Yemen , including power stations near Sanaa , killing at least nine people . <p> The Israeli bombardment followed a missile launch by the Houthis , formally known as Ansar Allah , towards Tel Aviv . <p> The Yemeni group has been targeting Israel with drones and missiles in an effort to pressure the US ally to end its war in Gaza , where the US-backed Israeli military has killed more than 45,000 people . <p> The Iran-allied Houthis have also been carrying out attacks on shipping lanes in and around the Red Sea as part of the same campaign that they say is in support of Palestinians . <p> For months , the US and the United Kingdom have been bombing Houthi targets in Yemen in response to the Red Sea assaults . <p> Washington also listed the Houthis as " specially designated global terrorists " , a move intended to choke the group 's finances . <p> But the military campaigns and sanctions have not deterred the Yemeni group 's military operations . <p> Ansar Allah leader Abdel-Malik al-Houthi said on Thursday that the " Israeli aggression " will not change the Houthis ' position in support of Palestinians . <p> " We are up to the challenge and continuing to escalate , " he said in televised remarks . " We do n't care about what the enemies do . We are at war and in an open confrontation with them . " <p> Advertisement <p> Later in the day , the Houthis claimed another drone attack against Israel , saying that they were ready for a " long war with this enemy " . <p> Palestinian groups have been praising the Houthis for their military campaign . Abu Obeida , the spokesperson of Hamas 's Qassam Brigades , voiced support for the Yemeni group on Thursday after what he called the " terrorist " Israeli attacks . <p> " We praise the strong position of our brothers in Yemen in support of Gaza and call on them to escalate their attacks until the Israeli occupation submits and ends the genocide , " he said in a statement . <p> United Nations experts and rights groups have accused Israel of committing genocide in Gaza -- an effort to physically destroy the Palestinian people . A report by Brown University 's Watson Institute found that the US provided Israel with $17.9bn in military aid during the first year of the war . <p> Al-Quds Brigades , the armed wing of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad , also said the " courageous " Houthi missile attack that targeted Tel Aviv sets an example in showing that " Palestinians are not alone " . <p> After Lebanon 's Hezbollah reached a fragile ceasefire with Israel last month , the Houthis became one of the last Iran allies directly confronting Israel . <p> The Lebanese group on Thursday condemned the Israeli bombing of " civilian infrastructure " in Yemen . <p> " We call on all the free people and resistance forces to be united in solidarity in confronting this ongoing aggression against our people , " Hezbollah said in a statement . <p> Advertisement <p> On Wednesday , US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the Houthis should rethink their military campaigns after the setbacks that the Iran-allied axis has suffered in recent months , including the damage Israel dealt to Hezbollah . <p> " Are they going to be out there alone ? " Blinken said of the Houthis . " And some of what we 're seeing now suggests that they may be looking to move in a different direction . " <p> Hours after the top US diplomat delivered his remarks , the Yemeni group fired two ballistic missiles towards Tel Aviv . 
@@119058562 <p> Names marked with an asterisk* have been changed to protect identities . <p> Berlin , Germany -- Senior newsroom figures at Germany 's international broadcaster Deutsche Welle are cultivating a culture of fear among journalists who are tasked with reporting on Israel 's war on Gaza , 13 staff members and freelancers currently working for the network -- plus a former long-term correspondent -- have told Al Jazeera . <p> They accuse Deutsche Welle of pro-Israel and anti-Palestinian bias , allege that they have heard colleagues make Islamophobic and dehumanising remarks about Palestinians and protesters in the Berlin office with impunity , and have shared with Al Jazeera several internal documents -- one of which lists " possible comebacks " for anchors to use during live interviews with " pro-Palestinian voices " who make " controversial statements " -- such as accusing Israel of war crimes . <p> Other documents include a separate style guide specifically for covering Israel and the Palestinian territories , which informs staff that the word " Palestine " can not be used in coverage " as it has not yet gained the status of a state " . <p> Advertisement <p> " For territory , we refer specifically to the West Bank or Gaza , or the Palestinian territories , " the guide states . <p> A handout from an anti-Semitism awareness training event suggests that " hatred of Jews is expressed using codes such as the ' Zionists ' or the ' Israelis ' ... Therefore , criticism of Israel can also be a form of Israel-related anti-Semitism . " <p> A planning document for the war 's anniversary , at a time when at least 42,000 Palestinians , including 17,000 children , had been killed under Israeli bombardment in Gaza , appeared to suggest that Israeli suffering should be prioritised . <p> " The focus should be on the terrorist attack on Israel , but stories dealing with the war in Gaza can also be published on this day , " it says . <h> ' Constant sense of fear ' <p> " The sense of pressure was constant , " Martin Gak , who has since left the network , told Al Jazeera . <p> " There is a constant sense of fear with ( senior staff ) looking at the things you were writing with enormous care , almost paranoia . " <p> Gak worked for 10 years at Deutsche Welle as a religious affairs correspondent and senior producer for the political interview show Conflict Zone , which often covers Israel-Palestine . <p> " From a journalistic point of view , Deutsche Welle fills its mouth with grand concepts like freedom of the press , freedom of expression , freedom of conscience . And it 's clear that this is just being used as mouthwash , " said Gak , who is Argentinean and Jewish . <p> All interviewees except Gak requested anonymity , fearing reprisals . <p> Advertisement <p> While the style guide states that " we do not tolerate the use of racist language towards Palestinians which aim to disparage the Palestinian people " , several sources said staff openly used Islamophobic and anti-Arab slurs in the newsroom . <p> In one instance , a manager referred to pro-Palestine protesters as " looking Allahu Akbar " -- a derogatory use of the Arabic phrase meaning " God is great " , alleged Kate* , a current freelancer with the network . <p> In another example , an executive producer questioned whether a Palestinian child could have been faking his suffering for the cameras , Andrew* claimed . <p> " I was doing a report and there 'd been a strike , " said Andrew , who is also currently working for Deutsche Welle . A 10-year-old was seen in video footage " crying and saying , ' The bombs fell and my father and I had to carry my uncle 's body , and half his head was exploded ' . " <p> Andrew wanted to have a conversation about the ethics of using traumatic clips of children . <p> " It did create debate in the newsroom that we had in the end . I kept it in , but this particular executive produced his argument : ' How do we know if this kid is acting ? ' " <p> To most people in the Berlin newsroom , it was clear the child was not acting , Andrew said . <p> " The real question was whether or not we include the suffering of a child . " <p> When asked about these allegations , a Deutsche Welle spokesperson told Al Jazeera via email that the network does not accept " Islamophobic , racist , dehumanising or discriminatory remarks " , adding that it employs an " anti-discrimination officer who is available for everyone " . <p> Advertisement <p> They did not directly answer Al Jazeera 's question on the alleged comment about child crisis actors , but pointed to a previous example of a fact-checking article . <p> " The team has proven that claims that Palestinian children in Gaza are ' acting ' are false , " they said . <p> Since October 7 , when Hamas launched an incursion into southern Israel during which 1,139 people were killed and more than 200 were taken captive , Israel 's war on Gaza , which is governed by Hamas , has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians , the majority of them children and women . <p> " From the senior management I have heard a lot of anti-Muslim and anti-Arab sentiment and a strong bias towards Israel , " said Karen* , who works in the Berlin office . <p> " From a journalistic perspective , it 's ridiculous . I 've heard someone saying , ' We always hear that there is no safe place to go in Gaza , but why do n't they Palestinian civilians go in the tunnels of Hamas ? This shows the dehumanisation of Palestinian lives in the eyes of leading figures at Deutsche Welle . " <h> ' A nervousness from the top down ' <p> German support for Israel is seen as a historic duty and part of its raison d'etat to atone for the Holocaust . <p> A few days after the Hamas attack , Chancellor Olaf Scholz visited Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to declare that Germany had " only one place -- and it is alongside Israel " . Germany is Israel 's second-largest arms supplier after the United States . <p> Scholz 's government has been accused by lawyers at the International Court of Justice of aiding genocide and , in a separate case , of complicity , claims it denies . It is also regularly accused by activists of cracking down on pro-Palestinian voices . <p> Advertisement <p> Deutsche Welle , which receives state funds , was founded by the German federal government in 1953 . <p> The outlet 's style guide states that Germany 's special responsibility towards Israel " does not mean there can not be criticism of Israeli policy " and " in all cases , we continue to follow our obligations to report stories impartially " . One email from a manager says , " We want to show the full extent of this war , the human cost on all sides . " Another email says , " Critical coverage of Israeli policy is part of our job as journalists . " <p> " Most of us on the actual newsroom floor see what 's happening and want to do our piece to reveal the realities of what 's happening on the ground in Gaza , " said Andrew . " There 's a nervousness from the top down which does permeate across the floor and I would say that has guided editorial policy . " <p> Andrew also accused the network of double standards . <p> Regarding the ban on using the word Palestine , he said : " I find that inconsistent because we can say Taiwan , we can say Kosovo and the Western Sahara , there 's a list of other things we can say that also fall into that category . There does seem to be some Palestine exceptionalism on that front . " <p> The Deutsche Welle spokesperson said , regarding allegations of pro-Israel bias and newsroom tensions , that the network promotes " constructive exchange " and repeatedly holds " feedback conferences about our coverage -- also about the coverage of the war in Gaza " . <p> Advertisement <p> " At DW we are committed to impartiality in all of our journalistic work . " <h> ' We rather pre-record interviews with Palestinian voices ' <p> Live interviews appear to be a particular concern for management . <p> On October 16 last year , a senior newsroom leader sent an email to guest bookers explaining that because the network does not want " unchallenged " anti-Semitic remarks on air , " we rather pre-record interviews with Palestinian voices right now " . <p> The email read : " If we do n't know a guest 's position and/or fear the voice could be extreme ( pro-Hamas , antisemitic , anti-zionist ... ) , we should stick to pre-recordings to check before broadcasting . " <p> If a voice was considered " rather moderate " , as in a guest who " condemns terror " attacks , and an executive producer or anchor believes they can " handle it and challenge problematic remarks , we can go live " , the email concluded . <p> In the document touted as a " quick guide for people preparing for potentially challenging live situations " , Deutsche Welle recommends anchors to respond to guests who accuse Israel of war crimes with something along the lines of , " You are not the only ( person ) to allege this -- but Israel says it 's acting in accordance with international humanitarian law . ' War crime ' is a legal term -- a conclusive answer to this can only be given by the International Court of Justice . " <p> If a guest compares Gaza with a concentration camp or says Israel 's war is akin to a second Holocaust , the document says a presenter could reply : " These terms are incredibly sensitive , especially here in Germany , where they 're seen as trivialising the Holocaust . There are other assessments , too -- can you please be more specific in what you are criticising ? " <p> Advertisement <p> On May 22 , as more Western countries backed Palestinian statehood , Deutsche Welle cut Palestinian-American legal scholar Noura Erakat short after she referred to the " apartheid " and " genocide " being committed by Israel . <p> The presenter interrupted Erakat once to say that those terms are " highly disputed and of course , rejected by Israel " . The presenter then ultimately ended the exchange abruptly when Erakat called for a boycott against Israel in order to end the " livestreamed genocide " . <p> " We 're just going to have to leave it there , " the presenter said , as Erakat continued speaking , her words inaudible to the audience . <p> Deutsche Welle denied cutting Erekat off . <p> " The presenter added some context to the terms " such as genocide , the spokesperson said . " The interview was terminated when ... the time for the interview in a news programme was up . " <p> The newsroom clashes have led to multiple processes , such as compulsory anti-Semitism workshops led by the network 's anti-Semitism expertise team . <p> Amid the trove of internal documents , Deutsche Welle states that there is a distinction between criticism of the Israeli state 's actions and " Israel-related anti-Semitism " and underscores its commitment to impartiality . <p> But Gak , who participated in a workshop , said advice can often seem confusing . <p> He said an instructor of Jewish background spoke for an " entire 15 minutes concerning Jewish noses in the context of Jewish stereotypes that were described and debated " . <p> At one point , the instructor referred to her own nose and asked attendees whether it could be identified as a Jewish nose . <p> Advertisement <p> Gak said it was the " most incredible moment in 30 years of devoting myself to religion and 45 years of Jewish education and engagement with questions of Judaism " . <p> He added that while he was working on footage of an interview with Palestine 's ambassador to the UK , Husam S Zomlot , a member of the anti-Semitism team entered the editing suite to oversee the process . <p> " It was extremely unusual to have someone standing over my shoulder , directly behind us basically saying what was to be cut out , " he said . <p> Zomlot had referred to Palestinians being under oppression for 110 years . The external observer claimed the comment could be construed as anti-Semitic , Gak said . <h> ' Climate of fear and self-censorship prevails in German media ' <p> The German broadcaster is the latest major Western media outlet to be accused of pro-Israel bias as tensions flare across newsrooms . Similar concerns have been raised at The New York Times , BBC and CNN . <p> " Reporters who seek to show the suffering of Palestinians or shed light on Israeli warfare , as well as journalists who cover topics about Jewish communities in Germany currently experience a very tense and hostile working climate , " Reporters Without Borders said in a statement sent to Al Jazeera . <p> " They experience hate and incitement online and feel the effects of increasingly narrow corridors of opinion . In recent months , many media professionals , especially with a migrant background , have also contacted the organisation with accusations that a climate of fear and self-censorship prevails in German media outlets . " <p> Advertisement <p> It said it was investigating these allegations . <p> According to German journalist and media critic Fabian Goldmann , free expression in Germany is marred by " effective smear campaigns " against those who condemn Israel . <p> " If you work for public broadcasters , you are attacked frequently , " he said . <p> Publications like Bild , the right-wing German tabloid , " put you on their cover ... there are many instances of German media personnel who have lost their job , following those smear campaigns " , Goldmann said . <p> Kai Hafez , a professor in comparative international media and communication research at the University of Erfurt , said the decontextualisation of the Israel-Palestine conflict is commonplace in the Western media but especially stark in Germany . <p> " We have a tendency to view Israelis as victims only , rather than , you know , clarifying that they are also an occupying territory . That they are exerting what I would call state terrorism in a lot of respects , " he told Al Jazeera . <p> Islamophobia and " Arabphobia " in Western media " all blends to some type of dehumanisation , " he said . " Obviously , Arab victims are not as important as other types of victims here . " 
@@119058566 <p> Children are among the victims of Israeli strikes on Gaza 's besieged north and central areas , as humanitarian aid continues to be restricted . <p> Women and children were among the victims of the air raids , and were taken to the al-Ahli Arab Hospital Abood Abu Salama/Anadolu Agency <p> Published On 19 Dec 202419 Dec 2024 <p> Israel has carried out a series of attacks on northern and central Gaza that killed at least 40 people , including children , as a leading rights group accused it of committing " acts of genocide " by denying clean water to Palestinians . <p> Separate Israeli attacks on Jabalia in northern Gaza , where Palestinians have remained under a tight siege for more than two months , killed at least 16 people , including 10 members of the same family , on Thursday . <p> In Gaza City , an Israeli attack on a home in the Daraj neighbourhood killed at least four Palestinians , with another person killed in a strike on a group of civilians in Zeitoun neighbourhood . <p> Another 15 people were killed and dozens more wounded in Israeli air attacks on two schools -- the Dar al-Arqam and Shaaban al-Rayes schools -- sheltering displaced people in Gaza City . <p> Medics in Gaza told Anadolu news agency that most of the victims were women and children , while witnesses said the strikes caused huge destruction to the schools and nearby residential buildings . <p> Advertisement <p> In central Gaza , a strike on Maghazi refugee camp killed at least four people . <p> There were fears the overall death toll would rise as many people were reported wounded in the Israeli attacks . <p> The Israeli military also issued forced evacuation threats to residents in Bureij refugee camp . " The question is where people can go , as everywhere is overcrowded in the central areas of the strip , " said Al Jazeera 's Tareq Abu Azzoum , reporting from nearby Deir el-Balah . <p> Wounded Palestinians including children were brought to the al-Ahli Arab Hospital following Israeli air raids on Gaza City Abood Abu Salama/Anadolu Agency <p> At least 45,000 Palestinians have been killed and 107,000 others wounded in more than 14 months of attacks across Gaza , a densely populated territory that is at risk of famine and is experiencing emergency levels of hunger . <p> Israel began its ferocious military campaign after at least 1,139 people were killed during an attack led by Palestinian group Hamas in Israel on October 7 , 2023 , with more than 200 others taken captive . <p> Most of Gaza 's 2.3 million inhabitants have been displaced , many of them multiple times , while Israel 's intense bombardment has left much of the territory in ruins . <p> Referring to a report by Human Rights Watch ( HRW ) on Thursday that accused Israel of using water as a weapon of war in Gaza , Abu Azzoum said searching for water in the besieged and bombarded territory was " a daily struggle for survival " . <p> In its 179-page report , HRW detailed how Israeli authorities have cut off and later restricted piped water to Gaza , rendered most of its water and sanitation infrastructure useless by cutting electricity and restricting fuel , deliberately destroyed and damaged water and sanitation infrastructure and water repair materials ; and blocked the entry of critical water supplies . <p> Advertisement <p> Israel 's Ministry of Foreign Affairs denied the accusations , which it called " lies " , and alleged that the organisation is promoting " anti-Israel propaganda " . <p> A separate report by Doctors Without Borders ( MSF ) published on Thursday found " clear signs of ethnic cleansing " in Gaza , particularly in the northern part of the strip . <p> " Our firsthand observations of the medical and humanitarian catastrophe inflicted on Gaza are consistent with the descriptions provided by an increasing number of legal experts and organisations concluding that genocide is taking place in Gaza , " the organisation said . 
@@119058568 <p> Like Schrodinger 's famous cat , I am trapped in a box . I have been stuck in this box since the beginning of Israel 's genocidal war on my homeland , Gaza . <p> So many people know I am inside it , but none can tell if I am alive or dead . <p> Everything in life seems to follow a certain binary system , from electrons , which spin in one direction or the other , to human beings , which can be either alive or dead . Still , this does not seem to apply to me , because whether I 'm living or dead at any given moment is unknown . I am no longer part of this binary of life and being , it seems . So , what am I ? <h> The Gaza box <p> What makes physics interesting is that the process of solving most of its problems starts with the word " imagine " . So let 's imagine our own version of Schrodinger 's thought experiment . Let 's imagine everyone on Earth has been put inside a box , but our box has paths that lead to one of two labelled outputs - " life " and " death " . <p> For those of us in Gaza , the paths to " life " have repeatedly been blocked since the Israeli occupation began in 1967 . We have all been pushed into paths that would lead to a single outcome : death . Israel has famished us , limited our access to water , shot at us , bombed us , prevented us from accessing healthcare It has pushed us onto the paths of death in every way it can . <p> Advertisement <p> In this box in Gaza , any path I take would eventually lead to my death . Like Schrodinger 's cat , I am locked in a box that will eventually kill me . <p> Luckily , I am not dead . <p> Yet . <p> But am I alive ? I am writing this , surely , but I can not leave the box . The only outcome available to me is death . So I 'm afraid I can not say that I am alive either . <p> Seemingly , my existence has now become identified by the superposition of the states of being simultaneously alive and dead . I am alive in a lifeless life , and all the possible paths ahead lead to my death . <h> Time bomb <p> As part of his thought experiment , Schrodinger sealed a cat in a box , along with a device that would kill it when a tiny bit of radioactive substance randomly decayed and emitted radiation , but it was impossible to tell when . In my situation , Israel has placed me in a box with any house I could take shelter in , and then turned these houses into time bombs that could explode at any time . <p> Late in October 2023 , Israel alerted two of our neighbours in Khan Younis that their houses were going to be bombed . One of these houses was right next to ours . So my family decided to flee to my aunt 's house , waiting to see what happened . <p> Initially , we thought our return would be in a matter of hours , or maybe a couple of days at most . But we could not return for months . <p> On December 5 , 2023 , we had to flee again , when Israel shelled the area of my aunt 's house . Seeking relative safety , we relocated south , to Rafah . <p> When Israel advanced on Rafah in early May 2024 , my family and I had no option but to return to our neighbourhood . Perhaps in deference to chaos , the two houses the Israelis initially threatened were left nearly intact , but the rest of my neighbourhood was rubble . Our house was heavily damaged , but still standing . <p> Advertisement <p> We were back to square one -- our neighbour 's house remains under threat -- Israel can bomb it any minute , without further warning , as it already issued its warning last year . But this time , my aunt 's house was not an option , the seemingly arbitrary , random , Israeli destruction had flattened it . <p> Although we were forced to flee our house several times between July 1 and August 31 , following the Israeli military 's orders , we always went back home . <p> This means that we must stay vigilant 24/7 , but we have no better option . <p> What deepens our torment living in our half-destroyed home , waiting for the next " evacuation order " , is that the only bathroom left standing in it is at the closest point to our neighbour 's house , the time bomb Israel is waiting to explode . In our box in Gaza today , avoiding the bathroom is biologically dangerous ; using it is circumstantially dangerous . <p> I learned from a few friends of mine that we are not alone in living in anxiety due to a threatened but not yet flattened house nearby . Many houses that were threatened prior to the Khan Younis invasion remain intact , or at least standing till this moment . Neither their owners nor their close neighbours returned to their homes . We all know the destruction is coming , we just do n't know when . <p> Perhaps Israel is doing this on purpose , to keep us on edge , as it clearly enjoys playing torturous psychological games with us . Schrodinger 's cat was lucky , I doubt it ever understood the arbitrary doom awaiting it . <h> Equilibrium point <p> After 14 months of the war , the scene in Gaza has become extremely chaotic . Nonetheless , certain paths can be followed even in chaos . Recently , I 've noticed that my movement is similar to the quantum harmonic oscillator ( QHO ) . I go up , I go down , back and forth , returning to the equilibrium point . My oscillations can provide me with a property of life , inasmuch as they might lead me straight to death . <p> Advertisement <p> I go up and down like an elastic spring whenever I carry gallons of water from the ground floor to the rooftop using my house 's stairs , which are about to fall apart after an Israeli bulldozer uprooted all my trees and stuffed them underneath . I do this every two days . <p> In the QHO , electrons can also use a kind of stairs . It 's called the ladder operator and it 's how electrons move between energy states . <p> It can be further divided into creation and annihilation operators . Imagine climbing a ladder , and the rungs can either propel you upward or break , and plunge you to your death . A creation operator propels electrons to a higher energy state on the ladder of orbits . An annihilator operator drops them lower . <p> However , when I imagine myself as an electron , it is not the stairs I am climbing that are the creation operator -- it is the water , because it creates the ability to move from a lower energy state to a higher energy state , from being more thirsty to less thirsty . <p> In such hard conditions , annihilation operators are manifold and unpredictable . Whenever I go to the market , I take a detour . I do so to avoid annihilation operators -- it 's not easy to wear my worn slippers on the razed lumpy main road -- not to mention the waves of dust the crowds create . <p> Nevertheless , while I was on my way to the market , an Israeli drone , perhaps the ultimate annihilation operator , made a sudden appearance . It targeted a man right on the head a few seconds after he passed by with his motorcycle . <p> As with the QHO , creation and annihilation operators can appear simultaneously . Lately , Israeli helicopters have expanded their activity area and come to hit targets in east Khan Younis , where I live . This happened twice while I was busy with my creation operation : carrying water . <p> Advertisement <p> Still , I keep doing the same things , using the same paths , hoping that I will collect the shrapnel of what remained of my life , and climb from a daily death to a daily life . <p> Again , I know that I 'm not alone in this . There are two million boxes in Gaza that have the same probabilities , because we are all subject to the same conditions . <p> Despite all I have said about ladder operators and raising energy states , none of us can reach the top to open the box . <p> In Schrodinger 's cat experiment , everyone asked whether the cat was alive or dead , but no one actually opened the box to see . If they had , the superposition would have collapsed and the cat would only be dead if they did n't open the box in time . <p> We are not cats . Please open the box ! <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@119069978 <h> IRGC founder to ' Post ' : " Khamenei is actually the same as Bashar Assad - a brutal dictator that has war crimes on his hands . " <p> Ayatollah Khamenei attends the fourth night of ceremonies on the anniversary of the death of Fatima al-Zahra , the Prophet Muihammad 's daughter , in Tehran December 5 , 2024. ( photo credit : Canva , KHAMENEI.IR ) <p> For over four and a half decades , the Islamic Republic of Iran 's foreign policy has revolved around two central objectives : the elimination of Israel and opposition to the United States . These twin pillars have shaped its military doctrine and strategic maneuvers under the leadership of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei . Recent events have exposed the limitations of Tehran 's strategy , as key components of Iran 's military and political plans continue to falter week by week . <p> Khamenei 's military doctrine , rooted in these two objectives , is built on three primary strategies : nuclear deterrence , proxy warfare , and missile development . <h> Nuclear Deterrence <p> The pursuit of nuclear capabilities has been a cornerstone of Iran 's strategy since the US invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq . <p> " After the American invasion of Afghanistan and Iraq during George Bush 's time , when I was still in Iran , the political elite had the wrong assessment , " Iranian journalist , political dissident and founder of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps Mohsen Sazegara told The Jerusalem Post . " They believed that now the US has come to the regions to the east and west of Iran , next is Iran . They have come here to attack Iran . So we believed that we have to , first of all , go for an atomic bomb to act as a deterrent . " Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi visits the military equipment of IRGC Navy in Bandar Abbas , Iran , February 2 , 2024. ( credit : Iran 's Presidency/WANA ( West Asia News Agency ) /Handout via REUTERS ) <p> Fearing an impending attack , Khamenei 's regime adopted a " North Korean policy " . This approach , aimed at deterring conventional military attacks , was based on a flawed assessment of US intentions and regional dynamics . While the development of nuclear capabilities provided a temporary sense of security , it also isolated Iran diplomatically and intensified global sanctions , stifling its economy . <h> Proxy Warfare <p> The second pillar of Iran 's military strategy is asymmetric warfare , carried out through a network of proxy groups across the Middle East and beyond . Qasem Soleimani , the late commander of the Quds Force , played a pivotal role in building this network . From Hezbollah in Lebanon to the Houthis in Yemen and various militias in Iraq and Syria , these groups served as extensions of Iranian influence . <p> " Once Soleimani claimed that we control five Arab capital cities , " Sazegara remembered . " And the main force amongst them , the biggest one that they really relied on , was Hezbollah . " <p> In Syria , Iran 's significant investment -- estimated at over $50 billion -- has failed to secure long-term stability or strategic gains . Meanwhile , Hezbollah , once considered Iran 's most formidable proxy , has suffered devastating losses in its involvement in the recent conflict with Israel , including the assassination of long-time chief Hassan Nasrallah . According to Israeli reports , 80% of Hezbollah 's infrastructure and capabilities have been destroyed , leaving the group paralyzed . This has opened the door for more vocal opposition within Lebanon , as other political and religious groups look to take advantage of Hezbollah 's diminution . <p> " The IRGC were in Syria because they wanted to have the logistic line to Hezbollah and be near to Israel to keep that threat . These proxy groups of Iran are not only terrorist groups , but they are part of the smuggling of narcotics with a network from Kabul to Caracas . " <h> Missile Development <p> Missile power has been a hallmark of Iran 's military posturing . The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ( IRGC ) has developed an extensive missile arsenal , which Khamenei has claimed could destroy Tel Aviv and Haifa within hours . Yet , recent missile exchanges with Israel have revealed the effectiveness of Israel 's multi-layered missile defense systems . During a high-stakes confrontation , Iran launched 181 ballistic missiles within minutes , but over 90% were intercepted , and the remainder caused minimal damage . This failure not only undermined Iran 's deterrence but also emboldened neighboring countries like Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates to challenge Tehran 's regional ambitions . <h> War with Israel <p> " I think that Khamenei 's biggest mistake was igniting the Gaza war , " Sazegara stated . " The main objective of supporting that war was to stop the peace process in the Middle East , the Abraham Accords and especially Saudi Arabia - the most important Islamic country actually , was on the way to sign the Accords . So when the war started , it succeeded . " <p> The prevention of allowing normalization between Israel and Saudi Arabia may be one of the few successes Iran and its proxies can take since October 7 . Instead of weakening Israel , the conflict backfired spectacularly . Israel 's military operations dismantled Hamas 's tunnel networks and eliminated much of the leadership of both Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad . These groups , while continuing to operate as terrorist entities , no longer control territory in Gaza , marking a significant blow to Iran 's influence in the region . <p> The involvement of Hezbollah in the Gaza conflict further compounded Iran 's woes . Few expected Israel to deliver such a decisive blow to Hezbollah within a short timeframe . By paralyzing Hezbollah , Israel has effectively neutralized one of Iran 's most powerful proxies , undermining its so-called " Axis of Resistance . " <p> " Another major mistake of Khamenei 's was to bring the shadow war with Israel to the light , " Sazegara told the Post . " There were for several years a shadow war with Israel , killings or assassinations , but when they attacked Israel directly , this gave the green light to Israel , firstly to attack directly to Iran , and secondly , because of this Iran is actually in a state of war with Israel . " <p> This shift allowed Israel to retaliate directly against Iranian assets , including missile facilities and proxy bases . It also provided the United States and its allies with justification to increase military support for Israel . The exposure of Iran 's vulnerabilities has emboldened Arab states , with Saudi Arabia warning Tehran against further missile attacks via its proxies . <p> The repercussions of these missteps are being felt within Iran . The $50 billion spent on Syria alone has drawn criticism from journalists , former parliament members , and ordinary citizens . The General Prosecutor 's recent decree criminalizing criticism of Iran 's involvement in Syria underscores the regime 's fear of public dissent . With an economy crippled by sanctions , corruption , and mismanagement , Iran 's costly foreign adventures are becoming increasingly unsustainable . <p> " Khamenei is actually the same as Bashar Assad - a brutal dictator that has war crimes on his hands , " Sazegara told the Post . " The political earthquake in Syria Khamenei has tried to cover up with conspiracy theories . He says that that was a conspiracy designed by US and Zionists . " <p> Khamenei 's gamble on an aggressive , ideologically driven foreign policy is unraveling . The failures of Iran 's military doctrine , combined with its economic struggles and growing domestic unrest , signal a turning point for the Islamic Republic . By prioritizing its revolutionary goals over pragmatic governance , the regime has not only jeopardized its regional ambitions but also its own survival . As Khamenei faces mounting challenges at home and abroad , the cracks in the foundations of his leadership are becoming impossible to ignore . 
@@119102665 <p> SEATTLE -- The family of Seattleite and University of Washington graduate Aysenur Ezgi Eygi , who was killed by Israeli soldiers in the West Bank , met with the Secretary of State and other officials in D.C. this week to demand a U.S. investigation into her killing . <p> Eygi , 26 , was shot in the head in September while she was in the West Bank to protest against Israeli settlements with the International Solidarity Movement . Witnesses said Eygi was killed after a peaceful demonstration against a settler outpost by the West Bank town of Beita devolved into a clash between stone-throwing protesters and Israeli troops firing live ammunition . <p> Eygi 's husband and sister expressed frustration in an interview Thursday about their meeting with Secretary of State Antony Blinken . Eygi 's widower , Hamid Ali , said that even their " low expectations were not met . " <p> " After a disappointing meeting with Blinken where he essentially said he would n't be doing anything , we 've targeted ( senators and Congress people ) to put pressure on Blinken , " said Ozden Bennett , Eygi 's sister . <p> Shortly after Eygi 's death , Blinken and other officials called for an Israeli investigation into her killing . The Israel Defense Forces said Eygi was killed " unintentionally " during a " violent riot . " A Washington Post investigation found Eygi was shot more than 200 yards away from Israeli forces and 30 minutes after demonstrators had retreated . <p> Ali and Bennett said they went into the meeting hoping for more evidence , documentation , eye witness accounts -- anything . Instead , Ali said they were met with " shoulder shrugging and indifference " about the investigation . <p> Bennett said that when they asked specifically for an independent investigation conducted by the U.S. , Blinken referred them to the Department of Justice . <p> State Department spokesperson Matthew Miller told CNN the Israeli government communicated to Blinken they are finalizing their investigation and said Blinken offered " his deepest condolences " to the family . <p> In the spring , Eygi had been part of the UW encampment protesting Israel 's ongoing destruction of Gaza . She was born in Turkey , moved to Seattle as an infant and was a Turkish American dual national . <p> Friends and loved ones remember her as a brilliant , principled woman who enjoyed cooking and making art . She studied psychology and Middle Eastern languages and cultures at UW . Eygi wanted to enter a doctorate program this year . She loved her cat and was a proud aunt . <p> During their trip to D.C. , Eygi 's family also held a vigil for her outside the White House . Bennett , Ali and Eygi 's father , Mehmet Eygi , joined several Washington lawmakers at Lafayette Square on Wednesday calling for an independent investigation . <p> " It has been 100 days since Aysenur was murdered , and there has been absolutely zero accountability , and that is completely unacceptable , " said Rep. Pramila Jayapal , who represents the district Eygi lived in . " ... This is not a single incident . It is a pattern . " <p> Rachel Corrie , from Olympia , was also an activist with the International Solidarity Movement when she was killed in Gaza in 2003 . Corrie was crushed to death as she tried to block an Israeli military bulldozer from demolishing a Palestinian home in the southern Gaza town of Rafah , near the Egyptian border . <p> Eygi 's loved ones have connected with Corrie 's family members , and said they have learned what to expect from their experience . <p> " This is n't a short-term advocacy effort , but something that will take many years but with likely little to show for it , " Bennett said . " The Corries are still doing this work , to this day , 20 years later . " <p> Ali said he hopes President-elect Donald Trump 's administration will be responsive to pressure , adding that any administration should " seek justice for the killing of one of its citizens by a foreign power . " But Bennett and Ali hope they do n't have to keep trying to convince state officials to do so . <p> " Having to spend time doing this kind of advocacy is kind of robbing the time I have to spend in proximity to the memory of Aysenur , " Ali said . " Every day , it gets a little bit harder to remember her . " <p> Stay informed on what is happening in Clark County , WA and beyond for only <p> Get a rundown of the latest local and regional news every Mon-Fri morning . <h> Support local journalism <p> Your tax-deductible donation to The Columbian 's Community Funded Journalism program will contribute to better local reporting on key issues , including homelessness , housing , transportation and the environment . Reporters will focus on narrative , investigative and data-driven storytelling . <p> Local journalism needs your help . It 's an essential part of a healthy community and a healthy democracy . 
@@119112462 <h> From criticism to closure : How did Irish-Israeli relations get to this point ? <p> THE FOREIGN MINISTRY announced the closure on Sunday of the Israeli Embassy in Ireland , in light of the extreme anti-Israel policies of the Irish government. ( photo credit : ChatGPT ) <p> Over a decade ago , Michael D Higgins , then still future president of the Republic of Ireland , visited the town of Sderot with a delegation of Irish officials . <p> During their excursion to the municipality building for a meeting with Sderot 's mayor , the delegation members were informed that should the siren go off . They would have 17 seconds to get to the stairwell in lieu of a lower-floor bomb shelter . <p> Sure enough , a few minutes into the mayoral welcome , Islamist terrorists from the Gaza Strip fired a missile at Sderot and the siren sounded . As both hosts and guests made their way to the stairwell , Higgins was left rather flustered as he struggled to make his way to safety . <p> It would seem that Higgins learned little of the realities of life for Israel 's southern citizens . Since that visit , he has gone on to become president of the republic and a vicious critic of the Jewish state and its actions toward its Palestinian neighbors . <p> This week , Higgins dismissed Israeli accusations of ingrained antisemitism in Ireland as " deep slander " and accused the Jewish state of seeking to build settlements in Egypt , according to statements he made to the press on Tuesday . IRELAND 'S PRESIDENT Michael D. Higgins dismissed Israeli accusations of ingrained antisemitism in Ireland as " deep slander " this week and accused the Jewish state of seeking to build settlements in Egypt . ( credit : Jason Cairnduff/Reuters ) <p> Higgins was responding to the Foreign Ministry 's decision to close Israel 's Embassy in Ireland in light of the extreme anti-Israel policies of the Irish government . Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar announced the decision on Sunday . The ministry announcement also noted that , in the past , Israel 's ambassador to Dublin was recalled following Ireland 's unilateral decision to recognize a Palestinian state . <p> Sa'ar 's statement read , " The actions and antisemitic rhetoric used by Ireland against Israel are rooted in the delegitimization and demonization of the Jewish state , along with double standards . Ireland has crossed every redline in its relations with Israel , " bringing Irish-Israeli relations to a new nadir . <p> " The current level of difficulty and hostility from the Irish government is something that 's grown over about 20 years , " former Irish defense and justice and equality minister Alan Shatter told The Jerusalem Post . <p> " When I was in cabinet from 2011 to 2014 , there were always some issues relating to Israel that gave rise to interesting discussions between Ireland and Israel . They were primarily about ensuring that steps were taken towards achieving a two-state solution . <p> " We had Irish UNIFIL forces in southern Lebanon . We had Irish forces also in the UN forces on the Golan Heights . So there was an amount of connectivity , but the level of hostility that we see today , the type of anti-Israeli , shortsighted policies adopted by the current Irish government , were not something that featured during my three-and-a-half years in cabinet ; and I know , on occasions , that my expertise relating to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict sought to ameliorate some of the more hostile approaches that may have been taken during that period . " <h> A brief history of Irish-Israeli relations <p> The strong relationship between Ireland and the Palestinians dates back decades . The Irish nationalist movement has long viewed the Palestinian cause through a similar lens of seeking to overthrow what they see as oppressive colonizers and achieve independent statehood , particularly aligning the Irish Republican Army ( IRA ) with the PLO . <p> By the late 1960s , Ireland grew increasingly concerned about Palestinians displaced by the Six-Day War . In 1969 , Irish foreign minister Frank Aiken highlighted this issue as a top priority in Ireland 's Middle East policy . Since then , Ireland has supported UN resolutions calling for Israel 's complete withdrawal from the territories captured during the war . <p> The connection between the Northern Ireland-based IRA and the PLO was most evident in the 1970s and early 1980s , often depicted in murals in nationalist areas . A notable example in Belfast showed armed IRA and PLO members with the slogan " IRA-PLO one struggle . " Sinn F ? in linked its political strategy with movements like the ANC and PLO to provide a broader political context for its efforts . This alignment was regularly featured in the Sinn F ? in newspaper An Phoblacht and grew stronger under Gerry Adams 's leadership in the 1980s . <p> " Sinn F ? in are an important part of the history of where we are today , " Shatter , a member of the Irish Parliament for over 31 years , stated . " One of the oddities of the Northern Ireland conflict that occurred in the 1970s was within the strong Republican , pro-IRA areas , through massive murals painted on walls demonizing the IDF and expressing support for Palestinians . And that was within the Catholic pro-Republican community . Within the loyalist or Protestant community , there were equally massive murals or pictures depicting members of the IDF in heroic stances and expressing support for Israel . " <p> In 1980 , Ireland became the first European Union member state to support the establishment of a Palestinian state , and the PLO opened an office in the Irish capital in 1993 , the same year Israel opened its embassy . In 1999 , then-taoiseach ( Irish prime minister ) Bertie Ahern visited Gaza , meeting PLO chief Yasser Arafat and touring the Jabalya refugee camp , becoming the first national leader to fly directly from the Palestinian territories to their home country . In 2001 , Foreign Affairs Minister Brian Cowen also visited Gaza to meet Arafat . <h> Current issues <p> In May of this year , Ireland joined Spain and Norway in officially recognizing a Palestinian state . <p> " Recognition is an act of powerful political and symbolic value , " Irish Prime Minister Simon Harris said at the time . <p> " It is an expression of our view that Palestine holds and should be able to vindicate the full rights of the state , including self-determination , self-governance , territorial integrity , and security , as well as recognizing Palestine 's obligations under international law , " he stressed . <p> Ireland 's attitude toward Israel since the Hamas attacks of October 7 has led to an increasing disassociation between the two countries . Ireland was initially slower than many of its counterparts to condemn Hamas 's actions and has continuously repeated the various narratives coming out of Gaza , especially regarding civilian fatalities , a number provided to the world by Hamas itself . <p> Watching any comments by major Irish political figures -- particularly President Higgins , Prime Minister Harris or Foreign Minister Micheal Martin -- one will find a trend : reference to Israeli hostages and that hostages should be released , but quickly followed with an increasingly one-sided , anti-Israel narrative in criticizing events in Gaza . Harris , in particular , has come across as increasingly ignorant of the facts of war , despite the terrible recent experiences of the Irish people themselves in conflict . <p> " As an Irish politician , I was always conscious that Ireland was a small country in the European Union of five million people who could play a constructive role in raising issues that deserve to be raised and in progressing them , but we did not have a major voice in Europe , " Shatter explained . " The current Irish prime minister and foreign minister , I think , perceive themselves as global statesmen striding the universe , whose very utterances everyone is hanging on . <p> " What we 're seeing in relation to the Irish government arises out of the dreadful atrocities of October 7 , " Shatter explained . " The reaction of Sinn F ? in and other small left-wing parties in the Irish parliament was n't to express sympathy with Israel and criticize Hamas , but it was to attack Israel for defending itself . We 've had thousands of people marching over the streets of Dublin calling variously for the expulsion of the Israeli ambassador ; for the closing of the Israeli Embassy ; for a Palestinian state from the river to the sea . " <p> For Shatter , the response of Sinn F ? in , traditionally the political front for the IRA , is no surprise , but he also commented on how the Israeli government misunderstood what was necessary to succeed in Ireland . <p> " It was highly predictable , " he told the Post . " They 've been running a focused , anti-Israel BDS Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions campaign for the best part of 20 years that has always been better organized than either the Israeli government or the Israeli Embassy in Dublin . " <p> " I do n't think recent Israeli governments , including the current one , and certainly the foreign affairs section within the Israeli government , have ever fully appreciated and understood the need to properly resource the Israeli Embassy in Dublin so that it can counteract the propaganda run by those who are hostile to Israel , most of whom do not advocate a two-state solution . What they advocate is Israel 's destruction and replacement by a Palestinian state . " <p> Shatter described the decision to close the embassy as a " fundamental error without much thought and acting perhaps in anger . The Israeli government have handed to Israel 's opponents in Ireland the biggest victory that could possibly be handed to them and have achieved for them an objective they 've been fighting for 20 years to achieve . " <h> The Iran problem <p> Within the context of the Israel-Hamas War is the ever-looming shadow of Iran . <p> Shatter explained how the Irish government " never criticized Iran for using Hezbollah , Hamas , and the Houthis as their proxies , and extraordinarily decided as a matter of Irish foreign policy in the last 14 to 15 months to deepen its relationship with Iran . " <p> Three months ago , the Irish reopened their embassy in Tehran ; and in July , when Masoud Pezeshkian became the new Iranian president , Higgins , sent what Shatter described as a " groveling congratulatory letter , " praising Iran 's cultural heritage and commitment to peace in the region , and looking forward to working with them to achieving peace . <p> " While demanding a ceasefire in Gaza and criticizing Israel alone for continuing the conflict , neither Harris nor Martin demand Iran require Hamas to release the hostages , stop firing missiles , and end their armed struggle , " Shatter stated . " Instead , they publicly welcomed Iran 's ambassador to their party conferences last April and excluded and boycotted Israel 's ambassador . Essentially , they implemented within their parties their own version of political BDS . " <p> But it is a continuation of the current Irish government 's fervent anti-Israel stance that led to this week 's developments . <p> The war of words between Higgins and Sa'ar continued days after the announcement of the closing of the embassy . <p> " I think to suggest that because one criticizes Prime Minister Netanyahu , that one is antisemitic is such a gross defamation and slander , " Higgins stated to Irish media on Tuesday . " I have to say that originally when I accepted credentials , I put it down to lack of experience . But then I saw later that it was part of a pattern to damage Ireland . <p> " Over the years , I think it is the Irish psyche that we understand the words ' dispossession , ' ' occupation , ' and so on , " Higgins said . " That 's why we stress the importance of international law ... particularly in relation to the rights obligations of those who are in occupation on what is occupied territory . " <p> The Irish Jewish community has expressed concern about the deterioration of Irish-Israel ties following Israel 's decision , calling on the Irish and Israeli governments to pursue reconciliation and more constructive relations . Irish Chief Rabbi Yoni Wieder said that Ireland had not engaged constructively with the Israeli government since the eruption of the multifront war with Hamas and Iranian proxies , instead vilifying and criticizing the Jewish state . The move also affects Israelis currently living in Ireland , who will find themselves without any diplomatic representation . <p> For Shatter , " within the Irish Jewish community , there 's some understanding of the Israeli action taken . They deeply regret it . This is n't simply about the Irish Jewish community , though . It 's about an embassy in Dublin having an opportunity , with an ambassador present in Dublin , to engage with the wider Irish community , with Irish businesses , with the very few Irish politicians who are supportive of Israel . <p> " There is a segment of Irish society that 's antisemitic , " Shatter admitted , but " I do n't think any a greater segment than other European countries . But antisemitic rhetoric has started to become more acceptable , just with the word ' Zionist ' replacing the word ' Jew . ' " <h> The ICJ issue <p> Within the wider context of the Israeli decision to close the embassy is also Ireland 's decision last week to announce its support for South Africa 's legal action against Israel in the International Court of Justice , accusing Israel of genocide , requesting the ICJ " reinterpret " the definition of genocide so that it fits with Israeli military action in Gaza . <p> Ireland previously signaled that it would intervene in the ongoing case , with Martin saying in March that it was for the ICJ to decide whether genocide is being committed . Last month , the Irish government passed a motion that Israel is " perpetrating genocide " on Gaza , appearing to decide the matter for itself . <p> All of this has clearly left a nasty taste in the mouth of the Israelis , with plenty of reasons for their diplomatic dissatisfaction with recent Irish behavior . <p> For Shatter , however , one thing stands above all as a paramount priority . <p> " I think the Israelis are in a position now -- with the collapse of Hezbollah and events in Syria -- to complete a deal which produces the release of all hostages and put Hamas under sufficient pressure to realize and understand it can not resume governance in Gaza , " he told the Post . " All of this is a lot more important than the utterings of the Irish prime minister or the Irish president . " 
@@119112463 <h> ' For 2025 to become a year of victory for Ukraine and Israel , democracies must unite , ' says Borys Lozhkin , President of the JCU . <p> By OLEKSANDR YEVSIUKOV DECEMBER 19 , 2024 10:42 <p> THE DROBYTSKYI Yar Memorial to the victims of the Holocaust , on the outskirts of Kharkiv , was destroyed by Russian shelling in March 2022 . On the right : The restoration plan. ( photo credit : Kharkiv Regional Military Administration ) <p> Russia 's full-scale war against Ukraine has been going on for almost three years . Its destructive impact has been felt by all Ukrainians -- Jews and non-Jews alike . How much longer the largest war in Europe in the last 80 years will continue was discussed at the 5th Kyiv Jewish Forum , which recently took place in Washington . <p> The Jerusalem Post was a partner of the Jewish Confederation of Ukraine in organizing this international summit.We asked Borys Lozhkin , president of the JCU , vice president of the World Jewish Congress and the European Jewish Congress , to share his impressions of what he heard at the forum and to sum up the outgoing year for the Jewish community of Ukraine.UKRAINIAN SOLDIER on the front line with a book from the Jewish Library , ' Mossad . The Most Outstanding Operations of Israeli Intelligence . ' ( Credit : Yuriy Lutsenko/Facebook ) <p> What is the mood of Ukrainian Jews as 2024 comes to a close , and what do they expect in 2025 ? The mood is the same as with all Ukrainians : to stand firm . It is easy for Israelis to imagine the situation Ukrainians are in , since Israel has been in a state of war for almost 76 years since its independence . <p> However , for representatives of other countries , unless they are from the former Soviet bloc , it is not as easy to understand against whom Ukraine is defending itself . We are in Europe , and Israelis are in the Middle East.Today , we are confronting a threat that the world has not faced since World War II , and we must win . <p> Ukrainians and Israelis have no other option . As Golda Meir said : " Our enemies want to destroy us , and we want to live . This does not leave much room for compromise . " This statement applies to the situation in both Ukraine and Israel . <p> You mentioned Golda Meir . She was born in Kyiv , was n't she ? She was . Meir is not the only person born in Ukraine who made a significant contribution to the formation and development of Israel . But her example is perhaps one of the most eloquent . In January of this year , the JCU organized the distribution of the Ukrainian version of the film Golda about Israel 's fourth prime minister . <p> In addition , we also published Golda Meir 's memoirs , My Life , in Ukrainian for the first time.They were published as part of the Jewish Library book series created by the JCU . For this series , we select works about Jews and Israel that have become worldwide bestsellers but have not previously been published in Ukrainian . The Jewish Library is publishing these Ukrainian translations for the first time . <p> In 2021 , the series was launched with Daniel Gordis 's book Israel : A Concise History of a Nation Reborn . To date , five books have already been published in the Jewish Library . They are in great demand in Ukraine . Ukrainians want to know more about the history and culture of the Jews , with whom they have lived for more than a thousand years . <p> One of the books in the series , Mossad : The Greatest Missions of the Israeli Secret Service , by Michael Bar-Zohar and Nissim Mishal , has been a bestseller on the Ukrainian book market for two consecutive years . This year , we have released a sequel , The Mossad Amazons -- The Amazing Women in the Israeli Secret Service ; Rise and Kill First , by Ronen Bergman , which will also be published very soon . <p> Next , Natan Sharansky 's autobiographical story of the fight against the Soviet regime , Fear No Evil , will be published . Although the famous Soviet dissident and major Israeli political figure wrote it in the late 1980s , it has never been published in Ukrainian . The Jewish Library will be the first to do it . There will be other books , too . <p> I am confident that increasing awareness among Ukrainians about Jews and Israel will help reduce antisemitism . In Ukraine , fortunately , it the incidence of antisemitism is already among the lowest in Europe . Let 's return to the Kyiv Jewish Forum . <p> For the second year in a row , the menorah destroyed by the Russians became the central element of the forum . Tell us more about it . The mutilated menorah , in my opinion , is one of the symbols of this war . The monument is located in Drobitsky Yar on the outskirts of my native Kharkiv . <p> In this ravine , in late 1941 and 1942 , the Nazis shot 20,000 Jews -- prisoners of the Kharkiv Ghetto . After Babi Yar , Drobitsky is the second-largest execution site of Jews in Ukraine . The construction of the memorial was supervised by Righteous Among the Nations member Stanislav Ishchenko . <p> Together with his father , Joseph , he saved more than 300 Jews during the Holocaust . Stanislav died shortly before the start of the full-scale Russian invasion and did not see what the Russians did to his menorah in March 2022 . He also did not hear the absurd accusations against Ukrainians of Nazism . <p> It was not the Ukrainians who shelled the burial site of tens of thousands of Holocaust victims . It was not Ukrainians who killed Boris Romanchenko , a prisoner of Nazi concentration camps , in Kharkiv . Vanda Obiedkova from Mariupol survived the Holocaust 80 years ago . <p> But in 2022 , she died in the basement of a destroyed house from hunger and cold , trying to escape from Russian shells and missiles . A member of the Kharkiv Hillel , Seraphim Sabaransky died defending his city from the Russians.In August of 2022 , the brother of my close Jewish friend died near Bakhmut . <p> The son of the chief rabbi of Ukraine , Moshe Reuven Azman , who died at the front , was recently buried . Igor Tish , a former pupil of the Kyiv Jewish school and an IDF reservist , was seriously wounded . Unfortunately , there are numerous such examples . <p> Thousands of Jews , including Israeli citizens , are fighting in the ranks of the Armed Forces of Ukraine . Jews are dying at the front and in the rear . Therefore , talking about the de-Nazification of Ukrainians , as Russian propaganda presents it , is simply absurd . <p> Jews are not killed by Ukrainians . Ukrainian Jews are part of the Ukrainian political nation . And they , like all Ukrainians , have a single goal , which I have already mentioned : to win in order to continue living together in a peaceful Ukraine . <p> We will definitely restore the Drobitsky Yar menorah . But at the same time , we will preserve the traces of its mutilation as a reminder of this war . This will be a memorial dedicated to two tragedies : the Holocaust of World War II and the Russian invasion of the 21st century . The Jewish Confederation of Ukraine , together with the Kharkiv City Hall , has already selected the project for its future restoration . <p> Can 2025 bring peace ? It is not only up to the Ukrainians . In 2022 , few in the world believed that Ukraine would last more than three days . The third year of the most active phase of the war is ending . But I want to remind you that the Russian-Ukrainian war has been going on for almost 11 years . I would like to see a complete end to the war in 2025 . What it will look like depends largely on the partners . <p> Do you mean the US ? The outcome rests on other partners as well , but primarily it depends on the US . Both Ukraine and Israel rely on American support . That is why we held the Kyiv Jewish Forum in Washington immediately after the presidential and congressional elections . <p> The position of President-elect Donald Trump will largely determine further relations in the US , Ukraine , and Israel and , more broadly , in the United States , Europe , and the Middle East . This influence is already being felt , although there are several weeks before the inauguration . <p> The speakers and guests of the forum were considering possible scenarios for the further development of our conflicts . Physically , they may seem local , but in fact they are global in nature . The Israelis hope for the continuation of the Abraham Accords and the neutralization of the Iranian threat , including proxy formations . <p> The Ukrainians also are counting on decisive actions by the United States , which will allow the war to end on terms favorable to Ukraine . We will find out how it will be in practice after January 20 . <p> Another topic that the Kyiv Jewish Forum touched on was the sharply increased level of antisemitism . How did it happen that after Oct. 7 , Ukraine turned out to be almost the only country in Europe where there were no anti-Israeli and antisemitic demonstrations ? The answer here also lies in our wars . The Hamas attack on Israel reminded Ukrainians of the morning of February 24 , 2022 , when the entire country woke up to rocket fire , and columns of Russian troops crossed the border . The massacre in Re'im and other kibbutzim near Gaza reminded us of the tragedies of Bucha and Mariupol . <p> Ukrainians simply could not take the position of terrorists . Therefore , 69% supported Israel , and only 1% were against . What began to happen on university campuses in the US and Europe after Oct. 7 and eventually resulted in a pogrom in Amsterdam bypassed Ukraine . <p> Today , the wars in Ukraine and Israel are between the forces of democracy and those of tyranny . Most of the speakers at the Kyiv Jewish Forum emphasized this . I completely agree . In order to prevent the world from returning to times when order was established by brute force , Ukrainians and Israelis need help , and it has to be timely and sufficient to achieve two convincing victories . Hopefully , in 2025 we will be able to say with relief that the danger is already behind us . <p> This article was written in cooperation with the Jewish Confederation of Ukraine . 
@@119112465 <h> TRADE AFFAIRS : Israel and Ireland both have tech industries as their main economic growth engines and are most clearly on a diplomatic collision course . <p> By ASSAF UNI/GLOBES/TNS DECEMBER 20 , 2024 12:49 <p> ' SINCE THE start of the war , it has been much more difficult to be an Israeli in Ireland . ' Here , protesters call for the government to impose sanctions on Israel , during a demonstration in Dublin in November. ( photo credit : CLODAGH KILCOYNE/REUTERS ) <p> The Foreign Ministry announced Sunday that it is taking one of the most severe steps in the diplomatic procedures book and closing its embassy in Ireland . <p> This is the first time that Israel has ever closed an embassy of a European Union ( Israel 's biggest trade partner ) member state . <p> The reason for taking action was an " extreme anti-Israel policy , " and " crossing redlines " in Ireland 's support for the Palestinians in international institutions , including joining the Palestinian side against Israel in the legal proceedings in The Hague . <p> Israel and Ireland both have tech industries as their main economic growth engines and are most clearly on a diplomatic collision course . Globes examines the recent developments . <h> What is the background to Israel closing its embassy ? <p> Ireland is considered the most pro-Palestinian country in the EU , with public opinion deeply identifying with the Palestinians as an " occupied " people . After October 7 , 2023 , the public and politicians united in expressing support for the Palestinians , not the Israelis . ( Illustrative ) Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar over a back drop of an Irish and Palestinian flag . ( credit : Canva , Clodagh Kilcoyn/Reuters , OLIVIER FITOUSSI/FLASH90 ) <p> " We see our history through the eyes of the Palestinians , " prime minister Leo Varadkar said at the time . Some 79% believed that Israel is committing genocide in Gaza , according to recent polls , and 71% believed that the Palestinians live under an apartheid regime . <p> Ireland has in recent months initiated an attempt to suspend trade relations between Israel and the EU , claiming that Israel is violating international law . It independently announced a law to boycott products from settlements , contrary to EU policy . The Irish sovereign wealth fund has divested investments from all Israeli companies in its portfolio . Ireland also recognized a Palestinian state in May , in a move coordinated with Spain and Norway . <p> The Irish president accused the Israeli Embassy of leaking a flattering letter of congratulations he had written to the new Iranian president , and Prime Minister Simon Harris announced last week that Ireland would join a South African petition alleging genocide is taking place in the Gaza Strip . <p> Ireland , which was the last country in the EU to open an Israeli Embassy , in 1993 , could now become the first to close one . <h> What type of trade relations are there between Israel and Ireland ? <p> Israel and Ireland had combined annual trade of $5.9 billion in 2023 , according to the Israel Export Institute . Half of this amount is in goods , and half in services . <p> In the services sector , Ireland has become , with the help of a favorable tax policy , a destination for Israeli tech companies seeking easy access to the European market , so it is mainly intellectual property . <p> According to Ofir Angel , chairman of the Israel-Ireland Chamber of Commerce , who is chairman of international consulting firm Auren in Israel , " Hundreds of Israelis have relocated to Ireland " in recent years , as part of the opening of a European office or the transfer of Israeli tech companies to Ireland . One of the most notable of these is Wix , which opened an office in Dublin . <p> " Before the war in Gaza , there were several Irish companies that visited Israel to examine participation in infrastructure projects in transport , communications , and railways , and there were joint projects by Intel which operates in both countries , " Angel said . But since the beginning of the war , he said , " Inquiries from Ireland have dropped by 80% . It 's as if Irish companies are not interested in having any connection with Israel , or being labeled with one . " <p> From the Israeli side , he said , interest in recent years has mainly been from tech companies . " The Irish still have a policy of lenient taxation for tech companies , and it is an English-speaking European country that uses the euro , so it is a successful destination for companies trying to enter the European market . <p> " But since the start of the war , it has been much more difficult to be an Israeli in Ireland . The atmosphere is against us . Everyone who lives there hides the fact that they are Israeli . " <h> What are the economic implications of closing the embassy ? <p> " From a business perspective , it 's a shame , " Angel said , " because there are people at the embassy in Dublin who have been very helpful to Israeli companies entering the Irish market in recent years . There is an experienced team there who even help informally in opening appropriate doors . These connections will disappear . " <p> From a strategic perspective , he added , this is a wretched development , " Because all these years Israel has not invested much in diplomacy or in changing public opinion in Ireland . We could actually be a country close to the Irish , not a rival country . We have similar characteristics , and we are competing for US technology investors . We need to decide strategically how to proceed , and right now both sides have been dragged into being rivals . We are currently competing for investors as well as for global public opinion . " <h> What are the diplomatic implications of closing the embassy ? <p> " There is a very sharp message here of giving up on a country from a diplomatic perspective , " said Dr. Maya Sion-Tzidkiyahu , director of the Israel-Europe Relations Program at the Mitvim Institute . " It is true that Ireland is a small country , but it is not marginal . Economically , it is important because it is a hub for many international tech companies . Our message in closing the embassy is that we see no point in having relations with them . No matter what we do , they will not see the Israeli side , which is irreversible . " <p> Sion-Tzidkiyahu said that the Irish case is exceptional , and the positions against Israel are particularly strong , " so it is difficult to see the picture changing . Sometimes it is precisely when you break the rules that you convey the message properly . When the Irish themselves call for the embassy in Israel to be closed and diplomatic relations to be severed ; when pictures of the Israeli ambassador are published with blood illustrations and calls for her removal -- maybe it is good to think about how far you can go banging your head against the wall . " <h> How will Israel 's move be seen in Ireland ? <p> Irish newspapers reported the Israeli move in their front pages on Monday morning . Prime Minister Harris said Ireland was not expected to close its embassy in Israel in the near future in response , " because it does important work . " Irish Foreign Minister Micheal Martin said Ireland was " not hostile " to Israel , but that the situation in Gaza " exceeds any measure of humanity . " He also reiterated Ireland 's intention to bring the EU 's association agreement with Israel , which serves as the basis for trade relations , to the EU summit . <p> The chairman of the Jewish Representative Council of Ireland , Maurice Cohen , said he was " deeply concerned . " He criticized the Irish government 's policy of joining South Africa in the Hague case , and said the embassy closure was not only a " symbolic blow " to Israelis and Jews but also a disadvantage due to the loss of embassy services . <p> On social media , many Israelis living in Ireland expressed concern about the continued receipt of consular services at the embassy in Dublin . ( Globes/TNS ) 
@@119112469 <h> European lawmaker claims dual nationals should be allowed to join ' Palestinian armed resistance ' <h> Rima Hassan had previously described the October 7 massacre as " legitimate . " <p> Rima Hassan , the then candidate for the European elections on the list of La France Insoumise ( LFI ) , attends a pro-Palestinian protest in central Paris , France , May 29 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Abdul Saboor ) <p> French European lawmaker Rima Hassan , 32 , stirred condemnations on Wednesday after she posted on X/Twitter that " any Franco-Palestinian must be able to join the Palestinian armed resistance " so long as it is permissible for other French citizens to join the IDF . <p> " If Franco-Israelis are allowed to serve in the Israeli army while enjoying the benefits of dual nationality . Any Franco-Palestinian must be able to join the Palestinian armed resistance whose legitimacy is recognized by the United Nations resolutions relating to the right to self-determination of peoples , " Hassan , a member of the far-left La France Insoumise wrote . " The only thing that prevents you from considering it is the coloniality of the world . " <p> The Representative Council of Jewish Institutions of France ( CRIF ) noted that many groups forming the " Palestinian armed resistance " are recognized as terror groups in France and Europe . <p> " The organizations that claim to be part of the Palestinian ' armed resistance ' -- Hamas , Hezbollah , Islamic Jihad , etc. -- are all recognized as terrorists by the European Union , " CRIF posted on X. " Can you imagine a European MP calling for people to join Al Qaeda or Daesh ISIS ? If Rima Hassan wanted peace and truly defended the Palestinians , she would fight Hamas instead of defending it without taking responsibility . " Hamas terrorist in front of Gaza hostage posters . ( Illustrative ) ( credit : Hamas Military Wing/Handout via REUTERS , MIRIAM ALSTER/FLASH90 ) <p> Since making the post , she has also published claims that " From European antisemitism to the emergence of Zionist supremacist ideology , through the Sykes-Picot agreements , those historically responsible for the tragedy of the Palestinian people and the risk of disappearance they face today are the European countries and they alone . " <p> Hassan 's family are from Syria , according to the Algemeiner . They fled to Europe after the 1948 War of Independence . She became a naturalized citizen in 2010 . <p> Hassan 's statements spread beyond Europe as , according to the Jewish News Syndicate , she appeared at a pro-Hamas rally in Amman in August . Her reported appearance led to some 50 members of the French National Assembly asking the president of the European Parliament to lift her parliamentary immunity . 
@@119112473 <h> Diaspora Minister Amichai Chikli claimed that CAIR had ties to Hamas and was ' outrageously antisemtic . ' <p> Amichai Chikli attending the One Million Lobby Association event honoring the immigrant IDF soldiers who fell in combat in war against Hamas and Hezbollah. ( photo credit : LEAH GOLDMAN ) <p> Diaspora Affairs and Combating Antisemitism Ministry Minister Amichai Chikli escalated his campaign against the Council on American-Islamic Relations ( CAIR ) on Thursday , exposing the organization 's alleged ties to Hamas and sharing a damning quote from its executive director , Nihad Awad , about the October 7 Hamas-led massacre in Israel . <p> In a series of posts on X , Chikli wrote : " The time has come to discuss @CAIRNational , its origins , and the hidden ideology behind its self-definition as a ' human rights organization . ' Let 's begin . " He continued by linking CAIR 's establishment to the Palestine Committee , a Hamas-affiliated network in the US , and cited FBI wiretaps from a 1993 meeting in Philadelphia where plans to create CAIR were allegedly finalized . <p> The time has come to discuss @CAIRNational , its origins , and the hidden ideology behind its self-definition as a " human rights organization . " Let 's begin - The Council on American-Islamic Relations ( CAIR ) is a nonprofit organization founded in 1994 . The organization has a ... **26;1588;TOOLONG <p> Chikli directly quoted Awad 's remarks about the October 7 attack that left over 1,200 Israelis dead : " The people of Gaza only decided to break the siege , the walls of the concentration camp , on October 7 . And yes , I was happy to see people breaking the siege ... walking free into their land , which they were not allowed to walk in . " Chikli labeled the statement as an endorsement of terrorism and a vivid illustration of CAIR 's true agenda . <p> The statement has drawn widespread condemnation , with Jewish organizations , including the Anti-Defamation League , describing it as " outrageously antisemitic . " The White House , in response , disavowed CAIR 's involvement in any federal programs , particularly its previous role in discussions surrounding combating antisemitism . <h> Ties to Hamas and the Holy Land Foundation <p> Chikli 's posts drew extensively from an August 2024 report by the Diaspora Affairs and Combating Antisemitism Ministry . According to the report , CAIR was established in 1994 by figures connected to the Palestine Committee , a Hamas-affiliated group responsible for fundraising , lobbying , and propaganda in the U.S. during the late 1980s and early 1990s . <p> The report describes a 1993 meeting in Philadelphia , where members of the Palestine Committee strategized on how to create a " moderate " front organization to continue supporting Hamas under the radar . " CAIR 's founders , including Nihad Awad and Omar Ahmad , were directly involved in this meeting , " the report stated , calling CAIR 's establishment " a calculated effort to mask its extremist roots . " <p> Chikli also highlighted financial links between CAIR and the Holy Land Foundation for Relief and Development ( HLF ) , which was shut down following its conviction for funneling $12 million to Hamas . Evidence presented at HLF 's trial showed financial transfers between the foundation and CAIR for " consulting services . " <p> " The network of connections is undeniable , " Chikli wrote . " CAIR is not an isolated organization ; it is part of a larger web of Hamas-affiliated entities operating under the guise of human rights . " <p> The report reveals that despite CAIR 's documented history of antisemitic rhetoric and ties to Hamas , the organization had previously been included in the White House 's program to combat antisemitism . This inclusion was part of a broader initiative to engage diverse voices in addressing antisemitism in the US . However , following Awad 's inflammatory comments about the October 7 massacre , the Biden administration severed all ties with CAIR and removed the group from the program . <p> " This is a group that has consistently undermined efforts to combat antisemitism while publicly claiming to support such initiatives , " Chikli wrote , criticizing the initial decision to involve CAIR in the program . " It is a glaring example of how organizations with hidden agendas can infiltrate even the highest levels of government . " <p> The ministry 's report also accused CAIR of promoting antisemitic and anti-Israel narratives . It cited a controversial CAIR workshop titled " American Jews and Political Power : Myth or Reality , " which it described as " blatantly antisemitic . " The workshop examined Jewish advocacy groups and suggested they were part of a coordinated effort to control US policy . <p> Chikli reinforced these findings in his posts , calling CAIR a " central player " in spreading anti-Israel rhetoric on American campuses and beyond . " This is not a human rights organization , " he wrote . " It is a sophisticated operation designed to undermine Israel , disguise Hamas activities , and spread antisemitic tropes under the radar . " <p> Chikli 's revelations have reignited debates about CAIR 's role in American society . " The truth is out there for everyone to see , " he wrote . " It is time for governments and civil society to take a stand and hold CAIR accountable for its actions , its leadership , and its support for Hamas . " <p> The report recommended that Israel consider designating CAIR as a terrorist organization and called for stronger measures to delegitimize its activities globally . Chikli emphasized the urgency of action , writing , " The days of hiding behind a fa ? ade of human rights advocacy are over . " 
@@119115178 <h> How the Far Right Reports on the Border <p> On assignment for Border Hawk News , Wid Lyman records a video of the border wall near Mt . Cristo Rey , in Sunland Park , New Mexico.Photographs by Paul Ratje for The New Yorker <p> A few days before the election , Wid Lyman , a reporter for Border Hawk News , a right-wing news site , drove to Mt . Cristo Rey , a hiking path on the outskirts of El Paso , Texas . He parked near a grouping of picnic tables and clipped a pair of gloves to the belt loops of his tactical pants . " This is our standard bring , " he said , zipping up his backpack . " We 've got some kind of medical , we 've got our waterproof pack , and our drone is in there , too . " The well-marked , two-mile trail up the mountain is a popular pilgrimage site on Good Friday ; at other times , it 's favored by dog-walkers and early-morning exercisers . <p> The area has also been used by groups of migrants crossing the border , and the guides and scouts helping them . They were who Lyman was hoping to find . Midway up the mountain , he stopped to survey crumpled plastic bottles in an arroyo : possible evidence , he believed , of human trafficking . " I 've seen this all across the entire border , this exact thing -- water and energy drinks , " he said . After about an hour , he reached the crest of the mountain , marked by a twenty-nine-foot limestone statue of Jesus Christ . A group of nursing students sat in a sliver of shade , talking about television shows . Below , the desert floor was bisected by the thin black line of the border wall . Lyman squatted to assemble the drone . It hovered for a moment , humming , before he sent it off to fly along the spine of the wall , careful not to let it veer into Mexico . He peered at the video screen , frowning . " Nothing today . No scouts , even , " he said apologetically . " It 's good for the country but bad for shock journalism . " <p> Lyman spends roughly half the year as a travelling physical therapist and the other half making videos for Border Hawk , a four-year-old site that posts aggregated news and original content about immigration . He 's part of a growing network of right-wing content creators -- filmmakers , podcasters , streamers , and self-styled citizen journalists -- who populate a media ecosystem that thrives on social media and has been crucial to Donald Trump 's rise . If your algorithmic feed is n't tuned to this type of thing , you might never come across Border Hawk 's posts , but plenty of people have : Lyman 's videos have been replayed on Fox News and cited by Trump and Kari Lake . His most widely shared video , which depicted a chaotic protest outside the White House against the invasion of Gaza , racked up tens of millions of views . <p> At a time when newsrooms are laying off staff and closing international bureaus , independent journalists are travelling to the Dari ? n Gap and camping out at the border wall , producing media that ranges from the benign to the propagandistic . <p> Border Hawk presents itself as a grassroots organization offering an honest view of the southern border . But the site is intimately entwined with a long-standing anti-immigrant movement that , until recently , was widely rejected . It was initially an offshoot of U.S. , Inc. , an umbrella organization founded by John Tanton , an ophthalmologist , environmentalist , and white nationalist who 's been called " the architect of the modern-day anti-immigrant movement . " ( Tanton died in 2019 . ) Border Hawk also shares contributors and staff with VDARE , a virulently anti-immigrant Web site founded by Peter Brimelow , who has described himself as a believer in " racial nationalism . " ( Brimelow suspended VDARE this year , after it claimed to be insolvent from paying fines incurred when he refused to comply with a subpoena from the New York attorney general , Letitia James . ) Border Hawk is a nonprofit , and can not endorse political parties or candidates , but the site has consistently depicted the border as out of control , and migrants as criminals and invaders . <p> Lyman watches a hillside near Mt . Cristo Rey where he has seen migrants cross the border . <p> I met Wid Lyman earlier this year , when we were both covering the murder trial of an Arizona rancher accused of shooting a migrant . ( The jury was unable to reach a verdict , and the prosecution declined to retry the rancher . ) We quickly figured out that we were on opposite ends of the ideological spectrum , but trials are long and dull and can make for unexpected temporary friendships . During the day , we 'd chat about which witnesses seemed evasive and find ourselves generally in agreement ; in the evenings , from my hotel room , I would watch him on Infowars , opining about the wide-open border . A few months after the trial , he agreed to let me tag along with him for a day as he drove around Texas and New Mexico , making videos for Border Hawk . <p> After our uneventful trip up the mountain , Lyman drove across the state line into New Mexico , a transition marked by a sudden proliferation of marijuana dispensaries . We passed by a casino-hotel complex where Lyman had slept on his first visit here , a few years ago . The hotel was nice , but it was within walking distance of the wall , so he does n't stay there anymore . " I would drive to the border wall two minutes away , and then I 'd drive back to the hotel . I was , like , ' Man , that 's too close , ' " he said . <p> As Lyman tells it , for most of his life he was more interested in sports than politics . He and his older brother , Dan , grew up in Amherst , where their father was a professor at the University of Massachusetts and their mother , Izzy , who also has a Ph.D. , was an evangelist for homeschooling . Wid speculated that the liberal environment of New England pushed his mother 's politics rightward . Whatever the reason , the Lymans have made fearmongering about immigrants into a family business . Izzy is the editor of " Victims of Illegal Immigration , " an essay collection with a lurid blood-splattered cover , published by Social Contract Press , another U.S. , Inc. project . Dan is the president and editor-in-chief of Border Hawk , as well as an occasional contributor to Infowars . In an interview with Peter Brimelow , the VDARE founder , posted on X earlier this year , Dan Lyman called ending birthright citizenship " a no-brainer " and warned of " the destruction of white America " by immigration . <p> Wid , who told me that he 's " more moderate " than other members of his family , got involved with border politics more recently . His work as a physical therapist dried up during the pandemic ; then , in September of 2021 , Izzy offered a suggestion . Thousands of Haitian migrants were camped out in squalid conditions under a bridge at the border in Del Rio , Texas . What if Lyman went down there , checked out what was going on , maybe made some videos ? <p> It was n't immediately clear that Wid would make it as a citizen journalist . He had no reporting or filming experience , and his Spanish is limited . " I was totally overwhelmed ; I had no idea what I was doing , " he said . On that first trip , he spent a day in Ciudad Acu ? a , Mexico , where he was surprised to see the industries that catered to , and sometimes exploited , migrants : reselling their discarded clothing ; providing protection that could resemble extortion . His posts , which he shared on his personal account , were a modest success . Soon , his brother enlisted him to work for Border Hawk , and he began travelling from his home , in Michigan , to Texas , Arizona , and California . <p> It was a fortuitous time to be making content about immigration . A year after Lyman 's first trip to Del Rio , Elon Musk -- who has posted about immigrants relentlessly , and often misleadingly -- bought Twitter ( now X ) . Right-wing creators who had once been banned were now promoted ; the site is Border Hawk 's " bread and butter , " Lyman told me . ( Dan Lyman declined to be interviewed about its operations . ) People all over the country were eager for information about what , exactly , was going on at the southern border , and they were increasingly turning to alternative sources to get it . <p> Lyman catches his drone after using it to film . <p> Trump sometimes acts as though he presided over an era of unprecedented calm at the U.S.-Mexico border . In fact , the number of migrant encounters with Border Patrol doubled during the first three years of his Administration . ( The number nearly doubled once more during the first three years of Joe Biden 's Presidency , although it has recently levelled off . ) People were on the move , fleeing violent regimes , climate disruption , and , later , pandemic-devastated economies . Information and misinformation about how to journey to the U.S. circulated on social media , and people for whom the trek might have once seemed prohibitively daunting decided to chance it . Migrant demographics were shifting , too -- there were proportionally fewer men and more women and children ; proportionally fewer people from Central America and more from Africa , Europe , and Asia ; fewer economic migrants and more asylum seekers . The Dari ? n Gap , a thick swath of jungle between Panama and Colombia , long considered impassable , became a migrant corridor -- a million people crossed through it between 2021 and 2024 , more than ten times as many as during the decade before . <p> It is well known and well supported that immigrants -- including those in the country illegally -- have lower arrest rates than native-born Americans ; that areas with a higher proportion of immigrants do not have higher crime rates ; and that immigrants are a crucial part of the U.S. economy , as , without steady inflows , the nation 's population would likely decline . But Congress had n't passed meaningful immigration reform in decades , and old systems were strained by new realities . Smuggling people across the border , once something of a mom-and-pop operation , increasingly came under the control of organized crime . Asylum seekers were given court dates years in the future ; case backlogs climbed to nearly three million last year . In U.S. border towns , systemic dysfunction manifested as disorder and , at times , as tragedy : migrants died of extreme heat while crossing Texas ranches , and dozens of children drowned in the Rio Grande . The number of high-speed car chases in Texas border counties rose sharply . Governor Greg Abbott , of Texas , began busing migrants to Democrat-run cities , where strained nonprofits struggled to help new arrivals get on their feet . When there were n't enough shelter beds , people slept on the streets . <p> Amid all of this , Border Hawk cultivated a growing audience for stories that blamed migrants themselves for the growing chaos . The site provided a steady stream of stories about crimes committed by migrants , and often elided distinctions between them : people who had been granted Temporary Protected Status ; asylum seekers who had applied to enter or remain in the country ; and people who had crossed illegally and attempted to elude Border Patrol were all lumped together as " illegals . " The stories were often suggestive , leaving plenty of room for the imagination to fill in the gaps . One of Lyman 's videos included footage of him walking through a drainage tunnel in El Paso . When Lyman appeared on Fox News , earlier this year , the host Laura Ingraham played the clip above a chyron that read " Illegals using drainage tunnels to cross border . " In his interview , Lyman mentioned " tons of evidence of traffic , " including " very small footprints . " But he also said that the tunnels , which are part of the city 's municipal infrastructure , do not cross the border , and Lyman told me that he did n't encounter anyone inside them . <p> As his work got more attention , Lyman heard from influencers and video-game streamers wanting to get in on the border-content boom . When he declined to let them film with him -- " The last thing I want is to be chaperoning some Zoomer , " he told me -- they 'd sometimes ask him where they could go to capture dramatic footage . Where were the caravans , the crowds surging through gaps in the wall ? They did n't seem to understand that such instances were few and far between . <p> Lyman operates his drone . <p> " Some days , this is how it goes , " Lyman said . We 'd been cruising the border for a few hours and the most suspicious thing we 'd seen was the trash in the arroyo . Earlier in the year , Biden had enacted strict policies effectively banning asylum between ports of entry , and Mexico had ramped up enforcement . Since then , the number of crossings had declined significantly , Lyman allowed . After lunch , we drove back into Texas . Lyman , armed with an enormous iced coffee from Dunkin ' , seemed to be in better spirits . He thought that action might pick up around the Border Patrol 's afternoon shift change . We cruised along the wall for a couple of miles , then parked a few feet from the border . Some sections of the fence consisted of a line of thick metal bollards ; in others , it was a metal mesh . Every ten minutes or so , a Border Patrol vehicle drove by , and Lyman waved . The agents did n't always appreciate being filmed ; he told me that he sometimes had to politely but firmly remind them of his rights . <p> Lyman believed Border Hawk was filling a gap left by more established news organizations . As he saw it , the mainstream media had damaged its credibility by first obsessing over supposed Russian interference in the 2016 election and , later , by underplaying Biden 's cognitive decline . In Lyman 's search for non-compromised news sources , he 'd followed a few far-left accounts and sometimes appreciated what he learned there . ( " My understanding was when the Haitian people took over their country , they ruined it . They kicked the whites out , " he 'd told me , earlier that day . But he 'd recently learned , via the journalist Aaron Mate , that " the U.S. government to a certain degree caused this . " ) By and large , though , in Lyman 's view , conservatives were the new gonzo journalists , the ones sending back authentic reports from high-drama situations , disdainful of institutions and politically correct messaging . <p> Lyman granted that some independent journalists amplified prejudice to boost engagement . But he saw his videos as nonideological . " I try to just be factual . I would describe what I do as video reporting , not true journalism , " he told me . " We 're on the mountain . We see what we see . " <p> The border wall 's shadow lengthened as the sun dipped low ; the day was winding down , and we had n't seen much . Lyman jokingly peeked at my notebook . " Make sure to describe me as ' very fit , ' " he said . In the gap between the border fence 's bollards , he spied two figures walking away from the border wall , farther into Mexico . They were ant-size , and it was difficult to distinguish anything about them , but Lyman pegged them as scouts . " My best guess is they brought a group over , and now they 're going back , " he said . He launched the drone to try to get a better look at them , but he could n't find them on the video feed . Instead , he scrutinized a long rectangular building not far from the road . " I bet they keep people here , " he mused . " Like a stash house of some variety . " <p> When I checked Border Hawk 's Web site later that week , I saw a video of the drone footage that Lyman had shot that morning from the top of Mt . Cristo Rey . The post called it " Cartel Mountain " and " a hotbed for criminal activity and human smuggling . " The camera moved slowly , tracking the path of the border wall , backed by a haunting , ominous soundtrack . If you did n't read the text , the video was calm , and almost beautiful -- broad desert flats stretching between mountains . Somewhere just out of the frame , there was a statue of a man lifting his hands to the sky . ? <p> Border Patrol agents apprehend a group of men near Mt . Cristo Rey , in an area that has long been a busy corridor for human smuggling . 
@@119137971 <h> Breaking News <h> Israel 's war with Hamas has resulted in some cutting-edge , astonishing medical advancements <p> After being shot in both legs by a Hamas sniper in Gaza , Israeli reservist and New York native Aaron Bours is among the many soldiers pioneering the use of cutting-edge rehabilitative technologies that have been a result of Israel 's war with Hamas . <p> Bours , now 34 , moved from Long Island to Israel as a teenager to join the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) and ended up staying in the country . <p> He describes his first entry into Gaza -- weeks after Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on southern Israel -- as stepping into a Tolkien-esque apocalyptic landscape . " It 's like Mordor or the Upside Down of ' Stranger Things , ' " he told The Post . <p> Israeli reservist and New York native Aaron Bours is among the many soldiers pioneering the use of cutting-edge rehabilitative technologies that have been a result of Israel 's war with Hamas. courtesy of Aaron <p> Just two weeks into his service , Bours was shot while trying to rescue his commanding officer , who was killed at the scene . <p> He barely survived , crawling to safety while dragging his smashed leg . <p> From the initial fear of amputation to transitioning to a wheelchair and then crutches and now to a cane , Bours credits Israel 's medical professionals and technology for his recovery and saving his legs . <p> In fact , Israel 's war in Gaza has spurred a wave of healthcare innovations that are reshaping both mental and physical recovery for soldiers and civilians . <p> From surgical robots that remove bullets and shrapnel to 3D-printed prosthetics tailored for rapid deployment , to a battlefield burn treatment developed from pineapples , these technologies are redefining modern medicine and saving lives . <p> The need is dire : Since the war began , 12,000 soldiers have entered the Defense Ministry 's Rehabilitation department , with 40% sustaining limb trauma and a third facing psychological injuries such as anxiety , depression , post-traumatic stress disorder and psychosis . <p> Bours was shot while trying to rescue his commanding officer , who was killed at the scene just two weeks after going into service . courtesy of Aaron <p> At the forefront of Israel 's rehabilitation push is Sheba Medical Center in the Tel Aviv suburb of Ramat Gan , the Middle East 's largest hospital . <p> Here , rehabilitation efforts ranging from augmented and virtual reality to AI-driven PTSD treatments are being both researched and deployed as injuries from Gaza -- and more recently , Lebanon -- continue to mount . <h> Video-game therapy <p> At Sheba 's new Immersive Rehabilitation Room , Bours , who lost over three inches of bone in his right leg , has been busy mimicking a monkey catching bananas . <p> The space , like a video game reimagined for therapy , projects real-life scenarios onto walls and floors embedded with sensors . <p> " I broke a sweat like I had n't done in many months . It 's fun , so the results are that much better , " Bours said of the primate-inspired workout . <p> At Sheba 's new Immersive Rehabilitation Room , Bours does a video game-like therapy where it projects real-life scenarios onto walls and floors embedded with sensors . courtesy of Aaron <p> Therapists design these patient-customized scenarios to prepare them for civilian life -- anything from navigating a simulated mall to meditating on a virtual beach . <p> " What we aim to do is practice daily activities , and this technology allows us to bring the outside world into the therapy room , " said Maya Ehrlich , a Sheba rehabilitation psychologist and coordinator . She explained that , while much of the video rehab technology existed prior to the war , its use has been expanded for wartime rehabilitation . <p> For soldiers who 've required amputation , phantom pain often occurs when the brain repeatedly sends signals to move a limb that no longer exists , interpreting the lack of response as pain . <p> The MyMove system by Israeli startup 6Degrees alleviates that pain by " tricking " the brain into believing the missing limb is moving . <p> Patients wear lightweight bands and a VR headset , engaging in games where a virtual version of their limb performs actions . <p> This reactivates the brain 's motor and sensory circuits to reduce pain and a reliance on medications . <p> For soldiers who 've required amputation , phantom pain often occurs when the brain repeatedly sends signals to move a limb that no longer exists , interpreting the lack of response as pain . ourtesy Sheba Medical Center <h> Advanced 3-D printing <p> Another key wartime development is in the realm of three-dimensional printing , which now enables the rapid production of customized prosthetics and implants . <p> Although the technology existed previously , it has been integrated into hospitals to create prosthetics in hours rather than weeks . <p> At Sheba Medical Center 's 3D Center , a precisely designed skull model was manufactured to help surgeons reconstruct the facial structure of IDF officer Omri Rosenblit , who was severely injured in Khan Yunis when a building collapsed on him . <p> Although the technology existed previously , it has been integrated into hospitals to create prosthetics in hours rather than weeks . Courtesy Sheba Medical Center <p> In another case , a 3D-printed personalized implant ( PSI ) by Synergy 3DMed helped reconstruct the shattered skull of a military dog injured during a Gaza operation . <p> Surgeons fitted the piece of the missing skull seamlessly -- much like completing a puzzle -- resulting in the dog 's full recovery . <h> Robots and AI <p> Surgical robotic technology also is n't entirely new but has been updated in a groundbreaking way at Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem after the Oct. 7 attacks . <p> A robotic guidance system by Israeli company Medtronic was used to remove a bullet lodged in a soldier 's sacrum -- the bone at the base of the spine -- avoiding paralysis , nerve damage , and lead poisoning . <p> The minimally invasive procedure took just 90 minutes , which is a fraction of the time required for traditional surgery . <p> It played a key role in saving a 23-year-old Nova massacre survivor who was shot in the eye , with the bullet lodged in her brain . Aidoc mapped the bullet 's path in seconds and sent a push notification to an endovascular surgeon , enabling him to prioritize her treatment and save her life . <p> Another innovation is EyeCon , currently being tested at Rambam Medical Center in the northern city of Haifa , the primary hospital treating soldiers and civilians injured in Hezbollah attacks from Lebanon . <p> Comprising a headband , earphone , and camera , EyeCon is helping bring soldiers out of comas by enabling them to communicate through eye gestures like blinking.The system uses EEG electrodes to monitor brain waves and eye muscle activity , translating these signals into prompts that allow patients with limited consciousness to express their needs and ultimately help pull them back into consciousness . <h> Battlefield innovations <p> Magen David Adom ( MDA ) , Israel 's national emergency medical service , has introduced whole blood transfusions on the battlefield , making the IDF the first military to implement this life-saving practice . <p> By delivering comprehensive blood components -- red and white blood cells , platelets , and plasma -- at the point of injury , survival rates for soldiers suffering massive bleeding and trauma have reached an unprecedented 93% . According to Professor Eilat Shinar , MDA 's director of blood services , the practice could save lives globally , from victims of gun violence to car accident casualties . <h> Revolutionary PTSD treatment <p> With over a third of soldiers in rehabilitation battling PTSD , the psychological toll of war is expected to cost Israel 's economy upwards of $53 billion in the next five years . To address this , the Defense Ministry has launched grants to support AI-driven mental health solutions . <p> One such innovation is LIV , a GenAI-powered platform at Sheba that eases the strain on overburdened mental health professionals . Patients interact directly with LIV , sharing their feelings and experiences as the system guides them with questions and prompts . <p> Using tools rooted in classic psychology , LIV helps patients explore their emotions while simultaneously gathering clinical data . By the time patients meet with a psychiatrist , LIV 's detailed summaries allow doctors to focus on decision-making rather than lengthy intake sessions . <h> Start your day with all you need to know <p> Morning Report delivers the latest news , videos , photos and more . <h> Thanks for signing up ! <p> Researchers at the Samueli Initiative for Responsible AI in Medicine and the Psychological Trauma Research Lab at Tel Aviv University have developed a self-guided version of the Immediate Stabilization Procedure ( ISP ) -- a therapist-led , early intervention for trauma -- into another self-guided app . <p> The platform , based on EMDR ( Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing ) , is designed to prevent PTSD from developing after a traumatic event . Microsoft Israel R&amp;D volunteered a team of engineers to bring this system to life . <h> Pineapple miracles <p> Anat Iosub Amir , director of healthcare investment at Israeli venture capital fund OurCrowd , said that many of these new technologies emerging from the war have applications far beyond the battlefield . " The war was the spark , but these technologies can grow into much bigger markets , " she said . " The unique technology developed for phantom pain in amputees , for example , could easily be adapted for broader pain management , physical therapy needs , or even gaming . " <p> Hospital staff members move a patient to the underground parking of the Rambam Hospital . SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images <p> The new Israeli technologies are also primed for use well beyond Israel 's borders . <p> Last year , for instance , the US Department of Defense invested $15 million in the Yavne-based firm MediWound to develop a new version of its treatment , NexoBrid , which has been heavily deployed in Gaza . <h> Video <p> Israeli reservist and New York native Aaron Bours is among the many soldiers pioneering the use of cutting-edge rehabilitative technologies that have been a result of Israel 's war with Hamas. courtesy of Aaron <p> Bours was shot while trying to rescue his commanding officer , who was killed at the scene just two weeks after going into service . courtesy of Aaron <p> At Sheba 's new Immersive Rehabilitation Room , Bours does a video game-like therapy where it projects real-life scenarios onto walls and floors embedded with sensors . courtesy of Aaron <p> For soldiers who 've required amputation , phantom pain often occurs when the brain repeatedly sends signals to move a limb that no longer exists , interpreting the lack of response as pain . ourtesy Sheba Medical Center <p> Another key wartime development is in the realm of three-dimensional printing , which now enables the rapid production of customized prosthetics and implants . Courtesy Sheba Medical Center <p> Although the technology existed previously , it has been integrated into hospitals to create prosthetics in hours rather than weeks . Courtesy Sheba Medical Center <p> Surgical robotic technology also is n't entirely new but has been updated in a groundbreaking way at Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem after the Oct. 7 attacks . courtesy Rambam Medical Center <p> A wounded Israeli soldier is evacuated after he was injured during action against Hezbollah guerillas in south Lebanon near the border village of Maroun al-Ras July 24 , 2006 . Getty Images <p> Hospital staff members move a patient to the underground parking of the Rambam Hospital . SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images 
@@119139263 <h> US State Dept gives nod to $5bn in potential arms sales for Egypt <p> Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi , right , meeting with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken in Alamein , Egypt , on August 20 , 2024 Handout/Egyptian Presidency via AFP <p> Published On 21 Dec 202421 Dec 2024 <p> The United States State Department has approved the potential sale of more than $5bn in arms for Egypt . <p> The State Department informed Congress on Friday that it had approved the sale of $4.69bn worth of equipment for 555 US-made M1A1 Abrams tanks operated by Egypt , along with $630m in Hellfire air-to-surface missiles and $30m in precision-guided munitions . <p> In a statement issued that day , it said the sale would support US " foreign policy and national security " by helping to improve the security of a " major " non-NATO ally that had acted as an important strategic partner in the Middle East . <p> Egypt and the US have worked increasingly closely since the outbreak of the war in Gaza in October 2023 , with Cairo playing a role in negotiating a ceasefire . <p> The deals come despite ongoing concern in Washington over the Egyptian government 's poor human rights record under President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi . <p> Rights group Amnesty estimates that Egypt currently holds about 60,000 political prisoners , including British-Egyptian activist Alaa Abd El-Fattah , jailed for " spreading false news " after sharing a Facebook post about alleged police brutality . <p> Advertisement <p> Egypt has in the last two years pardoned hundreds of political prisoners . But rights groups have said at least three times that many have been arrested over the same period . <h> Large US aid recipient <p> US President Joe Biden took office in 2021 pledging a harder line on Egypt over human rights concerns , but his administration has approved several arms deals . 
@@119139265 <h> Do n't switch off -- the world 's children have never needed you more <p> Children play amid the rubble of their house destroyed in the war between Israel and Hezbollah , in the village of Mansourieh in southern Lebanon , on December 4 , 2024 Thaier Al-Sudani/Reuters <p> The cascading crises that the world has witnessed this year give child rights advocates such as myself pause for thought : what are the ways forward and how can we all ensure that all children have their rights fulfilled and the chance of a brighter future ? <p> In my role as chief executive of Save the Children International , I get to meet children from so many complex , fragile environments facing situations that are unimaginable to most of us -- situations no child should ever be in -- and I am so often overwhelmed by their resilience and their hope . At a refugee transit centre on the border of Sudan and South Sudan this year , I met a 13-year-old boy who had fled the war in Sudan with his extended family . He spoke of the heartbreaking loss of both his parents in the war and how he struggled with ongoing nightmares . As we were speaking outside on a makeshift volleyball court , groups of teenage boys who had also fled the war in Sudan were laughing and cheering as they competed against each other to get the ball across the net , taking turns to play . <p> Advertisement <p> For no matter what , children are children . They want to play . They want to laugh . They want to learn . They want a future . And we need to be there to support them -- and to listen to them . <p> It could be so easy to feel overwhelmed by these heartbreaking stories , but switching off is not the answer , although increasingly this is seen as the solution . Research by the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism shows that news avoidance hit record levels in 2024 with 39 percent of people surveyed -- compared with 29 percent in 2017 -- saying they actively avoid the news some or all the time . They said the volume of information , long-running stories such as the wars in Ukraine , Gaza , and Sudan , and the negative nature of the news , make them feel anxious and powerless . <p> Funding for humanitarian crises has also fallen , with only about 43 percent of the United Nations ' humanitarian response plan fulfilled by the end of November , to assist about 198 million people. ? About $400m less has been raised compared with the same time last year when about 45 percent of the required amount was raised . <p> But now , more than ever , it is critical that we do n't turn our back on the world 's children. ? Children have done the least to cause the situations they find themselves in , yet they are impacted the most . Deadly conflicts around the world and a climate emergency for which children are paying the heaviest price are taking a heavy toll on their hopes and dreams . <p> This year we marked 100 years since the founder of Save the Children , Eglantyne Jebb , successfully argued that children were people in their own right , not just the possessions of adults , ? and deserved their own fundamental rights . This was defined in the Geneva Declaration of the Rights of the Child and paved the way for the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child ( UNCRC ) that we adhere to today - ? the most widely ratified human rights treaty in history . <p> Advertisement <p> Today , every child has rights -- including the right to health , to education , to protection , to security , to be themselves and to have their voices heard . ? But it has been increasingly disheartening to see children 's rights eroded due to the consistent threats of conflict , climate change and inequality . <p> Today 's children are facing unprecedented conflicts and geopolitical power struggles that ignore their mental , physical , and emotional safety and rights. ? ? Additionally , climate-related disasters are displacing record numbers of children from their homes . <p> Our recent report , ? Stop the War on Children , showed that 473 million children -- or one in every five children globally -- are living in or fleeing from a conflict zone . We are also seeing grave violations against children in times of war almost tripling since 2010 . We know children confronted with such violence are dealing with sights no child should ever have to experience . <p> During this year 's UN General Assembly meeting we hosted a session with Member States on the situation for children in the occupied Palestinian territory. ? One of the children who spoke with us was Rand * ( name changed ) , a 17-year-old girl living in the West Bank . After living through years of war she said to us : " I 'm not sure if what I told you today will make any change , and frankly I do n't feel that it will make any change . But I really want change to happen . I want us to have a life like children in other parts of the world . As a Palestinian child , I really want our lives to change , and for the war to end , and for us to be able to live free and with our rights respected . " <p> Advertisement <p> New analysis by Save the Children ahead of the COP29 summit in Azerbaijan last month showed that one in eight of the world 's children has been directly impacted by the 10 biggest extreme weather events so far this year , while the number of children in crisis levels of hunger due to extreme weather events had doubled in five years . Children forced from their homes lose that sense of safety and security as well as losing the chance to learn and shape their future lives . <p> At this COP I met Naomi , a child campaigner we supported to come to the event from South Sudan , where earlier this year schools across the country were closed for two weeks due to a blistering heatwave . With rising temperatures making extreme weather events like this more frequent and severe , she said that without urgent action from leaders , there is no future for her and other children . <p> On top of this , the rates of violence against children are staggering , with half of the world 's 2.4 billion children experiencing physical , sexual , emotional abuse and neglect every year leading to far-reaching consequences that can persist into adulthood such as the risk of mental health conditions and social problems such as substance abuse . <p> It is no wonder that people are increasingly turning away from confronting the reality of the daily news , but at a time of rising challenges , we can not keep turning away . We need to engage to tackle these challenges and ensure that children -- who make up one-third of the world population -- can have their rights met today and in the future . We need to listen to children , ? give them a platform to share their ideas and promote their rights . Together , we need to make 2025 a better year for children . <p> Advertisement <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@119139273 <p> Amid claims that the axis has collapsed , Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei asserted last week such views are " ignorant " and wrong . <p> The span of resistance , he said , would " encompass the entire region " as the axis is not hardware that can be destroyed , rather it is faith and commitment that only grows stronger under pressure and will succeed in expelling the US from the region . <p> Kicking the US out , especially from neighbouring Iraq , remains a top goal for Tehran to avenge the January 2020 assassination of Qassem Soleimani , Iran 's top general and a main architect of the axis . <p> Advertisement <h> Cutting off access to Hezbollah <p> With Iran 's help from the early 1980s , Hezbollah grew into a major political force in Lebanon with a military force stronger than the country 's traditional army . The group has taken considerable hits from Israel in the past year , including the assassination of its longtime leader Hassan Nasrallah and top commanders . <p> The message coming from Tehran has emphasised that " Hezbollah is alive " despite the Israeli onslaught , with Khamenei saying the resistance of the Lebanese and Palestinian forces means " defeat " for Israel . <p> For now , it is undeniable that Tehran has lost a strategic ally in Syria and that will reflect on its regional influence in the short term , according to Tehran-based researcher and author Ali Akbar Dareini . <p> " The most important damage to Iran 's security interests is the severing of the ground link with Lebanon . The **30;822;TOOLONG axis made it easy for Iran to have access to Hezbollah , " he told Al Jazeera . <p> " The collapse of the Assad government significantly challenges prospects of rebuilding and re-equipping the resistance network , especially Hezbollah , " Dareini said , adding that Israel will now be even more emboldened to attack the Lebanese group despite a shaky ceasefire that has held so far amid numerous violations . <p> Ayatollah Ali Khamenei greets a crowd during a meeting in Tehran , Iran , on December 11 , 2024 Leader 's office handout/via EPA-EFE <p> Israel has also taken advantage of the fall of al-Assad to push deep inside Syria , occupying vast swaths of land in its south while launching hundreds of air strikes across the country . <p> Advertisement <p> In a second speech on Tuesday , Khamenei emphasised that " the Zionist regime believes it is preparing itself through Syria to encircle Hezbollah 's forces and uproot them , but the one who will be uprooted is Israel " . <p> While Iran has said it wants to maintain relations with Syria and that the new governing group 's distance from Israel would be a major deciding factor , Ahmed al-Sharaa , commander-in-chief of the new administration , says Syria is weary of wars and does not wish to make an enemy of Israel . <p> Hossein Salami , commander-in-chief of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ( IRGC ) , said this week it is " unbearable " that Israeli soldiers are now merely kilometres away from Damascus , but added " they will be buried in Syria " in the future . <h> Further blows to axis members <p> An emboldened Israel has hit Yemen 's Houthis again , launching strikes on Wednesday night on Yemeni infrastructure for the third time since July , killing nine people and hitting an oil facility , ships in a major port , and power stations . <p> They have set their sights on Houthi leader Abdel-Malik al-Houthi , along with top Yemeni military officials and a senior Iranian commander who coordinates the efforts of the IRGC 's Quds Force in the country , according to the Israel Hayom newspaper . <p> In addition to attacks on shipping lanes near its waters in stated protest against Israel 's war on Gaza , the Yemeni group has kept up attacks on Israel . <p> Advertisement <p> The Houthis announced on Thursday they fired two ballistic missiles towards military targets in Israel , which appeared to have been at least partially intercepted , with shrapnel from one landing on a school and damaging it without inflicting any casualties . <p> The Houthis landed another ballistic missile in Tel Aviv on Saturday , injuring 16 people and leaving a crater in a public park . Two interceptor missiles were filmed failing to bring down the missile , with the group 's military spokesman promising more attacks . <p> In Iraq , the US has demanded Baghdad dismantle the Iran-aligned armed groups in the country , according to Ibrahim Al-Sumaidaie , a top adviser to the prime minister who said in a televised interview on Wednesday that Washington threatened military force if the Iraqi government does not accede . <p> Many of the Shia-majority armed groups aligned with Iran are now part of the official Iraqi security forces . <p> The US has been Israel 's stalwart ally throughout its war on Gaza and other moves in the Middle East . <h> ' Resistance without an axis ' <p> The axis can no longer function as a coherent network of states and militias stretching from Iran to the Levant , Vali Nasr , professor of international affairs and Middle East studies at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies , said . <p> " It has lost its anchors in the Levant . Although it is still present in Iraq and Yemen , it will not play the same strategic role it had until now , " he told Al Jazeera . <p> " If it is to be relevant again , it will have to be in a different form and then depending on what the evolving situation is in the Levant . " <p> Advertisement <p> The axis , which has aided Iran 's goal of becoming a regional powerhouse , achieved some of its most touted victories during the Syrian civil war -- when it kept al-Assad in power with Russia 's help , and pushed back ISIL ( ISIS ) and other armed groups . <p> The Iran-led axis was built on three main pillars that have been altered by the fall of al-Assad , according to Hamidreza Azizi , a visiting fellow at the German Institute for International and Security Affairs . <p> The first was a geographical connection between key members , which was complemented and stretched to the Mediterranean by Hamas and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad in Gaza , with the Houthis in Yemen holding the southern flank , he explained . <p> The second was close coordination and unity between members , with a principle that meant a threat to one member of the axis was considered a threat to all , triggering a collective response . <p> " The third pillar was its ideological foundation : the very notion of resistance . This ideology , characterised by strong anti-American and anti-Israeli sentiments , served as the core unifying idea behind the axis , " he told Al Jazeera . <p> Azizi said the first two pillars are now severely damaged , if not destroyed , but the third remains and may have been strengthened in some aspects . <p> " This evolving situation could be described as ' resistance without an axis ' . What we are observing is Iran attempting to fortify the first line of its forward defence in Iraq and Yemen , while the rest of the axis operates at a significantly reduced capacity and with far less coordination than in the past . " 
@@119139469 <h> Lululemon just dropped a ton of new We Made Too Much finds -- it 's the last day for Christmas delivery <h> You can still get presents in time for Dec. 25 -- but hurry ! <p> Have you left your holiday shopping to the very last minute ? Do n't worry , there 's still time ! Lululemon just dropped tons of new We Made Too Much styles , and if you order by tonight ( Dec. 21 ) at 11:59 p.m . PST , you can still receive your gifts before Christmas . <h> Dance Studio Mid-Rise Pant Regular <h> Wunder Train High-Rise Tight 25 " <h> Wundermost Ultra-Soft Nulu Short-Sleeve Crew Thong Bodysuit <p> Whether you 're shopping for someone sporty or fashion-forward , there are dozens of exciting finds that anyone would be excited to unwrap on Dec. 25 . We rounded up some of our favourite picks that we think would make excellent gifts -- including as a present to yourself , because you deserve it ! Take a look at 11 of our favourite items ; just scroll onwards to see all the chic pieces . <p> From yoga to dressy looks , this strappy tank adds a little something extra to your outfit with fun details and a cute keyhole at the neckline . Shoppers say it " gives enough support " and note that it 's " super comfy . " <h> Latest Stories <p> A rural Manitoba family scheduled to travel Sunday to the Dominican Republic is feeling stressed and frustrated after waiting weeks for their passports only to be sent the wrong documents earlier this week.When a package was delivered to Portage la Prairie , Man. , by a courier service on Wednesday , the family was shocked to find out the three passports they were sent actually belong to a family from Ontario . " Our jaws dropped . Our minds were blown , " said Kristen Harley . " I could n't believe it . " Pas <p> A piece of driftwood from Vancouver Island has narrowly won the title of " Stick of the Year " in an inaugural contest that saw thousands of votes cast for competitors from around the world.To earn the accolade , the sword-like piece of wood had to beat sticks from Portugal , the Dominican Republic and Germany , among other countries.But Marcus Barrick , a Duncan , B.C.-based musician and author , believed in the power of the stick he found while walking through the woods . " This thing 's like the most maj <p> Blake Lively has accused her " It Ends With Us " director and co-star Justin Baldoni of sexual harassment . In a bombshell complaint , the actress alleges that Baldoni attempted to mount a smear campaign against her and claims his behavior caused her and her family " severe emotional harm , " according to a copy obtained by Variety . Bryan Freedman , ... <p> Calls are growing from within the Liberal caucus for Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to step down as party leader -- and some have pegged Chrystia Freeland as their choice to replace him.Twenty-one Liberal MPs have publicly urged Trudeau to resign -- many of them within the last week -- after Freeland shocked Canadians on Monday by resigning as deputy prime minister and finance minister hours before she was supposed to table the government 's fall economic statement.Among the Liberal MPs publicly call <p> A top Democratic voice has praised members of her party for " swooping in like superman and super women " amid the legislative " disarray " that nearly caused a government shutdown . Speaking on Saturday with MSNBC 's Ali Velshi , Texas Rep. Jasmine Crockett warned House Speaker Mike Johnson is " not going to get any favors out of " her party ahead of the 119th Congress in the new year . Her comments came after a spending bill was approved in the eleventh hour to fund the federal government until mid-Marc <p> For an easy appetizer that looks and tastes caterer-made , mix pre-cooked shrimp with spicy mayo and serve in little endive canoes . See recipe . Once you have tangy tomato powder -- made from dehydrated and pulverized tomatoes -- in your arsenal , you 'll never run out of ways to use it . See recipe . Frozen artichokes make easy work of this game day , holiday , movie night , slumber party , and all-around good-time favorite . <p> " Everybody wants to be my friend ! " Trump exclaimed on Truth Social the morning after the dinner The post Elon Musk Crashing Trump 's Jeff Bezos Dinner at Mar-a-Lago Mocked as ' Deranged ' appeared first on TheWrap . <p> TEL AVIV , Israel ( AP ) -- A rocket fired from Yemen hit an area of Tel Aviv overnight , leaving 16 people injured by shattered glass , the Israeli military said Saturday , days after Israeli airstrikes hit Houthi rebels who have been launching missiles in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza . 
@@119149266 <h> In northern Gaza , trauma and terror engulf all <p> Los Altos , Calif. : The human suffering unfolding in northern Gaza is incomprehensible . Yehya Qasem , like many others , witnessed the horrors of Israeli airstrikes , with his family 's town of Jabaliya facing repeated invasions and attacks . Amid Israel 's ongoing siege and bombardment since Oct. 7 , Gaza 's northern region has seen thousands of civilians trapped under rubble , denied medical care and subjected to starvation . <p> Israel 's ground offensive , paired with airstrikes , has intensified in recent months , devastating Gaza 's infrastructure . Hospitals such as Kamal Adwan and Al-Awda struggle to treat the injured while lacking vital supplies . Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , who continues working despite being injured , describes the dire situation : " We do n't even have a single ambulance to transport the injured . " The ongoing siege prevents rescue teams from reaching survivors , leaving them without hope . <p> Meanwhile , families like that of Amal Almasri endure unimaginable trauma . After her home was bombed , Almasri was forced to give birth while struggling with severe malnutrition . The Israeli military then separated her from her husband , Yousef , under the guise of evacuating civilians . The family was torn apart , with Almasri and her children fleeing south while her husband was detained , later injured and used as a human shield . <p> Tragically , Ramez Abu Nasser lost his mother and two brothers in an airstrike on Nov. 4 . Trapped under rubble , he could only dig helplessly , his parents ' cries for help forever etched in his mind . The family 's suffering exemplifies the cruel and ongoing trauma faced by Gaza 's civilians . <p> The current actions of the Israeli military in northern Gaza constitute grave violations of international law . As the violence escalates , the world must demand an immediate end to these atrocities and hold those responsible , like Israel and the United States , fully accountable for these horrific war crimes . Jagjit Singh <h> Revealing subtext <p> Bronx : Your article on the Israeli attack on the Palestinian people in Gaza shows its bias by referring to Israelis held by Hamas as " hostages " and Palestinians held by Israel as " prisoners . " Once again , you fail as a newspaper . Richie Nagan <h> Plenty smart <p> Palm Coast , Fla. : To Voicer T.S . Fallani : You call us uneducated racists ( not ! ) , but we were smart enough to vote out the most corrupt , inept administration in the history of this country . Fallani sounds like the racist to me . D.A . Weinberg <h> Right back at you <p> Hicksville , L.I. : Once again , Voicer T.S . Fallani attempts to prove intellectual superiority by labeling all 77 million Trump voters stupid . She talked of being easily tricked -- this from a lefty who honestly believed President Biden was mentally capable during his tenure , when anybody with half a brain could see he was not . And who is the real bigot ? You come off as one of the most hateful , condescending individuals I have come across in the Voice of the People , and I have been a reader for more than 50 years . There is a reason your party got their butt whooped , and all you have to do is look in the mirror and see the reason . John Gelormino <h> Venue shopping <p> Bayside : Luigi Mangione 's smartest move to date was waiving extradition and facing state charges in New York . It 's a well-known fact that cop killers and mass murderers never face the death penalty here , so neither will he . If only we had politicians who stood up to these murderers and gave them what they deserved . Enjoy life in prison with all the luxuries it affords -- even free health care , no doubt better than what you had ! Karen Sabatini <h> Extradition entourage <p> Bradley Beach , N.J. : I just had to laugh viewing the picture of Luigi Mangione being extradited from Pennsylvania to New York . As a retired NYPD detective , even I would say that was overkill ! Why was the mayor there ? My partner and I performed many extraditions , some guys more dangerous than Luigi , with no fanfare . Just so ridiculous . Patrick Freeman <h> Too much ado <p> Hamden , Conn. : The CEO killer show was on full view on his transport from Pennsylvania . Cops with body armor and machine guns , helicopter rides to NYC , shameless photo ops with Mayor Adams walking behind the procession , exactly where he did n't belong . This murder suspect should have been shackled in a van for the ride to NYC and not treated like the star of the show . Shameless photo ops . Chris Lyons <h> Mixed messages <p> Flushing : What hypocrisy ! On the front page of the Dec. 19 edition is " More soldiers in subway , " yet on page 2 there is a photo op of Gov . Hochul with law enforcement and the MTA CEO in front of a huge sign saying , " Crime is down 42% " Query : If crime is down 42% , why the need for the National Guard in NYC 's subway system ? Martin Goldman <h> Fourth estate <p> Manhattan : S.E. Cupp has her dander up and rightfully so ( " The press must resist Trump 's bullying lawsuits , " column , Dec. 19 ) . Justice courses through my veins . I urge all newspapers , and especially their readers , to stand up strong for the freedom of the press . Newspapers have the lungs and the chops to hold politicians ' feet to the fire -- the politicians who are supposed to represent the will of the people . Newspapers shine their ready spotlight on bullying politicians , eviscerating the bully 's inherently flawed position . That light shines just as bright on do-nothing politicians . Newspapers enrich our lives . Freedom of the press is essential for true justice . Susan A. Stark <h> Pliant press <p> Hartsdale , N.Y. : S.E. Cupp makes a number of important points in her article about the U.S. press and its over-compliant " relationship " with incoming President Donald Trump . But it makes me wonder : Does the press have a backbone left or are they merely there to bend for MAGA and report the latest outrage thereof ? I have a suggestion : If Trump , as he says he will , pardons the Jan. 6 terrorists who attempted to interrupt the transfer of the president 's office , will the Daily News or any U.S. newspaper publish a complete list of all those convicted of crimes related to that effort ? After all , criminal convictions are a matter of public record , just like those lists of unclaimed funds we get in our paper . So , let 's see the reaction of our reputed-to-be " free press " when our new president frees a bunch of terrorists . Norman E. Gaines Jr . <h> Policy of polarization <p> Woodstock , N.Y. : To Voicer Ron Beaty : I have no idea where you got the idea that Drumpf has spurred depolarization , at least not in D.C. He successfully blocked the spending bill , much like he blocked the passage of a bipartisan border bill because it would give the Dems a win -- the country be damned -- and he was n't even the president-elect ! I certainly wish Drumpf was n't who he is , but as long as he 's in control , there wo n't be compromise because he will prevent it . Suzanne Hayes Kelly <h> Better , but barely <p> Scarborough , N.Y. : The Democrats will return to power not by their own merits , which are few and far between , but because of the relentless malfeasance of the Republicans , highlighted by Trump 's Klown Kabinet selections and his willingness to shut down the federal government . Thomas F. Comiskey <h> Anti-enforcement <p> Tomkins Cove , N.Y. : The Dec. 19 editorial , " IRS cuts make Uncle Sam lose money , " could just have been titled " Republicans want to defund the police . " After all , that 's what the IRS is -- in essence , the tax police who serve a valuable obligation to the citizenry . Congress has passed laws detailing what must be rendered unto Caesar ; the IRS ' mandate is to ensure Caesar gets his due . To allow corporations and billionaires to thwart what legitimately belongs to Caesar , i.e. U.S. citizens , is morally repugnant by underfunding their constitutional mandate . Doug Slotolowicz <h> Security breach <p> Fairfield , Conn. : People are going nuts over drones , yet elected a president who kept our nation 's top military secrets in a bathroom at a country club . Go figure . Stephen Johnson 
@@119151162 <h> Shares <p> If the 2024 film " Conclave " dramatized the Vatican 's inner workings with intrigue , Pope Francis delivered something of a real-life sequel on Saturday , urging Vatican bureaucrats to cut the backstabbing and embrace humility during his annual Christmas address . <p> " Gossip is an evil that destroys social life , sickens people 's hearts and leads to nothing , " the 88-year-old pontiff admonished . " The people say it very well : Gossip is zero . " <p> Francis ' holiday speeches to the Curia have become infamously candid , often shining a light on what he perceives to be workplace toxicity . As reported by the Associated Press , in 2014 , he outlined the " 15 ailments " of Vatican life , accusing priests , bishops and cardinals of power-grabbing and spiritual complacency . This year , he revisited gossip as a recurring evil , likening the Curia 's atmosphere to any insular office rife with whispered critiques . <p> The pope also denounced global cruelty , condemning the bombing of children in Gaza as " not war , but cruelty . " <p> Francis ' call for humility and collaboration comes as the Vatican gears up for the 2025 Holy Year , with over 32 million pilgrims expected in Rome . 
@@119169276 <h> The pilots were found alive after they ejected from their aircraft <p> The U.S. Central Command confirmed that it conducted airstrikes in Sana'a , Yemen , saying it targeted a missile storage facility and a command-and-control site operated by Iran-backed Houthi rebels . ( Credit : CENTCOM via X ) <p> Two U.S. Navy pilots were shot down Sunday over the Red Sea in what appeared to be " friendly fire " , the U.S. military said . <p> The pilots were found alive after they ejected from their aircraft , with one suffering minor injuries . <p> The incident demonstrates the pervasive dangers in the Red Sea corridor amid ongoing attacks on shipping by the Iranian-backed Houthis , even as U.S. and European military coalitions patrol the area . <p> The U.S. military had conducted airstrikes targeting Yemen 's Houthi rebels at the time , but U.S. Central Command did not elaborate on what their mission was . <p> A fighter jet maneuvers on the deck of the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower in the Red Sea , June 11 , 2024 . ( AP ) <p> The military said the aircraft shot down was a two-seat F/A-18 Super Hornet fighter jet assigned to the " Red Rippers " of Strike Fighter Squadron 11 out of Naval Air Station Oceana , Virginia . <p> The F/A-18 shot down had just flown off the deck of the USS Harry S. Truman aircraft carrier , according to Central Command . On Dec. 15 , Central Command said the Truman had entered the Mideast , but did not specify that the carrier and its battle group were in the Red Sea . <p> " The guided missile cruiser USS Gettysburg , which is part of the USS Harry S. Truman Carrier Strike Group , mistakenly fired on and hit the F/A-18 , " Central Command said in a statement . <p> It is unclear how the Gettysburg had mistaked an F/A-18 for an enemy aircraft or missile , particularly since ships in a battle group are linked by radar and radio communication . <p> Central Command said that warships and aircraft earlier shot down multiple Houthi drones and an anti-ship cruise missile launched by the rebels . Fire from the Houthis has previously forced sailors to make decisions in seconds . <p> The U.S. , since the Truman arrived , has ramped up its airstrikes targeting the Houthis and their missile fire into the Red Sea and the surrounding area . But an American warship group in the region may lead to additional attacks from the rebels . <p> On Saturday night and into Sunday , U.S. warplanes conducted airstrikes that shook Yemen 's capital of Sanaa , which the Houthis have held for a decade . Central Command said the strikes targeted a " missile storage facility " and a " command-and-control facility . " <p> Houthi-controlled media reported strikes in both Sanaa and around the port city of Hodeida , but did not disclose details on any casualties or damage . <p> The Houthis later acknowledged the aircraft being shot down in the Red Sea . <p> Since the start of the Israel-Hamas war in October of last year , the Houthis have targeted about 100 merchant vessels with missiles and drones . <p> The rebels say that they target ships linked to Israel , the U.S. or the U.K. to force an end to Israel 's war against Hamas in Gaza , which began after Hamas ' surprise attack against Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , although many of the ships the rebels have attacked have little or no connection to the ongoing war , including some headed for Iran . <p> The Houthis also have increasingly targeted Israel with drones and missiles , leading to retaliatory airstrikes from Israeli forces . <p> The Associated Press contributed to this report . <h> Antisemitism Exposed <p> Fox News ' Antisemitism Exposed " newsletter brings you stories on the rising anti-Jewish prejudice across the U.S. and the world . " <p> Arrives Weekly <p> By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button , you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use , and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News . You understand that you can opt-out at any time . 
@@119169577 <h> Share this story <p> When it comes to entertainment and education , we can choose from podcasts , videos , games , live performances , or books , one of the oldest and still most popular ways to learn something new or escape ( at least temporarily ) from today 's troubled world . We asked the staff of The Verge what their favorite reads were in 2024 . Their answers ranged from fantasy and science fiction to histories of engineering and clothing to autobiographies , insights on body image , and more . <p> Read on , and see if there 's anything here that you want to check out during the holidays . <h> Barbara Krasnoff , reviews editor <p> When recommending novels , I usually try to go with those that come from independent presses or that are n't on anyone 's bestseller list because there are so many books and authors that do n't get the attention they deserve . However , this year , I 've gone against my usual habit and chosen two books that are popular and publicized retakes of well-known tales , simply because I could not put either down . <p> James is an incredibly intelligent and insightful retelling of Mark Twain 's Adventures of Huckleberry Finn from the point of view of the boy 's companion , the enslaved man named Jim . And The Bright Sword is a fantastic ( in both senses of the word ) retelling of the mythos of King Arthur that takes place just after Arthur 's death , from the viewpoint of a neglected young man who defies the class system to become a knight . Both books are not only extraordinarily well written but also bring new and unexpected insights into tales that have been so microscopically examined over the years that you 'd think there was nothing new to add . But in the case of both of these books , you 'd be wrong . <h> Kara Verlaney , managing editor <p> Like most millennials , I grew up on a steady diet of daytime Food Network shows when I stayed home from school . Barefoot Contessa was always my number one . There was some form of procedural satisfaction about watching as this grandmotherly hostess spent hours , seemingly effortlessly , preparing a meal for a 20-person gathering , only to wistfully sigh , smile , and never enjoy the fruits of her own labor . So when I heard the Barefoot Contessa Ina Garten was writing a memoir , I knew I was already bought in . <p> I 'll put it plainly : this book is perplexing . From her previous stint as a US nuclear budget analyst to learning how to fly planes to five entire chapters about how she wanted to decorate her Paris apartment , it 's a memoir that will have you constantly asking yourself , " Is this lady for real ? " ( There is a lot of " quiet money " as an explanation for her various achievements . ) It 's a trip ! <p> I listened to the audiobook ( she narrates ) , and hearing her lilting , peaceful voice talk about her rough childhood , relationship with her fan-favorite investment banker husband Jeffrey , and her ( at the time ) radical decision to not have children reminded me that we 're all human and all experience life 's trials . Ina just has the unique ability to make it all look like luck . <h> Andrew Liszewski , senior reporter <p> Bill Hammack is a professor of engineering who is better known as " engineerguy " on YouTube , where , for years , he 's shared compelling videos breaking down the complex engineering of seemingly simple items we often take for granted . Think diapers , soda cans , and duct tape . His book , The Things We Make , does the same thing but provides more in-depth looks at the engineering behind ancient marvels like medieval cathedrals . It 's worth a read just to learn how the microwave was created and eventually found its way into the average home . <h> Kristen Radtke , creative director <p> This deranged collection of linked stories is so preposterously good that I 've read lines from it out loud to friends at dinner parties , on the subway , and once , in a public sauna . In this viscerally uncomfortable , laugh-out-loud , straight-up gorgeous book , Tulathimutte scrapes bare the corners of the internet and ( forgive me ) the contours of the human heart so piercingly that reading it is like a long-range emotional endurance exercise . I ca n't stop thinking about it or talking about it . Disclosure : the author is my friend , but that does n't mean he 's not a genius . Buy a copy for yourself and for your weirdest , smartest pal . <h> Allison Johnson , reviewer <p> This will surprise nobody : Midnight in Chernobyl is not an uplifting read . But it is meticulously well reported and an incredibly comprehensive look at the Chernobyl disaster , from the inception of the nuclear power plant to the aftermath visited on generations of people affected by its explosion . It 's all very matter-of-fact but recounts the events before , during , and after the disaster with remarkable humanity and places it all in the broader context of Soviet corruption without ever feeling like a history textbook . It is a thick book , and I could not put it down . <p> On a lighter note , I also picked up St. Lucy 's Home for Girls Raised by Wolves , an older collection of short stories from Karen Russell . The way she can just punch you in the guts with a sentence is unfair . The stories mostly feature kids in those awkward middle school-ish / early teen years , and they 're a little ( or a lot ) surreal . There 's a sleepaway camp for kids with sleeping disorders , a seaside formation of giant conch shells that might be haunted , and the titular home for girls raised by wolves , which is what it says on the tin . It makes you remember how hard it is to be growing up and more than once cracked my heart right open . <h> Victoria Song , senior reviewer <p> I read a lot of books this year , but these three stuck out because they made me think a lot about perspective . Notes on an Executionis the story of a serial killer on death row , narrated by both himself and three women whose lives he upended : his mother , his wife 's sister , and the detective chasing him down . The Travelling Cat Chronicles is told from the point of view of Nana , a sassy stray cat , as he accompanies his adopted human Satoru across Japan , trying to figure out why Satoru needs to rehome him . ( Warning : you might want a tissue box if you 're a cat owner . ) Meanwhile , The Memory Police is a dystopian story of a small island in which the government can make certain people 's memories of objects and things disappear at will -- and one person 's choice to hide a friend who can still remember things they should n't . ( Its vibe is like The Giver by Lois Lowry , but make it Japanese . ) <p> They 're all different books , but I 've been thinking about them all year because they deftly dig into why we make the choices we do -- and how those choices are viewed and felt by the people around us . Each book made me look in the mirror and think about the sort of person I am and who I want to be . I think that 's the best kind of fiction , really . <h> Kate Cox , senior producer <p> My only regret about reading The Steerswoman ( and its three sequels ) this year is that I did not read it 30 years ago -- this book would absolutely have become a formative part of my personal adolescent canon . <p> The best way I can describe the Steerswomen is as a wandering order of largely female natural philosophers . They observe , deduce , test , and share knowledge in a slow-motion , preindustrial world , and the way Kirstein lays out her prose and her characters encourages the same in the reader . Several times during the series , I formed conclusions that were not borne out by the evidence and had to discard them -- and did not mind doing so because that was just ... part of the process . <p> I read a lot of genre fiction , and I love a slow burn , so The Steerswoman fits the brief . But also I admire Kirstein 's respect for the intelligence and wit of both her characters and her readers ; she brings you along on the journey and trusts you to understand the people you 're journeying with . Despite starting the series 35 years ago , she 's still slowly adding to it , and to say I am looking forward to a fifth installment in coming years is a massive understatement . I will preorder and devour it when another book comes along . <h> Mia Sato , features reporter <p> Look , I love clothes . I research them , I buy them , I even make them . Fashion is an essential part of how we express ourselves and our ideas ( if you do n't trust me , ask Steve Jobs ) . But the journey of how our fashion gets to us is purposely opaque , because the truth is far more upsetting than many of us are ready for -- especially in this era of ultrafast , dirt-cheap clothing . <p> Sofi Thanhauser 's 2022 book is a pickax to this wall of secrecy . She traces the hidden history and costs of five types of textiles -- linen , cotton , silk , synthetics , and wool -- in this deeply reported work . Thanhauser travels to locales like China to learn from the last producer of ancient silk ; to the North Carolina town where textile mill workers staged large-scale strikes in the 1920s ; and to Northern England , where conservation groups are protecting local sheep biodiversity . This book is n't just for fashion people ( though they should be the first to read it ) ; it 's for anyone curious about the labor that goes into the luxuries they take for granted . You will never look at a T-shirt the same way again . <h> Cath Virginia , senior designer <p> As someone who is , more often than not , the fattest person in the room , it 's no surprise that I have struggled a lot with my body image and self-worth . That , on top of the guilt over feeling bad about feeling bad , ends up compounding like the interest on my student loans ( and because " body positivity " feels like a pipe dream to a girl whose mind is riddled with body dysmorphic brain worms ) . <p> Enter Jessi Kneeland , a former personal trainer turned body image coach , whose central thesis revolves around the notion that our body image issues are always a symptom of a larger and more complicated internal conflict . Through this , they share insight on how to identify the true source of a person 's body image issues as well as clearly outlined steps on what to do about it . " Life-changing " is an understatement . <p> Ta-Nehisi Coates ' latest book is an exploration of the concept of storytelling , told through a series of essays centered around three different locations . Dakar , Senegal , a historic site of the transatlantic slave trade ; Columbia , South Carolina , where a school teacher fights an attempted banning of Coates ' own book ; and finally , Palestine , where he spends a few days in May 2023 observing the stark contrasts between life in Gaza and Israel . It left me with a sense of optimism ( or maybe blind faith ? ) that despite how hopeless the present moment can feel , our collective imaginations are ever shifting toward something better than before . 
@@119169769 <h> Recommended <h> Breaking News <h> What Biden cost us , Putin must go and other commentary <p> By <p> Post Editorial Board <p> Published Dec. 22 , 2024 , 6:19 a.m . ET <p> President Joe Biden speaks during a Hanukkah reception in the East Room of the White House in Washington , Dec. 16 , 2024 . AP <p> From the right : What Biden Cost UsA new WSJ report on Joe Biden 's decline shows he " was n't up to the job on day one , let aloneday 1,000 , " argues Commentary 's Seth Mandel . Worse , " the global crises that arose duringBiden 's presidency were dealt with by reducing the flow of information to and from thepresident . " " We know the president 's aides were avoiding giving him bad news . Did Biden evenknow what was really happening on the ground in Ukraine ? When the administration froze theIsrael-Hamas war in Gaza for months , " who really ordered it ? " The fact that we have to ask thequestions at all " shows " enough of an answer to know that the world paid a dear price to protectthe fragile mental state of the American president . " <p> Ukraine desk : Putin Must Go " Putin 's war against Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has clearly become personal , " observe Jonathan Sweet &amp; Mark Toth at The Hill . " He suffers from Ukraine DerangementSyndrome : A disdain for the Ukrainian people " has " overcome his sense of logic . " " Surroundedby yes-men , Putin is marching his now largely conscripted pick-up game of an army intooblivion . " For Ukraine , " submit or face extinction " is " one and the same choice . " " Trump needs toput an end to Putin 's bluffing and grandstanding , " to demonstrate " to him that he can not win " by " ending the sanctuary afforded to Moscow on the battlefield by the Biden administration . " " Anything less and Putin will not come to the negotiating table , save to buy time and attempt tosnooker Trump into a bad deal . " <p> White House watch : The End of ' Never Trump ' ? Can " Never Trumpers " make " peace with populism , if not Donald Trump himself ? " asks FredBauer at UnHerd . " One of the founding ' Never Trumpers ' , Bret Stephens , has used his latestcolumn " to " distance himself " from the movement . " On the level of raw politics , Trump'sconservative critics have strategic incentives to make some populist rapprochement . " " Foreignpolicy might also give some Never Trumpers a reason to distance themselves from theDemocratic Party . " " Trump 's surprise win in 2016 gave birth to an elite-led alliance thatportrayed him and his supporters as an existential threat to American democracy . " " Even by itsown standards , that project of existential crisis has a legacy of ashes . Instead , revitalisingAmerican democracy might require learning some of the lessons of populism . " <p> Libertarian : COVID 's Crime Wave " Restrictive policies in response to COVID-19 did a huge amount of damage , " notes Reason'sJ.D . Tuccille . But " lockdowns also contributed to a surge in crime that temporarily reversed adecades-long decline in homicides . " " Most violent crimes " are committed by " teenage boys andyoung men in their twenties . Dumping them out of jobs and out of classrooms , " and " oftenwithout money in their pockets , " was " a recipe for disaster . " " The best thing to do ? " " Avoidrepeating the mistakes of the past . We need to minimize social disruptions and certainly notpermit government officials to close businesses and schools by decree . A free and prosperoussociety , it turns out , is a much happier and peaceful one than what results from the authoritarianwhims of public-health officials . " <p> Elex desk : Have Dems Learned Nothing ? " After it was shocked by its losses and the GOP 's gains in the 2024 elections , you would thinkthe Democratic Party might pull back from crazy left-wing proposals , " snarks Zachary Faria atthe Washington Examiner . But it 's " evident the party has not learned its lesson . " " Democratsrunning states and cities promise they will make protecting illegal immigrants their No. 1 priorityand that they will fight the Trump administration to keep illegal immigrants in the country . " " Prominent congressional Democrats " have argued that UnitedHealthcare killer Luigi Mangione " may have a point . " " Three Senate Democrats are pushing to eliminate the Electoral College . " " Itwould be difficult to say that Democrats learned all the wrong lessons from the 2024 electionsbecause it is clear they have learned no lessons at all . " 
@@119178260 <h> There are gaps - some of which can be bridged , and some are very difficult , the sources said , a week after there were optimistic indications that a deal could be reached . <p> Demonstrators call for the return of the Gaza hostages in a hostage deal , December 14 , 2024. ( photo credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/MAARIV ) <p> A security source told The Jerusalem Post on Sunday that Israel is still waiting on Hamas for a list of live hostages it is planning to release in the talked-about deal . Without the list , advancement on the talks will be extremely difficult , if not impossible , the source added . <p> Additionally , a working group delegation was still in Qatar on Sunday evening to attempt to advance talks . This is not a senior team . <p> Sources also told The Jerusalem Post that there is some progress in hostage deal negotiations . However , there are substantial difficulties on the path to a deal . <p> There are gaps - some of which can be bridged , and some are very difficult , the sources told the Post , a week after there were optimistic indications from several reports that a deal could be reached . <p> Despite this , the sources emphasize that some progress was made in the past week , and in a few cases , the gaps have narrowed , but as previously said , there are still quite a few difficulties . <p> On Sunday , the security cabinet met for a discussion in the North , and like last week , the ministers were not updated on the talks for the deal as part of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's attempt to limit as much as possible those who know what is really happening in the closed rooms . <p> On Saturday , a Palestinian official participating in the talks told the BBC that hostage deal and ceasefire negotiations are 90% complete . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu seen over a wall of hostage posters in an illustrative . ( credit : FLASH90/CANVA ) <h> ' The less we speak about this , the better ' <p> Last Sunday , Netanyahu , while describing a conversation he had with president-elect Donald Trump , said , " We discussed the need to complete Israel 's victory and spoke extensively about the efforts we are making to bring our hostages home . We are working tirelessly to bring back our hostages , both the living and the fallen . " <p> " I 'll add that the less we talk about this , the better our chances of success , and with God 's help , we will succeed , " he concluded . <p> The same day , in a meeting of the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee , Defense Minister Israel Katz said , " The less we speak , the better . In my opinion , we are closest to a deal since the last hostage exchange , and it will receive a majority in government if it is brought to a vote . " 
@@119178267 <h> During high-level discussions within Israel 's political and security leadership , the Mossad chief reportedly called for a direct strike on Iran following Houthi attacks . <p> Protesters , mainly Houthi supporters , rally to show support to Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , in Sanaa , Yemen December 20 , 2024 ( photo credit : REUTERS/KHALED ABDULLAH ) <p> The US decided in recent days to increase its activity against the Houthis in Yemen , sources with knowledge of the matter told The Jerusalem Post . <p> This decision was made by the US in recent days after it deemed its policy and actions against the Houthis over the last year as " insufficient . " <p> Sources said that " after the US saw that international companies continued to fear entering the Red Sea 's shipping route and that the Houthis continued to fire against Israel and international ships , " it realized that " decisions had to be made . " <p> They added that the US was cooperating with Israel on this issue . <p> In recent days , Israel has struck ports , which caused them to shut down , and several other targets in Sanaa . Smoke rises from a power station following Israeli airstrikes in Sanaa , Yemen December 19 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/KHALED ABDULLAH ) <h> Strikes on Yemen <p> Concurrently , there has been an increase in US activity in Yemen , including strikes against Houthi targets . On Saturday , the US conducted strikes on Houthi missile and storage facilities in Yemen 's capital , Sana'a. 
@@119178268 <h> A week of escalating tensions in the Ireland-Israel phony war , marked by diplomatic clashes , embassy closure , and controversial statements . <p> On Tuesday , December 17 , Dr Jilan Wahba Abdul Majid , elevated from Palestine 's representative to ambassadorial status following Ireland 's recognition of the State of Palestine in May 2024 , formally presented her credentials to a joyous Irish President Micheal D Higgins . <p> President Higgins used the occasion to criticize Israel for breaching the sovereignty of two of its neighbors , Lebanon and Syria , falsely accused Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of wanting to establish a settlement in Egypt , and lambasted Israel 's Foreign Minister , Gideon Saar , for his depiction of Ireland 's Taoiseach ( prime minister ) , Simon Harris , as an antisemite , wrongly conflating it to be a " slanderous " allegation made against the Irish people . <p> The next day , Wednesday , a picture of the ambassador inspecting an Irish army guard of honor outside the presidential residence dominated the front page of The Irish Times , Ireland 's self-proclaimed paper of record . <p> The picture 's publication fittingly coincided with the D ? il , Ireland 's principal parliamentary chamber , meeting for the first time that day after the recent Irish general election . <p> Following the election of a new Speaker to chair meetings of the chamber and a variety of speeches , it adjourned to facilitate continuing discussions about the formation of a new coalition government . Simon Harris speaks to the media during Ireland 's general election , in Greystones , Ireland ( credit : TOBY MELVILLE/REUTERS ) <p> Harris accused Israel of " engaging in the most amoral and brutal onslaught of innocent people and terrified children " and Martin of engaging " in the collective punishment of the Palestinian people . " <p> Neither complicated their narrative by mentioning any other aspect of the ongoing conflict , such as hostages still held captive in Gaza , missiles still targeting Israel , firefights between Hamas and the IDF , Hamas 's objective to resume its brutal rule of Gaza and promise to repeat its October 7 atrocities nor spoke of any other foreign affairs issue . <p> While Martin at least criticized Hamas for " terrorizing their own people " and committing " terrible acts , " no criticism of Hamas featured in Harris 's inflammatory commentary . Neither had anything to say about Iran , Hezbollah , the Houthis , the extraordinary events in Syria since Ireland 's election took place , the catastrophic famine in Sudan , nor the Russia/ Ukraine war . <h> Lowering the Irish flag <p> Friday morning , outside Israel 's Dublin Embassy , the Israeli flag was lowered and removed by embassy officials in the absence of Dana Erlich , Israel 's ambassador to Ireland , who was recalled to Jerusalem last May . <p> A symbolic prelude to the embassy 's closure , as announced by Gideon Saar at the start of the week . <p> The day before , a group of Israel 's vitriolic Irish adversaries and protestors gathered outside the embassy building to celebrate what they perceived as Israel 's capitulation to their obsessive campaigning and weekly street protests and their victory in effecting its closure and Erlich 's permanent departure . <p> Pending the election of a new Prime Minister and agreement on a new program for government , the outgoing Irish administration continues to be in office with caretaker responsibilities . <p> The new Irish government will essentially be a reincarnation of the old , formed by two centrist parties , Fianna F ? il and Fine Gael , who are now politically indistinguishable and only differ in personalities . <p> Centrist in everything save for their adoption of the extreme left-wing anti-Israeli invective of Ireland 's opposition parties . By the end of January 2025 , the current Taoiseach , Fine Gael 's Simon Harris , will likely become Foreign Minister , and the current Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister , Fianna Fail 's Micheal Martin , will become Taoiseach . <p> Halfway through the new government 's five-year term or at the end of year three , it will be agreed that the roles reverse . <p> A similar game of political musical chairs was acted out during the life of the outgoing government . <p> In the realm of international affairs , most time was spent in the last D ? il after October 7 , 2023 , by both the government and all opposition parties engaged in a repetitive orgy of relentless demonizing of Israel with occasional ritual references to the plight of the hostages . <p> A form of political amnesia set in , resulting in initial government condemnation of the Hamas pogrom of October 7 being rapidly replaced by a cross-party narrative of Israel for no reason arbitrarily bombing and killing civilians in Gaza , in particular children , and then repeating its conduct in Lebanon . <p> This replicated a narrative popularised by various Irish media outlets , including RTE , Ireland 's state-funded national TV and radio broadcaster , and favored by Ireland 's student unions and trade union movement , including its National Union of Journalists . <h> During 2024 , this was accompanied by the Irish government <p> Ignoring Iran 's malign role in the Middle East save when it directly attacked Israel , its dedication to Israel 's destruction , and its sponsoring and arming of its self-proclaimed Axis of Resistance , including Hamas , Hezbollah , the Houthis , and other fanatical Islamic groups <p> Deepening its relationship with Iran throughout the conflict , Ireland 's President in July described Iran as playing a crucial role in achieving stability and the peaceful resolution of disputes across the Middle East in a fawning congratulatory letter to Iran 's new President and Ireland opening an embassy in Tehran in September 2024 . <p> Ignoring Hamas 's use of civilians as human shields , the existence of an extensive Hamas tunnel network throughout Gaza either under or adjacent to mosques , UN facilities , hospitals , schools , and residences , the firing of missiles from such locations , storage of armaments and the hiding of Hamas combatants within them as well as captive hostages <p> Ignoring the thousands of missiles fired by Hamas and Hezbollah at Israel from 7th October 2023 onwards and refraining from any public criticism of Hezbollah , despite its actions placing at risk the lives of Irish UNIFIL troops located in Southern Lebanon <p> Embracing unquestioned all statistics of Palestinian fatalities published by the Hamas-controlled Gaza Health Authority for which it held Israel solely responsible , ignoring the statistics inconsistencies , the absence of any reference to combatant deaths or to deaths resulting from Hamas &amp; Islamic Jihad missiles falling in Gaza <p> Criticizing any criticism voiced of UNRWA employees participating in the October 7 atrocities , allegations of UNRWA employees ' membership of terrorist organizations , and increasing its financial donations to UNRWA <p> Doing nothing to counter escalating antisemitism in Ireland and false narratives about Judaism and Israel contaminating school texts and online educational material <p> Failing to send a single government representative to the Dublin Jewish communal service held in October 2024 to commemorate those barbarically slaughtered a year earlier , despite 22-year-old Kim Damti , an Irish citizen , being one of those murdered at the Nova Music festival and another Irish citizen , then eight-year-old Emily Hand of Kibbutz Be'eri , being abducted to Gaza and due to Israeli government engagement being released in December 2023 <p> Promising to enact an Occupied Territories Bill that violates EU law to criminalize all trade with any business located in East Jerusalem , Gaza , and the West Bank that will impact all communities , both Israeli and Palestinian , ludicrously will criminalize Irish pilgrims who , when visiting the Holy Land purchase goods in Nazareth , Bethlehem or East Jerusalem and is a Trojan horse that could be applied to all trade with Israel . <p> To this can be added . <p> Iran 's ambassador to Ireland was an honored guest at all of Ireland 's main political parties ' spring 2024 political conferences , with Israel 's ambassador excluded and boycotted . <p> Upon Harris becoming leader of Fine Gael , he arranged that an invitation already issued to Israel 's ambassador to his party 's conference be withdrawn ; in his party conference speech denouncing Netanyahu 's " repulsive " actions in the presence of Iran 's ambassador and demanding " ceasefire now " and a two-state solution , pretending Israel could unilaterally end the war and implement such solution in the immediate aftermath of October 7 and ignoring its total rejection by Iran , Hamas , Islamic Jihad and other Palestinian groups . <p> Ireland 's parliament distinguished itself during 2024 by both government and opposition parties when addressing Israeli-related issues , abandoning Ireland 's much-vaunted attachment to a concept of neutrality and just prior to its dissolution , with no dissenting voices , determining Israel guilty of genocide . <p> This was followed after the election by Martin announcing Ireland 's intention to join South Africa 's ICJ case against Israel and to invite the court to broaden its interpretation of genocide to apply it to Israel 's conduct in its war with Hamas . <h> The Irish government 's contradiction <p> The Irish government is simultaneously accusing Israel of genocide while recognizing nothing done by Israel to defend its citizens against Hamas terrorism currently falls within the existing international law concept of genocide . <p> This , together with Harris 's much-repeated blood libel allegation that Israel is deliberately killing Palestinian children , is what triggered Gideon Saar 's antisemitic depiction of Harris and the closure of Israel 's Dublin embassy . <p> It is a pity that before announcing its closure and handing a victory to Israel 's adversaries , Saar did n't fully realize that Harris is merely a political opportunist who has never visited the Middle East . His initial knowledge of the conflict derives from TikTok and Irish media , that he knows nothing of Jewish history , is addicted to media-friendly student soundbites , and determined to appease Ireland 's Israel haters . <p> Privately , it can be assumed that both Harris and Martin are delighted by the closure of the embassy . <p> At the commencement of the new D ? il last Wednesday , Martin observed that " one of the things that most encourages cynicism about politics is when our time is wasted on empty gestures and grandstanding " . <p> At that moment , he presented as oblivious to that being a succinct depiction of the Irish government 's over-year-long pronouncements on the Israeli/ Palestinian conflict . <p> Save for the Israeli embassy closure and rewarding terrorism by Ireland 's announced recognition of the State of Palestine , the fulminations of Harris and Martin during 2024 achieved absolutely nothing other than the unique distinction of Ireland becoming the only state within the EU to be the recipient of a Tehran issued congratulatory statement from Hamas for engaging in lawfare by joining South Africa 's ICJ genocide case . <p> How this badge of dishonor and the Irish government 's conduct since October 7 , 2023 , is viewed by the incoming Trump administration in the United States , what impact it may have on Ireland/ US diplomatic relations and trade , and whether it may result in Trump canceling the annual invitation to Micheal Martin , who will by then be Ireland 's Prime Minister , to the annual St Patrick 's Day shindig in the White House remains to be seen . <p> The writer is a former Irish Minister for Justice , Equality , &amp; Defence , a former member of the EU Council of Justice and Home Affairs Minister , and a former Chairperson of the Irish Parliament Foreign Affairs Committee . He is currently the voluntary Chairperson of Magen David Adom Ireland . 
@@119178269 <h> With her American parents still held in Gaza , Iris Weinstein Haggai demands action , praising Trump 's bold stance and urging world leaders to follow suit . <p> By NATHAN KLABIN/THE MEDIA LINE DECEMBER 22 , 2024 22:13 <p> Judith and Gadi Hagai Weinstein. ( photo credit : Courtesy ) <p> " It 's not just a fight to return my parents -- it 's a fight to return my friends , my friends ' grandparents , my friends ' babies . " These are the words of Iris Weinstein Haggai , whose parents , Judi and Gadi Weinstein Haggai , were abducted from Kibbutz Nir Oz during Hamas 's brutal October 7 , 2023 , attack . Speaking with resolve , Iris shared with The Media Line her family 's ongoing nightmare and her efforts to advocate for the return of all hostages so all of Israel can start healing -- Jews , Muslims , and Christians alike . " We need them back -- this is the key to starting a new chapter . " <h> The interview <p> TML : Can you tell us about yourself and your family and about the possibility of a hostage deal ? How are you all feeling ? <p> Iris Weinstein Haggai : Well , I 'm from Kibbutz Nir Oz . So , you know , it 's not just a fight to return my parents -- it 's a fight to return my friends , my friends ' grandparents , my friends ' babies . It 's so much bigger than just the return of my parents . It 's an ongoing nightmare . <p> Today is day 438 . To us , it 's just one long day since October 7 , 2023 . My father 's birthday was two weeks ago , and I ca n't even describe what it 's like to have nothing but military intelligence regarding my parents . <p> For three months , we did n't know what had happened to them . I heard my mom 's recording with MADA Israel 's emergency medical services . She talks about terrorists shooting them while they were taking their early morning walk that day . She says they shot my dad , and he was probably dead , and they shot her , too . But aside from that , we knew nothing . <p> We expected my mom to come out during the November hostage deal . I even made new eyeglasses for her because we found her broken ones in the fields . Every day , I sat there waiting for her name in this torture of a reality show list game Hamas played . Every night , it was a no . <p> Eighty-three days later , we found out that they were both murdered that day and taken into Gaza . But we do n't have any forensic evidence . Your mind tricks you -- maybe the intelligence is wrong , perhaps she fainted and survived . Plus , Hamas released a photo of her in May , claiming she died from IDF fire , which we know is n't true . She died on October 7 . But still , we do n't have a grave . So , my father 's birthday came , and we had nowhere to go . We ca n't even start the mourning process . We 're just stuck -- psychologically and emotionally . <p> Israel is ready for a deal , and the whole Middle East is ready for this to end . It 's been too long . You know , my friends , we do n't even have proof of life for any of them . We do n't know what their status is . We 're hoping they will come back to us alive . But we do n't know . As far as my parents and the other , unfortunately , deceased hostages , they need to come home immediately . As Jews , we need that peaceful , restful burial for ourselves and also for them . <p> TML : You were in Singapore on October 7 . How did it play out for you , especially given the time difference ? <p> Iris Weinstein Haggai : I was six hours ahead . My parents always took their morning walk . That morning , I saw the red alerts for their area , which , unfortunately , is n't unusual . I texted them , asking what was going on . I expected a nonchalant answer -- because we 've been bombed for 20 years . Instead , they told me they were lying face down in the fields and could see hundreds of rockets . I asked them to let me know when they got home , but they never did . <p> At 7:15 a.m. , I heard from someone in the kibbutz that there were terrorists . I knew logically that my parents could n't have made it home without encountering them . My mind was racing : kidnapped , dead , or hiding . That was my logic . I was the only family member to speak to them that morning . Even though there was nothing I could have done , my mind still says , ' What if I did this ? What if I did that ? ' I kind of used my logic to say , okay , there 's no way my parents made it back home without encountering the terrorists . So they 're either , I do n't know , kidnapped , dead or hiding . <p> It 's still just the magnitude of the atrocities that my community went through , that Israel 's going through , that the hostages are going through , like my friend , Arbel Yehud from the kibbutz , Shiri Bibas , and her beautiful children and husband . I do n't even want to say it out loud , but we 're all thinking : What 's happening to them ? <p> The magnitude is so great that you ca n't process the whole ordeal . But that day , we were just trying to find out what was happening . Ever since , I 've been in ' operation mode , ' meeting with the American administration and Canada , as my mom is also Canadian . <p> TML : You 've been very vocal in your advocacy efforts . Recently , you said you feel hope for the first time . Can you tell us more about that ? <p> Iris Weinstein Haggai : Yes . I actually have hope . You know , and this all comes down to what Trump did with his Truth Social post demanding the hostages be back by his inauguration , " Or all hell breaks loose . " My parents are American citizens , so we 've had constant meetings with the White House . Just last week , I was in Washington , meeting with US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and Congressman Mike Waltz . <p> I told them I had hope for the first time since the last deal . And that 's because of what Trump posted . He repeated it again yesterday . That language made all the difference . If only world leaders had used that language on October 8 , 2023 , imagine the lives we could have saved -- hostages , Israelis , Palestinians , because they are pawns in these terrorist games . I ca n't even describe the difference that little thing made . So , I 'm very thankful to Trump for finally using the language that we have craved all this time . <p> TML : Would you say there 's a price too high to bring the hostages back ? <p> Iris Weinstein Haggai : No price is too high . These are innocent civilians -- not combatants , not soldiers . The Israeli government is obligated to bring them home by any means necessary . Do you know why ? Because they had 20 years to fight what was next door to us . Instead , the Israeli government gave them Hamas money every month . And I 'm not saying this to bring the government down for doing that . <p> I 'm assuming it was happening because of international pressure . Also , there is the belief that maybe if we feed them money , they will invest in people and be quiet . But that 's not reality . These are terrorists . It 's in their charter to kill us all . And that 's just the reality . <p> So , you know , we can deal with that later with the help , thankfully , of President-elect Trump , who , you know , as I said , we met with his team last week , as well as the current administration . And they are very serious about fighting terrorism , about not negotiating with terrorists , about sanctioning the Islamic regime in Iran . <p> They 're earnest about everything that has to do with that , but as far as these hostages go , these are innocent hostages . They were not part of a battle . You know , they were not in a war . This was a cease-fire breach , and these people were lying in their beds on a holiday morning . The Israeli government is obligated to do everything it can to bring these citizens back home . They are obligated . I do n't care what the price is . This is their obligation . After that , they can deal with whatever is left . What can you do ? <p> Honestly , I do n't think right now that Hamas is in a position where they can demand all the things that I heard people were saying throughout this year about , you know , we 're not going to release these people . <p> You know what National Security Minister Itamar Ben Gvir said to this poor woman who was raped in captivity ? He said to her it 's either you or 10,000 Israeli women getting raped . But how about you deal with terrorism when it 's next door instead of waiting for it to happen ? <p> Israel is strong . The IDF is strong . I have complete faith in our security , but people were not doing their job . We need to investigate what happened on October 7 . Until then , we wo n't know what happened . But I do n't accept that point when people say the price is too high . No , the price is not too high . We have 100 citizens in Gaza . I do n't even know in what conditions . Inhumane is an understatement . We need to bring them back by any means necessary . That is certainly the first step . <p> TML : Has this ordeal changed you ? <p> Iris Weinstein Haggai : Yes . I always talk about life before October 7 and after . I think I always was a Zionist . I always loved Israel . I was connected to the land but not to what was going on in Israel . I felt foreign because I felt like the fundamental values of Israel were a little bit lost . I felt a little tired of fighting every day to have a family , you know , to let my kids grow safely . <p> We still find it unfair to live there with the amount of tax being paid and not even feel protected . I do n't care about paying taxes , but I felt like I was being bombed every day and that the issue was n't even being dealt with . We were the victims of that , so why was I paying the government ? Why have these people , who are supposed to lead the country and make my life safe , failed ? Why are they not doing that ? So , that 's the only reason basically that I left . <p> I never used to live abroad . I never felt like a ' Hasbara person ' advocate for Israel . I had a lot of criticism for the Israeli government , as I do to all governments , but I never felt like a Hasbara person , like an advocate . I was just living my life . But since October 7 , you know , I noticed how crazy everything is . And you know , the information warfare , again , that 's absolutely ridiculous . But for some reason , it 's so easy for people in the world to believe it . <p> Let 's say I was n't innocent before . But after October 7 , my innocence completely disappeared . The people who lived in my kibbutz were the first in line to advocate for peace and a two-state solution . And I 'm not saying I 'm not advocating for peace anymore . I just know that specific steps need to be taken before we get to that point , which is not living next to terrorists that would help . <p> I 've also realized this is n't just an Israeli fight -- it 's a global fight . Terrorism is a threat to every democracy . <p> I love Israel . And my sister still lives there . My brother still lives there , and , of course , my community . It was also a family . It 's only a 400-people community . I want my kids to grow up in Israel . I know every rock in that place Kibbutz Nir Oz , every , you know , street , every house . Right now , they 're starting to tear down some houses because more than 50% of the houses were burnt down , some with my friends inside them , unfortunately . But , you know , it 's just my heart is there all the time , all the time . <p> TML : Iris , your voice and strength are incredible . Do you have a message for world leaders ? <p> Iris Weinstein Haggai : Yes . All world leaders should follow President-elect Trump and demand the unconditional , immediate release of all hostages . This is a humanitarian issue and should have been resolved a year ago . This is according to every humanitarian law in the UN to secure the release of these innocent hostages but also to secure world security . We ca n't let terrorism win . <p> We ca n't show them that we stand by them . It 's not a value that democracies believe in , and we can not stand by . At the same time , these innocent hostages are getting raped , executed , tortured , and starved while these Hamas leaders are in hotels sipping on their champagne . As far as the Gazans , I am actually in contact with a few people who know many people in Gaza , and they are starting to speak out against Hamas , finally . <p> So I think the world should listen to them , for crying out , you know , release them from Hamas . It 's not just an empty statement . They are tired of this . <p> They 've been living in these conditions for 438 days , you know , with Hamas not even caring about their own people . So maybe it 's time to listen to people in Gaza instead of the antisemitic , terror-supporting people in the streets of New York and London . And , you know , in order for the region to start rehabilitating , to think about peace , we need to release the hostages and think ahead towards a better Middle East . <p> TML : Do you have a message to the people of Gaza ? <p> To the people in Gaza : speak out against Hamas . Release yourselves from their grip . They do n't care about you -- they 're using you as pawns . We need the hostages home to start a new chapter , rehabilitate the region , and work toward a better future . <p> We 're also Canadians . So also with Canada , I 've been working with Irwin Cotler and the Wallenberg Center for Human Rights , trying to influence sanctions and other ways to kind of , you know , deter these terrorists , stop them from doing everything they 're doing . I mean , Hamas is still paying their terrorists , you know , salaries . <p> How can that be ? The fact that there are indictments against Hamas leaders , and they were kicked out from Qatar to be welcomed into Turkey as guests and not in handcuffs . It 's outrageous . It 's outrageous . So , you know , we 've been trying to do everything we can , including lawsuits , to make sure this never happens again and to choke them from their funds in any way they can rehabilitate , honestly , because they are at their weakest point . <p> We are fortunate to have Israel as a state of the Jewish people . Jews and many others live there , and it 's the only Jewish state . We need that state to survive . It all goes back to putting the ego aside , zooming out , and seeing the bigger picture . We have to do everything we can to preserve this incredible land that we have in order to , you know , prosper and make sure that this never happens again . And also send a message to the world : We do n't stand with terror . We 're strong . Do n't do this again . <p> Unfortunately , we know history , and unfortunately , it repeats itself . But we have to make sure that we learn from this and become stronger . 
@@119178271 <h> Two Jerusalem residents indicted for spying for Hezbollah <h> The two were in contact with a woman named Dania via a WhatsApp group and continued to maintain communications with her even after they knew she worked for the terror group . <p> By JERUSALEM POST STAFF The silhouette of a man , seen over the flag of Hezbollah ( illustrative ) ( photo credit : SHUTTERSTOCK ) <p> The State Attorney filed an indictment against two Jerusalem residents in their 30s on suspicion that they were in contact with , and had transferred information to , Hezbollah , Walla reported on Sunday . <h> Katz : If Hezbollah does not retreat beyond Litani , we will crush it <p> Israel will not hesitate to act against Hezbollah if the terror group violates the ceasefire or fails to withdraw beyond the Litani River , Defense Minister Israel Katz said on Sunday during a visit to Lebanon . <h> Hamas , PIJ , PFLP demand PA halt crackdown on Jenin terror crackdown <h> The terror groups emphasized the preservation of " Palestinian blood " and unity as a " top priority " and a " red line . " <p> By SAM HALPERN Gunmen stand during the funeral of Palestinian Ribhi Shalabi , who was killed in clashes with Palestinian Authority forces , in Jenin camp in the West Bank , December 10 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/RANEEN SAWAFTA ) <h> The official reportedly added that some significant issues remained to be resolved , among which was the presence of Israeli troops in the Philadelphi Corridor . <p> Hostage deal and ceasefire negotiations are 90% complete , a Palestinian official participating in the talks told the BBC on Sunday . <p> The official reportedly added that some significant issues remained to be resolved , among which was the presence of Israeli troops in the Philadelphi Corridor , a corridor in southern Gaza that runs parallel to its border with Egypt . <h> Hamas official Muhammad Abu Askar killed in Jabalya strike - report <p> Hamas official Muhammad Abu Askar , who previously served as spokesperson for the Izzadin al-Qassam Brigades , the terror group 's military wing , was killed in a strike in Jabalya in the northern Gaza Strip , Israel 's public broadcaster KANNews reported on Sunday , citing Palestinian reports . 
@@119178272 <h> The military added that the terrorists had used the area to carry out terror activities against IDF troops and the State of Israel . <p> An airstrike as seen from Khan Yunis in the Gaza Strip . July 29 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/MOHAMMED SALEM ) <p> An Israel Air Force aircraft struck terrorists overnight at a command and control center in a compound that previously served as the " Musa bin Nusayr " School in the Daraj Tuffah area in Gaza , the military said on Sunday . <p> The military added that the terrorists had used the area to carry out terror activities against IDF troops and the State of Israel . <p> Prior to the strike , the IDF implemented extensive precautions to minimize civilian harm . These included the use of aerial surveillance , intelligence , and precision munitions , the military said . <p> Reuters cited Gaza 's civil emergency service as reporting that an Israeli strike on the school killed six and wounded others . Gaza 's civil services , as with the Strip 's health ministry , are operated by Hamas . <h> Hamas official reportedly killed in Jabalya strike <p> Also on Sunday , Israel 's public broadcaster KAN News reported , citing Palestinian reports , that Hamas official Muhammad Abu Askar , who previously served as spokesperson to the terror group 's military wing , had been killed in a strike in Jabalya in the northern Gaza Strip . 
@@119178273 <h> This government is sworn to protect Israel 's security ; its eye can not be taken off the ball . <p> People gather at the scene of a missile strike that , according to Israel 's military , was launched from Yemen and landed in Jaffa , south of Tel Aviv , Israel , December 21 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/STOYAN NENOV ) <p> With careful optimism and a diplomatic race that runs two steps forward and three three steps back on a Gaza hostage and ceasefire deal , the war appears with no real end in sight . With the rocket threat from Lebanon reduced from the ceasefire , Israelis were slammed yet again on Saturday with a mammoth rocket attack , launched from about 2,000 kilometer away . <p> The hypersonic missile launched by the Houthis , one of Iran 's last standing militia proxy groups , lightly wounded 16 people when it crashed into Tel Aviv-Jaffa , announcing its entrance with rocket sirens across central Israel at around 3 a.m . <p> Twenty-one other people were treated at the scene by medics , including one person for anxiety . <p> Wednesday night began similarly , sirens ringing throughout Israel . The night was ruined and fear was reinforced by a group that - absurdly - resides so far away geographically , so far away from this conflict , with so little stake in the game . <p> Israel 's response came in the form of strikes throughout Sanaa , the Yemeni capital , and the port city of Hodeidah . The targets were Houthi strongholds and military sites , including those that facilitate the transfer of Iranian weapons . Israeli security forces at the scene where a Ballistic missile fired from Yemen hit a playground in Jaffa , on December 21 , 2024. ( credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/FLASH90 ) <h> Residents feel repercussions <p> Foreign Minister Israel Katz later confirmed the attack , warning Houthi leaders that " Israel 's long arm will not fail to reach you . Whoever hits Israel , their hand will be cut off , and whoever hurts us will be hurt sevenfold . We will not accept missiles on Israel , nor a compromise of shipping routes . We will strike fiercely ; we refuse to allow this reality to continue . " <p> The Houthis claimed on Saturday to have struck a military target ; so far , it 's only residents who have felt the repercussions . Spokesperson Yahya Qasim Sare'e stated that the operation was part of the " promised conquest and the holy jihad . " <p> The Wednesday attack followed an attempted attack by the Houthis on Monday . In the afternoon , the missile was intercepted before it reached Israeli territory . That night , according to the proxy group , the US and Britain struck military sites in Yemen belonging to the Houthis . <p> By press time , the Houthis had launched missiles towards Israel eight times this month . <p> Let 's not forget who is puppeteering this whole show : The Islamic regime of Iran , which daily and systematically sacrifices , mutilates , and kills its own people , those it deems as dissidents , for the greater goal of an Islamist Middle East . <p> " This group is now posing as the ' last man standing ' in Iran 's axis ... groups that have been attacking Israel . However , it does not appear to be deterred by Israeli attacks on various types of infrastructure ... Israel has carried out three rounds of retaliatory strikes on the Houthis ... the group continues to attack , " wrote Post defense analyst Seth Frantzman . <p> " The enemy is still there in most cases . The Houthis are one example where precision strikes on infrastructure such as ports may not work to win , " he added . <p> This region is older than Islam itself , the tenacity of its diverse groups much stronger - and they all deserve better . Iran propped up Hamas in its Jihadi approach , plunging this country into a war that has not stopped for over 400 days , as 100 of our brothers and sisters fade away in tunnels under the ground . <p> Hamas even stated in response that it " highly values the genuine stance of our brothers ... as they continue to support our Palestinian people and champion their just cause ... We affirm the strong and solid relationship that binds the Palestinian and Yemeni people . " <p> The hostages need to be brought home immediately . That is a playing card in this war that does not enjoy the privilege of time . The fact that Iran has set its targets on Israel is not new ; the Houthi attacks show that clear as day . <p> This means that while one threat is immediate and timely - and is already exacting its price in the unity and well-being of Israeli society - the other is immediate and less bound by time because of the nature of Tehran 's goals . <p> This government is sworn to protect Israel 's security ; its eye can not be taken off the ball . Iran 's axis is not destroyed , though it is weak . It is up to this government on our end , and the international community and Yemeni forces on the other , to remove this threat that is the Houthis and restore stability to this war-sodden country . 
@@119178274 <h> As Israelis , we must confront the dangerous phenomenon of Jewish anti-Zionism , understand it , and think creatively about responses . <p> For the most part , American Jews are worried and confused following the US elections and after more than a year of war in Israel , the effects of which are also very noticeable in the United States . <p> In Boston , I met a couple of friends I have known since my time as Israel 's consul general in that city , more than 15 years ago . They are warm Jews who have nurtured their love for Israel since childhood , pillars of the Jewish community in the city . As " progressive " Jews in American parlance , over the years they have had quite a lot of criticism toward the policies of Israeli governments , and this has always stemmed from concern and love for the Jewish people 's nation-state . <p> This time , I found them more anxious and worried than ever . Not only because of the future awaiting them in the US under the Trump administration , or because of the ongoing war in Israel , the hostages who do not return , and the harsh images from Gaza , but also for a much more personal reason . Their daughter , a student at an elite university , recently joined the JVP ( Jewish Voice for Peace ) , a movement which , despite its pleasant-sounding name , is an anti-Zionist BDS organization that has turned the struggle for " peace " into a struggle against the very identity of the State of Israel . <p> As lovers of Israel , my friends find themselves struggling to talk to their daughter and at the same time , are horrified when organizations in the Jewish community accuse their daughter of being antisemitic when she protests against the war and the policies of the Israeli government . <p> The situation that my friends ' daughter finds herself in characterizes many of the younger generation in the United States , who were raised as Zionists . Many find it difficult to continue to relate to Israel as their parents did because they believe that Israel has changed and does not meet the moral standards they learned at home and that stem from their Jewish values.American Jews and their supporters participate in the March for Israel in Washington , DC , earlier this month . ( credit : LEAH MILLIS/REUTERS ) <h> Meetings across the US <p> I HELD a series of meetings in Maine , New Hampshire , Massachusetts , Pennsylvania , New York , Maryland , Washington DC , and Georgia , where I met Jews who are concerned about the future of democracy in the two countries they love , the US and Israel . <p> Their media expose them daily to horrors in Gaza and they are troubled by the moral and strategic implications for Israel . At the same time , they still mourn the consequences of the barbaric terror attack of October 7 , empathizing with the families of the hostages , the evacuees , and the parents of the soldiers who continue to die without a clear purpose . <p> Most of these Jews are also concerned about the implications of Trump 's election since he represents values opposite to those held by the vast majority of the American Jewish community . Of American Jews , 71% supported Vice President Kamala Harris in the elections , and are appalled that about 80% of Israeli Jews prefer Trump . <p> They are concerned about the future of the Zionist vision under our right-wing government with the backing of Trump 's American Right . They are concerned about the rise in antisemitic incidents in the US -- those that some MAGA Republicans around Trump are promoting as well as the antisemitic voices in left-wing protests . <p> These Jews are frustrated by the ignorance of too many young people on the fringes of the progressive movement , who see Zionism as a colonialist and racist movement . They find it difficult to communicate with the younger generation that is not familiar with the original progressive and secular Zionism of the founders of the state , with which the Jewish community so strongly identified . This is a younger generation that only sees and hears the current Israeli government . <p> At the same time , they are horrified by the way the American Right and the Israeli Right resort to accusations of antisemitism against those who express legitimate criticism of Netanyahu 's government policies , or against those who are simply ignorant . <p> Many of them do not find answers in Jewish federations , synagogues , and the legacy organizations that demand that they align with the Israeli government on both the struggle for democracy in Israel and on the approach to the Palestinians . <p> As Israelis , we must be sensitive to those feelings and must not give up on the younger generation in the US . We must act together with our partners in there to create change . The liberal public in Israel proved its strength in the unprecedented protest against the government , and we must export this experience to our friends on the other side of the ocean , in order to help them rise from their " mourning " over the election results and to engage in political action . <p> This political action will express the aspiration of the majority of American Jews to save Israel from the catastrophe of a binational state , toward which it is heading in the absence of a political settlement , and of course to fight for the democracy which is under threat on both sides of the ocean . <p> We , liberal Israelis , share goals with many partners in the US , and we must act together against common threats . We must encourage their actions in order to integrate and enhance our struggle to save the democracy of the nation-state of the Jewish people , which is also their historical homeland . <p> Strengthening the connection between the liberal public in Israel and in the US will also help show the American public the diverse faces of Israeli society and help distance them from those who use Netanyahu 's government 's policies to delegitimize the State of Israel and to push young Jews towards the anti-Zionist side . <p> As Israelis , we must confront this dangerous phenomenon , understand it , and think creatively about responses . These will give parents the tools to explain to their children and to their friends that while Israel deserves criticism , its very existence does not come into question . <p> The writer is J Street-Israel 's executive director . He has served as an Israeli diplomat in Washington and Boston and as a political adviser to the president of Israel . 
@@119179462 <h> TOP STORIES <h> News and analysis from the day 's top stories . <h> New report accuses the Israeli military of indiscriminately killing civilians in Gaza <p> Active-duty soldiers , career officers and reservists tell the Israeli newspaper Haaretz about an alleged " kill zone " in the middle of Gaza . <p> Dec. 22 , 2024 , 11:00 AM UTC <p> By Chris Hayes <p> This is an adapted excerpt from the Dec. 19 episode of " All In with Chris Hayes . " <p> Despite growing evidence of grave human rights abuses in Israel 's war in Gaza , documented by multiplehuman rights groups and Israelireporters , President Joe Biden 's administration has been unwavering in its support for Israel . As the Biden White House approaches its final days , the Israeli newspaper Haaretz released a new report about the Israel Defense Forces ' alleged activities in Gaza . <p> The report , which is based on anonymous testimony from active-duty Israeli soldiers , career officers and reservists , centers on the military 's operations in what 's called the Netzarim Corridor , a sort of no-man 's zone that splits the Gaza Strip into two pieces , north and south . <p> According to an analysis by Hebrew University 's Adi Ben-Nun , a geographic data specialist , at least 750 buildings have been destroyed in the area , in what appears to be a systematic effort to create a " buffer zone . " <p> These are Israeli veterans offering harrowing accounts to an Israeli newspaper of indiscriminate killing and the routine classification of civilian casualties as terrorists . <p> Multiple Israeli officers now tell Haaretz that it 's more than just an exclusion zone . Those officers alleged it 's a " kill zone " where commanders have given their reserve soldiers free rein to kill any Palestinian who enters , even children . <p> " The forces in the field call it ' the line of dead bodies , ' " a commander alleged to the paper . " After shootings , bodies are not collected , attracting packs of dogs who come to eat them . In Gaza , people know that wherever you see these dogs , that 's where you must not go . " <p> Another recently discharged officer from the same unit told Haaretz the brutality was systematic . " We 're killing civilians there who are then counted as terrorists , " he alleged . " The IDF spokesperson 's announcements about casualty numbers have turned this into a competition between units . If Division 99 kills 150 people , the next unit aims for 200 . " <p> In a statement to Haaretz , the Israeli military acknowledged that the army " has been operating for several months in the Netzarim corridor area in central Gaza " and " carrying out intensive operational activity . " <p> It told the paper all activities and operations in the Gaza Strip , including along the Netzarim Corridor , are approved " by the highest levels of command . " <p> " All attacks in the area are carried out according to the mandatory procedures , including targets that are attacked at short notice due to operational circumstances , " the IDF continued . <p> The IDF also said that its " strikes are targeted solely at military objectives , and before the strikes are carried out , many steps are taken to minimize harm to noncombatants . " <p> But again , these are Israeli veterans of the Gaza war offering harrowing accounts to an Israeli newspaper of alleged indiscriminate killing and the routine classification of civilian casualties as terrorists . <p> Now , it 's possible the soldiers are not telling the truth , but their account squares with other evidence we 've seen of alleged abuses by Israel in Gaza , in a war with no end in sight , steadfast U.S. support and no plan whatsoever for what might come after . <p> Allison Detzel contributed . <p> Chris Hayes <p> Chris Hayes hosts " All In with Chris Hayes " at 8 p.m . ET Monday through Friday on MSNBC . He is the editor-at-large at The Nation . A former fellow at Harvard University 's Edmond J. Safra Foundation Center for Ethics , Hayes was a Bernard Schwartz Fellow at the New America Foundation . His latest book is " A Colony in a Nation " ( W. W. Norton ) . 
@@119185268 <h> Two US Navy pilots shot down over Red Sea in apparent ' friendly fire ' incident , US military says <p> DUBAI , United Arab Emirates ( AP ) -- Two U.S. Navy pilots were shot down Sunday over the Red Sea in an apparent " friendly fire " incident , the U.S military said . <p> Both pilots were recovered alive , with one suffering minor injuries , but the incident underlines just how dangerous the Red Sea corridor has become after a year of ongoing attacks on shipping by Yemen 's Houthi rebels despite U.S. and European military coalitions patrolling the area . <p> The U.S. military had conducted airstrikes targeting Yemen 's Houthi rebels at the time , though the U.S. military 's Central Command did not elaborate on what their mission was . <p> " The guided missile cruiser USS Gettysburg , which is part of the USS Harry S. Truman Carrier Strike Group , mistakenly fired on and hit the F/A-18 , which was flying off the USS Harry S. Truman , " Central Command said in a statement . <p> The Houthis have targeted about 100 merchant vessels with missiles and drones since the Israel-Hamas war in the Gaza Strip started in October 2023 after Hamas ' surprise attack on Israel that killed 1,200 people and saw 250 others taken hostage . <p> Israel 's grinding offensive in Gaza has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians , local health officials say . The tally does n't distinguish between combatants and civilians . <p> The Houthis have seized one vessel and sunk two in a campaign that has also killed four sailors . Other missiles and drones have either been intercepted by separate U.S.- and European-led coalitions in the Red Sea or failed to reach their targets , which have also included Western military vessels . <p> The rebels maintain that they target ships linked to Israel , the U.S. or the United Kingdom to force an end to Israel 's campaign against Hamas in Gaza . However , many of the ships attacked have little or no connection to the conflict , including some bound for Iran . <p> ( Copyright ( c ) 2024 The Associated Press . All Rights Reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten , or redistributed. ) 
@@119242369 <p> The same man who survived the horrors of the Farhud in Iraq as a child in 1941 is now living through another nightmare . <p> Back then , they broke into his family 's home , beat his parents and committed unspeakable acts that haunted his dreams . Yet somehow he never let that darkness define him . <p> My grandparents kept a small gray and turquoise clay sign at the entrance to their home in the kibbutz . The sign , marked with a little hamsa hand amulet on its left side , read " Life is Happy Here in This World . " <p> And it was true -- life was genuinely happy there . <p> When friends worried about my visits to my grandparents in the Gaza envelope , I 'd get excited instead . I felt safe there . <p> Until that black Saturday of Oct. 7 . <p> On that day , Hamas terrorists shot through my grandparents ' door and walls before entering . <p> They handcuffed my grandfather and took him away in his sleepwear , while my grandmother Mazal ( meaning " luck " in Hebrew ) managed to escape to a neighbor 's safe room . <p> The clay sign at their home entrance was shattered by bullets , leaving just four haunting words : " Life is Happy Here . " <p> Since then , life has been anything but . <p> Last Hanukkah was our first without him . We gathered at my aunt 's house to light candles with my grandmother . <p> Everything felt wrong and sad . My young cousins lit the candles , but I ca n't even remember if we sang the traditional songs . <p> The first time I spoke publicly about my grandfather was at the eighth-night candle-lighting ceremony organized by all the kibbutzim to honor those kidnapped and murdered on Oct. 7 . <p> Now , we mark another Hanukkah without him . <p> Another Hanukkah of lighting candles , but there 's no real light -- the candles burn , but we 're still in the dark . <p> When my grandmother and all the surviving community were evacuated to a hotel , they placed an empty chair in the lobby and set his book of Psalms on it , waiting for his return . <p> He weighed only 125 pounds when the terrorists took him , and it 's been more than a year now . <p> We have no information about his condition , or whether he 's getting his medications . If he 's warm enough . If he 's even alive . <p> The world needs to know about my grandfather and all the other hostages still held in Gaza . Time is running out , especially for the elderly like him . <p> He should be here with us , celebrating his 60th wedding anniversary with my grandmother , playing with his 12 grandchildren and crafting new menorahs for the holiday . <p> My grandfather is hard of hearing -- and was kidnapped without his hearing aids . In the darkness of captivity , through starvation , abuse and lack of medical care , he ca n't even hear properly what 's happening around him . <p> He must be so scared and confused , alone in total silence . <p> Until he returns , his chair remains empty , his Tehilim book waits unopened , and the light he brought to our lives fades a little more each day . <p> For the past year , I 've been traveling the world , meeting heads of state , religious leaders , diplomats and human-rights organizations -- telling anyone who will listen that the world must do whatever it takes to bring them back . <p> Now we 're at a critical moment with a potential deal in the works that could finally bring my grandfather and all the hostages back home . <p> But we need your voice too . We need you to speak up , to share their stories , to keep their names alive . <p> Please , do n't let my grandfather be forgotten . Do n't let any of the hostages fade from memory . <p> Help us bring their light back home . <p> Noam Safir , a 21-year-old law student from Eilat , is the granddaughter of Shlomo Mantzur , the oldest hostage being held captive by Hamas in Gaza . 
@@119242461 <h> My grandma was handed a note after being liberated from Auschwitz -- decades later , we were able to thank the kind stranger for giving her hope <p> Just six words made an impact on Lily Ebert in 1945 , a year after she and her family were forced out of Hungary and sent to the notorious death camp Auschwitz-Birkenau , where her mother , younger sister , brother and over 100 members of her extended family were killed in the gas chambers . <p> Ebert and two of her sisters were chosen to work for the Nazis until they were " no longer useful , " her great-grandson Dov Forman , 21 , recently told The Post . <p> In April 1945 , Ebert and her sisters were on a " death march " when American-Jewish forces liberated them . <p> One of these soldiers gave Ebert a banknote with a hopeful message : " The start to a new life . Good luck and happiness . " <p> Now , her story and memories are among the many honored in Nikki Schreiber 's new book " Humans of Judaism , " a collection of over 200 moving stories of Jewish identity and perseverance , including those of Holocaust survivors , artists , inventors , founders , celebrities and personal family histories . <p> Forman said this photo shows Lily and her sisters and some friends with allied forces a few months after liberation . Dov Forman/X <p> And , at a time of rising antisemitism , people are turning to heartfelt stories like these to find light in the darkness . <p> " Lily Ebert really was personal to me , " Schreiber shared with The Post . " It 's a tough reality , but the treasure and hopefully the comfort to the surviving family is to see that there are various outlets offering to further the legacy . I hope it 's something meaningful . " <p> For Forman , having Ebert 's story live on through the heartwarming book " means so much . " <p> " To the world , she was this heroine , an inspiration . She was a hero to so many . To me , she was just my great-grandmother , and to our family she was just that ever-present queen of our large , loving family , " Forman shared . <h> An ' unbelievable ' reunion <p> Lily Ebert after being made an MBE ( Member of the Order of the British Empire ) by King Charles III during an investiture ceremony at Windsor Castle on Jan. 31 , 2023 . Getty Images <p> Seventy-six years after Ebert was saved , Forman posted a photo of the banknote on X ( then Twitter ) during the COVID-19 pandemic , and thanks to the power of social media , she was able to connect with the late soldier 's children on a video call in 2020 . <p> " It is unbelievable . I never knew something like this could happen . It was a fantastic feeling , " Ebert told NBC at the time . <p> " It was really special . It felt like we were family , we just clicked , " Forman added . <p> Forman 's post went viral online , leading them to find the soldier 's family . Dov Forman/X <p> From there on , Ebert and Forman dedicated their online presence to Holocaust education , and with over a billion views across all platforms and 2 million followers , many found themselves inspired by Ebert -- including King Charles III , who commissioned a painting of her for Buckingham Palace . <p> Ebert had made a promise to herself that if she survived the Holocaust , she would educate the world to make sure something like it would never happen again . <p> Having her story included in the " Humans of Judaism " book keeps her memory alive , Forman said . <p> " It 's obviously a massive loss , but to know that she lives on in so many people , and in these books , and that she inspires so many to live their lives in such amazing and positive ways , " Forman said . " To know that so many people do what they do because of my great-grandmother is so special for us as a family . <h> See Also <p> " I think each contributor that participated ... it 's their story , it 's the entire book for them , " Schreiber added . " It 's so wild -- it 's really just meaningful . " <h> Humans of Judaism <p> Stories like Ebert 's have become a way for Schreiber to deal with her own grief . After her father passed , she decided to honor his memory by starting the Humans of Judaism Instagram account , telling stories of lament and ultimately hope . <p> " The timing was pretty wild with what was going on in the Jewish world , " Schreiber said . " This was birthed out of my own personal grief , and here I stand again 10 years later in a personal community grief with everybody . " <p> The hand-selected Jewish stories range from famous and notable people like Louis and Lillian Zabar , the founders of the world-famous Zabar 's market , to Holocaust survivors like Ebert to everyday people with extraordinary stories . However , picking specific tales for the book had a bit more intention and consideration , " taking gentle care of their families ' stories and treasured history , " Schreiber said . <p> " This past year was an interesting one , " she admitted . " On the one hand , you want to tell your stories ; on the other hand , we 're publicizing information , names , things like that -- it got a little trickier this year , I 'm not going to pretend it did n't . " <p> Working on the book through and past the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attacks in Gaza added another " significant " layer of purpose and meaning to her project . <p> " I 'm really hoping it provides readers with the same strength that really held me up during a low point , " Schreiber said . <p> And the book seems to be bringing some light to the darkness experienced by those in the Jewish community who could benefit the most , Schreiber said . <p> One unnamed person featured in the book was sitting shiva ( the Jewish mourning period ) with a few families on his block and told Schreiber , " I read your book this weekend , and it just gave me such a strength that I needed . " <h> ' Combat hate and lead with love ' <h> See Also <p> Schreiber has used her Instagram page and now the book as a creative expression to bring hope to the world . She trusts the book will show the Jewish community that " you 're not alone . " <p> " I 'm hoping there 's a little bit of strength just knowing that we 're all dealing with it . " <p> Many of the stories featured in the book are displays of regular people showcasing their advocacy . <p> " We all have our own way of doing something positive and significant to combat hate and lead with love , and everybody has it in their own voice and style , " Schreiber explained . " It 's such an important component because we ca n't exist without the wonderful love we have of our friends , neighbors and supporters . <p> " It helps you to see what people risk and what people do , and I think that 's such an important part of how the world goes around . " <p> Forman said to get through tough times , it 's important to " look for those community heroes , those people who have got through in the past and who inspire us to continue going today . " <p> " It 's not just about people learning about the sadness , but also taking inspiration of how they can build a better life when going through such hard times and how things will get better , because the world , especially now , so often seems so dark , " he continued . " But my great-grandmother always used to say that better times , better days will come . " <p> The Humans of Judaism exhibit is currently on display at the Weitzman Museum in Philadelphia . Courtesy of Nikki Schreiber <p> And while the Humans of Judaism Instagram page is consistently sharing uplifting stories , sometimes it 's beneficial to get off social media and put the screens away -- especially when hateful comments seem to be never-ending , Schreiber suggested . <p> " Have this in print , have it proudly in your home , " she said of the book , out in time for Hanukkah . " I find it to be just like a family photo album . There 's no my story . It 's our story . " 
@@119242466 <p> Hannah Katzir , who was abducted from Kibbutz Nir Oz in southern Israel during Hamas 's Oct. 7 , 2023 , massacre and freed in November of that year as part of a hostage exchange with Hamas , died on Monday night at the age of 78 , the kibbutz confirmed on Tuesday . <p> " With deep sorrow , we announce the passing of our member , Hannah Katzir of blessed memory , following a prolonged battle with complex medical complications after her release from captivity , " the statement read . <p> Her funeral is scheduled for Tuesday at 4 p.m. in Kibbutz Nir Oz . <p> Katzir 's husband , Rami , was killed during the Oct. 7 invasion . Their son , Elad , abducted alongside her by Palestinian Islamic Jihad terrorists , was killed in captivity in Gaza in January . His body was recovered in April during an Israel Defense Forces operation in Khan Younis . <p> " With deep sorrow , we announce the passing of our member , Hannah Katzir of blessed memory , following a prolonged battle with complex medical complications after her release from captivity , " the statement read . Molotov News / X <p> Hannah was released on Nov. 24 as part of a hostage deal that freed 12 other women and children that day . By the end of the six-day truce on Nov. 30 , a total of 105 captives had been released . <p> Days before her release , PIJ falsely claimed she had died in captivity . She had previously appeared in a propaganda video on Nov. 9 , with the terror group later stating she would be freed due to humanitarian concerns . <p> Hannah 's daughter , Carmit Palti Katzir , recently testified before a Knesset committee about her mother 's declining health following her release , as reported by Kan News . <p> Days before her release , PIJ falsely claimed she had died in captivity . AP <p> " My wife Sara and I are deeply saddened by the passing of Hannah Katzir , of blessed memory , a survivor of Hamas captivity , who passed away after a year-long battle for her life , " Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in a statement on Tuesday . <p> " We succeeded in bringing Hannah home , who was brutally kidnapped by Hamas on Oct. 7 , but her body and soul carried the scars of horror until her last day . We embrace the Katzir family and are committed to doing everything in our power and continuing to work tirelessly until we bring all our hostages home , " Netanyahu continued . <p> Currently , 100 hostages remain in Gaza , including 96 taken on Oct. 7 . Israeli estimates suggest that 64 of the captives are alive . 
@@119242572 <h> Loading .... <p> Bill Van Esveld , associate director of Human Rights Watch , reported on Israel 's systemic destruction of Gaza 's water system on a recent episode of the " Democracy Now " podcast . <p> Israelis and people of the U.S. get a recommended minimum of 247 liters of water a day . People in Gaza get 2 to 7 liters per day . The report concludes that this deprivation is intentional on the part of Netanyahu and Israeli forces and details how Israel bulldozes solar panels on Gaza 's desalinization plants . It bombs and destroys buildings holding the spare parts for the water system , using U.S. taxpayer-provided bombs . Untold suffering of women and children through dehydration and related illnesses result in death for thousands of people . <p> Former Defense Minister Gallant , an indicted war criminal , has called the people of Gaza " human animals . " He recently met with Defense Secretary Austin in Washington , where he was treated as a foreign dignitary despite an International Criminal Court arrest warrant accusing him of war crimes . <p> The United States government provides billions of dollars for weapons to Israel . It is unbelievable that human beings are denied adequate water for survival . It is more unbelievable that the U.S. government allows and subsidizes such acts . The report says that the amount of water used in a typical shower is more than Gazans get in a week . How can this be tolerated by U.S. elected officials who have the power to stop it ? <h> Maine Voices Columns <p> Maine Voices columns ( 550-650 words ) should include the author 's name , address and daytime phone number . They may be emailed to : **27;990;TOOLONG . Columns may be edited for length and content . 
@@119242865 <p> An injured Palestinian man is transported to the emergency ward of the Kamal Adwan Hospital , following an Israeli strike in Beit Lahia in the northern Gaza Strip on November 21 , 2024 . <p> AFP via Getty Images <p> Health officials in Gaza say there is only one hospital remaining that is providing humanitarian aid services in the northern part of the strip amid the ongoing Israel-Hamas war . <p> In early October , Israel Defense Forces reportedly ordered evacuations of several regions in the north of Gaza , doctors at the hospitals told ABC News , including Beit Hanoun , Jabalia and Beit Lahia , as they work to surround Hamas fighters who are allegedly in the area . <p> Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahia , said in a recorded message shared over the weekend on an X account by the director general of the Hamas-run Gaza Ministry of Health that his hospital is " currently the only hospital still providing humanitarian services in northern Gaza . " <p> Between 50,000 and 75,000 residents are estimated to remain in northern Gaza , according to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs . <p> In additional comments Sunday , sent via a WhatsApp group the Gaza Ministry of Heath uses to share updates with the media , Safiya said there are currently 400 civilians inside Kamal Adwan Hospital , including babies in the neonatal unit who are in incubators and in need of oxygen . He further said that despite orders from the IDF to evacuate Kamal Adwan Hospital , there is no way to safely evacuate patients from the hospital . <p> " We have repeatedly requested assistance and have openly invited Israeli forces to see for themselves the internal workings of our hospitals so that we may continue to serve our population without fear of attack and death . These calls were rejected , " Safiya said in Sunday 's comments . " We also call on the world to witness , that if Kamal Adwan Hospital is decommissioned , there will be no way of preserving conditions of life to the remaining 75,000+ civilians in north Gaza . " <p> An injured Palestinian man is transported to the emergency ward of the Kamal Adwan Hospital , following an Israeli strike in Beit Lahia in the northern Gaza Strip on November 21 , 2024 . <p> AFP via Getty Images <p> ABC News has not been able to confirm if and when Israeli forces were invited to enter Kamal Adwan Hospital , as Safiya claims , nor when the invitation was allegedly rejected . <p> Safiya also said that Kamal Adwan Hospital has been the target of IDF attacks as recently as Sunday . <p> " Direct attacks on the hospitals began with no warnings and no civilian protection permitted by the occupation , in the way of normal procedures expected in a combat zone , " he said in the Sunday message to reporters . " International Committee of the Red Cross and other U.N . bodies were consistently denied access to intervene . As a result , significant harm and loss to civilian life and means of preserving life resulted in these attacks on hospitals . " <p> " Regarding Kamal Adwan Hospital , IDF forces are operating in its vicinity but not within its premises , " the IDF said Monday in response to an ABC News request for comment , adding that the IDF " is unaware of any evacuation order of the hospital . " The IDF response did not address whether they attacked the hospital . <p> Israel has claimed that Hamas uses hospitals , and networks of tunnels beneath them , as bases to conduct and promote terrorist activity , and U.S. officials have backed this claim . Hamas , however , has repeatedly denied it . <p> Israeli forces have also insisted that they have tried to limit civilian casualties as much as possible over the course of the war . <p> The latest update from the Gaza Ministry of Health comes as UNICEF says children in the most northern part of Gaza have been largely unable to receive humanitarian assistance for more than 10 weeks due to the ongoing siege . <p> More than 96% of women and children in Gaza are currently surviving on a diet of rationed flour , lentils , pasta and canned food , which does not meet their nutritional needs , according to UNICEF . <p> " Gaza must be one of the most heartbreaking places on earth for humanitarians . Every small effort to save a child 's life is undone by fierce devastation , " UNICEF Communication Specialist Rosalia Bollen said during a press briefing at the Palais des Nations in Geneva on Friday . <p> " For over 14 months , children have been at the sharp edge of this nightmare , with more than 14,500 children reportedly killed , thousands more injured , " she continued . " As we approach the end of the year , a time when the world strives to celebrate family , peace and togetherness , in Gaza the reality for over a million children is fear , utter deprivation and unimaginable suffering . " <p> Since Hamas launched its surprise terrorist attack on Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , more than 1,700 Israelis have been killed and more than 8,700 have been injured , according to Israeli officials . In Gaza , more than 45,300 people have been killed , and more than 107,700 people have been injured , according to the Gaza Ministry of Health . 
@@119243462 <h> Christmas column appreciated <p> Thank you for such a beautiful column about Advent and the preparation for our Lord 's arrival in flesh . We celebrate Christmas this way . As a child , our family put up our Christmas tree after midnight Mass and celebrated by decorating the tree and singing Christmas carols until the wee hours . Such a special memory . <p> Advertisement <p> We are a hold out for keeping the tree up through the Epiphany . A stress-free Christmas -- it is there for each one of us . <h> Connect and spread joy <p> An animated commercial featuring the song Lonely People by America captures the emotional essence of the holiday season . Without a voiceover , the visuals highlight acts of kindness -- offering gifts , sharing meals and connecting with those who are alone . <p> Advertisement <p> The song 's poignant lyrics underscore the importance of companionship and spreading joy . <p> Michael Scott , Plano <h> War is not a solution <p> Today , the world is facing conflicts . This is a very difficult time . But as a human being , it 's my responsibility to draw your attention toward the risks associated with the current wars . They may become uncontrollable . <p> Advertisement <p> We should be neutral in making a peaceful land for everyone . Peace is essential for the existence of all of us . Peace is required in Gaza and Ukraine and elsewhere . Every human life is precious . <p> Advertisement <p> We should think and act beyond religion or race or creed . We will have to do hard work for the betterment of our future generations . <p> Table talk is the only way for resolving conflicts . War is not a solution . War itself is a big problem . May God help us to move on the right path . <p> Mubashir Ahmad Nasir , Lahore , Pakistan <p> Advertisement <h> One more Fountain book <p> I was glad to see Ben Fountain nominated for Texan of the Year , yet sorry to see no mention of his Beautiful Country Burn Again . The book is masterful reporting on Donald Trump 's rise to power , a warning our beautiful country failed again to heed . <p> Mark Spencer , Cross Roads <p> Advertisement <h> Read First Amendment <p> Re : " Dallas ISD used to do this , " by Jim Herrera , Dec. 4 Letters . <p> Herrera asks what has changed since he was taught religion in the Dallas ISD about 50 years ago . Here is what has changed . Millions of immigrants who do not practice Christianity have come to this country , and they are providing essential portions of the labor force . <p> They practice other religions , including Judaism , Islam , Buddhism , Hinduism , Shinto and many others . They should not have their children indoctrinated in the public schools with only Christianity . In fact , our youth should be educated about those other religions practiced by millions of people around the world , especially in our increasingly global business environment . <p> Advertisement <p> The undocumented immigrants are filling many basic labor jobs that American citizens do not want to do in agriculture , manufacturing and housework , for example . <p> The legal immigrants , who are going through the arduous , lengthy and expensive process of obtaining work permits ( and even citizenship ) are filling even more essential jobs . For example , without immigrants from India , our tech industry would suffer tremendously . Other examples of industries with a very large immigrant workforce include health care , construction and hospitality . <p> Those who come from other countries and practice different religions are given freedom to worship as they please ( or to not worship at all ) by the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution , which for many is a reason they choose to come to this country . <p> That is why our Dallas area world is very different from Herrera 's world in the Dallas of the 1960s and 1970s . <p> Advertisement <p> Julia Pendery , Plano <h> Immigration is 2 issues <p> So the conversation on the need for immigration reform continues to fill the airwaves , social media outlets and ink on paper . The one reality that no one seems to confront is that immigration is really two separate and distinct issues , with no linkage . <p> First we have the issue of immigration , people wanting to move to America from ( fill in the blank ) . This is like a company hiring new employees . It becomes an investment in personnel . Who do we accept and welcome ? <p> Advertisement <p> I always recall President John F. Kennedy , to paraphrase him , asking not what America can do for the prospective immigrant . Ask what the prospective immigrant can do for America . <p> Secondly , we have the question of political asylum . Opening our nation to political asylum is an act of compassion and charity , not an investment in personnel . <p> Realistically , we must have limits on both with order , reason and limits established . <p> Ted Gold , Plano <p> Advertisement <h> Bible verses ease stress <p> I agree with Gunter that there can be a lot of stress at Christmas . Since Christmas is about Jesus , I suggest one reads Matthew 25:31-46 . My thoughts are that following these words will give you a more meaningful Christmas . <p> Now , as you prepare to face the family conflicts you fear on Christmas , read Matthew 10:34-39 . Having followed the guidance given in Matthew 25 , you will be prepared for comments from any family member . <p> Advertisement <p> I would write more but I do n't feel I can improve on the words of Jesus . 
@@119244669 <h> Share Obituary <p> Roosevelt Batiste , Jr. , born on April 23 , 1964 , entered into eternal rest on Wednesday , December 18 , 2024 at the age of 60 . He went to St. Augustine and Warren Easton High Schools , where he was a member of the football team . Throughout his life he worked at Boucherie , Gaza Gaza , D&amp;K Industries , Lake Lawn Cemetery , Parasol 's and Jani-King . Roosevelt leaves behind a legacy of love , strength and resilience that will forever be cherished by those who knew him . He was a devoted father to his two sons , Roosevelt Batiste , III and Romel Batiste , who were his pride and joy . His unwavering support helped shape them into the remarkable individuals they are today . He is also survived by his loving fianc ? ' Zina Frank who brought love , joy and companionship to his life . Roosevelt also leaves behind his step-father Elie Simmons , two brothers Roosevelt Batiste and Nicholas N. Coleman , Sr. , and aunt Lola Green Perkins , an uncle Larry Green . He is preceded in death by his mother , the late Betty Green Simmons , father Roosevelt Batiste , Sr. , grandparents Leola and Dalton Green , Sr. , and his three aunts Sharon Green Polk , Gwendolyn Green Kirk , Dorothy Green Stokes , and two uncles Dalton Green , Jr . and Eugene Douglass Green , Sr. He also leaves a host of devoted first cousins , other cousins , nieces , nephews , other relatives and close friends . Roosevelt attended My Redeemer Missionary Baptist Church under the direction of Pastor Shaeek Nobles , Sr. Throughout this journey , Roosevelt touched the lives and hearts of many with his kindness and generosity . He was known for his smile and his representation of the place he was from , 3rd ward New Orleans . Roosevelt was the life of the party wherever he went . His spirit of community and commitment to helping others will be remembered fondly . Roosevelt 's family and friends will gather to celebrate his life and the impact he made on those around him . Relatives and friends of the family , also Pastor Nobles , Lady Nobles and members of the My Redeemer Missionary Baptist Church , Fess , Inc. , D&amp;K Industries , Jani-King , Lake Lawn Cemetery , Boucherie Restaurant , Gaza Gaza Restaurant and Parasol 's Restaurant are invited to attend the Celebration of Life Service for Roosevelt Batiste , Jr . on Saturday December 28 , 2024 for 10:00 a.m. at Estelle J. Wilson Funeral Home , Inc. , 2715 Danneel St. , New Orleans , La. 70113 . Visitation from 9:00 a.m. until 10:00 a.m . Rev. Shaeek Nobles , Sr. officiating . Interment : Private . Arrangements entrusted to Estelle J. Wilson Funeral Home , Inc. , 2715 Danneel Street , NOLA 70113 . Information : ( 504 ) 895-4903 . To sign online guest book , please visit www.estellejwilsonfh.com . <p> To send flowers to the family of Roosevelt Batiste Jr. , please visit Tribute Store . <p> Note : These are general guidelines ; some florists may not be able to operate within these timelines . During peak periods such as Valentine 's Day , Memorial Day and most holidays , florists are not always able to keep up to demand . Tribute will contact you if there are any issues . <p> No Events Scheduled At This Time <p> Send Flowers : When Is the Ordering Deadline ? <p> Next-Day Delivery <p> ANY DAY OF THE WEEK <p> Order any time up till the day before <p> Same-Day Delivery <p> MON-FRIOrder by 2:00PM <p> SAT &amp; SUNOrder by noon <p> Morning Delivery <p> TUES-SATOrder by 3:00PMThe day before <p> SAT &amp; SUNOrder by Saturday <p> Note : These are general guidelines ; some florists may not be able to operate within these timelines . During peak periods such as Valentine 's Day , Memorial Day and most holidays , florists are not always able to keep up to demand . Tribute will contact you if there are any issues . 
@@119249369 <h> Five men sentenced for their involvement in Amsterdam soccer riots <p> Police officers stand near a pro-Palestinian demonstration during a soccer match between Ajax Amsterdam and Maccabi Tel Aviv in Amsterdam , The Netherlands in November . <p> Jeroen Jumelet/AFP/ANP/Getty Images <p> CNN -- <p> A Dutch court sentenced five men on Tuesday for charges related to violence that broke out after a soccer match in Amsterdam last month . <p> The clashes unfolded after a soccer game between Israel 's Maccabi Tel Aviv and Amsterdam 's Ajax on November 7 , sparking international outcry and condemnation . <p> Multiple social media videos showed Maccabi fans chanting anti-Arab slurs , praising Israeli military attacks in Gaza and yelling " f**k the Arabs " in the run up to the match . After the match , Maccabi fans were violently attacked in the streets . Social media video showed people shouting antisemitic slurs and setting off fireworks inside a tram . <p> In a 12-page letter released days after the riots , Amsterdam Mayor Femke Halsema said that the violence , which injured around 25 to 35 Israeli soccer fans , had stemmed " from a toxic combination of antisemitism , hooliganism , and anger about the conflicts in Palestine and Israel , and other countries in the Middle East . " <p> Other community leaders in the city told CNN that right-wing figures , like the anti-Islam populist Geert Wilders , were stoking tensions for political gain . <p> Of the men sentenced on Tuesday , three were found guilty of committing violence and two were found guilty of aiding and abetting violence , a statement from the Dutch court said . One of the men was also found guilty of making offensive remarks against Jewish people . <p> A 32-year-old man was sentenced to six months in prison for several acts of violence , including punching and kicking multiple victims who were on the ground and fly kicking another person into a moving tram , according to the court . <p> Two men , both 26 , were found guilty of aiding and abetting the riots that took place by sending information into a WhatsApp group that could help those committing violence . <p> Dutch public broadcaster NOS said that one of the men sent messages into a group of around 900 people , telling them where " those Jews " could be found . The other man called for violence in the same group , writing that he would never get the same chance to hit Jewish people again , NOS reported . The men were sentenced to a month and 10 weeks in prison , respectively . <p> Chief prosecutor Ren ? de Beukelaer said that the men were not charged for any terrorist acts because their intention was not to instill fear in a certain group , but instead came from " anger , frustration and sadness " about the situation in Gaza , NOS reported earlier this month . <p> A 24-year-old , who attacked Maccabi supporters with a group of other men , was given a one-month prison sentence for violence including kicking a person who was already on the ground multiple times and for stealing a scarf from a Maccabi supporter . <p> A 19-year-old was sentenced under the Netherlands ' juvenile law to 100 hours of community service for carrying out acts of violence before the match took place , including being violent to a police officer and vehicles during a pre-game demonstration , participating in group chats calling for violence against Maccabi supporters , and for carrying an illegal firework , according to the court . <p> The five men are the first to be tried and sentenced in connection with the riots . <p> The violence left five people in hospital , authorities said at the time , with 20 to 30 others suffering minor injuries . More than 60 suspects were detained after the riots , they said . 
@@119252960 <p> Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar directed Israel 's diplomatic missions across Europe , including those in EU member states and the UK , to push for the designation of Ansar Allah , also known as the Houthis , as a terrorist organization on Tuesday . <p> Sa'ar emphasized the importance of the directive , saying , " The Houthis pose a threat not only to Israel but to the region and the entire world . The direct threat to freedom of navigation in one of the busiest maritime routes globally is a challenge to the international community and the world order . The most basic and fundamental step is to designate them as a terrorist organization . " <p> This directive comes in the wake of a series of Houthi attacks on Israel over the last week , which included the launch of ballistic missiles targeting central Israel . These missiles struck , among other places , a school in Ramat Gan and a location near a playground in Jaffa . <p> Since October 7 , the Houthis have launched an aggressive campaign against Israel , deploying hundreds of ballistic missiles , cruise missiles , and UAVs . Their leaders have publicly pledged to persist in their efforts to harm Israel and disrupt maritime navigation in the western seas , including the Red Sea and the Bab al-Mandeb Strait . More than 100 vessels , including many European-flagged ships , have been attacked in the region during this campaign . Protesters , mainly Houthi supporters , rally to show support to Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , in Sanaa , Yemen December 6 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/KHALED ABDULLAH ) <p> The Houthis are widely regarded as an Iranian proxy , with Tehran providing financial backing , weapons , training , and operational support -- a fact repeatedly highlighted in United Nations Security Council reports . <p> The group has already been labeled a terrorist organization by nations such as the United States , Saudi Arabia , Malaysia , the UAE , Australia , Canada , New Zealand , and Israel . <h> Recent Houthi attacks on Israel <p> On Saturday , sixteen people in Tel Aviv were lightly wounded by glass shards after a Houthi rocket fired from Yemen slammed into Jaffa . <p> Prior to that , during the early hours of Thursday morning , Yemen fired a missile toward central Israel . Israel Air Force ( IAF ) fighter jets struck Houthi targets in the capital of Sana'a in Yemen afterward. 
@@119252962 <p> According to the IDF , its military actions in Tel Sultan were not deficient , though the military has also concluded that those actions did likely lead the Hamas terrorists guarding the hostages to execute them . <p> The six hostages -- Hersh Goldberg-Polin , Eden Yerushalmi , Carmel Gat , Almog Sarusi , Alexander Lobanov , and Ori Danino -- who had been held by Hamas since October 7 , were likely slaughtered by Hamas shortly before the IDF got to them . <p> The bodies were discovered only one kilometer from where Bedouin hostage Qaid Farhan Alkadi was found four days earlier . <p> All of these hostage events came after the military set up a command center in Tel Sultan on August 15 to finish off the remainder of Hamas 's forces in the area . A person pays their respect at a memorial vigil for Hersh Goldberg-Polin , in his family 's neighborhood in Jerusalem , September 1 , 2024 ( credit : REUTERS/Ronen Zvulun ) <h> Unsure on Sinwar 's orders <p> Since Alkadi , 52 , had been found , the IDF put out instructions to be extra careful in the area . It is possible that Hamas killed the six , knowing that the military was close by and that the hostages might be taken by the IDF alive . <p> The military is still unsure whether then-Gaza chief Yahya Sinwar gave the order to kill the hostages , though it said he had been nearby . <p> On September 12 , The Jerusalem Post visited the tunnel shaft in Tel Sultan , where the six bodies were found . <p> At different points , the IDF has said the six were killed on August 28 and , at times , on August 29 . <p> The shaft , which was in a children 's area , still showed pictures of Mickey Mouse , Snow White , and the word " LOVE " in English prominently displayed on one of the partially broken walls next to it . <p> Multiple buildings around the area were still standing , though many had been damaged by the IDF 's need to remove items that would have obstructed exhuming the bodies . <p> The area was extremely well-hidden , off from the main road . <p> IDF sources said that although the military had believed there might be hostages in the general area , at the time in late August when they were maneuvering in the area , the chances of hostages being there had dropped significantly . <p> The reason was that IDF intelligence had indications that most of the hostages and senior Hamas officials had already fled the area when large amounts of civilians did . <p> In that light , though the IDF was being more careful with its operations , including by using special forces , so as not to endanger hostages , the going assumption was that the hostages who had been in Rafah and Tel Sultan were already moved . <p> The true reason that the tunnel shaft was found where the six hostages ' bodies were was that the IDF suspected Hamas terrorists had a tunnel hideout there nearby -- but one not related to hostages per se . <p> A " buggy " vehicle for searching for tunnels was moving through the area and sank somewhat in its movements in the area above where the tunnel shaft was , signaling that something unusual was below . <p> The IDF then dug through the cement used by the terrorists to cover up the area and found the shaft . <p> With significant difficulty , a drone was sent into the tunnel shaft to explore , but it did not reveal very much . <p> Eventually , the IDF saw food items and bags containing bodily excretions , leading it to believe the shaft might be more important than originally thought . <p> Next , the military found three dead bodies inside . <p> A further search found another three bodies inside , including women , who would be unusual to find in tunnels . <p> The IDF has said probably two terrorists who it later killed carried out the executions , which could correspond with the two somewhat separate sets of three dead bodies . <p> Soon after the IDF announcement on September 1 , the Hostages and Missing Families Forum stated , " With deep sorrow , we once again announce the murder of six hostages . These six individuals were taken alive , endured the horrors of captivity , and were then coldly murdered . <p> " A deal for the return of the hostages has been on the table for over two months . Were it not for the delays , sabotage , and excuses , those whose deaths we learned about this morning would likely still be alive . It 's time to bring our hostages home -- the living for rehabilitation , and the fallen and murdered for burial in their homelands , " it added . <h> Bibi bears responsibility <p> The forum further called on Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to bear responsibility in front of the nation after the IDF 's recovery of the six bodies . <p> All but one of the recovered hostages were taken from the Nova musical festival on October 7 of last year . <p> The family of Eden Yerushalmi said in an update to the IDF 's official announcement , " We share with great sorrow that our beloved Eden was murdered in captivity . " <p> Eden Yerushalmi , a 24-year-old pilates teacher , was kidnapped from the Nova music festival . Initially , Eden hid in a car alongside the bodies of murdered friends . <p> Fearful of being caught , she then escaped to a forest where she hid in a bush for hours . All the while , Eden remained in contact with Shani , her sister , who heard the terrorists approaching . " I could hear them through the phone , " Shani recounted . " I knew that those were my last moments with my sister . " Finally , Eden whispered , " They caught me . " <p> Hersh Goldberg-Polin was born in California before moving to Israel when he was 7 . On October 7 , 2023 , he was abducted by Hamas from the Nova music festival . During his kidnapping , he was maimed by a grenade which blew off his left hand . <p> Carmel Gat was taken captive from Kibbutz Be'eri on October 7 . Gat led hostages with guided yoga exercises and meditation , former hostages reported . <p> Almog Sarusi was also taken from the Nova festival . Sarusi 's partner , Shahar Gindi , was murdered there . <p> Alexander Lobanov , a 32-year-old Russian-Israeli , was also kidnapped from Nova . Lobanov 's wife , Michal , gave birth to her second son in February while he was in captivity . <p> Ori Danino , another hostage taken from the music festival , turned 25 in Hamas captivity . <p> Danino was captured from the Nova festival alongside friends Omer Shem-Tov , who remains in captivity , and siblings Maya and Itai Regev , who were freed in November 's hostage release deal . <p> The family of Ori Danino shared a post by his brother with a message alongside the words " Baruch Dayan HaEmet " blessed is the true judge , " a Jewish affirmation upon hearing of one 's death . <p> Opposition leader Yair Lapid commented at the time , " While our sons and daughters are abandoned and die in captivity , Netanyahu is busy spinning the narrative . " He reiterated his previous opinion that Netanyahu is more concerned with the continuity of his coalition than the war or the hostages . <p> " We will continue to stand by the families and hug and protect them in difficult times , " he added . <p> US President Joe Biden said at the time that he was " devastated and outraged " to learn of the recovery of six dead hostages from Gaza , including Israeli-American Goldberg-Polin. 
@@119252964 <h> #DonutsForRoey : A sweet tribute to an Israeli-American hero 's legacy this Hanukkah <h> Weiser 's parents invited the public to take part in the #DonutsForRoey campaign to remember their positive , joyful son . <p> ( From left to right ) Roey Weiser , with his father Yisrael , and siblings Shani and Nadav. ( photo credit : Courtesy of the Weiser family ) <p> A year after Staff Sergeant Roey Weiser heroically sacrificed his life during the October 7 terrorist attack , his parents launched the #DonutsForRoey campaign to honor his memory and spread Hanukkah joy . <p> On October 7 , 2023 , Weiser , a dual American-Israeli citizen , sacrificed his life while saving at least a dozen fellow IDF soldiers during a terrorist attack at the Erez Crossing base near Gaza . Thanks to Roey 's heroic actions and the resilience of his comrades , the terrorists were stopped from advancing toward Ashkelon and Ashdod , protecting countless civilians and soldiers . <p> One year later , Roey 's parents , Naomi and Yisrael , launched the #DonutsForRoey campaign , inviting the public to honor his memory by enjoying a donut ( or sufganiyah in Hebrew ) and sharing a photo on social media using the hashtag . <p> Homemade donuts with jam . ( credit : chen mizrahi ) <h> Cherish every moment <p> " Donuts were one of Roey 's favorite foods , and he always looked forward to Hanukkah so he could enjoy them , " said Naomi and Yisrael . " Chanukah is the festival of lights and joy , which reflects who Roey was -- always smiling and bringing light to those around him . With this initiative , we aim to spread joy while remembering Roey . " <p> The couple also shared a heartfelt message : " Seeing those smiling photos is so meaningful to us . We 've learned to cherish every moment and take as many pictures as possible , because we never had the chance to take that final photo with Roey . " <p> The campaign has resonated deeply with people around the world . Thousands have joined in , posting their pictures with donuts in tribute to Roey 's memory . Prominent Israeli politicians , actors , athletes , and journalists have also participated , sharing their photos on platforms like Facebook and Instagram. 
@@119252966 <h> The Sinwar shirts have since appeared to have been removed ; however , tops featuring former Hezbollah chief Hassan Nasrallah still seem to be available for online purchase . <p> American retail giant Walmart sparked controversy on Tuesday after shirts praising former Hamas chief Yahya Sinwar appeared to have been available for purchase on its online store . <p> " @Walmart , are you aware you 're selling apparel celebrating terrorism and violence against Jews ? " StopAntisemitism , a nonprofit watchdog organization aimed at exposing and combating antisemitism , said on X/Twitter . " This is outrageous -- remove them immediately . " <p> Walmart shoppers were horrified to find shirts glorifying Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar while online shopping . @Walmart , are you aware you 're selling apparel celebrating terrorism and violence against Jews ? This is a outrageous -- remove them immediately . **26;1570;TOOLONG <h> Nasrallah shirts still appear to be available online <p> The Sinwar shirts have since appeared to be removed . However , tops featuring former Hezbollah chief Hassan Nasrallah still seem to be available for purchase . A screenshot from Walmart 's web store which sells a T-shirt of former Hezbollah Secretary General Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah. ( credit : Canva , screenshot , Walmart ) <p> Sinwar was killed by IDF troops in the Gaza Strip in October , while Nasrallah was eliminated in an Israel Air Force strike in Beirut in September . <p> The individual selling the shirts at Walmart also offers for sale a shirt depicting a swastika on an American flag paired with the inscription " I do n't kneel . " 
@@119252969 <h> Meirav Leshem Gonen , whose daughter Romi is still captive in Gaza , reflects on Hanukkah and the light we can share to bring the hostages home . <p> This year , more than any other , I feel deeply drawn to lighting Hanukkah candles . In previous years , if I happened to light them , it was wonderful : as a family , we have lovely , happy traditions around candle lighting that illuminate my home . When the children are with me , it illuminates my home even more . <p> This year , I feel that each of us can and should increase the light . It 's as simple as that . In my eyes , Hanukkah 's true lesson is n't actually about the miracle of light , but rather that increasing light takes time , determination , and persistence . <p> How is this reflected in the holiday and its candles ? <p> Romi Gonen , who is still in Hamas captivity . ( credit : COURTESY ) <h> Hanukkah reflections <p> Well , on the first day , the " shamash " ( helper candle ) lights just one candle , ready to join its mission of holding the light for everyone . On the second it lights two candles , on the third day , three , and so on until the entire menorah is filled with light -- a sparkling , colorful , inviting light that provides a signal of direction and focus for all of us . <p> Even the colors of the Hanukkah candles give me strength this year , bringing me joy even more than in previous years . Firstly , because they differ from the white and pure Shabbat candles or the wide and solid memorial candles , they introduce different colors -- just like we , the people of Israel , come in different and special shades . <p> Secondly , because when the moment arrives , right after lighting the candles , we begin our family tradition of dripping wax into water-filled glasses -- the result ( which looks like cheerful coasters ) is colorful and unique , each of my children with their own beloved texture and favorite shades . <p> The thin candles remind me that sometimes it 's harder to maintain colorfulness and joy , while the leg they stand on is thinner and perhaps even more fragile . <p> This year , lighting Hanukkah candles seems more important to me than ever before . This year 's candle lighting is a reminder that light will grow when we agree to accept everyone 's colors and when we understand that our differences strengthen us more than our similarities . <h> Come together <p> That diversity is what truly helps us grow and makes us better , braver , and stronger -- not sameness . That every color is needed to illuminate our strength as the people of Israel , as free nations , and signals to all of us , and to many peoples , where the good side of history lies and where true light resides . <p> True light resides in joining together as a community , as inseparable forces ; true light resides in the ability to see each individual among us as deserving to maintain their uniqueness while needing community to develop and flourish . <p> I invite us all this year to focus on the light that each of us adds when joining other lights and other voices -- to be the light that gives hope and strengthens others ; to be the light with presence , the light that speaks its words in an illuminating and strengthening way , and refuses to remain in the candle box in darkness or in silence . <p> Because light is what will bring back the hostages , light is what will allow us to deal with the forces of darkness and evil , and light is what will keep us united for thousands more years and eternity . The light . Not the silence and darkness . <p> The writer 's daughter , Romi , was kidnapped by Hamas terrorists on October 7 from the Supernova music festival and is still being held hostage in Gaza . 
@@119252972 <h> " Demographics do n't lie . We are witnessing a significant 80-90% decline in the Christian population in major cities , " the researchers emphasize . <p> Ethiopian Orthodox Christians pray in the Deir Al-Sultan in the Church of the Holy Sepulcher , traditionally believed to be the site of the crucifixion of Jesus Christ , as the celebrate easter in Jerusalem 's Old City on April 29 , 2021. ( photo credit : OLIVIER FITOUSSI/FLASH90 ) <p> Violence and coercion has resulted in up to a 90% decline in the Christian population in areas under Hamas or Palestinian Authority control , according to a new study by the Jerusalem Center for Security and Foreign Affairs ( JCFA ) . <p> In 1922 , Christians constituted 11% of the population . Today , in 2024 , they are just 1% . <p> " Demographics do n't lie . We are witnessing a significant 80-90% decline in the Christian population in major cities , " the researchers emphasized . <p> The Christian population in Gaza shrank from 5,000 before Hamas took over the area to only 1,000 in October 2023 , the report found . Greek Orthodox Saint Porphyrius Church damaged by an Israeli strike , in Gaza CityGreek Orthodox Saint Porphyrius Church damaged by an Israeli strike , in Gaza City ( credit : REUTERS/MOHAMMED AL-MASRI ) <p> JCFA explained that religious and legal discrimination , desecration of holy sites , and social exclusion were behind the decline in the Christian population . <p> The city of Bethlehem is used as an illustration of what JCFA calls " Christian demographic erasure . " <p> In 1950 , Bethlehem and the surrounding villages were 86% Christian . <p> However , this has dwindled since 1994 , when the PA took control of the city . The last census in 2017 showed Bethlehem was 10% Christian families , but many have left , or are leaving , due to systemic socio-economic hardships and instability , discrimination , and harassment , including of Christian clergy , by Muslim Palestinians and the Islam-dominated Palestinian Authority . <p> Bethlehem also serves as an example of Christians undergoing forced conversion to Islam , a phenomenon that Gaza 's Bishop Alexios , warned of in 2016 . " Christians who converted to Islam did so under threats and violence , " Alexios said at the time . 
@@119252976 <p> Hundreds of pro-Palestinian protesters are gathered to protest the Israeli offensives in Gaza outside the Federal Building in San Francisco , May 31 , 2024. ( photo credit : Tayfun Coskun/Anadolu via Getty Images ) <p> A group of Northern California residents has filed a class-action lawsuit against their congressional representatives , Democrats Mike Thompson and Jared Huffman , accusing them of causing harm to local communities and to Palestinians in Gaza by voting to send billions in US military aid to Israel . <p> The lawsuit , filed Thursday in San Francisco federal court , claims the lawmakers caused " moral and emotional/psychic injury " to taxpayers by voting for aid that , the plaintiffs allege , contributes to genocide in Gaza . Both Israel and the Biden administration reject that Israel is committing genocide in its war against Hamas in Gaza . <p> The lawsuit is the latest example of how debates over Israel and Gaza have moved to the courts since the outbreak of the war following Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack . Several months ago , federal courts dismissed a lawsuit by pro-Palestinian groups , also filed in the Bay Area , accusing the Biden administration of complicity in a genocide . A federal appeals court panel confirmed a ruling by a lower court that the judiciary can not intervene to change the government 's foreign policy . <p> Survivors of the Oct. 7 attack and Jewish groups have filed a series of suits over the attack against pro-Palestinian nonprofits , the United Nations ' Palestinian aid agency UNRWA and foreign governments allied with Hamas . In addition , Jewish students have filed suit against multiple universities accusing them of not taking sufficient measures against antisemitism on campus . <p> The Bay Area case seeks to bar Thompson and Huffman from approving future military aid to Israel and demands damages for the emotional distress caused by war , including " uncontrollable weeping , inability to sleep , distractions from work , despair for the future of their children and humanity . " People hold placards and flags during a demonstration in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza , ahead of the October 7 attack anniversary , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , in Dublin , Ireland October 5 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/CLODAGH KILCOYNE ) <p> At a press conference outside the courthouse where the lawsuit was filed , Linda Helland , a Mendocino County resident and plaintiff , said the representatives ' votes make her and other constituents " complicit " in the violence . Another plaintiff , Palestinian American Tarik Kanaana of Sonoma County , said Thompson 's actions amounted to aiding in " the killing of my own people . " <h> Nearly two dozen plaintiffs so far <p> Twenty one plaintiffs are named in the lawsuit but organizers are aiming to add as many as 1,000 participants if the court allows the lawsuit to proceed . A lawyer for the plaintiffs said the lawsuit , with its focus on the rights of taxpayers , was designed differently than the one that was tossed out . <p> " We 're not asking the court to tell Congress to make policy , " attorney Dean Royer told the Chronicle . " We 're asking the court to say taxpayer dollars can not be used to fund genocide . " <p> The positions of Thompson and Huffman reflect those of many Democratic lawmakers who back Israel 's right to defend itself from Hamas , but have called for minimizing civilian casualties . In April , they voted in favor of a $26.4 billion military aid package for Israel . Thompson and Huffman have also expressed support for a ceasefire and long-term solutions , including a two-state framework that would see a Palestinian state established alongside Israel . <p> " Congressman Thompson understands that it has been the civilian population that has paid the cost of Hamas ' terrorist attack on Israel and he remains gravely concerned about the scale of civilian loss in this war , " read a statement from the congressman 's office to local media . " That 's why he has advocated and continues to advocate for the Biden Administration to work with the State Department and our allies to help secure a negotiated bilateral ceasefire , the immediate release of all hostages , and the establishment of a two-state solution to ensure peace and self-determination for the Palestinian and Israeli people . " 
@@119252979 <h> The last day of the four-dayer includes the annual gathering of the World Federation of Tunisian Jewry and the community 's Eid al-Banat festivities . <p> Gil Ron Shama wants us to come together , and music , he believes , is the way to go about it . <p> The 52-year-old musician , storyteller , dancer , and producer intends to proffer the street-level collateral for that viewpoint at the Bamizrach ( In The East ) Festival , which takes place in Lod December 26-29 , with Shama serving as artistic director for the second year in succession . <p> The ninth edition of the festival finds us still at war , with around 100 Israelis and others languishing in Gaza , and the country as a whole no less traumatized by the Hamas barbarism unleashed on our southern communities last October 7 . <p> Notwithstanding the lamentable national and personal state of affairs , Shama feels the time is ripe for bridging gaps and for healing , and that he can help us proceed along that desirable course of action . <p> He certainly has the street cred to give it a shot . " Following my work as artistic director of the Mekudeshet Festival and the Sufi Festival , the Lod Municipality and asked me to create a festival fueled by the demographic mosaic of the city , a festival which has across-the-board appeal but also digs deep into the ethnic roots , " Shama explains . " I take and break down Lod 's ethnic and traditional domain , and forge this musical odyssey based on that cross section . " <p> That manifold approach resonates in the program of events and concerts across the four days , with the likes of ethnically leaning rock megastar Berry Sakharof filling the guest artist berth at the Diwan Halev date when the ensemble -- founded by Shama -- brings the curtain down on the festival at Heichal Hatarbut ( December 29 , 8:30 p.m . ) . The show forms part of the troupe 's ongoing 20th anniversary national circuit , with Shama et al . performing traditional Eastern Jewish music with more than the odd contemporary twist . <p> As around one-quarter of Lod 's residents are Arabs , I presumed Shama 's programming takes that into account , despite the principal line of festival genre thinking pointing firmly in the direction of Jewish liturgical music , albeit from Arabic-speaking climes . <h> Content connected to Eastern culture , including Arabic <p> " Most of the content is connected to Eastern culture , which , in fact , includes a lot of Arabic , " Shama notes . We return to the common denominator theme . " There are things in the world of music which are not separate or divisive , as they are in the geopolitical arena . " Thank god for that . <p> Shama says the proof of the unison pudding is right there in full view . " If an Arab from Lod sits in the audience of a concert of music from the Tunisian Jewish community , he will hear Tunisian music sung in Arabic . " <p> That may be so , but in general Jewish liturgical music is sung in Hebrew , and often in the synagogue . Surely , for a Muslim or Christian , that will require some cerebral and cultural flexing . <p> Shama brings us back to the melodic side of the tracks , with some added harmonic inter-community coalescing . " A large portion of the piyutim Jewish liturgical songs are based on Arabic folk tunes . Again , there are no divisions in the world of liturgical music , because the majority of this material dates back to a time when Jews and Arabs shared the ' diwan ' -- the space where sacred songs are sung . Two hundred years ago , when a Jewish singer sang ' Allah , ' that did not entail any of the political Zionist inflation , " Shama points out . " It just meant ' God . ' When a Jew and a Muslim sat together on a street in Egypt and sang together , there were different connotations involved , without any political baggage . " <p> That sounds entirely refreshing and suggests that one can , indeed , get away from all the political and sociopolitical fissures simply by singing , or listening to , music together . <p> He took his first steps in the performing arena in the wildly successful world music band Sheva , which , back in the late nineties and early 2000s , was pretty much the musical spearhead of the then highly popular New Age scene here . <p> He recalls those halcyon days and notes that each of the seven band members brought something else to the communal fray . <p> " Mine was my love for the Hebrew language , " he says . " That was my trip . We do n't have oil or diamonds here . This country 's great treasure is the language . " <p> That naturally led Shama in the direction of liturgical material and the works of some of the great writers , such as 11th-century poet and philosopher Shmuel Ibn Gvirol and late-11th-century , early-12th-century rabbi , philosopher , linguist , and poet Moshe Ibn Ezra . <p> The rise of New Age culture here was largely spawned by people coming home from post-army backpacking sojourns in India , some of whom brought the custom of sacred singing circles with them . <p> " I said , let 's do that in Hebrew , " Shama recalls . " I wanted to connect our past with everything we brought with us from India . " <p> SHAMA IS still at the forefront of that endeavor , which informs his programmatic choices for the Bamizrach Festival . <p> The last day of the four-dayer includes the annual gathering of the World Federation of Tunisian Jewry and the community 's Eid al-Banat festivities , which have been marked for millennia and celebrate the lead women have taken throughout Jewish history in the realms of rebellion , heroism and sacrifice . <p> Media personality Jackie Levy , whose family hails from Tunisia , will be on hand to relate some tales of yore , with liturgical singer ( paytan ) Daniel Saadon performing the musical slot and writer Esther Dagan Kaniel sharing some textual gems with the audience . <p> There is also an original festival-specific production in the lineup , which takes place at Heichal Hatarbut on December 28 ( 8:30 p.m . ) . The show stars radio presenter-cum-vocalist Livnat Ben-Hamou and singer-songwriter Orian Shukrun . <p> " Livnat went through a kind of personal transformation in the wake of COVID-19 and the war , and came into public view as a singer , " Shama explains . " This show is about very personal singing , but also very troubadour-like , and also liturgical . Livnat connects with her Moroccan roots . " <p> There is some added value too . " Livnat and Orian will host veteran singer-songwriter Micha Shitrit . It is going to be something special . " <p> For tickets and more information : ( 08 ) 698-6167 and lod.smarticket.co.il 
@@119274474 <p> One Minnesotan ran for vice president , another mounted a primary campaign against the sitting president . A state senator 's burglary arrest upended the 2024 legislative session , and Minnesota Democrats lost their trifecta control of state government . <p> Here 's a look at the top 10 political stories of the year in Minnesota . <h> Gov . Tim Walz 's vice-presidential run <p> Gov . Tim Walz takes the stage at a rally on the waterfront in Erie , Pa. , in front of around 2,000 supporters on Sept. 5 . ( Glen Stubbe ) <h> Minnesota Rep. Dean Phillips challenges Biden <p> Dean Phillips takes the stage at his election night party after a stronger showing than expected in the New Hampshire primary on Jan. 23 . ( Glen Stubbe/The Minnesota Star Tribune ) <p> U.S. Rep. Dean Phillips was among the first Democrats in the country to call for Biden to step aside . The congressman representing Minnesota 's Third District had repeatedly warned that Biden was too old and unpopular to win re-election . But Democrats were n't listening , so Phillips mounted a defiant primary campaign against the president . <p> Phillips challenged Biden in more than a dozen states ' Democratic primary elections early this year . His best showing came in New Hampshire , where he won nearly 20% of the vote . But his campaign fizzled elsewhere , including in his home state . He ended his long-shot presidential campaign in March and endorsed Biden . <p> Several months later , other Democrats came around to what Phillips had been saying for two years . They called for Biden to step aside after watching him struggle in his first debate against Trump . After being ostracized by other Democrats , Phillips was vindicated . <h> DFL state senator arrested for burglary <p> The April burglary arrest of DFL state Sen. Nicole Mitchell sent shock waves through the State Capitol and upended the final months of Minnesota 's legislative session . The senator from Woodbury was arrested and charged with first-degree burglary , accused of breaking into her stepmother 's Detroit Lakes home to take some of her late father 's belongings . Political fallout quickly ensued . Senate Republicans filed an ethics complaint against Mitchell and attempted to expel her from the chamber , while Democrats defended her as they clung to a narrow 34-33 majority . <h> Legislative session 's bitter end <p> House GOP leader Lisa Demuth objected to Democrats merging several bills on topics ranging from higher education to gun safety into a monster 1,400-page omnibus . <p> The Minnesota Legislature 's 2024 session ended in chaos . Democrats who controlled the House and Senate scrambled to pass their remaining bills in the 11th hour while Republicans filibustered . With time running short , Democrats merged several remaining bills on topics ranging from higher education to gun safety into a monster 1,400-page omnibus . They cut off floor debate and passed the massive bill in a single vote . <p> Cries of " tyranny " and " communism " rang through the Capitol as dozens of Republicans screamed into their microphones in protest . Some legislators and political observers were shaken as they watched the spectacle unfold , and they questioned if the Legislature could recover from such a meltdown . <p> In the aftermath , Democrats and Republicans blamed each other for the divisive end . DFL leaders said Republicans should n't have filibustered , while GOP leaders said Democrats mismanaged the legislative clock in the session 's final weeks . <h> Minnesotans get prominent roles at DNC , RNC <p> Minnesota U.S. Rep. Tom Emmer joined Donald Trump and JD Vance in the VIP seating at the Republican National Convention in Milwaukee on July 16 . ( Glen Stubbe/The Minnesota Star Tribune ) <p> At the Democratic National Convention in Chicago , Walz gave the biggest speech of his political career , rallying Democrats in support of Harris . Walz 's family proudly watched on , and his son 's heartfelt reaction -- he cried , stood up and mouthed the words , " That 's my dad ! " -- quickly went viral on social media . <p> Lt. Gov . Peggy Flanagan also had a prominent role in Chicago as one of four DNC co-chairs . She helped gavel convention proceedings open and closed , and introduced speakers such as Biden and former President Barack Obama . <p> Minnesota Republican U.S. Rep. Tom Emmer snagged a prime-time speaking slot at the Republican National Convention in Milwaukee , where he cemented himself as a top Trump backer . Emmer was welcomed into Trump 's inner circle afterward , joining the former president and Ohio Sen. Vance in their box off the convention floor . <p> It was a remarkable turnaround for Emmer , coming less than a year after Trump tanked the Minnesotan 's bid to become speaker of the U.S. House . <h> ' Uncommitted ' movement <p> At the DNC in Chicago on Aug. 20 , uncommitted delegate Dan Engelhart holds a sign representing Palestinians killed in the war in Gaza . ( Ren ? e Jones Schneider/The Minnesota Star Tribune ) <p> About 46,000 Minnesotans voted " uncommitted " in the state 's Democratic presidential primary election , a major showing of discontent with how Biden handled the war in Gaza . The " uncommitted " faction was stronger than expected in Minnesota , earning 11 delegates to the DNC in Chicago . <p> Minnesota sent more uncommitted delegates than any other state . Those delegates made silent statements on the convention floor , writing " arms embargo now " on the backs of their hands and then placing their hands over their mouths during Biden 's speech . Other delegates stood up and lifted signs to block the protest from being seen by TV cameras . <h> Anti-establishment activists rise up in MNGOP <p> Royce White takes the stage at the state Republican Party convention after winning the GOP endorsement to run against Sen. Amy Klobuchar . ( Glen Stubbe/The Minnesota Star Tribune ) <p> Anti-establishment activists flexed their growing power in the Republican Party of Minnesota this year . They blocked Republican U.S. Rep. Michelle Fischbach from winning the GOP endorsement , rallying behind her conservative primary challenger Steve Boyd . Fischbach still cruised to victory , easily defeating both Boyd and her general election challenger . <p> At the state GOP convention , the activists ordered party leaders to write a letter in support of people charged in connection with the Jan. 6 , 2021 , riot at the U.S. Capitol . And they helped former NBA player Royce White , who promotes conspiracy theories and has a history of legal and campaign finance issues , win the GOP endorsement to face Democratic U.S. Sen. Amy Klobuchar . White ended up losing to Klobuchar by about 16 percentage points . <h> DFL trifecta broken <p> Republicans flipped three Minnesota House seats in the November election and ended the DFL 's trifecta control of state government . The GOP slammed Democrats on the campaign trail for spending most of a historic state budget surplus while also raising some taxes . <p> During their two-year trifecta , Democrats used the surplus to pour billions into education , infrastructure and new government programs . They legalized recreational marijuana , passed stricter gun laws , created a free school meals program and codified abortion rights , among other things . <p> The Minnesota House was poised to be tied 67-67 for the first time since 1979 , but a district court judge ruled last week that a newly elected DFL candidate did n't meet residency requirements and is ineligible to serve . Pending an appeal , Republicans will temporarily hold a one-seat majority in the House until a special election can be held to fill the safely blue Roseville seat . The DFL and GOP had already agreed on House committee membership , but they had n't decided who would be speaker . Republicans could choose to set their own structure if they end up with brief control . <p> Minnesota went from having a record budget surplus to seeing a projected deficit on the horizon . Earlier this month , state budget officials forecast a $616 million surplus in the next two-year budget cycle and a $5.1 billion deficit in the 2028-29 biennium . The outlook gave legislators whiplash and prompted Walz and DFL leaders to defend their spending decisions . <p> State leaders said the fiscal reversal is driven by the ballooning costs of special education and long-term care for adults with disabilities . Democrats argued that those are ongoing issues that would n't have been solved by a one-time surplus . However , stowing away more of the previous surplus could have provided a short-term cushion against the headwinds . <p> Lawmakers will return to St. Paul on Jan. 14 to decide whether to start making budget adjustments now or wait to see how the economy changes over the next four years . <h> Government fraud concerns grow <p> Members of the FBI supervise the removal of boxes and electronic equipment from Smart Therapy Center 's business office in Minneapolis on Dec. 12 . ( Elizabeth Flores/The Minnesota Star Tribune ) <p> The Walz administration found itself under intense scrutiny over the summer when the nonpartisan Office of the Legislative Auditor ( OLA ) issued a pair of scathing reports . The OLA found that the Department of Education 's inadequate oversight of a federally funded meals program created opportunities for Feeding Our Future to steal $250 million . And the OLA found that the Department of Labor and Industry did n't adequately verify the eligibility of people who received checks from a $500 million front-line worker pay program . 
@@119275377 <p> Plans to repeal Obamacare and pardon Jan. 6 rioters , however , lack majority support among Utah voters . <p> SALT LAKE CITY -- Utahns are largely supportive of President-elect Donald Trump 's policy promises , including his plans to conduct deportations and reduce U.S. involvement abroad , a new poll found . <p> The latest Deseret News/Hinckley Institute of Politics poll , conducted by HarrisX , asked registered Utah voters if they support or oppose 20 of Trump 's stated policy promises , from his plan to end the conflict between Israel and Hamas to replacing the Affordable Care Act . <h> On immigration , Utahns show partial support <p> Trump 's promise to conduct deportations for unauthorized immigrants who have committed crimes in the U.S. found widespread popularity among Utahns : 86% of all Utah voters said they support his plan , including 83% of Hispanics , 69% of Democrats and 73% of Kamala Harris voters . <p> But Trump 's plan to expand deportations to other noncriminal unauthorized immigrants is less popular . When asked if they support deportations for unauthorized immigrants who are " on public assistance , " 64% of Utah voters say they do . Only 50% of Hispanics and 33% of Democrats agree . <p> In Utah , public benefits are limited to " qualified " noncitizens , which does not include unauthorized immigrants . Public benefits are denied to unauthorized immigrants with only limited exceptions . <p> Utah Gov . Spencer Cox has expressed support for Trump 's plans to deport criminals . In November , he released a statement outlining the state 's plans to cooperate with the federal deportation effort . During his monthly press briefing last week , Cox slammed the Biden administration for allowing " porous borders " and for not " taking this stuff seriously . " <p> " If you commit crimes , I do n't care if they 're violent or nonviolent , yes , you should not be here , " Cox said Thursday . " You should n't have been here in the first place , but you definitely should not be here . " <p> Utah voters are largely supportive of Trump 's border plans . When asked if they support Trump 's plans to close the border " by reinstating past immigration policies that discouraged illegal immigration , " 76% of Utah voters say they do . <h> Utahns support plans to end wars in Gaza , Ukraine <p> Trump 's plans to decrease U.S. involvement abroad and end the ongoing conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine enjoy widespread support from Utah voters . <p> A majority of Utah voters -- 70% -- say they support Trump 's plan to " reduce U.S. engagement in foreign conflicts . " <p> When asked if they support " ending the conflict between Israel and Hamas in Gaza by demanding the full surrender of Hamas and the return of hostages , " 71% of Utah voters say they do . <p> The Biden administration has made repeated efforts to reach a cease-fire deal between Israel and Hamas . In recent days , U.S. national security adviser Jake Sullivan dispatched to Israel to meet with Israeli and Hamas leaders . But attempts to broker a halt to the 14-month-long war have repeatedly faltered . <p> During his campaign , Trump pitched himself as the " greatest friend " Jews ever had in the White House . Last week , Trump vowed that " all hell is going to break out " if Hamas does not release its hostages by Jan. 20 , the day he takes office . Earlier this month , in a social media post , Trump warned that there " will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity . Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . " <p> Utah voters agree with Trump 's plan to kneecap Iran in an effort to secure peace in the region . A majority -- 66% -- of Utah voters support " imposing sanctions and other costs on Iran for attacking Israel and destabilizing the Middle East . " <p> But Utah voters are somewhat more tepid about Trump 's plan to end the war in Ukraine . Trump has refused to say whether he wants Ukraine to win the war , and he suggested that Ukraine will have to accept compromises -- including perhaps ceding land -- in order to reach a cease-fire . Trump 's critics note that Russia started the war , and have declared the Ukraine-Russia conflict as a clear good versus evil . <p> During a visit to Salt Lake City in July , Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called the war " one of the most transparent battles between good and evil in our time . " Zelenskyy was welcomed and praised by Utah government officials and civic leaders , including Cox . <p> In the poll , Utah voters were asked if they support " ending the war in Ukraine as soon as possible by freezing the current conflict lines , creating a demilitarized zone between Ukraine and Russia , and making sure Ukraine receives security guarantees from the West but stays neutral and does n't join . " Only 58% of Utah voters say they do , making it the third-least popular policy of the 20 polled . <h> Thumbs-up for Trump 's economic plans , tariffs <p> Trump 's policy promises to lower taxes , impose tariffs on foreign adversaries and increase domestic oil production all enjoy widespread support among Utahns . <p> The most popular economic promises are Trump 's vows to end taxes on Social Security payments , which 85% of Utah voters support , and to achieve 3% annual economic growth , which 84% of Utah voters support . <p> His plan to end taxes on tips for hospitality workers -- a mainstay of Trump 's campaign in Western states -- is supported by 78% of Utah voters , and his promise to expand the child tax credit is backed by 72% . <p> A major legislative victory during Trump 's first term was the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act , which reduced tax rates for corporations and individuals , is set to expire in 2025 . A majority of Utahns -- 59% -- would like to see Congress make the 2017 tax cuts " permanent . " <p> Trump has vowed to sign a Day 1 executive order that would fast-track permits for domestic oil drilling . Trump 's pick for Treasury secretary , Scott Bessent , has suggested the U.S. should increase energy production by 3 million barrels of oil per day -- a plan 68% of Utah voters support . <p> Perhaps the most controversial aspect of Trump 's economic plans is his promise to levy tariffs against U.S. allies and foes alike . Trump claims the tariffs would spur domestic manufacturing and punish other countries for predatory trade practices . <p> A majority of Utah voters support the plan , at least in regard to China : 61% of Utah voters say they support " imposing new trade tariffs on China to help American manufacturing . " <h> 2 unpopular plans : Obamacare and Jan. 6 pardons <p> Only two of Trump 's promises included in the poll failed to garner majority support from Utah voters : his plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act , and his promise to pardon the Jan. 6 rioters . <p> Since his first term in office , Trump has promised to replace the Affordable Care Act -- colloquially called " Obamacare " -- with his own health care plan . But he has never revealed the details of his health care solution , famously quipping during the September debate he has only " concepts of a plan . " <p> Over 45 million Americans rely on the the Affordable Care Act for health care . <p> When asked if they support Trump 's plan to replace it , only 48% of Utah voters say they do , including just 16% of Democrats . <p> Trump 's vow to " pardon those charged with crimes on Jan 6 " is even more unpopular : only 35% of Utah voters support that plan . Even among Utah Republicans , just 48% say they support it . <p> Trump has dangled pardons for the more than 1,500 people charged in federal courts for their role in the Jan. 6 , 2021 , attack on the U.S. Capitol . Trump has suggested some of those pardons will come on his first day in office . <p> ? <p> The Key Takeaways for this article were generated with the assistance of large language models and reviewed by our editorial team . The article , itself , is solely human-written . <h> Related topics <p> Samuel Benson is the national political correspondent for the Deseret News . He covers the 2024 presidential election . He worked as the lead researcher on two best-selling books : " Romney : A Reckoning , " by McKay Coppins ; and " Barkley : A Biography , " by Timothy Bella . He studied sociology and Spanish at Brigham Young University . When not writing or reading , Benson enjoys cycling and hiking in Utah 's beautiful outdoors . 
@@119278368 <h> Now more than ever , Jews and Muslims must stand united GUEST COMMENTARY <h> Share this : <p> People gather around the 10-foot menorah during Hanukkah on the Pier event at the end of the San Clemente pier hosted by Chabad of San Clemente in San Clemente , Calif. , Sunday , Dec. 18 , 2022 . ( Leonard Ortiz/The Orange County Register via AP , File ) <p> The 13-month period that began with the eruption of the Israel-Gaza war on Oct. 7 , 2023 , and culminated in Donald Trump 's victory in the U.S. presidential election was a disastrous period for Muslim-Jewish relations in America , and , not coincidentally , for the cause of democracy , pluralism , free speech and religious freedom . Now , with dangerous policy changes set to follow , American Muslims and Jews must urgently restore positive relations . We must do so to help save America from an authoritarian and nativist future threatening our well-being and that of a panoply of other minority communities dependent on principles of diversity and mutual acceptance . <p> Fortunately , we have already proven that Muslim-Jewish solidarity is not an impossible dream . During the first two decades of the 21st century , tens of thousands of grassroots Muslims and Jews got to know each other through synagogue-mosque " twinning " events , building personal friendships and ties of cooperation . This groundwork paid off during the first Trump administration in a shared agenda promoting pluralism and fighting back against antisemitism and Islamophobia . The operating credo for both sides was that Muslims and Jews must stand up for each other when members of either community are victimized . <p> Yet today , outraged and traumatized by the Gaza-Israel war , American Jews and Muslims have retreated into their respective tribal corners . Instead of standing together against the upsurge in antisemitism and Islamophobia in the United States , they are lashing out at each other . <p> The Republican Party has exploited the increase in antisemitism , even as they ignored the rise in Islamophobia , to split our two communities . Meanwhile , the Biden administration failed to find the requisite political will to bring about a ceasefire and restore humanitarian aid in Gaza , leading to disillusionment and despair among many Muslims and Jews . <p> Muslims and Jews need to remember that while most of us care deeply about Israel and Palestine , we live side by side in America , not in the Middle East . We need to agree to disagree respectfully on Israel-Gaza while prioritizing rebuilding our alliance in defense of democracy and pluralism . <p> We can start by standing together against Trump 's plan to round up and detain millions of undocumented people before expelling them from the country . We must find a humane formula for the immigration issue . Let us not forget the timeless injunction in both our faiths to " welcome the stranger " and that millions of American Jews and Muslims came here to escape life-threatening violence and oppression . <p> We must speak out against efforts to erode the separation of church and state in ways that empower ascendent Christian nationalism at the expense of the rights of minority faiths . Today Republican-led state governments are aggressively pushing conservative Christian principles into the public schools . Oklahoma has announced the creation of an Office of Religious Liberty and Patriotism and called for students to pray for President-elect Trump . In Texas , the state education board has rolled out a new " voluntary " elementary school curriculum filled with Bible stories . <p> Jews and Muslims need to stand up for the principle of free speech , including speech that members of both communities may find offensive . Influential Jewish organizations need to cease efforts to weaponize antisemitism , such as pushing Congress to write into law a definition of antisemitism that characterizes criticism of Israeli policies as indicative of antisemitism . The soon-to-be Trump administration has signaled that it intends to withhold federal funding from many of America 's top universities under the spurious claim that they are encouraging antisemitism . This should be anathema to a Jewish community that defended freedom of expression during McCarthyism and the Vietnam War but now seems inclined to outlaw anti-Zionism . Muslim leaders should emphasize the rights of Jewish students to proclaim solidarity with Israel and condemn threats to their physical safety . <p> Let 's be honest ; it is both risky and scary to stand up to a soon-to-be president who has vowed to exact retribution on his political enemies . Might it not be better for Jews and Muslims to lie low for the moment ? The hard truth is that we can not afford to do that . Once fundamental rights are taken away , getting them back is difficult . <p> At this perilous hour , we need people of faith to be a collective voice of conscience in upholding the values of brotherhood in staunch opposition to hatred and bigotry . Yet there can be no credible interfaith movement without Jews and Muslims , the two largest minority faith communities in America , at its core . <p> Therefore , let us show each other compassion over the pain both communities feel about the cataclysm in Israel-Palestine , while we focus on rebuilding our alliance . We need to heal our breach to help save America from the totalitarian whirlwind bearing down upon all of us . <p> Sabeeha Rehman and Walter Ruby , who lives in Frederick , are co-authors of " We Refuse to Be Enemies " ( Arcade Press 2021 ) and longstanding advocates for Muslim-Jewish friendship and cooperation . 
@@119279879 <p> A newborn baby froze to death in a tent encampment in Al-Mawasi , in southern Gaza , on Wednesday , highlighting the stark challenges to survival faced by Palestinian children displaced from their homes amid Israel 's ongoing assault on the strip . <p> Sela Mahmoud Al-Fasih " froze to death from the extreme cold " in Al-Mawasi , Dr. Munir Al-Bursh , the director general of the Ministry of Health in Gaza , posted on X on Wednesday . <p> In the past 48 hours , Al-Fasih and at least two other infants -- a three-day-old and a one-month-old -- have died from low temperatures and a lack of access to warm shelter , Dr. Ahmed Al-Farra , the head of pediatrics and obstetrics at Nasser Hospital , in Khan Younis , told CNN . <p> Al-Mawasi , a coastal region west of Rafah , previously designated by Israel as a " humanitarian area , " has repeatedly come under Israeli attacks . Thousands of displaced Palestinians have moved there in search of refuge , living for months in makeshift tents made of cloth and nylon . <p> CNN footage from a courtyard in Al-Mawasi showed Al-Fasih 's small body wrapped in white shrouds , her 31-year-old father , Mahmoud , holding her . In another scene , a group of young Palestinian men and boys crouch by her grave . <p> " Sela died from the cold , " her mother , Nariman , told CNN on Wednesday . " I was warming her and holding her . But ... We did n't have extra clothes for me to warm this girl . " The video showed Al-Fasih 's face had turned blue . <p> Israel 's assault , launched after the Hamas-led October 7 attack , has gutted Gaza 's once-lively neighborhoods , erased entire families , and spawned a humanitarian crisis of starvation , displacement and rampant disease . More than 45,000 Palestinians have been killed and 107,000 people injured , the health ministry there reported on Monday . <h> ' War on children ' <p> Human rights advocates have warned that Palestinian children are bearing the brunt of Israel 's bombardment and siege . <p> More than 17,600 children have been killed since the war started , Dr Al-Bursh said on Wednesday . One child in Gaza is killed every hour , the chief of the UN 's agency for Palestine refugees , Philippe Lazzarini , said on Tuesday , citing UN data . <p> Mahmoud Al-Fasih holds the body of his three-week-old daughter Sela before laying her to rest . <p> CNN <p> As many as 17,000 children have been left unaccompanied or separated from their parents and caregivers , the International Rescue Committee reported in October . Others struggle to find enough food , water and warmth , as Israel 's siege has drained supplies . <p> Children are unable to receive adequate care in the medical system , which has been paralyzed by Israel 's attacks , doctors have told CNN . Just 20% of neonatal care units are operational in the Gaza Strip , according to Dr Al-Farra . Premature babies are dying due to lack of medical supplies including ventilators , while doctors are forced to triage cases to save children 's lives , he said . <p> Nariman Al-Fasih speaks with CNN about the death of her daughter . <p> CNN <p> The UN 's children 's agency , UNICEF , warned that many displaced children in Gaza are wearing little more than the clothes on their backs -- after many were forced to flee Israel 's bombardment in summer clothes , earlier this year . <p> " For over 14 months , children have been at the sharp edge of this nightmare ... In Gaza the reality for over a million children is fear , utter deprivation and unimaginable suffering , " Rosalia Bollen , a UNICEF communications specalist , said in a statement on December 20 . <p> " The war on children in Gaza stands as a stark reminder of our collective responsibility . A generation of children is enduring the brutal violation of their rights and the destruction of their futures . " <p> CNN has reached out to the Israel Defense Forces for comment on the deaths of the three infants in Al-Mawasi. 
@@119282561 <h> We need to find the crack in the darkness - editorial <h> Only through the cracks can the light begin to seep in . <p> Hanukiah at the Western Wall ( photo credit : WESTERN WALL HERITAGE FOUNDATION ) <p> Tonight , throughout Israel and across the world , Jews will mark the beginning of Hanukkah by lighting the first candle of eight . <p> This year , Hanukkah begins on Christmas Day for the first time in nearly two decades , making it an unusually celebratory event . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu acknowledged the support of Israel 's Christian friends in a holiday message , saying , " At a time when Israel is fighting on seven fronts , we deeply appreciate the steadfast support of our Christian friends around the world . You 've stood by our side , you 've stood by our side resiliently , consistently , forcefully as Israel defends our civilization against barbarism . " <p> That resilience is now needed more than ever as we prepare to light the hanukkiah . Sometimes called the Feast of Dedication , Hanukkah is more widely recognized and lauded as the Festival of Lights , in reference to the illuminating Hanukiah at the heart of the fabled story and celebrations . <p> But for all of the decent Jewish and Christian people in the world celebrating Hanukkah and Christmas this year , there 's a huge impediment to their fully reveling in their respective holidays -- for the 100 hostages still in Gaza and unaccounted for , there 's no light , only an unbelievable nearly 450 days of darkness.A Hanukkah menorah. ( credit : Wikimedia Commons ) <p> Like every other moment of happiness that has come our way since October 7 , 2023 , Hanukkah this year is muted by disbelief , anger , and anguish . Hamas and its terror affiliates , which have caused the worst catastrophe the Gazan people have ever known , are still refusing to concede , release the hostages , and let the devastated coastal enclave begin its long road to recovery . <h> Hannah Katzir <p> The most recent repercussion of the Hamas massacre of October 7 was the death on Tuesday of Kibbutz Nir Oz member Hannah Katzir , 76 , who was released along with 50 other hostages held by Hamas in a deal in November 2023Katzir was kidnapped to the Gaza Strip from Kibbutz Nir Oz on October 7 . Her husband , Rami , was murdered during the massacre . Her son Eldad , taken captive the same day , was later murdered in Gaza.Katzir 's daughter , Carmit , had written in December last year that her mother returned from captivity " both heartbroken and with serious cardiological issues , including broken heart syndrome . " <p> The Katzirs ' story is just one of many unfathomable tragedies that have befallen thousands of families in Israel on October 7 and since - those who fell then , those who have fallen in battle , and all of those who have not returned home , as the country gathers to celebrate one of the most family-oriented holidays in the Jewish calendar . <p> Yet , celebrate we will , as the people of Israel continue to choose life over death and light over darkness . <p> As Rabbi Stewart Weiss states in a column that will appear in this Friday 's Post magazine , " Hanukkah , at its core , is the celebration of miracles - both then and now . Yet exactly which miracles are being referred to is the subject of much debate . " <p> One way to look at it is that the lights of the hanukkiah have illuminated our path through the interminable darkness and continue to light our way toward redemption , writes Weiss . <p> So , when we light the first Hanukkah candle tonight , let 's rejoice at what the Jewish people have and what we 've accomplished -- and the existence and durability of the Jewish homeland , of the state of Israel . <p> But let 's also think about the Jews suffering from persecution and antisemitism , who are too afraid to display the hanukkiah in their windows and will light in secrecy inside , reminiscent of the dark periods of Jewish history . <p> And let 's think about the hostages , some languishing below ground with their mental and physical health deteriorating on a daily basis . If anyone deserves a Hanukkah miracle , it 's them and their families . <p> May the lights from our hanukkiah illuminate a path that reaches them and sends them a message of hope amid their darkness . <p> As the great Jewish poet Leonard Cohen wrote , " There is a crack , a crack in everything ... That 's how the light gets in . " <p> This year , the miracle of Hanukkah will be to find those cracks and shine the light through . 
@@119282562 <h> Our approach should be humanitarian aid , yes , but no to US reconstruction aid or sanctions relief until Syria is unambiguously not jihadist . <p> A New York Times editorial disguised as a front-page news article demanded , " The West must ease financial controls to help the Syrian economy ... the way forward starts with sanctions relief . " The writer , Patricia Cohen , claims " there is widespread agreement ... the single most important step in rebuilding Syria 's economy can be taken only by the United States : Lift the punishing layers of sanctions . " <p> She said , " We discussed the critical need to ensure terrorist groups can not pose a threat inside Syria or externally , including to the US and our partners in the region . Based on our discussion , I told him that we would not be pursuing the Rewards for Justice reward offered . " According to AP , " She told reporters that al-Sharaa had committed to renouncing terrorism . " <p> Mr. President , taking the $10 million terrorist bounty ( Rewards for Justice ) off the HTS rebel leader 's head does not magically change his historical record as the leader of a radical jihadist organization with blood on his hands . <p> The record of Sunni jihadists taking control of authoritarian states and promising moderation and tolerance for Western acceptance is not encouraging . Look at the Taliban in Afghanistan , the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt , as well as the ongoing chaos in Libya post-Gaddafi . Syria 's de facto leader Ahmed al-Sharaa , also known as Abu Mohammed al-Julani , is seen in Damascus , Syria , on December 23 , 2024. ( credit : AMMAR AWAD/REUTERS ) <p> Let 's look at al-Sharaa 's human rights record before we get giddy and believe the HTS leader 's words . HTS was created 13 years ago by al-Qaeda and ISIS leadership , all US-designated terrorists . The US government reported HTS had " committed the war crime of rape and other forms of sexual violence " last year . <p> Add to that torture , stringent imposition of Sharia law in the Idlib province they have administered in northwest Syria , running secret prisons , killing journalists , repressing women , executing opponents , and using child soldiers . <p> As the Washington Institute 's Counterintelligence and Terrorism expert Matthew Levitt wrote , " America 's Syria policy going forward should be based not on trusting new Syrian officials ' words but on verifying their actions ... before considering the removal of sanctions . " <p> Even more damaging to our security interests , one expert featured in the NYT article suggested that our Syrian Kurdish ally ( SDF/YPG ) abandon its oil field revenue to the jihadist rebels who will lead the next government in Damascus . <p> " Oil previously provided around half of the country 's revenues , said Joshua Landis , co-director of the Center for Middle East Studies at the University of Oklahoma . Those fields , he said , belong to the government in Damascus and should be returned to its control . " <h> US foreign aid is a valuable tool for advancing national security interests <p> I WRITE this as someone who believes in the importance and effectiveness of US foreign aid creating disproportionate American leverage and influence in relation to the monies we invest , despite the views of isolationists . It is one of the most critical tools to advance our national security interests . <p> Our primary adversary in the world , China , has bested us in Africa , the Middle East , and Asia with its Belt and Road Initiative , undermining our interests by investing in underdeveloped nations . Unfortunately for those nations , they end up accepting unrepayable loans that the Chinese use to manipulate and extort what they want from these poor countries , a blow to US interests . <p> America 's humanitarian impulse is to help civilians affected by the wars in Gaza , Lebanon , and Syria . This noble impulse accords with our value-based interests as a beacon of democracy . But it will be counterproductive and a waste of American taxpayer dollars unless we know the nature of the new government we are assisting and insist on not being taken for a ride . <p> In Lebanon , the government is still dominated by the Iranian proxy Hezbollah . Reconstruction aid is not a good US investment unless the next Lebanese government is freed from the terrorist group . An election is coming up in January , but I would n't hold my breath for real change in the failed state of Lebanon . <p> Propping up the government in the hopes that it will encourage Lebanese Christians , Druze , and Sunnis to become independent from Hezbollah 's grip is like rearranging Beirut 's parliamentary deck chairs on the Titanic . <p> In Gaza , humanitarian aid is essential , but rebuilding the infrastructure of the Gaza Strip before we know for sure Hamas is not returning to power is a poor investment to advance our interests or those of our ally , Israel . <p> Suppose terrorists like Hamas think the civilian areas they use for weapons factories , holding hostages , and hiding munitions will be rebuilt , as they were after previous wars dating back to 2008 . In that case , we are being played again and should say no , thank you . <p> Other than humanitarian aid of water , food , and fuel that is tightly regulated , at arm 's length from NGOs that are in bed with Hamas , e.g. , UNRWA , America should not invest any money in reconstruction until we are convinced Hamas can not be a military or a governing authority again . This will take time and patience . <p> ELON MUSK and Vivek Ramaswamy are in charge of a new American agency , DOGE , with a fiduciary responsibility not to waste taxpayer dollars . They think America should cut our foreign aid budget . <p> Although most Americans think 25% of the US budget goes for overseas aid , in reality , it is closer to 1% . Foreign aid is a potent tool for American influence worldwide on realpolitik and value-based interests . <p> However , this does not mean prematurely giving reconstruction aid to Gaza , Lebanon , and Syria beyond basic humanitarian needs until the chaos and governing authorities are sorted out . <p> Before we start to celebrate the rise of HTS and listen to the UN 's envoy for Syria , Geir Pedersen , who said Syrian rebel leaders had issued " reassuring statements " about forming a government of " unity and inclusiveness , " we need to pause and remember the ideologically driven imperatives of HTS 's radical jihadism . <p> So , while the press reinvents HTS leader Julani , giving him the benefit of the doubt , or the Biden administration prematurely takes the terrorist tag off him , I hope the next administration formulates a plan to help Syria with both carrots and sticks , rewarding tangible moves toward the US position , and continuing the stick of sanctions until it does so . <p> Therefore , our approach should be humanitarian aid , yes , but no to US reconstruction aid or sanctions relief until Syria is unambiguously not jihadist . <p> The writer is director of MEPIN , the Middle East Political Information Network , and the senior security editor of The Jerusalem Report . He regularly briefs members of Congress and their foreign policy aides . 
@@119282567 <p> Another Hanukkah is upon us , and with it comes a greater responsibility than ever to spread light that cuts through the darkness . <p> With a multifront war ongoing in Israel and antisemitism rising around the world , it may feel difficult or even unnatural to focus on light at a moment like this . Nonetheless , it is time to help the Festival of Lights live up to its name . <p> It is crucial to acknowledge the current challenges and , simultaneously , to keep them in perspective . Growing up around Holocaust survivors -- both in my household and throughout my community - it was always striking how strong , resilient , and hopeful those individuals were despite their experiences with unfathomable darkness . They built their lives around Judaism , family , and love for Israel . <p> Today , we see the same shining qualities from the Israeli people in the aftermath of the heinous atrocities of October 7 . They do not allow trauma and grief to define them . Rather , they respond through volunteerism , connection , engagement , empathy , and bravery . From the soldiers on the battlefield to the family members and friends of the hostages , their grit and determination are unrelenting . <p> In Israel and across the Diaspora , the current generation has something that my parents ' generation did not during the Holocaust -- the tools and the strong identity that empower us to fight back . And the most effective way of fighting back against darkness is to spread light . KARIN MAYER RUBINSTEIN , flanked by Mark Wilf ( left ) chairman of the Board of Governors of the Jewish Agency , and Doron Almog , chairman of the Jewish Agency . ( credit : LIOR DASKAL ) <p> In that regard , world Jewry has resoundingly answered the call since October 7 . From campuses to communities to city councils , advocates for Israel have been energized by an awakening and a unifying force . <p> For many in the global Jewish community , the tragedy of October 7 has made clear a reality that was not as apparent before -- a renewed connection with Israel and a deep understanding of the importance of Israel 's existence are indispensable ingredients to a vibrant Jewish life . <p> Several of The Jewish Agency for Israel 's initiatives demonstrate the extent to which the Diaspora is stepping up for Israel right now . <p> Communities2Gether is pairing 26 Israeli communities highly affected by October 7 with Jewish communities worldwide . Each overseas Jewish community commits to offering at least three years of sustained support to the impacted Israeli town or kibbutz , including financial support of $250,000 annually over three years . <p> Building off the existing success of the Partnership2Gether program , Communities2Gether develops the deep connections that strengthen Jewish communities and a sense of Jewish peoplehood in Israel and worldwide . <p> This past summer , Campers2Gether brought more than 1,500 Israeli teenagers who have been displaced or otherwise affected by the war to Jewish camps in North America and across the Jewish world . This generated positive experiences for the Israeli teens , utilizing the camp community to convey a healing sense of unity while simultaneously providing a platform for global Jewish youth to understand Israel on a personal level . <h> Support of Jews worldwide <p> The generous support of Jews worldwide also enables The Jewish Agency to operate and expand essential programs such as Youth Futures and the Fund for Victims of Terror . <p> One of Israel 's leading positive-intervention programs , Youth Futures partners teen mentors with at-risk children for a long-term period of cooperative learning and growth . The Jewish Agency recently announced a $13 million expansion that will double the program 's budget and enable it to serve 1,600 additional children nationwide . Youth Futures is also now formally recognized as a national program for rehabilitating children . <p> The Fund for Victims of Terror is operating on a wider scale than ever before , given the number of murdered on October 7 and the extent of the property damage throughout communities in the Gaza border region . <p> In as quickly as 48 hours following a terrorist attack , every single individual who suffers either injuries or property damage receives a $1,000 check from the Fund for immediate needs . The Fund also provides long-term rehabilitation grants for up to three years and ongoing support to the victims as they navigate the days after an attack , with this financial support totaling approximately $6,000 . <p> Now , The Jewish Agency is using this Hanukkah to double down on spreading the light . We are organizing " Global Glow , " the world 's largest digital hanukkiah , connecting Jewish communities from every corner of the globe . <p> Participants light a virtual candle to be part of this unequivocal display of unity , while the resulting digital hanukkiah is also being projected throughout the eight days of Hanukkah on the National Institutions building in Jerusalem and on billboards at central junctions across Israel . <p> Global Glow underscores the special connection between Israel and the Diaspora . This connection is a source of light , building the Jewish people 's strength , resilience , and hope . In defiance of darkness , our light will continue to grow , just like the miracle in which one day 's worth of oil grew to last for eight days . <p> This will be our legacy -- a legacy of light . <p> The writer is chairman of the Board of Governors of The Jewish Agency for Israel . 
@@119282569 <h> How much room do growth and unity take up in our consciousness ? <h> Beyond the headlines : A weekly glimpse into the Israel you wo n't read about in the news . <p> How much room do growth and unity take up in our consciousness ? ( photo credit : sivanrahavmeir.com ) <p> What was Joseph 's first statement to Pharaoh ? Remember : Joseph was incarcerated for 12 years in an Egyptian jail when suddenly he was taken out of his cell and brought to the palace to interpret Pharaoh 's dreams . <p> Since we would expect that Joseph would try to dazzle the king with his brilliance , it 's astonishing to hear the first words that come out of his mouth : " Not I ! God will bring an answer that will bring peace to the Pharaoh , " that is to say , it 's not me -- it 's God . I am only the medium , the messenger . Joseph expresses his faith in a simple and straightforward way . He then succeeds in interpreting Pharaoh 's dreams and is ultimately chosen to oversee the entire Egyptian economy . <p> Joseph 's approach reflects the Jewish worldview : He teaches us to make an effort and strive for success in all areas of our lives . But , at the same time , we need to keep in mind who is the ultimate source of our success , who provides us with the tools to succeed , and whom we are representing in this world . <p> In the end , it was the man who said , " Not I ! " whom the king of Egypt could not do without . <h> Who 's telling you the story ? <p> I heard a profound statement this week : " Even the story of the Exodus from Egypt can be told by Pharaoh , not Moses . " In other words , the question in life is : Who is telling you the story ? Who interprets reality for you , explains the bigger picture , and provides the vision of where we are headed and why ? Joseph recognized by his brothers , by L ? on Pierre Urbain Bourgeois , 1863 oil on canvas , at the Mus ? e Municipal Fr ? d ? ric Blandin , Nevers ( credit : L ? on Pierre Urbain Bourgeois/Wikimedia ) <p> Last week , a series of positive , constructive events was highlighted in this space , generating an unusual number of responses . People were eager to share more such stories and to hear about them as well . The following is another collection of recent events that have taken place in Israel . Ask yourself : Have you heard about them ? How much room do growth and unity take up in our consciousness ? <h> A new settlement near Arad : Mitzpeh Yehonatan <p> A new settlement was established in the Negev last week , just two kilometers north of the city of Arad , by a group of 20 young families with dozens of children . This initiative , supported by Arad 's mayor , Yair Maayan , and the Hashomer Hachadash organization , overcame many obstacles and acted swiftly to create something meaningful on the ground . <p> This area , the Arad Valley , has been known as a hotspot for thieves . One of the new residents wrote to me : " Even before all the inquiries and committees , the events of October 7 teach us to take responsibility . We want to protect the Negev 's land and create a different security reality . " <p> But this is n't just about security . The settlement will also focus on agriculture , and the local education system is already benefiting : over 50 children have been enrolled in Arad 's schools , reversing its negative migration trend . It 's not just about 20 families -- this is a revival of the ethos of settlement across the country , showing others the way . <p> The story behind the name " Mitzpeh Yehonatan " is deeply moving : The training base of the Nahal Brigade is nearby , and the brigade commander , Yehonatan Steinberg , met with the project initiators just before Rosh Hashanah 5784 . He was enthusiastic about the initiative . On Simchat Torah , he fell in battle while saving lives . The new settlement honors his name . <h> Remarkable resilience <p> In Kibbutz Be'eri , for the first time since the horrific massacre of October 7 , a Bar Mitzvah was held for Adam Biton in an emotional ceremony . Adam 's grandfather lost his sister during the attack , and Adam himself endured 16 hours in a reinforced shelter with his family . This week , he returned to Be'eri and was called up to the Torah in the kibbutz 's synagogue . Mazal tov , Adam . <p> Agriculture , too , reflects this spirit of resilience . For the first time , a new variety of barley for Israeli whiskey was sown in the fields of Be'eri , which had recently been a battlefield . Chaim Yellin described the significance : " It 's the first time we 're sowing barley locally and not relying on imports . Everything is new : the land , the varieties , and the water . There 's excitement and hope , activity that momentarily overshadows the pain , connecting people to the land . May we soon be able to make a toast together with the freed captives . " <p> Meanwhile , in Kibbutz Nir Oz , a symbolic farewell and demolition ceremony marked the beginning of reconstruction . " The Blue Garden , " a prominent community building , was taken down in a bittersweet event to pave the way for a new beginning . With most of the kibbutz 's homes damaged and a quarter of its population murdered or kidnapped , rebuilding begins with destruction . The invitation to the event read : " This is a moment of strength for a community rising to rebuild from the ruins . " It ended with a phrase that has guided the Gaza envelope communities for years : " Not weary travelers , but pathfinders . " <h> The spirit among hostage families <p> These are incredibly tense days , requiring strength and resilience in the face of rumors , fake news , and the enemy 's attempts to sow discord . <p> More than 200 women gathered in Kiryat Bialik last week to mark the 22nd birthday of hostage Matan Angrest . His mother , Anat , shared how the Jewish people 's support gives her strength as she launched the " Good Deeds for Matan " initiative in partnership with the local Chabad House . Participants are encouraged to visit the website and choose a positive act or mitzvah in his honor . " This , too , is a form of protest , " one attendee said at the end of the evening . <p> In Petah Tikva , the Gilboa family will hold a ceremony for the installation of a new Torah scroll in honor of their kidnapped daughter , Daniela . Her mother , Orly , excitedly shared the invitation . The event will begin at their home and proceed to a nearby synagogue , uniting all sectors of the community . It will conclude with a festive Chanukah candle-lighting ceremony in the hope that light will soon overcome the darkness . <p> Last , Shabbat was declared " Shabbat for the Hostages . " Community Shabbat gatherings took place in city streets , the names of the hostages were mentioned in prayers , and everyone was encouraged to add light and goodness on their behalf . <p> These are just a few examples of events that are nearly unknown to the media but which are incredibly powerful and significant . May we know how to tell the story properly . 
@@119282574 <h> Christmas Eve in Bethlehem : Striving to hold onto hope <h> Local residents share stories of faith and resilience as the city 's economic and social struggles grow amid the ongoing war . <p> By GIORGIA VALENTE/THE MEDIA LINE DECEMBER 25 , 2024 20:59 <p> IDF soldiers are seen standing guard on the lookout for suspects in Bethlehem , on December 3 , 2024. ( photo credit : SETH J. FRANTZMAN ) <p> On Christmas Eve 2024 , Bethlehem 's usually vibrant streets were uncharacteristically subdued . The checkpoint from east Jerusalem was almost empty , and those arriving by car found few shops open . Local residents say the ongoing war has discouraged visitors and compelled many citizens to leave the area . Unlit streets , scant decorations , and the absence of a large Christmas tree gave the city a somber mood , reflecting a collective sense of hardship rather than festive cheer . <p> In Manger Square , a scaled-down holiday parade drew fewer spectators than in earlier years . The Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem offered remarks that emphasized steadfastness and resilience . Throughout the city , police officers were stationed on nearly every street corner , a clear indication of the Palestinian Authority 's efforts to maintain security . Elsewhere , children approached journalists and other visitors , hoping to sell small items or candy -- evidence of the city 's growing economic struggles . Despite these challenges , families and youth still gathered outside the Church of the Nativity , seeking to uphold tradition on a day usually associated with celebration and hope . <p> Over the course of several interviews , local residents shared their reflections on the war 's impact , the complexities of faith , and how Christmas looks for those living in Bethlehem . These interviews will be reported in depth in a coming article . <h> ' Christ in the Rubble ' <p> Rev. Dr. Munther Isaac , senior pastor of the Evangelical Lutheran Christmas Church , explained that the church 's depiction last year of Jesus " in the rubble " was inspired by the daily images of children being pulled from debris . He drew parallels between the Holy Family 's adversity and the plight of Palestinians , especially those in Gaza . Dr. Isaac lamented that while Bethlehem is featured in carols worldwide , many people remain unaware that Palestinian Christians live there . <p> He also voiced concern that certain international policies contribute to the difficulties faced by Christian communities . Some , he said , have no choice but to leave Bethlehem to seek more stable futures . Dr. Isaac noted that although people have grown weary of unfulfilled cease-fire rumors , a spirit of defiance remains among the congregation . Worshippers remain determined to keep Bethlehem 's Christian presence alive , even though many feel deeply abandoned by outside governments and institutions . An IDF soldier is seen standing guard in Bethlehem , on December 3 , 2024. ( credit : SETH J. FRANTZMAN ) <h> A Latin patriarchate perspective <p> Father Ibrahim Faltas , from the Latin Patriarchate of Jerusalem , recalled celebrating Christmas in Bethlehem for 30 years . This year , he said , is the saddest he has witnessed , with no large gatherings of children and no festive d ? cor . Many residents have gone without salaries for more than a year . Bethlehem has effectively become " an open-air prison , " in his words , with restrictions on movement preventing people from working in neighboring areas . <p> Father Faltas expressed particular alarm at the rate of Christian families leaving the city . In his estimation , 147 Christian families have departed Bethlehem since the war began , pushing the local Christian population ever closer to disappearing altogether . He hopes the upcoming year will bring an end to the conflict and allow Christians , Muslims , and others to remain in their shared homeland . <h> Holding onto hope <p> " Anna , " a former tour operator and Bethlehem resident , offered a personal account of how drastically tourism has declined since October 2024 . Previously , she guided pilgrims throughout the Holy Land , from Galilee to Jerusalem . But when the war escalated , her incoming groups plummeted . She described one group that dwindled from 45 to 11 participants , only for three to arrive in the end . <p> Anna 's family situation underscores the complexities of the region . Born in Jerusalem , she has Israeli citizenship , while her husband -- who runs a phone and electrical shop in Bethlehem -- holds a Palestinian ID . Because of different legal statuses , they have faced restrictions on travel . Despite this , Anna emphasized a belief in peace and nonviolence . She sees all people -- Christian , Jewish , or Muslim -- as equally deserving of security and the chance to prosper . <p> She remains determined to stay in Bethlehem , even though she has not worked regularly since the war 's escalation . According to Anna , about 70% of Bethlehem 's economy relies on tourism . With widespread closures and travel bans , families continue leaving for places like Spain , citing the need for jobs and a stable future . Nonetheless , she hopes for a lasting peace , insisting that Christians in Bethlehem should embody their faith through compassion for others . <h> Christmas Eve reflections <p> In these personal accounts , the narrative of Bethlehem 's Christmas Eve unfolds as one of quiet resistance , uncertainty , and perseverance . Parishioners attend churches that , while less crowded than in the past , remain crucial sanctuaries of hope . Religious leaders point to faith as a source of inner fortitude . Residents without work try to support one another and call on global communities to remember that Bethlehem is not just a symbolic birthplace but a living city with real people . <p> From clergy who see Jesus in the faces of displaced Palestinians to citizens yearning for a cease-fire that never seems to arrive , Bethlehem 's Christmas Eve this year reveals a collective plea : Peace is urgently needed . Despite the absence of festive lights and joyful gatherings , the city carries on through sheer willpower and faith in a better future . As Father Faltas put it , hope should never die at the Nativity . <p> On Christmas morning , the bells of Bethlehem will still ring out across its ancient landscape . Whether or not the world hears their message depends on a global willingness to seek an end to the war , show empathy for those suffering , and understand that the Holy Land is more than just a historical backdrop . It is home to individuals -- including Jews , Muslims , Druze , and Christians -- trying to secure a life of dignity and freedom . Their stories reflect both the sorrow of the season and the seeds of hope that Christmas is meant to inspire . 
@@119282575 <h> Hasson was banned from tournaments dedicated to the popular Nintendo fighting game , after anti-Israel players were angered by his pro-Israel social media posts . <p> An attendee uses a Nintendo Switch game console while playing a video game at the Paris Games Week ( PGW ) , a trade fair for video games in Paris , France , November 5 , 2023. ( photo credit : REUTERS/CLAUDIA GRECO ) <p> After a Jewish-American professional video game player was banned from tournaments and group chat servers , allegedly due to his Zionist beliefs , a federal lawsuit was filed on his behalf to the New York Southern District Court last Monday by the National Jewish Advocacy Center . <p> Competitive Super Smash Brothers Ultimate player Felix " T Pot " Hasson was banned from three tournaments and two Discord servers dedicated to the popular Nintendo fighting game , after anti-Israel players were angered by a series of social media posts by Hasson in which he supported the IDF , Israel , and a response to the October 7 massacre . <p> The filing alleged that fellow Smash player Jonathan Mendez called on organizers for Luminosity Gaming 's Luminosity Makes Big Moves ( LMBM ) New York City tournament to ban Hasson . <p> " Why is this racist Zionist weasel allowed at your event ? " Mendez reportedly queried last December under the X alias Antifa Caramel . <p> " How is any Palestinian supposed to feel safe at your major when people who relish in and cheer for the complete extermination of their friends and family are allowed in the same space ? " Illustrative image of men playing online games . ( credit : FLICKR ) <h> Call to action <p> NJAC said that Mendez shared three of Hasson 's posts with his call to action , most of which were made before October 7 . One praised the IDF as " based " and another joked that it would be humorous if Smash players from terrorist-ruled Gaza played the game using characters that utilized bombs in their move sets . In response to the Hamas-led October 7 pogrom , Hasson said " Gaza got something big coming their way for sure . " <p> Player and event organizer Geoffrey " Aerodusk " Tirrell responded to the account the filing identified with Mendez , confirming last December 21 that Hasson had been banned from LMBM . <p> Four days after the LMNM ban , Hasson discovered that he had been banned from the internet Waypoint Cafe 's regular Smash tournaments . This was allegedly confirmed by competitive player and tournament organizer Fawn Chandler , who reportedly told Hasson that the decision was made unanimously by the organizers . The New York City gaming cafe said on December 29 that Hasson had been banned because he incited hate and violence . <p> " T Pot Hasson made tweets laughing at the deaths of civilians , and in recent weeks he was throwing up gang signs in our venue . These actions concerned multiple members of our community and our staff , resulting in his ban , " Waypoint said on X. " Our venue is not for anyone who makes it unsafe for others . " <p> Hasson 's father responded to Waypoint on social media , calling their accusation slander , and explained that " He laughed at the irony of someone celebrating the murder and rape of Jewish women and children and getting their karma due . " <p> Chandler also reportedly told Hasson that all of the tournament organizers in the tri-state area had decided to ban Hasson . The filing listed tri-state area tournament organizer House of 3000 and head administrator Jeffrey Franco as supposedly responsible for this multi-state ban . <h> Banned from tournament <p> Around December 26 , 2023 , Hasson was allegedly banned from the Discord server Smash Crew Server when he attempted to play a January SCS-organized tournament . Hasson was reportedly banned for hate speech on X. Hasson was also reportedly banned from the Ryugacord server in December . <p> NJAC ARGUED that the tournaments and servers engaged in double standards in banning Hasson while not enacting measures against players engaged in racism and violent incitement . Hasson 's father noted on social media that the X account that started the alleged ban campaign against Hasson was " still celebrating Hamas today " and " still plays . " <p> As late as October , the account associated with Mendez according to NJAC had praised Hamas and the October 7 Massacre . The account rejected the civilian designation of those murdered by Hamas on October 7 and said that he was " justifying resistance . " <p> " God willing , Tel Aviv will be reduced to ash within our lifetime , the state of Palestine restored and the United States empire at the very least handicapped , " wrote the Antifa Caramel X account . <p> NJAC alleged that the 20 known and unknown servers and tournament organizers , players , and administrators named in the suit violated his civil rights , discriminating against him for expressing fundamental aspects of his Jewish identity . <p> " For the vast majority of Jewish people across time and space , Zionism , the belief that there should be a sovereign Jewish nation in its ancestral homeland , is an integral aspect of their Jewish ethnic heritage and their racial and national origin identity , " NJAC CEO Mark Goldfeder said in a press release . " As such , it is a protected part of their identity , and they can not be excluded on the basis of holding that belief . " <p> Hasson , who , according to NJAC , became ranked third in Smash in Israel during a 2022 gap year in the country and in 2024 ranked 19 worldwide for the character Terry , supposedly lost the opportunity to win prize money , equipment , and awards because of the ban . <p> NJAC Litigation Counsel and attorney Matthew Mainen said in the same press release that " Prominent leaders in the Smash and greater gamer community have made clear that if you are a Jew whose Jewish identity entails supporting Israel and opposing those who seek its destruction , you will be ostracized , but if you are a non-Jew spewing vile antisemitism and supporting the destruction of Israel , you will be welcomed with open arms . This sort of blatant double standard is exactly the kind of situation civil rights law is designed to eliminate . " 
@@119282579 <h> Both the IDF and the Mossad funded different aspects of the operation , understanding that the goal was to decisively defeat Hezbollah at the right moment , whenever that might be . <p> The IDF on Wednesday made new disclosures about its role in the beeper and walkie-talkie sabotage explosion attacks on Hezbollah from mid-September . <p> The military credited the Mossad with coming up with the earliest concept for pulling off the attacks , around a decade ago . <p> Once the Mossad presented the concept , the intelligence and operations arms of the military started a forceful push to transform the concept into a concrete plan and an actionable weapon . <p> The IDF also created mechanisms to study and compare scenarios for when it would be most effective to deploy the explosions , to achieve the maximum impact and strategic advantage . <h> IDF and Mossad cooperation <p> Both the IDF and the Mossad funded different aspects of the operation , understanding that the goal was to decisively defeat Hezbollah at the right moment , whenever that might be . An illustrative image of a pager. ( credit : FLASH90 ) <p> From the start of the Israel-Hamas War , a brigade-size unit of officers was established to gather the various analysis , intelligence , and operations details required before activating the operation . <p> Many of these officials worked on the operation at an intelligence collection base in the North . <p> The IDF recommended that the cabinet only initiate the operation at a time when the government was ready to conceptually shift its focus to the northern front as the primary military focus -- while leaving the Gaza front as a secondary focus . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has alleged that some security officials opposed using the beeper and walkie-talkie explosions against Hezbollah , but that he overruled them and ordered the operation to go forward . <p> According to the military 's view disclosed on Wednesday , it never opposed using the operation but said that the government first had to shift its focus to declare the North as the main front . 
@@119283560 <p> Something about this Christmas season feels a bit off . The carols are playing and the shops are bustling , but the airwaves are silent . Something is missing ... <p> The war on Christmas ! <p> Remember the big deal it was every year when a war on Christmas was called out ? Debates about the placements of Nativity scenes were considered a part of that war ; a television host declared that Santa Claus could only be white . The stockings were stuffed with books like " The War on Christmas , " and countless hours were devoted to fake outrage that people said " Happy holidays " and not " Merry Christmas . " <p> Remember the big deal it was every year when a war on Christmas was called out ? <p> What were the complaints that there was a war on Christmas in America about ? <p> They were just another part of the culture wars deployed by conservative Republicans and conservative Christians ( Protestant and Catholic ) to complain that Christianity was getting short shrift from the public , from merchants and especially in schools . Much like the holiday Festivus -- which these conservatives would hate in principle because it is secular but agree with in practice -- complaints about a war on Christmas were an annual end-of-year airing of grievances . It was a time amid holiday celebrations to advocate for the primacy of Christianity over other religious traditions and to rail against the perceived ( and sometimes real ) threats to take down religious displays of the holiday . <p> This year , Republicans and conservative Christians have dispensed with whining about a war on Christmas in anticipation of the second coming of their political savior , Donald Trump , into the White House . According to a YouGov poll , the percentage of Americans who believe there is a war on Christmas has fallen since December 2022 , from 39% to 23% . Among Republicans , that percentage has dropped from 59% to 36% . <p> While that is a picture of America overall , that does n't mean that local skirmishes are n't happening in the Christmas wars . For the first time , a group called Minnesota Satanists has a holiday display at the State Capitol in St. Paul , and Republicans have criticized Gov . Tim Walz for its existence . Walz does n't sign off on such displays , and his office released a statement that reads : " The Governor does not agree with the display and did not approve it . But the First Amendment means that he does not police speech in the State Capitol . That 's true whether it 's a religious display , a political protest , or a Minnesotan advocating for a policy . " <p> The percentage of Americans who believe there is a war on Christmas has fallen since December 2022 , from 39% to 23% . <p> The Star Tribune newspaper reports that the display was knocked over one day last week and temporarily removed but was put back in place the next day . Earlier this month , a Satanic Temple holiday display of Baphomet was vandalized at the New Hampshire State House . <p> Fights about Nativity scenes at state capitols and other public places have a long history in America , and they are often used to promote Christianity in the public sphere . But when people who are n't Christian , including satanists , demand equal time , well , things do n't usually turn out too well . <p> This year 's Vatican Nativity scene , designed by two artists from Dar al-Kalima University in Bethlehem , was criticized because it shows the baby Jesus lying on a Palestinian keffiyeh . Usually , the baby Jesus is n't placed into the Vatican Nativity scene until Christmas Eve , but it was put there early to show donors and others what the finished product looked like . The baby was returned on Christmas Eve , as is the custom , but the keffiyeh was gone . <p> The debate at the Vatican is a reminder that there are real wars going on around the world this Christmas season . <p> The debate at the Vatican is a reminder that there are real wars going on around the world this Christmas season : in Ukraine , Gaza , Sudan and many other places . This is n't a peaceful time , by any estimation . Pope Francis is expected to stand on a balcony on Dec. 25 to give his " Urbi et Orbi " ( to the city of Rome and the world ) message . No doubt it will include references to the wars around the world and especially the one between Israel and Hamas . After all , that is in a region where Christian pilgrims from around the world go to celebrate Christmas . The Latin patriarch of Jerusalem is encouraging Christians to come despite the war , but it remains to be seen how they get there with so many airline carriers canceling flights . <p> Declarations that there 's a war on Christmas can be political or philosophical , but most of all they 're a utilitarian means of control . They are a soft , uncivil but nonviolent way of airing grievances . But this Christmas season , it 's time to focus on the real wars around us and work for peace . 
@@119305667 <h> Israel loosened its rules to bomb Hamas fighters , killing many more civilians <p> Emergency responders tried to contain fires at one of the first buildings destroyed by an Israeli airstrike in Gaza City in the northern Gaza Strip on Oct. 7 , 2023 . Samar Abu Elouf/NYT <p> JERUSALEM -- At exactly 1 p.m. on Oct. 7 , 2023 , Israel 's military leadership issued an order that unleashed one of the most intense bombing campaigns in contemporary warfare . <p> Effective immediately , the order granted midranking Israeli officers the authority to strike thousands of militants and military sites that had never been a priority in previous wars in the Gaza Strip . Officers could now pursue not only the senior Hamas commanders , arms depots , and rocket launchers that were the focus of earlier campaigns , but also the lowest-ranking fighters . <p> In each strike , the order said , officers had the authority to risk killing up to 20 civilians . <p> The order , which has not previously been reported , had no precedent in Israeli military history . Midranking officers had never been given so much leeway to attack so many targets at such a high potential civilian cost . <p> Advertisement <p> It meant , for example , that the military could target rank-and-file militants as they were at home surrounded by relatives and neighbors , instead of only when they were alone outside . <p> In previous conflicts with Hamas , many Israeli strikes were approved only after officers concluded no civilians would be hurt . Sometimes , officers could risk killing up to five civilians , and only rarely did the limit rise to 10 or above , though the actual death toll was sometimes much higher . <p> On Oct. 7 , the military leadership changed its rules of engagement because it believed Israel faced an existential threat , according to a senior military officer who answered questions about the order on the condition of anonymity . <p> Hours earlier , Hamas-led terrorists had stormed into southern Israel , seizing towns and army bases , committing atrocities , firing thousands of rockets at civilian areas , killing up to 1,200 people and taking roughly 250 hostages . As Israelis battled Hamas fighters inside their borders , the officer said , Israel 's leaders also feared an invasion from the group 's allies in Lebanon and believed they had to take drastic military action . <p> An investigation by The New York Times found Israel severely weakened its system of safeguards meant to protect civilians , adopted flawed methods to find targets and assess the risk of civilian casualties , routinely failed to conduct post-strike reviews of civilian harm or punish officers for wrongdoing , and ignored warnings from within its own ranks and from senior US military officials about these failings . <p> Advertisement <p> The Times reviewed dozens of military records and interviewed more than 100 soldiers and officials , including more than 25 people who helped vet , approve , or strike targets . Collectively , their accounts provide an unparalleled understanding of how Israel mounted one of the deadliest air wars of this century . Most of the soldiers and officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were barred from speaking publicly on a subject of such sensitivity . The Times verified the military orders with officers familiar with their content . <p> In its investigation , the Times found that : <p> -- Israel vastly expanded the set of military targets it sought to hit in preemptive airstrikes while simultaneously increasing the number of civilians that officers could endanger in each attack . That led Israel to fire nearly 30,000 munitions into Gaza in the war 's first seven weeks , more than in the next eight months combined . <p> -- On a few occasions , senior commanders approved strikes on Hamas leaders that they knew would each endanger more than 100 noncombatants , crossing an extraordinary threshold for a contemporary Western military . <p> -- The military struck at a pace that made it harder to confirm it was hitting legitimate targets . It burned through much of a prewar database of vetted targets within days and adopted an unproven system for finding new targets that used artificial intelligence at a vast scale . <p> -- The military often relied on a crude statistical model to assess the risk of civilian harm and sometimes launched strikes on targets several hours after last locating them , increasing the risk of error . The model mainly depended on estimates of cellphone usage in a wider neighborhood , rather than extensive surveillance of a specific building , as was common in previous Israeli campaigns . <p> Advertisement <p> -- From the first day of the war , Israel significantly reduced its use of so-called roof knocks , or warning shots that give civilians time to flee an imminent attack . And when it could have feasibly used smaller or more precise munitions to achieve the same military goal , it sometimes caused greater damage by dropping " dumb bombs " as well as 2,000-pound bombs . <p> The air campaign was at its most intense during the first two months of the war , when more than 15,000 Palestinians were killed -- or roughly a third of the overall toll , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not differentiate between civilians and combatants . <p> From November 2023 onward , amid a global outcry , Israel began to conserve ammunition and tighten some of its rules of engagement , including by halving the number of civilians who could be endangered when striking low-ranked militants who posed no imminent threat . But the rules remain far more permissive than before the war . Since those early weeks , more than 30,000 Palestinians have been killed , and while Israel disputes the ministry 's figures , the total continues to climb . <p> Provided a summary of the Times ' findings , the Israeli military acknowledged its rules of engagement had changed after Oct. 7 but said in a 700-word statement that its forces have " consistently been employing means and methods that adhere to the rules of law . " <p> The changes were made in the context of a conflict that is " unprecedented and hardly comparable to other theaters of hostilities worldwide , " the statement added , citing the scale of Hamas 's attack , efforts by militants to hide among civilians in Gaza , and Hamas 's extensive tunnel network . <p> Advertisement <p> " Such key factors , " the statement said , " bear implications on the application of the rules , such as the choice of military objectives and the operational constraints that dictate the conduct of hostilities , including the ability to take feasible precautions in strikes . " <p> Israel , which has been accused of genocide in a case before the International Court of Justice , says it complies with international law by taking all feasible precautions to minimize civilian casualties , often by ordering evacuations of whole cities before strikes and posting online maps about imminent operations . <p> Israel says Hamas 's military strategy makes bloodshed more likely . The group embeds itself in the civilian population , firing rockets from residential areas , hiding fighters and weapons inside homes and medical facilities , and operating from underground military installations and tunnels . <p> Unlike Hamas , which fires rockets indiscriminately at civilian areas , Israel and all Western armies operate under a multilayered oversight system that assesses the legality of planned strikes . Each attack plan is usually meant to be analyzed by a group of officers , which often includes a military lawyer who can advise on whether strikes might be unnecessary or unlawful . <p> Under Israeli military protocols , there are four categories of risk for civilian casualties : Level Zero , which forbids soldiers to put any civilians at risk ; Level One , which allows up to five civilian deaths ; Level Two , which allows up to 10 ; and Level Three , which allows up to 20 -- and became the standard on Oct. 7 . <p> Suddenly , officers could decide to drop 1-ton bombs on a vast array of military infrastructure -- including small ammunition stockpiles and rocket factories -- as well as on all Hamas fighters . The definition of a military target included lookouts and money changers suspected of handling Hamas 's funds , as well as the entrances to the group 's underground tunnel network , which were often hidden in homes . <p> Advertisement <p> Authorization from senior commanders was required only if the target was too close to a sensitive site , like a school or health facility , though such strikes were regularly approved too . <p> The effect was swift . Airwars , a London-based conflict monitor , documented 136 strikes that each killed at least 15 people in October 2023 alone . That was almost five times the number the group has documented during any comparable period anywhere in the world since it was founded a decade ago . 
@@119314568 <p> Church of the Nativity.jpeg - Bethlehem 's Church of the Nativity was almost empty on Christmas Eve , Dec. 24 , 2024. ( photo credit : Giorgia Valente/The Media Line ) <p> Bethlehem , the traditional birthplace of Jesus Christ , marked a subdued Christmas , overshadowed by the ongoing conflict in Gaza and the devastating local economy . For the second consecutive year , the city 's Christian community faced a bleak holiday season , with rising fears about the survival of one of the world 's oldest Christian populations . <p> Friar Ibrahim Faltas , Vicar of the Custody of the Holy Land , told The Media Line , " This has become an open-air prison . On top of the conflict in Gaza , people here have been struggling for 15 months without income , with restricted mobility , and no change in sight . " <p> The streets of Bethlehem reflected this despair . Many shops were closed , no festive decorations were present , and a few young children persistently distributed candies and small souvenirs to passersby with the goal of earning some money . <p> Groups of locals walked slowly toward Manger Square in front of the Church of the Nativity . Despite the lack of tourism , the square looked packed , given the huge number of foreign press and security forces on every corner . <p> Palestinian scouts marched silently through the streets at noon , departing from the usual raucous brass band procession . At the end of the march , Latin Patriarch Pierbattista Pizzaballa addressed the crowd beside a picture of two Gazan children . Palestinian scouts march silently through the streets of Bethlehem , carrying flags , Dec. 24 , 2024. ( credit : Giorgia Valente/The Media Line ) <p> " Despite the current suffering you are facing on every front , we stand with you . Do not surrender ; do not be afraid because you are the light in this darkness . This has to be the last Christmas like this , " he declared . <p> Munther Isaac , senior pastor of the Evangelical Lutheran Christian Church in Bethlehem , spoke of the importance of resilience . " One year ago , I had the idea to represent the ' Christ in the rubble ' to show the suffering Palestinians in Gaza have been enduring . This sent a message to the world that Christmas is much more than a recurrence ; it is a way to remember who still lives here under oppression and their fight for survival , " he said to The Media Line . <h> Growing economic concerns <p> The economic blow to Bethlehem has been severe . Tourism accounts for 70% of the city 's income , mostly generated during the Christmas season . Visitor numbers have plunged from a pre-COVID high of 2 million in 2019 to fewer than 100,000 in 2024 . <p> Anna , an Aramean Christian tour operator , told The Media Line , " I have been jobless since October 7 . I am currently economically relying on my husband , who sells electronic devices in his shop here , but we have been struggling since neither the PA Palestinian Authority nor Israel has been able to help us financially . I used to take tourists on tours in Jerusalem and Bethlehem , but everything changed . " <p> Anna criticized polarized narratives about the conflict , saying , " I am against any form of violence , and what both sides did to one another is unacceptable . For this reason , I am against the choice of each side to portray itself as the ' only victims ' because , in this way , they are just polarizing , even more , the perception of this conflict abroad . " <p> " The beauty of our Holy Land , which I gladly define as a whole , despite walls dividing one side from the other , is that there is no black and white , but different shades , that people from the outside often do not see , " she added . <p> Her husband , a Palestinian ID holder , can not travel freely as Anna and their children can . She emphasized teaching her children tolerance : " My goal was to teach my kids no resentment toward anyone . The problem of many living here is that they pass their trauma to younger generations and teach hate instead of forgiveness . If we keep doing like this , we will be stuck in this loop of violence forever -- Jews , Christians , and Muslims alike , " she noted . <p> Abood Sobha , a Muslim tour guide and souvenir shop owner , echoed Anna 's struggles . " I am a Muslim Palestinian who benefited from tourism and loved engaging with people from all over the world . I was comfortable economically before the war , and I loved to move from my city to other places like Haifa and Tel Aviv , but since I own a Palestinian ID , I have been stuck here for more than a year , and I am mentally exhausted , " he told The Media Line . <p> " We need and want peace , and we can not keep going like this . Unfortunately , it seems that here in the West Bank , it may even get worse . Look at Jenin and Tulkarem these days , " he added . <p> His shop , filled with artisanal goods such as glass pieces , leather bags , foulards , handmade carpets , and traditional clothes from Hebron , Nablus , and other areas , has seen almost no sales . <p> " Most of the things you see here are made by 27 tiny family businesses mainly located in Hebron , here , and Nablus . We value Palestinian artisans , but unfortunately , we have n't been able to sell anything the past year . We are thinking to start shipping abroad , because we can not rely on locals and tourists at the moment , " he said . <p> The church has become a vital lifeline for struggling families . Father Rami Askarieh , parish priest of the Latin Church of St. Catherine , told The Media Line , " The church has been doing more for the people here than our current government . We offer food coupons , pay electricity bills for those who struggle , and provide medicine and educational fees . Here , the PA covers 90% of health expenses , but the remaining 10% -- which is a lot of money -- has to be covered by our donations . We ca n't manage all the time with the increasing numbers of requests . " <h> Declining Christian population <p> Askarieh lamented the decline in Bethlehem 's Christian population . " In 1947 , Christians comprised 85% of the city 's population . By 2016 , this had decreased to 12% . Today , we are more or less 10% . As other Christians in the region , we may face extinction despite being one of the most ancient communities , " he said . Friar Ibrahim Faltas , vicar of the Custody of the Holy Land , in Bethlehem , West Bank , Dec. 24 , 2024. ( credit : Giorgia Valente/The Media Line ) <p> Faltas expressed similar fears . " The paradox is that Christians all over the world pray for Bethlehem and its people here , but our people are leaving . Since the breakout of the war , 147 Christian families left the city for better opportunities abroad . This is scary . What does the future hold for this community ? There are barely 9,000 Christians here . " <p> Askarieh also raised concerns about rising extremism in the region . For example , in Syria , the small Christian community may be targeted for attacks even more than in the past . He mentioned that Christian tombs were recently vandalized in Hama , and the Christmas tree was set on fire . <p> " Part of my family is Syrian , and just a few days ago , my cousin 's entire family moved to Holland . I am listening carefully to what is unfolding in the country . Extremist political Islam can pose a threat both in Europe and in the region , and religious minorities could pay the price for this . Since it is Christmas , I try to pray that this wo n't occur and remain hopeful , " he concluded . <h> Glimmer of hope <p> The First Baptist Church of Bethlehem , part of a small but resilient evangelical Christian community , also provided a glimmer of hope . Its leader , Rev. Dr. Naim Khoury , described efforts to ease suffering through Christmas activities , food donations , and spiritual gatherings . " We distributed over 250 food shares to needy families . Spiritually , we thank God that people found some relief and hope through our celebrations , " he told The Media Line . <p> David Parsons , vice president of the International Christian Embassy in Jerusalem , highlighted a broader trend . " In Bethlehem , the breadwinners , who normally work in Christian tourism or are employed in Israel , are out of work due to the war . So Christmas is n't so good there this year . Meanwhile , Arab Christians in cities like Nazareth , Haifa , and Old Jaffa have found more opportunities to celebrate alongside Jewish neighbors , fostering social cohesion , " he noted . <p> He described " a lot of interaction over Christmas and Hanukkah this year " and added , " It 's good to see the communities coming together . " <p> Despite the challenges , Bethlehem 's religious leaders continue to advocate for peace and hope . Khoury summed up the prevailing sentiment : " We try to plant hope , peace , and love in people 's hearts to help them accept what is happening now in a biblical way . " 
@@119314569 <h> IDF to give families of observers killed on Oct. 7 final recordings before massacre <p> IDF personnel chief Maj.-Gen . Dado Bar-Khalifa will meet on Friday with the families of the IDF observers in order to provide them with all the communication recordings from the last 24 hours before the observers 's deaths , the IDF announced on Thursday . <p> Per the families ' request , an additional date for playing the recordings will be held this coming Monday . <p> Earlier this week , the IDF provided partial recordings leading up to the massacre , but the families complained that the recordings stopped before the Hamas attack began . <h> Director-General of the World Health Organization , Tedros Ghebreyesus , was at the airport during the strikes . <p> By YUVAL BARNEA , AMICHAI STEIN , YONAH JEREMY BOB Members of staff walk next to the control tower as the first Yemen Airways flight in six years prepares to take off from Sanaa airport in the Yemeni capital , on May 16 , 2022. ( photo credit : Mohammed Huwais/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> Israeli airstrikes targeted a host of Houthi infrastructure near the airports of Hodeidah and the Yemeni capital of Sana'a , sources confirmed to The Jerusalem Post on Thursday . <p> The strikes targeted Sana'a International Airport 's main runway , control tower , and aircraft , some of which subsequently caught fire . <p> The Director-General of the World Health Organization , Tedros Ghebreyesus , said he was at the airport during the strikes . He was in Yemen to negotiate the release of UN staff who had been detained there . <h> Striking at the heart of terror : The IDF 's West Bank drone revolution - interview <h> The Post interviewed Air Force Drone Commander Maj. " N , " about the revolution in drone use in the West Bank . <p> By YONAH JEREMY BOB Palestinians inspect a car that was hit during an Israeli airstrike in Qabatiya , near Jenin , in the West Bank , November 6 , 2024 . PPalestinians inspect a car that was hit during an Israeli airstrike in Qabatiya , near Jenin , in the West Bank , November 6 , 2024. ( photo credit : NASSER ISHTAYEH/FLASH90 ) <h> Israel 's military said that the Hamas terrorists it hit exploited the area to " plan and execute an explosive drone attack . " <p> By KESHET NEEV Smoke rises over the northern Gaza Strip , following an Israeli strike , amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza between Israel and Hamas , as seen from Israel , December 22 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/AMIR COHEN ) <p> Israeli aircraft and artillery struck Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad terrorists in Gaza on Wednesday evening and early Thursday morning , the IDF reported . <p> After both these strikes , Arab media and Reuters claimed that journalists were killed . <h> Israel eliminates senior West Bank terrorists in two-day operation <p> The IDF , Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) , and Israel Border Police completed a two-day joint counter-terrorism operation in the West Bank , the military said on Thursday morning . <p> During the operation , an Israel Air Force aircraft struck a number of armed terrorist cells on several occasions , the IDF added . <p> The military identified the terrorists it killed as Qusai Amin Ibrahim Oqasha , a senior terrorist in the Tulkarm terrorist network . Oqasha replaced the terrorist Tarek Doush , who was eliminated last week in a joint IDF and Shin Bet aerial strike . <p> Along with Oqasha , the terrorists Jomaa Salam Ubaid and Imran Harun , another senior terrorist in the network , were reportedly killed . <p> The IDF added that its soldiers killed two additional terrorists during " close-quarter encounters . " The forces also " dismantled dozens of improvised explosive devices hidden beneath roads , apprehended a number of suspects , and confiscated weapons . " 
@@119314570 <h> This came after Arab media reports on the strike , omitting any mentions by the IDF that the journalists were also part of the terror group . <p> Palestinians inspect the site of an Israeli strike at the Nuseirat Refugee Camp , December 26 , 2024 ( photo credit : Ali Hassan/Flash90 ) <p> Five Al Quds Today TV journalists who doubled as Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ) terrorists were killed in a targeted strike carried out by the Israel Air Force near the Nuesirat area of Gaza overnight between Wednesday and Thursday , the IDF said on Thursday afternoon . <p> The IDF statement confirming the event came after Arab media outlets reported that five journalists working for the Palestinian news outlet were killed . These reports did not note their PIJ affiliations . <p> One of the sources the IDF said it used to confirm the identity of the terrorists it struck was taken from a list of PIJ operatives discovered by Israel 's military during previous operations in the Gaza Strip . <p> The IDF listed the names of the terrorists and what their roles in the terror group were . <p> It said most of them were " combat propagandists , " meaning their role in the terror group was to double as journalists . List of PIJ operatives , including four terrorists who were eliminated overnight in Nuseirat . December 26 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <h> Who were the terrorists killed in the strike ? <p> Ibrahim Jamal Ibrahim Al-Sheikh Ali was a PIJ operative and combat propagandist . Faisal Abdallah Muhammad Abu Qamsan was the head of security for the Islamic Jihad in Nuseirat . <p> The IDF said that Basous was a senior commander in the engineering unit of Hamas 's Gaza City Brigade and was " responsible for supplying explosives to terrorist operatives and stored explosive materials inside his house . " <p> It added that Al-Haj served as a Nukhba company commander in the Zeitoun Battalion and carried out sniper attacks for Hamas against IDF troops . <p> Additionally , the terrorist Mahmoud Jamil Salman Basous was killed in the strikes . Mahmoud was a platoon commander in Hamas 's Shejaiya Battalion and the brother of the aformentioned Muhammad Jamil Salman Basous . <p> Furthermore , on Wednesday , IDF and IAF artillery reportedly struck Hamas terrorists in the area of Gaza City . <p> The military noted that the terrorists it hit exploited the area to " plan and execute an explosive drone attack against IDF troops in an imminent time frame " but that , prior to the strike , " numerous steps were taken to mitigate the risk of harming civilians . " <p> Hamas put out the following statement following the report , saying , " The number of journalist martyrs has risen to ( 201 journalists ) since the beginning of the genocidal war on the Gaza Strip , following the announcement of the martyrdom of a group of colleagues working for Al-Quds Today TV channel . " Palestinians inspect the site of an Israeli strike at the Nuseirat Refugee Camp , December 26 , 2024 ( credit : Ali Hassan/Flash90 ) <p> " The Israeli occupation army targeted the external broadcast vehicle of Al-Quds Today TV channel , assassinating the five journalists while they were performing their journalistic duties in the Nuseirat camp ( central Gaza Strip ) . <p> We hold the Israeli occupation , the US administration , and the countries complicit in this genocide , such as the **United Kingdom , Germany , and France , fully responsible for committing this heinous and brutal crime , " the terror group said . 
@@119314571 <h> The courage of those young Soviet Jews who risked everything for their identity is a powerful example for Diaspora Jews today . <p> One of the most moving songs to emerge from the October 7 war , is a paean of praise to reservists sung by Hatikva 6 called " Superheroes . " <p> It tells the story of how ordinary people -- a grammar teacher , contractors , lawyers , bank managers , and others -- are thrust into extraordinary situations in the reserves . <p> The chorus captures this transformation : " Everyone looks normal , but we are a nation of superheroes , and within each of us is a hidden soldier ready to save the world . " <p> The war has brought out the superhero in many : people displaying unspeakable courage in battle , unfathomable grace in the face of devastating loss , and unimaginable devotion to the nation and its people . <p> Indeed , unsung heroes walk -- often quietly and unpretentiously -- among us . And not only heroes from the current war . A silhouette of Theodor Herzl , the founder of modern Zionism , is displayed near a flag of the state of Israel on a building in Jerusalem . ( credit : Yehoshua Halevi/Getty Images ) <h> A look into Eduard Kuznetsov <p> On Sunday , a forgotten hero from a different battle -- the battle to free Soviet Jewry -- passed away at the age of 85 : Eduard Kuznetsov . <p> He was one of 16 young , idealistic Jews -- and two non-Jews -- who in June 1970 plotted to hijack a small airplane and fly it from Leningrad to Sweden , and from there to Israel . The plan was doomed from the start , and the conspirators were arrested before even getting on the plane . <p> The ensuing Leningrad Trial became a turning point in the struggle of Soviet Jewry , drawing global attention and ensuring that the Jews of Silence , as Elie Wiesel famously termed Soviet Jewry , would be silent no more . <p> Kuznetsov was one of the planners and one of two of the 11 defendants -- the other being Mark Dymshits -- who were sentenced to death . World outrage led to the commutation of his sentence to 15 years in the Gulag , of which he served nine years before being released in a 1979 swap for two Soviet spies arrested in the US . Others involved in the hijacking plot who were sentenced to lengthy prison terms included his then-wife , Sylva Zalmanson , and Yosef Mendelevich . <p> Those names -- Kuznetsov , Zalmanson , Mendelevich -- became synonymous with the struggle for Soviet Jewry . Their faces appeared on posters around the world , and their names were worn on necklaces and bracelets by hundreds of thousands who protested and prayed for their release -- paralleling the situation today regarding the hostages being held in Gaza . <p> Kuznetsov , like other Prisoners of Zion and refusniks who fought and paid a heavy price for the right to emigrate , was a hero in the battle for Soviet Jewry . <p> And they won . The Soviet Union collapsed , and well over a million Russian-speaking immigrants settled in Israel , enriching the population beyond imagination in every field : science , medicine , the arts , and sports . Israel 's hi-tech revolution owes much of its success to the influx of Russian-trained engineers , mathematicians , and computer specialists who arrived in the 1990s . The Start-Up Nation would not have flourished as it did without them . <p> None of this would have been possible without people like Kuznetsov , who came here and lived their lives -- like so many heroes -- quietly and far from the public eye . For years , Kuznetsov worked as an editor and journalist in Israel 's vibrant Russian-language press . <p> The courage of those young Soviet Jews risking everything for their identity is not just history ; it is a powerful example for Diaspora Jews today about the value of Jewish identity and the nobility -- and even heroism -- of struggling to keep it . <p> The Soviet Union tried to strip its Jews of their religious identity and their connection to the land of Israel . <p> While there is no comparison between what the Soviet Jews endured and what Jews in the West are going through today , there are strong forces in the West seeking to strip Jews of their ties to Zionism and Israel . <p> The penalty for not doing so is not the Gulag , and those who feel pressured are not physically constrained from walking away . Instead , the penalty is subtler : being canceled , ostracized , or made to feel uncomfortable for holding such beliefs . Kuznetsov 's example -- and that of his peers -- was to resist these pressures , not to accept these dictates quietly but to fight back hard . <p> It 's a timely message , and -- given that today is the first day of Hanukkah -- also a seasonal one . 
@@119314572 <h> " For the coming year , my eight wishes are not just for myself , but also for my fellow Jews and anyone who stands with us against hatred and intolerance " says Milstein . <p> As Hanukkah menorah 's glow in Jewish homes around the globe , their light evokes a story that transcends time : the Jewish people 's resilience in the face of adversity . For thousands of years , we have faced challenges -- physical , spiritual , existential , and political -- and for thousands of years , the Hanukkah candles are lit , reminding us of our people 's strength and determination . <p> In the last several decades , threats have been mounting . Over the last 14 months , it 's become apparent that our people 's survival is once again , not guaranteed . <p> This Hanukkah , as we celebrate the miracles of the past , we also gaze ahead . With hope . With resolve . And with determination . <p> My eight wishes for the coming year are not merely personal aspirations but calls to action for the entire Jewish community and for anyone who stands with us in the fight against hatred and intolerance . From Jewish students on campus , to the hostages still held by Hamas , to the future of Israel , these wishes are a vision for a brighter , stronger , and more peaceful year ahead . <p> 1 . For Americans to View Antisemitism as a Universal Problem and for All Americans <p> Antisemitism is not just a Jewish problem ; it is a universal crisis that strikes at the very heart of American democracy . The recent surge in antisemitic incidents -- from incessant hate speech to violent attacks -- reveals a growing tide of hatred that threatens the cohesive fabric of American society . Antisemites today not only attack Jews , but they also assail the values that make America ... America : freedom , equality , and justice . The fight against antisemitism requires buy-in from all Americans . If we are to remain the beacon of liberty and democracy , we must confront antisemitism , not as an isolated issue , but as a threat to the well-being of every citizen . <p> 2 . For Jewish Students to Feel Safe and Welcome on College Campus <p> Across the United States , Jewish students face intimidation , hostility , and bigotry on campuses . The classroom , where ideas are meant to flourish , should never be a place where fear thrives . Universities must take a stand , not just in words , but in deeds . It is time for college administrations to demonstrate courageous leadership -- and ensure campuses remain true citadels of learning , growth , and truth . Protecting Jewish students and ensuring they can study without fear of harassment or discrimination should be a top priority for every institution of higher learning . <p> 3 . For the Jewish Community to Recognize Israel as Its Center <p> Israel is not just a geographical location ; it is at the heart of Jewish identity . For the world 's Jewish community to thrive in the 21st century , we must remember that Israel 's existence is central to the survival and strength of the Jewish people in the diaspora . While diverse opinions on how Israel should navigate its political landscape are healthy , there can be no doubt that Israel 's right to exist as a sovereign Jewish state is an imperative . Now , more than ever , the Jewish community needs to speak with one voice in support of Israel , recognizing that its survival and prosperity are critical to the future of all Jews . <p> Israel has always been a source of inspiration , identity , and connection for Jews around the world . It is a living embodiment of the Jewish principle to be a " light unto the nations " ( Isaiah 42:6 ) . However , the bond between Israel and the global Jewish diaspora must be reciprocal . As Israel continues to shine as a beacon of hope and refuge for Jews worldwide , it must also look to the diaspora for moral and material support . This connection can not be one-sided ; it is a two-way relationship that strengthens both Israel and the Jewish communities abroad . <p> 5 . For Total Victory Over Our Enemies <p> The existential threat posed by Hamas , Hezbollah , and the Iranian regime is real . Collectively , they are committed not only to the destruction of Israel but to the annihilation of the Jewish people . Their hateful ideology is fueled by a dangerous combination of political extremism and religious radicalism that undermines peace and stability across the globe . The fight against these enemies is a fight for the survival of both Israel and the Jewish people worldwide . This year , we must redouble our efforts to ensure their resounding defeat . <p> 6 . For the Hostages to Return <p> The hostages held in Gaza are not just numbers or statistics ; they are mothers , fathers , son , and daughters -- they are our family , our people . To save one life is to save the world . And every hostage saved is a world rebuilt . Over the last 14 months , the emotional and physical toll of captivity is unimaginable . We must demand more action and urge governments to secure the immediate and safe release of hostages held by Hamas . <p> 7 . For the World to Unite Against the Iranian Regime <p> Iran is the chief sponsor of terrorism worldwide , and its diabolical influence extends far beyond the Middle East . Through its support of Hamas , Hezbollah , the Houthis and its ongoing nuclear ambitions , Iran threatens not just Israel , but global peace . The international community must unite to curb Iran 's destabilizing influence -- through diplomatic pressure , economic sanctions , and , if necessary , military action . A world that tolerates Iran 's behavior is one that invites chaos and conflict . It is time for the global community unite against the world 's chief sponsor of terror . <p> 8 . For Expanding Israel 's Peace and Prosperity <p> True peace for Israel can only be achieved when every nation recognizes its right to exist and right to live in security . Since Israel 's independence , its enemies have consistently sought its destruction militaristically and its delegitimization politically . In the face of ongoing hypocrisy and double standards from international bodies , Israel must continue to broaden its bi-lateral alliances and pursue peace negotiations . To achieve Israel 's long-term security and sovereignty , it needs more friends in the region and around the globe . This is not solely Israel 's responsibility -- it is a collective effort of the global Jewish community and good faith actors in the international community to work toward a more peaceful , prosperous future . <p> These eight wishes for the New Year map a vision for a world in which resilience , strength , and hope shape our future . As we light the menorah this Hanukkah , let 's bask in its light and recognize the unflappable courage and resilience of the Jewish people . <p> Let 's the spirit of Hanukkah 's into the year ahead , working together for a more secure and peaceful Jewish future . 
@@119314573 <h> Palestinian antisemitism is now spreading across the US - opinion <h> So thorough is the USA Today network article 's denial of any Palestinian agency that it blames the Jewish state for Palestinian antisemitism . <p> NIREL ZINI and Niv Raviv , who were planning to marry , were murdered in this Kibbutz Kfar Aza home on October 7 , 2023 . The writer condemns reporter Charita Goshay for depicting Hamas as thwarted peace activists forced into violence by Israel. ( photo credit : STOYAN NENOV/REUTERS ) <p> In 2023 , the American Jewish community , which accounts for less than 3% of the nation 's total population , has been on the receiving end of two-thirds of all religion-based hate crimes in the country ( 1,832 out of 2,699 ) , the Federal Bureau of Investigation revealed in September . <p> This month , the USA Today news network contributed to the seething cesspool of anti-Jewish bigotry by peddling classic antisemitic tropes . <p> The nearly 3,000-word article -- " ' No one ever asks a Palestinian ' : Ohio residents reacting with grief and anger over carnage in the Middle East , " in Ohio 's Canton Repository -- appeared December 1 in more than a dozen newspapers across the country , from The Register Guard in Eugene , Oregon to the Palm Beach Post in Florida . <p> Beyond grief and anger , interviewees unleashed unabashed antisemitism , with one invoking the age-old anti-Jewish myth straight out of The Protocols of the Elders of Zion alleging a Jewish cabal controlling the media , economy , government , and other societal institutions . <p> " If you have Google behind you , if you have Microsoft behind you , if you have Intel behind you , if you have Lockheed-Martin and Boeing behind you , yeah , of course you 're going to be able to prop yourself up for 76 years , " reporter Charita M. Goshay quoted Hasan Mueheisen without providing further comment . The Palestinian-American interviewee was alluding to alleged Jewish -- or perhaps Israeli -- control of business and tech giants to sustain the Jewish state . <p> If Jews really wielded that much power , then presumably they could do something about the itty problem of being the insanely disproportionate target of US hate crimes . <p> " We will seek to promote understanding of complex issues , " USA Today network pledges in its " Principles of Ethical Conduct for Newsrooms . " Yet Goshay allows Mueheisan 's antisemitism to pass without comment or challenge , literally giving him the last word . <p> Goshay extends this deferential treatment to the full roster of her truth-defying interviewees . The anti-Israel accusers freely lob historic and present-day vilification of the " settler-colonialist " State of Israel , bandying about fabricated charges of " genocide , dehumanization , dispossession , and apartheid . " <p> At no point does the local Ohio reporter , with an out-sized national reach , make clear that the US government has repeatedly rejected the " genocide " smear and repudiated the " apartheid " canard as " absurd . " <p> In another stroke of ludicrousness , Palestinian-American Rima Rafidi-Kern is quoted without challenge : " We 're the original Christians . " That 's a bald-faced lie . The original Christians were converted Jews . Jesus himself was a Jew , an inconvenient reality of ancient Jewish indigeneity belying the " settler-colonialist " canard . <p> GOSHAY , A reporter of local Midwestern affairs , loses her way in Mideast coverage , flailing even with basic nomenclature . " Palestine -- also known as Israel , " she confounds the no-longer existent Palestine Mandate with Israel , the West Bank , and the Gaza Strip . <p> She bungles the 1947 United Nations plan as " partitioning the territory between the new State of Israel , the kingdom of Jordan and Egypt , and the exclusively Palestinian Gaza Strip . " In fact , the Partition Plan had nothing to do with Jordan or Egypt . As the UN explained : " The plan envisages the division of Palestine into three parts : a Jewish state , an Arab State , and the city of Jerusalem , to be placed under an international trusteeship system . " <p> The proposed Arab state included not only the Gaza Strip but also the West Bank and a huge chunk of what is now central and even southern Israel ( including the city of Beersheba ) , along with a significant patch of land in the north , encompassing Acre and Nahariya . <p> But in a colossal misjudgment that sealed their people 's unfortunate fate for generations , the Palestinian Arab leadership rejected the seminal Partition Plan and the surrounding Arab countries attacked the nascent Jewish state . Arab leadership in Haifa , Jerusalem , Tiberias , and other locations encouraged residents to flee , resulting in the Palestinian refugee crisis . <p> Goshay neglects to mention these key historical events , choosing not to intrude on her interviewees ' uninterrupted soliloquy of singular Israeli culpability for Palestinian displacement . <p> Moreover , Goshay piles on in her own voice : " Palestinians argue that Israel 's Zionist government has trampled on " Balfour Declaration concerns for protection of Palestinian-owned land and religious rights . " They point to the more than 700,000 Palestinians who were displaced in 1948 , with many ending up in refugee camps . " <p> The journalist 's exoneration of Palestinians for any responsibility reaches the reductio ad absurdum in her depiction of Hamas as thwarted peace activists forced into violence by Israel . Rami Hamdan said , " Hamas began with peaceful demonstrations , " intones the credulous reporter about an organization whose antisemitic founding charter calls " to fight the Jews and kill them . " <p> " The Palestinian people tried the Martin Luther King way , the way of no violence ; they tried it , " Goshay quotes Hamdan of Canton . Apparently , the untold early MLK chapter of Palestinian history has mysteriously been erased from all historical memory and archives , wrongly replaced instead with a bloody trail of hijackings , bombings , and terror at the Olympics . <p> In this alternate reality , " Benjamin Netanyahu encouraged Hamas to begin because he did not want the PLO . " So talented was the young Netanyahu that he apparently pulled off this feat from New York where he served as ambassador to the United Nations during the time of the Hamas terror organization 's founding . <p> Goshay 's grasp of present-day reality is equally tenuous . Apparently unaware that more than 90% of West Bank Palestinians live under their own Palestinian Authority government , Goshay broadcasts her ignorance : " Palestinians can not purchase property in the West Bank . Palestinian vehicles are required to display special license plates , and drivers are restricted to certain roads . " <h> Palestinians maintain rights in the West Bank <p> Palestinians , of course , are free to purchase property in Areas A and B of the West Bank , where the Palestinian Authority rules and where most live . Likewise , they may display flags , and Palestinian flags proudly and prominently appear at demonstrations , in funerals , on school buildings , and government institutions . <p> As for " special license plates , " these are what are otherwise known as Palestinian license plates . The Palestinian Authority issues Palestinian license plates to its citizens and the Israeli authorities likewise issues Israeli plates to its citizens . <p> While Palestinians are restricted from entering Israeli communities in the West Bank , Israeli citizens are forbidden from entering the Palestinian Authority-ruled Area A. Israelis who nevertheless enter Area A , either because they are lost or because they defy the prohibition in search of shopping or other services , often do not make it home alive . <p> Rafidi-Kern 's unchallenged fabrication , therefore , that Israeli settlers " can come to the houses of the Palestinians , and they claim this is theirs " is as inspired as her " original Christians " lie of biblical proportions . <p> SO THOROUGH is the USA Today network article 's denial of any Palestinian agency that it blames the Jewish state for Palestinian antisemitism . <p> " I have yet to meet a single Palestinian in my entire life who has been taught to hate Jews or anybody for their religious faith , or lack of faith for that matter . That was never taught to us as children . The only time you see someone go to that extreme is if they have faced the brutality of the occupation , which can lead somebody to escalate to that level and target specific people , " said Hamdan , without being challenged . <p> In fact , Palestinian children in the West Bank and Gaza Strip are systematically indoctrinated to hate Jews from a young age . Government-controlled Palestinian television teaches anti-Jewish hatred and violence . Nahoul , a giant bee on Hamas TV , urged children to shoot Jews . Assud , the Hamas rabbit , promised to eat Jews . Schools and summer camps carry the names of terrorists who slaughtered Israeli civilians ; textbooks treat subjects like physics and math as an opportunity to teach Jew-hatred . Palestinian youth , Mohammad Ramadan , wears a rabbit suit as he appears on the Children Friday show ' ' Tomorrow 's Pioneers ' ' as Assud the bunny , on Hamas 's al-Aqsa channel February 15 , 2008 in Gaza , Gaza Strip . ( credit : Abid Katib/Getty Images ) <p> An Anti-Defamation League survey in 2014 found the world 's highest concentration of antisemitic sentiment in the West Bank and Gaza , with 93% of those surveyed embracing anti-Jewish views . <p> " Hate and the blame culture go hand in hand , for they are both strategies of denial , " wrote the late Rabbi Jonathan Sacks . " ' It was n't me , it was them , I acted in self-defense , I am the victim , not the perpetrator . ' The murder of the innocent then becomes a holy deed . " <p> Does USA Today 's news network really want to export the unholy nexus of hate , blame , and violence to communities across America , lending a hand to the most ancient bigotry and supplying perceived justifications for the next hate crime perpetrator ? <p> The writer is the director of the Israel office of the Committee for Accuracy in Middle East Reporting and Analysis ( CAMERA ) . 
@@119314574 <h> Trump making Middle East safer since election landslide - opinion <h> But , of course , no one understood how important it is to hold out for Trump better than Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> US PRESIDENT-ELECT Donald Trump and secretary of state-designate Marco Rubio attend a campaign event before last month 's presidential election . ' Israeli officials have told me privately that they can not wait for Secretary of State Antony Blinken to be replaced by Marco Rubio , ' says the writer. ( photo credit : Jonathan Drake/Reuters ) <p> If an alien arrived in the United States of America and asked to be taken to its leader , there is no doubt it would be taken to US President-elect Donald Trump and not outgoing President Joe Biden . <p> Even though Trump has not yet taken office , he is already doing much more than the man still on the job to make the world a safer place . <p> While Biden has taken care of his family by pardoning his son , Hunter , Trump has been taking care of the world : meeting with top international figures , planning policies , and holding press conferences in which he knows what to say and what not to say . <p> Trump 's vow that there would be " hell to pay " in the Middle East if the hostages held in the Gaza Strip are not released by his January 20 inauguration finally gave hope to their loved ones . <p> Most importantly , he has repeatedly left open the possibility never seriously considered by Biden to attack Iran and prevent the Islamic Republic from obtaining nuclear weapons that would endanger the entire world . <p> " Anything can happen , " he told Time magazine in his Man of the Year interview . " It 's a very volatile situation . " <p> That volatile situation requires American deterrence . The mere presence of Trump on the way to the White House has already compelled countries worldwide , from Canada to Qatar , to reassess their policies and change their direction . <p> US President Donald Trump meets with Qatar Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani at the White House in July 2019. ( credit : KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS ) <p> While both Biden and Trump have correctly given Israel 's defeat of Hezbollah credit for the downfall of Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad 's brutal regime , there is no doubt that the rebels were also emboldened by the knowledge that America was back on a path toward rewarding its allies and punishing its enemies . <p> Even the feckless Palestinian Authority has finally taken steps to restore order and crack down on Hamas and other rebel groups in Jenin and other cities . The PA knows it will be held to a higher standard by Trump and that it better get on his good side before he comes back to power . <h> Israeli officials holding out for Trump 's second term ? <p> But , of course , no one understood how important it is to hold out for Trump better than Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> As The Jerusalem Post 's military analyst Yonah Jeremy Bob pointed out , when Netanyahu 's National Security Advisor Tzachi Hanegbi said on May 29 that the war would need to continue another seven months , people did not understand what he meant . But now it is clear that Israel planned for a Trump victory all along . <p> That hope has already borne fruit , with the appointments of pro-Israel , clear-thinking nominees to the key cabinet posts where decisions impacting Israel will be made for the next four years . <p> Israeli officials have told me privately that they can not wait for Secretary of State Antony Blinken to be replaced by Marco Rubio . <p> With less than a month in office , Blinken is still making a fool of himself by talking seriously about the need to negotiate with the Iranian regime that he should be taking action to remove from power . He will be remembered as a shorter version of John Kerry , with no accomplishments but much damage . <p> By contrast , Rubio recently called Hamas " animals " and made clear that they are " 100% to blame " for everyone killed in Israel and in Gaza during this war . The moment he takes over , there will be maximum pressure on Hamas to surrender . <p> The arms embargoes of the Biden administration will be replaced by a Trump administration that will supply Israel with bunker-busting bombs and whatever else is needed to deter the enemies of the Jewish state . Trump 's nominee for defense secretary , Pete Hegseth , has said , " If you love America , you should love Israel . " He will back that up by providing Israel 's military requirements at this crucial time . <p> The Biden administration 's national security advisor , Jake Sullivan , told CNN on Sunday that he has briefed Trump 's advisers that Iran could decide to develop nuclear weapons if it is too weak . He warned the Trump team to be careful not to harm Iran too much . <p> " It 's no wonder that there are voices in Iran saying , ' Hey , maybe we need to go for a nuclear weapon right now , ' " Sullivan said after recounting recent setbacks to Iran and its proxies . <p> Thankfully , Sullivan 's successor , Congressman Mike Waltz , does not appear to be listening to that nonsense . In an interview with Ben Shapiro , he warned Iran that he would be watching the Islamic Republic 's every move very closely . He said Iran must stop provoking Israel and developing nuclear weapons . <p> Regarding Iran 's proxies , Waltz did not mince words . He said he would reverse Biden 's 2021 decision to remove the Houthis ' designation as a foreign terrorist organization and take immediate action against Hamas . <p> " There have never been enough consequences , " Waltz told Shapiro . " And that 's what we need to be talking about with these people . You take an American ; you illegally detain them ; if you 're a nation-state or if you 're a terrorist ... there is gon na be all hell to pay . There are gon na be nothing but consequences for you financially and maybe even a bullet in your damn forehead if you take an American , period . " <p> Biden has not bothered to send his Middle East envoy Brett McGurk to the region lately , but his successor , businessman Steve Witkoff , has already come and pressured the leaders of Qatar to do more to bring about the release of the hostages . <p> Why did n't Biden appoint a special presidential envoy for hostage affairs ? Trump has already done that in the well-respected Adam Boehler , whose appointment " gives us renewed hope , " Ruby Chen , father of hostage and American citizen Itay Chen , wrote in The Hill . <p> The majority leader in the Senate will thankfully no longer be Sen. Chuck Schumer , who has single-handedly prevented the passage of the much-needed Antisemitism Awareness Act , a piece of bipartisan legislation that passed the House by a 320-91 vote in May . His successor , Sen. John Thune , promised to sanction the International Criminal Court for pursuing warrants against Netanyahu and former defense minister Yoav Gallant . <p> Last but not least , I am excited about the appointment of my friend Mike Huckabee as the ambassador to Israel . Once he takes over , gone are the days of American envoys pressuring Israel to stop building in Jerusalem , Judea , and Samaria . <p> " There is no such thing as a West Bank , " the former governor of Arkansas said during a visit to Israel in January 2017 , adding : " There 's no such thing as a settlement -- they are communities , they 're neighborhoods , they 're cities . There 's no such thing as an occupation . " <p> The incoming Trump administration is not alien to the need to strengthen Israel in order to ensure a brighter future for America . If this is what it has already done before taking office , the sky is the limit for the next four years . <p> The writer is the chairman of the Religious Zionists of America , president of the Culture for Peace Institute , and a committee member of the Jewish Agency . He currently serves as a member of the US Holocaust Memorial Council , appointed by Donald Trump during the president-elect 's first term . The views expressed here are his own . You can reach him at Martinoliner@gmail.com. 
@@119314578 <h> Ambassador Gilad Cohens 's Hanukkah ceremony in Tokyo unites diplomacy and hope as Japan reaffirms support for Israel during wartime . <p> Ambassador to Japan Gilad Cohen hosted a ceremony on Thursday to light the second candle of Hanukkah . <p> Cohen hosted senior members of the Japanese Parliament , community leaders , prominent business figures , and cultural icons . <p> Israel and Japan have marked 72 years of diplomatic relations , with ties only deepening during the Israel-Hamas war as Japan has consistently expressed its commitment to fostering peace and stability in the region . <p> " This year , with 100 hostages still held in Gaza , we fervently pray for their swift release , " Cohen said . <p> " We are grateful to the Shalva organization for their unwavering efforts to advocate for the rights of people with disabilities , amplifying the voices of children with disabilities in Japan and sharing their painful experiences following the events of October 7 . " Israel 's Ambassador to Japan hosts a candle lighting ceremony in honor of Hanukkah. ( credit : ISRAELI EMBASSY IN JAPAN ) <h> Last year , the embassy hosted hostage families <p> This year 's event featured an art exhibition by the children of the Shalva Center -- an organization that provides services and support for people with disabilities -- many of whom have been displaced due to the war . <p> " The art of Shalva 's children is a vivid reminder that even in the darkest moments , beauty , creativity , and light can emerge , " Ambassador Cohen said . 
@@119321964 <h> Exclusive : Life Aboard a Nuclear Submarine as the US Responds to Threats Around the Globe <p> In the middle of the Atlantic Ocean , the nuclear submarine Wyoming surfaces for a short time to take aboard a commander , who is scheduled to conduct a spot inspection.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> Under cover of darkness , I boarded a Navy vessel at a heavily guarded military base along the Eastern Seaboard . The location and time of departure , as well as the direction and distance of travel , were unknown to me . Adding to the sense of secrecy , a towering sailor in camouflage stood in the rain , examining my belongings for electronics that might leave a digital trail an adversary could intercept and exploit . <p> Buffeted by strong winds and high Atlantic seas , the support ship sailed through the night for more than 15 storm-tossed hours toward a destination somewhere off the continental shelf . Just after dawn , a sleek , inky object appeared in the distance , right above the waterline . It was the protruding bridge of what sailors call a " boomer " -- a submarine armed to the gills with nuclear missiles -- which is considered the most lethal , stealthy , and survivable weapon in America 's strategic arsenal . <p> A sailor among torpedo tubes.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> Photographer Philip Montgomery and I had been granted permission to chronicle life aboard a boomer -- at a perilous time . Our embed was unique : The arms and technology on board , along with the ship 's routines and missions , are among the government 's most closely guarded secrets . We 'd been told that the number of civilians who had been given this level of access ( carrying cameras , no less ) was roughly the same as that who have walked on the moon . <p> Last summer , when I 'd placed a request for the voyage , America was confronting two superpower threats : Beijing 's increasingly bold advances in the South China Sea and Moscow 's full-scale invasion of Ukraine . Then , in October , the Israel-Hamas war added new urgency . US warships were drawn to the region , projecting force in case the conflict escalated . In short order , American vessels began intercepting long-range missiles that Iranian-supplied Yemeni rebels fired on Israel and on the ships themselves . When other Tehran-backed militias attacked US outposts in Iraq , Syria , and then Jordan , killing three service members in late January , it was apparent the reprisals from American fighter jets had not been a sufficient deterrent . President Biden , with carrier strike groups already in place , decided to retaliate forcefully , on multiple targets . <p> " When a single boomer goes out to sea " -- with up to 160 warheads -- " it does so as the sixth-largest nuclear nation on earth . " <p> In October , we 'd been slated to board a sub in , of all places , the Middle East . But when American vessels came under attack , our trip was scrubbed . " You 'd have been out at sea for months , " one of our handlers worried . In November , though , we were given short notice to fly to a Southern city in the US where we would be met , escorted to a ship , and then ferried to a boomer . A senior officer , we were told , was heading out to conduct an evaluation of a rookie submarine captain , and we would be along to observe . The sub would surface for a short time -- so as not to draw unwanted attention . We were to climb aboard and the ship would submerge . <p> To prepare , I had interviewed more than two dozen current officials responsible for US nuclear doctrine and warfare . And as I looked at the hulking slash on the horizon , the words of one naval captain resonated with me : " When a single boomer goes out to sea , it does so as the sixth-largest nuclear nation on earth . " <p> Now , literally in the middle of nowhere , we made our rendezvous . A lashing rain seemed to be coming at us sideways . But suddenly , as we approached the sub , the sun broke through . Idling on our starboard like some leviathan loomed the missile deck of the USS Wyoming . A multibillion-dollar behemoth that is slightly longer than the Washington Monument is tall , the ship can carry up to 160 thermonuclear warheads , roughly the same firepower as India , a country that has been stockpiling nuclear arms for half a century . <p> A launch detonator.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> The above-water " suitcase " used for communication between an officer and deckhands below.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> As wars -- hot and cold , visible and invisible -- were being waged on land and at sea , it felt like an opportune time to meet the men , the women , and the weapons system that , in Pentagon terms , " provide 24/7 deterrence to prevent catastrophic actions from our adversaries . " The military 's rationale for offering us access seemed clear . The brass , apparently , wanted to help get Americans accustomed to the increasingly real prospect of conflict with a genuinely powerful opponent . They wanted to humanize the otherwise inhuman -- some would say inhumane -- reality of nuclear deterrence . And , finally , they wanted to convey a message to China and Russia about US forces and their strategic capabilities , resolve , and , for the moment at least , superiority . <h> Sub Lord <p> As the ominous backstop to America 's national security , the Department of Defense relies on a triad : intercontinental ballistic missiles ( ICBMs ) , long-range bombers , and submarines . The latter are considered the triad 's least vulnerable leg and carry 70 percent of all deployed nuclear warheads in the inventory . Boomers are officially known as Ohio-class SSBNs -- Navy-speak for " submersible ship , ballistic , nuclear " -- and were built , as even the juniormost sailor will tell you ( without a hint of irony ) , to " preserve the peace " and , in the event of strategic attack , to inflict unimaginable destruction . " We are prepared to unleash hell , " Admiral William Houston told me , adding that , of course , " We never want to do it . Those sailors know if their weapon system is ever used , they are probably not coming home to their families . And so they take their business very , very seriously . It 's what we refer to as a no-fail mission . You are working directly for the president when you 're out there . " <p> Starting in 2021 , Houston , 55 , headed the US submarine force -- 25,000 strong , involved in the operation of 65 subs -- and the Allied Submarine Command , which made him the principal undersea-warfare adviser to all of NATO 's strategic commanders . Awarded his fourth star in December , he became director of the Navy and Energy Department 's nuclear naval reactor program , a position once held by Admiral Hyman Rickover , a towering if controversial figure who is considered the father of the nuclear navy . <p> While boomers may be the deadliest ships at sea , the sub command also operates Virginia-class hunter-killer subs ( SSNs ) , which track and are prepared to sink enemy subs and surface ships , as well as guided-missile subs ( SSGNs ) , among them the USS Florida , which in early November popped up in the Middle East . The Florida 's very public passage through the Suez Canal , Houston insisted , was a " message to remind people that you have an incredible warship right there that you ca n't do anything about . We 're telling our adversaries : You have to be aware of its destructive capability if leadership decides to use it . " This was no idle threat . In January , after myriad attacks by the Houthis -- the Yemen-based rebel army supported by Iran -- against vessels flying a variety of flags , American officials , in a tandem strike with the UK , ordered the Florida to launch Tomahawk missiles at Houthi targets . In February , after the Houthi assaults continued , two destroyers , the USS Carney and Gravely , hit more sites in Yemen . <p> " My predecessors , some of them called themselves Underlord , " Houston explained -- a reference to mythic characters in the multiverse -- " and that has a dark connotation . " The admiral added with a grin , " I 'm just waiting for somebody to give me some respect and call me Sub Lord . I 'm a huge Marvel fan . " His staff ribbingly slapped the moniker on his parking spot in front of his Norfolk , Virginia , headquarters . <p> Houston 's path to the Navy was unexpected . In high school in Buffalo , he and some buddies ditched lunch on a hot day to hang out in the college guidance office , the only spot with air-conditioning . They pretended to be flipping through ROTC applications when they were called on the carpet by an administrator who , as Houston recalled , told them that they could stay so long as they completed the paperwork . Houston wound up with an ROTC scholarship to Notre Dame and , during a monthlong voyage to Japan , fell in love with submarine culture . " So , yeah , I 'm in the Navy because I skipped lunch , " he deadpanned . Later , when we returned to the subject , he observed , " When people ask me why am I in the military , I go , ' Go to the Holocaust Museum in DC . There is evil in the world . There is pure , unadulterated evil . ' ? " <p> Two decades ago , as a deputy squadron commander , he helped integrate women into the all-male submarine service . The Wyoming , he noted , was an obvious early vessel to be chosen since its namesake was the first state to allow women 's suffrage . ( The goal , moving forward , is for every ship to be gender-agnostic in its commands and roles . ) <p> Nearly all Ohio-class subs are emblazoned with the name of a US state . The admiral spoke admiringly of the boat to which we 'd been assigned . " Wyoming is the most powerful warship ever created , " he told me . " It is the ultimate guarantor of our strategic deterrence . " Hidden in its hull are 20 Trident II D5 ballistic missiles tipped with independently targetable warheads , each with many times the destructive power of the bombs dropped on Japan in World War II . Tridents are so accurate , Houston said , they can hit a stadium on the other side of the globe . The central mission of the service 's 14 boomers is to clandestinely plumb the world 's oceans , waiting to respond if ever an enemy -- for whatever reason , including a fit of pique or miscalculation -- initiates a first strike . At that point , the president could decide to order the Wyoming , or one of its fellow subs , to launch in retaliation . <p> For further context , I dropped in on a Navy captain named Dan Packer . His assessment was even more blunt than Houston 's . " My job is to come up with ways to kill people and to find friends to help me kill people , " he said when we first met . Until October , he was the director of plans and policy for the sub force -- responsible for writing the playbook for undersea warfare -- and has stayed on as a top civilian adviser . During his career , he served on four classes of submarine before returning to his alma mater , the Naval Academy , as dean of math and science . The man is a bit of a legend -- a sailor and a scholar who literally grew up in the shadow of the atomic enterprise in a small South Carolina town just down the road from the Savannah River Site , where , since the 1950s , reactors have churned out plutonium and tritium for warheads . <p> In a rainstorm , the vessel briefly emerges to meet a support ship.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> On 9/11 , Packer , then a lieutenant commander , was the engineer officer on the USS Ohio , an SSBN that was in the Pacific for a worldwide war game . Early that morning , the captain took to the PA to prepare the crew for the drill . Thirty minutes later , Packer said , the commander picked up the mic again to say , " Cancel the exercise . The United States is under attack . " Over the next few hours , the Ohio received fragmentary reports : The twin towers had been hit ; the Pentagon had been struck ( true ) and destroyed ( not true ) . They also understood that the president was airborne -- another portentous sign to those who wait on orders from the National Command Authority , which the president directs . The Ohio , Packer recalled , began the march from DEFCON five . To four . To three . " You take actions to make the platform more ready to complete its mission . You open safes and look at and access war plans that are normally not known or accessible . " When I asked how unusual those actions were , he replied , " I 'd never seen those things . Ever . " Sailors on the Ohio began to speculate about who was behind the attacks . " The consensus on the boat was that it was Iran . And , as far as we were concerned , they were going to be radioactive glass , " Packer remarked , painting an image of the hellscape that would result if the Tridents were launched . " If you ever wonder if people would be ready to employ these weapons , the answer is yes . " ( When I mentioned to a senior national security official that I was meeting with the country 's top nuclear strategists , his eyes went wide . " Get ready for some straight talk , " he advised . " They never let these guys out of the cage . They are n't supposed to talk to anyone . So if you have them , expect to get an earful . " ) <p> Packer , like so many others interviewed for this story , told me he is bracing for a very different battle than the ones fought in the aftermath of 9/11. " 2027 is the year Xi Jinping said they need to be ready to go to war , " he noted , referencing China 's president . " We use that as a benchmark . " With that date only three years off , Packer is now the sub force 's civilian lead on AUKUS , a trilateral security pact through which the US and UK are helping Australia field a fleet of nuclear subs in an attempt to check China 's ambitions . He is also working on incorporating AI into aircraft that scour the South China Sea for acoustic signatures emanating from Beijing 's subs . <p> While public attention is focused on Ukraine and the Middle East , the Western submarine community is busy analyzing the threat posed by China 's industrial base , which is churning out surface ships and undersea vessels at an astounding clip . The Chinese navy , in fact , is the world 's largest , consisting of more than 370 vessels . American shipyards simply can not keep pace . <p> The good news , Packer and others believe , is that for all its capacity , Chinese naval prowess , when it comes to submarines and seasoned sailors , is lacking . While that could change , it is unlikely to do so , many experts contend , on Xi 's timeline . That gives America 's so-called Silent Service an advantage . " In the Taiwan fight , " Packer maintained , " we 're prepared to go into the jaws of the Chinese undersea forces and take them all out . " All the surface ships as well . <h> Black Hull , Orange Tubes <p> On the voyage out to the Wyoming , I was accompanied by Commander David Burke , 42 , the deputy of Submarine Squadron 20 , a seat Houston once occupied . Burke was coming out to conduct a spot inspection to make sure the crew and its new commanding officer ( CO ) were up to snuff . <p> An empty torpedo tube.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> The ship 's sail.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> Burke would know . In February 2022 , while in charge of an Atlantic fleet boomer , the USS Rhode Island , he received an urgent message that Russia was invading Ukraine . If the US made certain moves , Vladimir Putin warned , forces might be met with a nuclear response . " That was a turning point , " he recalled , " a serious reminder of why our job is so important on an SSBN . " Months later , when Burke surfaced the Rhode Island in Gibraltar , the meaning was clear : America 's boomers can show up anywhere , any time . Last July , the USS Kentucky , a sister ship assigned to the Pacific , made a port call in Busan , South Korea , the first such visit in more than 40 years . <p> As our support ship approached the Wyoming , Burke , a plainspoken Illinoisan with piercing blue eyes , was candid about the sacrifices submariners make by being out of touch for long stretches . " I have an eight-year-old son and a four-year-old daughter . Through her fourth birthday I was probably gone 50 percent of her life -- so it 's tough , " he conceded . " If I 'm going to be away from my family , I want it to be both professionally rewarding and challenging . " He was less candid about his accomplishments . Only later did I learn that Admiral Lisa Franchetti , the first woman to head naval operations in the service 's 248-year history , had just given him the coveted Stockdale Award , presented annually to the most inspiring leaders in the Navy . In short , the sub force command was sending a golden boy to put the Wyoming through its paces -- with a Vanity Fair reporter and photographer in tow . The new CO was about to be tested in real time and on the record . <p> After a night and a morning at sea , our embarkation had arrived . As whitecaps crashed against the Wyoming 's hull , Burke went aboard first . I followed , traversing a rickety drawbridge from ship to ship , aided by a line of sailors fanned out across the sub 's vast deck . Some were toting automatic weapons , a precaution when a boomer is on the surface . A rescue diver was ready if a swell took one of us overboard . The ship 's slightly curved surface , like a giant whale 's , was matte black , covered with special material that absorbs sound waves and masks the craft 's sonar signature . The hull itself was punctuated with two rows of 12 round lids , like giant manhole covers . <p> As massive as the trunks of redwoods , the missile tubes are ubiquitous ; the bathrooms and crew quarters are situated right beside them . <p> Upon reaching the hatch , I carefully descended several vertical ladders that were slick with sea spray . Stepping off , it felt like I was stepping back in time . I was surrounded by walls with exposed pipes , old-school circuitry , panels full of analog dials , switches , and gauges . It felt part boiler room , part brewery , part mad scientist lab from a 1950s sci-fi film . The explanation : When the devices on this class of sub were devised in the ' 70s and ' 80s , they were quite modern . Some have been upgraded ; others remain unchanged ( one uses a crank ! ) because they 're reliable , durable , and easy to replace at sea . Here and there , I passed men and women in coveralls who were receiving instructions on throwback speakers and talking into vintage telephones . Save for the advanced systems in the control and sonar rooms ( bristling with screens labeled " secret " and " top secret " ) , everything about the boat -- down to the Wyoming 's stated mission ( to be " on scene and unseen " ) -- harkened back to the Cold War . Maybe , I thought , we were being cast in the sequel . Or maybe the original never ended . <p> My first impressions were predictable : The ship seemed cramped , with narrow passageways . I was surprised , though , that the boomer 's four decks , with 14-foot ceilings , also made it seem cavernous , even airy , in certain spots . Offsetting the retro-tech vibe were odd trinkets hanging from the walls : cowboy boots , lariats , spurs . This was , after all , the Wyoming , and as a way of paying homage to the state -- and providing a touch of home -- these voyagers had gone out of their way to set a Western tone to the decor . The ship 's motto , I soon discovered , was " Cowboy Up . " And ever since the boat was commissioned in 1996 , crew members have made pilgrimages to the state , meeting officials and supporters and taking in the rodeo . <p> Missile keys adorn lanyards.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> Missile tubes.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> In short order , we were cruising at dozens of miles an hour and depths of several hundred feet . And , unavoidably , the missiles remained front of mind . Every few steps I encountered what looked like curved walls , painted orange . These were the missile tubes , as massive as the trunks of redwoods . ( An arms control pact with the Russians dictates that only 20 of the 24 missile tubes can be operable . ) I also toured the torpedo room where the Mark 48s -- with their 650-pound high-explosive warheads -- are stored . <p> The missile tubes were ubiquitous -- so much so that the bathrooms and crew quarters were situated right beside them . In fact , the compartment where I would spend the night -- which contained six small , curtained-off bunks , as if on a train 's sleeper car -- was effectively wedged between two Tridents . <h> Chessmaster <p> Those orange tubes -- those missiles -- were the reason I was now hours from shore . But to understand their use , I wanted to meet the man who was in day-to-day control of them . And to that end , a month before my voyage , I paid a visit to landlocked Omaha . <p> There , I was invited into the buzzing corridors of the US Strategic Command ( STRATCOM ) , the nerve center of America 's nuclear arsenal , located at Offutt Air Force Base . This is the place that produced the Enola Gay and Bockscar , the B-29s that dropped atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki ; the place where President George W. Bush had taken temporary refuge on 9/11 . <p> When I arrived , I spotted mechanics attending to two aircraft on the tarmac . One was an E-6B Mercury , a nondescript plane that , if needed , can serve as both a communications relay for ballistic-missile subs like the Wyoming and as an airborne launch control for land-based ICBMs . Nearby was a heavily militarized version of a Boeing 747 , the E-4B Nightwatch , which houses the National Airborne Operations Center , which , according to its mission statement , " provides a highly survivable command , control and communications center ... in case of national emergency or destruction of ground command and control centers . " Its nickname : the Doomsday Plane . <p> STRATCOM -- with its 150,000 service members and civilians -- is led by an Air Force four-star , General Anthony Cotton , who ushered me through his sprawling outer office , swarming with airmen , sailors , soldiers , and Marines , before taking me into his inner sanctum , a hushed , wood-paneled oasis in the eye of the storm . Cotton , along with Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin III and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs General Charles Brown Jr. , is part of a trio of Black leadership atop America 's national-security pyramid . And it was a point of pride , clearly , that of all the Black four-stars , as Cotton told me , " there 's only been 10 in the history of the Air Force , and I 'm number 10 . " <p> I asked what drew him to the service . " Simple , " he said , walking over to a display case containing a folded flag with a picture next to it . " That 's my dad . He joined in 1942 . As you can see , he was a diamond-wearing African American that was in World War II in the Army Air Corps , made the transition to the Air Force , and retired as a chief master sergeant in 1974 . So I came out of the womb as a member of the military . " He was emotional as he recalled how , in 2000 , his father passed away a month to the day after his mother . " He did n't see me make lieutenant colonel , but I buried with him my promotion recommendation form . " <p> I found Cotton , from Goldsboro , North Carolina , to be open , gregarious , and quick to laugh -- traits that might seem at odds with the solemnity of his mission . " I do n't want to walk the halls of the Pentagon and when people see me , they 're like , ' Oh , there 's General Cotton , the nuclear guy , ' ? " he said . <p> Cotton , 60 , recounted how he 'd first felt the weight of command as a 22-year-old on his inaugural ride out to a missile field in Minot , North Dakota . " You 're jumping in that Suburban , " he said , " knowing that you 're responsible to execute , under presidential authorities , the most powerful weapon on the face of the globe . You see the humming of the launch control center and you see 10 green lights and know that on the other side of that green light is a Minuteman III , with warheads on board . It all becomes real at that point . " Cotton would eventually hold a string of lofty leadership posts , most recently running the Air Force Global Strike Command , responsible for the country 's bombers and ICBMs . <p> Commander Jeremy Garcia , referred to as " captain " by his shipmates , looks through the periscope.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> His job as STRATCOM chief : preparing and , if necessary , turning to the tools at his disposal , from conventional long-range strike weapons and multiplatform nuclear arms to joint electromagnetic spectrum operations , which involve exploiting and attacking enemy frequencies ( as well as protecting our own ) . Being able to provide those options to the commander in chief " is what I do , " he explained , before taking stock of the geopolitical moment . " That 's important , especially now as we see the threat vectors to rules-based international order . " Translation : Over the second half of the last century , Western national security officials were preoccupied with trying to keep one adversary ( the USSR ) in check , even as the dueling nuclear powers ratified landmark arms control treaties . With those efforts now in eclipse and nuclear proliferation a chilling reality , America and its allies are currently contending with two near-peer opponents , Russia and China , as well as their own set of allies with nuclear aspirations , including North Korea , Iran , and , by extension , the Axis of Resistance -- a term that encompasses armed groups like the Houthis in Yemen , Hamas in Gaza , Hezbollah in Lebanon and Syria , and the Popular Mobilization Forces in Iraq . <p> That 's quite a roster . Who , I wondered , did Cotton have on speed dial ? He chortled at the question before turning it back around , " Who do you think ? " He then showed me a bank of phones with buttons for , among others , Biden , Austin , Brown , the leadership of the US intelligence community , and the 10 combatant commanders who , along with Cotton , command and deploy the nation 's armed forces . " Are you the guy nobody wants to hear from ? " I asked , half in jest . " Yeah , actually it does kind of suck , " he said with a smile . <p> Shortly before my visit , the Florida had made its presence known in the Suez . Only hours after I departed , the B-21 Raider , which will replace the B-2 as a strategic bomber , made its first public flight . Cotton was eager to convey the range of options he can summon if required : missiles , bombers , subs . " For me , being the chessmaster , and being able to offer those effects , if warranted , is incredibly important . Because at the end of the day , I 'm supposed to be able to hold people at risk , and I can do that with the triad . " <p> Still , the chessmaster does n't sleep soundly . " Even at the height of the Cold War , you had conversations with your adversaries , " Cotton said , alluding to the red phone , a hotline set up in 1963 between Washington and Moscow that allowed dialogue and de-escalation in times of crisis . " We 're not seeing that with China . I would love to have my counterpart come visit me to understand what we 're doing so there 's no miscalculation . " ( In December , Joint Chiefs chairman Brown spoke with a top Chinese general about reestablishing ad hoc communication , which Beijing had suspended after the US shot down a Chinese spy balloon . ) <h> Sub Species <p> In the Wyoming 's wardroom I met Jeremy Garcia , the sub 's new CO . Like others who hold the rank of commander and helm a sub , he is addressed as " captain " on board . Burke was cordial to Garcia , but he was also there to give an unvarnished evaluation . So he hung back a bit . <p> Garcia , 44 , tall and bearing an uncanny resemblance to a young Tim Robbins , had not been given much notice about our visit or the decision to pair it with Burke 's drop-by . But he seemed like the kind who rolled with the punches . He 'd already had his trial by fire : His first week on active patrol at sea , Hamas and Israel had gone to war , and the Wyoming was prepped in case it might be tagged for duty there , if only to surface and convey a strategic message . Garcia was unflustered and welcoming . Off the bat , he urged me to speak with any of the 163 sailors on board -- without any PR minders . I then accompanied him around his ship . <p> In the command center , sailors dive and steer the ship as an officer looks on.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> A Bellevue , Washington , native , he 'd enlisted in 1998 as a nuclear engineering and electronics technician . He made his bones on fast-attack and ballistic-missile subs before finally assuming the Wyoming 's reins . The best part of the gig , he told me , is " growing an amazingly talented and proficient team of warriors . " <p> Talented , indeed . The threshold for a billet on a boomer is , in part , one 's range . Crew members must be comfortable spending months in a confined space ( typically 70 to 100 days ) , pitching in on various assignments , and being knowledgeable about nuclear physics . Before submariners receive their insignia -- a patch or pin showing a sub flanked by marine creatures -- they must " earn their fish " : demonstrating proficiency as first responders across departments , ever mindful of the threat posed by fire or a breach in the hull . Cooks , for example , can serve as EMTs if a sailor ever needs treatment by the onboard medic , who runs what amounts to an urgent care clinic . The wardroom can be converted into an operating theater . ( With elaborate systems for swapping in crews and rations , subs , unless they require maintenance , can conceivably remain at sea , indefinitely , during times of heightened tension . ) <p> Walking the ship , I met mariners who were Asian , Black , Latino , immigrants , first-generation Americans , third-generation sailors , and so on . This was a point of pride for the captain and the sub force . And yet the culture has become so ingrained that merely inquiring about it -- or the 13-year effort to integrate women on subs -- was met with eye rolls . A distinct message was coming through to me : The perils and impediments of life underwater trivialized any fissures that might otherwise exist on land . " A submarine is always trying to kill you and our job is trying not to die , " asserted Jonathan Omillian , a salty missile technician , who noted that crew members were united in purpose . " The reason that we are out here is so that we have a place to come home to . We are pretty much the big guys standing up to the bullies saying , ' Hey ' -- excuse my language -- ' Fuck off . Do n't fuck with us . We are bigger . We are better . ' ? " <p> His ship 's leader has a command philosophy that might seem counterintuitive to those on shore . " I 'm a big fan of pushing responsibility down to the lowest level , " Garcia said , " and the lowest level does not mean rank . It means technical expertise and experience . So if that means a very important program can be run by a first-tour individual of any rank , then I 'm fine with that -- as long as they own it . " <p> The job of diving and steering , for example , is not in the captain 's remit . He has put that chore in the hands of the juniormost people ( albeit with a senior officer seated behind them ) . Garcia , like a dozen other COs I spoke to , takes people who are too young to legally drink , metaphorically drops them in the deep end , and says , " Swim . " True , other branches of the military imbue airmen , soldiers , and Marines with outsize responsibility . But I am hard-pressed to think of another mission as daunting as testing a teenager 's mettle underwater with a nuclear reactor in back and thermonuclear warheads in front . <p> Beyond their duties , the Gen Z'ers -- and the millennials who supervise them -- must contend with a life that is practically monastic . They are completely removed from meaningful connectivity , including social media . Their only contact with the outside world involves infrequent ( and heavily monitored ) emails with family when the sub is at a depth and a posture that permit it . There is also little privacy beyond the confines of a draped bunk that can feel like a coffin . Deprived of many other creature comforts , sailors can avail themselves of exercise gear , which is spread around the boat , including treadmills and free weights -- but not when the sub is running silent so as to evade detection . <p> When I first entered the command-and-control room , called " the conn , " a young ensign named Kirsten Barber was moving with purpose between banks of displays and the sub 's twin periscopes . She was standing watch , scanning for vessels -- on the surface or submerged -- that might approach the sub or compromise its position . " Knowing that we 're out here basically keeping the entire United States safe , " she told me , " is pretty awesome , actually . " Barber answers to the nickname Chop , a title submariners assign the chief supply officer , a job vital to the ship 's operation and the crew 's morale . <p> " Some of the smartest people I 've met are younger than me , " Barber said , gesturing toward the stern . " I 'm 23 and there are some people back aft running a nuclear reactor that just blow me away every day . They have to be smart to be on this boat . " I was reminded of a conversation I had when I first visited sub force command . Over lunch , a young Annapolis grad -- an astrophysicist who evidently has a couple of satellites named after her -- discussed her plans to possibly switch gears and become an astronaut . She was reciting , rather than bragging about , her time at school and at sea , when a captain sitting next to her piped in wryly , " I have the same credentials . Other than the satellites . " <p> At one point on the trip , I found myself marveling over , of all things , a biscuit . Not only was it gluten-free , it was delicious . When I shared my surprise with Barber , she beamed . Of all her roles , none looms larger than overseeing the galley . She took me on a tour of the cavernous refrigeration and freezer compartments that are manned by " Jack of the Dust , " the sobriquet of the sailor -- bedecked in winterized gear -- in charge of provisions storage . <p> Virtually everyone I interviewed on the Wyoming raved about the food , which is an atypical reaction when it comes to military chow . There is a reason for that : Among the ship 's secret weapons is Culinary Specialist Chief Petty Officer Earl White . Raised in Granville , Ohio , White followed in his grandfather 's steps , starting his career as a butcher before going to culinary school . In 2009 , he joined the Navy and served for six years on Burke 's old boat , the Rhode Island , before taking a land-based assignment . " I did four years at Camp David , " he recounted while kneading dough in the galley . ( The Navy also runs the White House dining room , famously referred to as The Mess . ) " I did two years of Obama , two years of Trump . It was an incredible experience . " White not only served first families and VIPs , he also earned prestigious gourmet certifications . While we were underway , he whipped up bisques and beignets . <p> For one lunch , we had a Mexican spread ; even at sea they called it Taco Tuesday . I shared meals in the wardroom with Burke , Garcia , his deputy Ben Reed , and several junior officers . We dined on oxtail , salmon , and winter vegetables -- served on proper Navy china . ( After supper , Burke and Garcia teamed up in a fierce , smack-talking game of cribbage against other Navy visitors . ) <p> But the main event , as all of us knew , was how Garcia would be judged by his cribbage comrade , Burke . Top officials can issue all the orders they want , but someone has to push the buttons , quite literally . And so the climactic moment aboard the Wyoming came when Garcia and company engaged in a command-and-control exercise ( CCX ) , replicating the exact , and exacting , procedures required to deploy the sub 's deadly payload . <p> For much of the voyage , I 'd noticed that Burke , silent but affable , would appear and then drift away to assess crew members on their navigation skills , their weapons preparedness , and their engineering prowess . Now , with Burke watching from the wings , the CCX commenced . <p> As planned , a simulated emergency action message ( EAM ) came in from the National Command Authority . The message was received by the communications team , led by 27-year-old Lieutenant Michael Gomez , whom everyone calls Commo . He was quickly joined by another junior officer and , using their thumbs and forefingers , they jointly grasped the EAM -- a plastic object about the size of a playing card -- and the men , facing each other , walked sideways across the conn . The reason for this unusual choreography : The nuclear command-and-control process requires two-person integrity , theoretically ensuring that there be redundant affirmation should a worst-case EAM ever be received -- until the unimaginable moment a missile might be released . <p> When the pair reached the spot where Garcia was standing , they could see that resting on his hip were scores of keys that were wrapped around his frame like a tangle of Christmas lights . " The CO has lanyards that contain keys needed to carry out very specific processes to support any missile launch , " a senior Navy officer explained . " These keys are part of a nuclear safeguard process and are used in various locations around the SSBN to enable a launch when , and only when , a launch order has been validated to be from the US president -- as he or she is the only person that can authorize a launch from an SSBN . " <p> With his executive officer standing beside him , the captain authenticated the message , checking it against a codebook to ensure that neither an outside party nor an onboard subversive had intercepted and changed it in any way . Garcia then uttered a phrase that , were it not a drill , might irrevocably lead to the alteration of some portion of the planet : " I concur with missilization . " <p> Over in the sub 's Missile Control Center , the weapons officer , Lieutenant William Zupke and his deputy , Lieutenant Junior Grade Noelle Gill , were hunched behind sailors who peered at consoles displaying the status of every missile tube . Armed guards milled about . " Standing by for fire order , " someone said . Over the loudspeaker came the reply , " Concur with fire order . " <p> The ritual -- the call-and-response , the presiding officiant , the two curates holding what amounted to a death wafer -- had all the hallmarks and mystery of ceremonies performed in houses of worship or secret societies . In a way , the CCX had the trappings of a sacred rite turned on its head : a military liturgy that reinforced the profound implications of a potentially apocalyptic process . <p> Nothing was fired , of course . The keys inserted were effectively blanks . The entire exercise took only a matter of minutes . But the point was made : Not one of the submariners even flinched . All behaved as if , given the order , they would have had sufficient nerve to perform the task required . <p> A couple of weeks later , I asked Burke for his assessment of Garcia and his team . His response sounded like something Rickover might have said following the maiden 1960 voyage of the very first boomer , the USS George Washington . Burke felt the captain and his sailors performed well , " demonstrated tenacity , " and fulfilled " their mission of strategic deterrence and readiness to execute the president 's orders should deterrence fail . " <h> Before Dawn <p> At 5 a.m. on the day of our departure , I climbed up to the bridge -- the highest position on the ship -- to join Gomez , who stood watch in the hours before dawn . " Every time we 're on the surface , I come up here , " he said . His father is in US Special Forces ; his wife serves on a surface ship . Two flights down , in the conn , Lieutenant Jeanny Sanger , a fellow Annapolis grad ( and Ultimate Frisbee club teammate ) , was on duty . <p> The Wyoming at an undisclosed location in the Atlantic . Along the length of the four-story ship run an array of missile tubes , their circular exit doors ominously visible on the hull.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> Suddenly , a loud voice squawked from a speaker . The Wyoming 's suite of sophisticated sensors had spotted something . " He 's about 25 miles away , " Gomez said with binoculars at the ready . A surface ship ? I inquired . " Yeah , hopefully , it 's not a submarine , " he responded . <p> After we sailed on for a few minutes , he broke the silence and spoke about his peers on the Navy 's other subs : " The fast-attacks get out and they get to do all the cool stuff every day . We do n't really get to do any of that . But it kind of does feel like you 're doing your mission when we 're out here and things are getting hot in the world . " <h> Adam Ciralsky <h> Contributing Editor <p> Adam Ciralsky is a critically-acclaimed writer , film director , and television producer whose body of work has garnered three Emmys ( and an additional six nominations ) ; a Peabody ( for Significant and Meritorious Achievement in Broadcasting ) ; a Polk ( for Outstanding Network Television Reporting ) ; a duPont ( for Breaking News and Sustained Coverage ) ; a Loeb ... Read more <p> Donald Trump 's nominee for secretary of defense is a conservative culture warrior , a central-casting alpha male who believes in guns , God , and the primacy of the family unit . The story of his first marriage , which sources say met a contentious end after he admitted to multiple infidelities , holds a key place in Hegseth 's ambition-fueled rise . <p> Donald Trump 's embattled defense secretary pick is making his case to senators -- and on Megyn Kelly 's show -- amid mounting misconduct allegations . VF caught up with GOP lawmakers supportive of Hegseth , still withholding judgment , or downright skeptical of his chances at confirmation . <p> Russia 's ally Syria has fallen to rebel forces . Its war in Ukraine has claimed 1 million casualties . On the defensive , the nation has resorted to a shadow war of saboteurs and spies , hoping to destabilize its neighbors. 
@@119339575 <p> CLEARWATER -- On Thursday , as the sun set behind the Clearwater Memorial Causeway Bridge , Clearwater Mayor Bruce Rector lit the attendant candle on a cookie-themed menorah , part of a celebration at Coachman Park of the eight-day Jewish holiday . <p> Before lighting the menorah , Rector expressed hope for the release of 100 Jewish hostages held in Gaza for nearly 450 days . <p> Rabbi Levi Hodakov , spiritual leader of the Tabacinic Chabad Center and event organizer , explained the menorah tradition : " It is lit each night to commemorate the miracle of the oil , which lasted eight days instead of one . " <p> The event featured a performance by the Simply Tsfat band from Israel , the ( edible ) cookie-themed menorah , cotton candy , caricatures , a meet-and-greet with three Tampa Bay mascots , a gelt drop and dreidel hunt by the Clearwater Fire Department , and classic Hanukkah treats like latkes and donuts . <p> Hanukkah began at sundown Wednesday and will end at nightfall on Jan. 2 . <h> More <h> ONLY AVAILABLE FOR SUBSCRIBERS <p> The Tampa Bay Times e-Newspaper is a digital replica of the printed paper seven days a week that is available to read on desktop , mobile , and our app for subscribers only . To enjoy the e-Newspaper every day , please subscribe . 
@@119339664 <p> Chris Molanphy : Hey , everybody -- this is Chris Molanphy , host of Hit Parade , Slate 's podcast of pop chart history . This is a recap of 2024 , the year in music , with my colleagues in the Slate Music Club . <p> What is the Slate Music Club ? For more than two decades , Slate convened a panel of critics at the end of each year to discuss the year in music , the cultural trends that drove the musical zeitgeist as well as our favorite albums and singles . We would share our thoughts in a series of written articles published just before the holidays . This year , after a brief hiatus , we 're bringing the Music Club back and turning it into a podcast conversation . We 've convened a panel of smart folks to talk about music in 2024 . Let me introduce our participants , two of whom have graced the Bridge before , and one joining us for the first time . <p> First off , making her debut on the Bridge , it 's Julianne Escobedo Shepherd . She is a writer , editor , and co-founder of Hearing Things , an independent , worker-owned music publication . They 're already doing exciting stuff , so do check it out . And she is the author of the forthcoming book Vaquera . <p> Next , of course , it would n't be Music Club without veteran of the club Ann Powers . Ann is a critic and correspondent for NPR Music and the author of several books , most recently the superlative Travelling : On the Path of Joni Mitchell , which Publishers Weekly named as one of the 10 Best Books of 2024 -- richly deserved , by the way . <p> And our host for this musical roundtable is Carl Wilson , Slate 's chief music critic . Carl is a freelance writer and editor based in Toronto . He 's the author of Let 's Talk About Love : A Journey to the End of Taste , and he helps run Popular Music Books in Process , a biweekly online series featuring conversations with the authors of new books about music . Without further ado , I will now turn it over to Carl . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Carl Wilson : Chris , thank you so much for that . It 's an honor to be here and to be here with Julianne and Ann as well . As you all know , critics spend a lot of time alone at our desks with our thoughts , and the annual Music Club conversations have always been a place of contact and sharing and renewal . I always learn a lot from them and have a lot of fun , and I 'm sure today will be no different . But we 've got a lot of stuff to cover . So , to get us started , I 'd like to ask each of you to tell us about a couple of your favorite albums of the year . And Ann , let 's start with you . <p> Advertisement <p> Ann Powers : Well , Carl , let 's just start where we often do -- you and me , old friends , with a record I think we probably both loved . This is by the Brooklyn-based singer-songwriter auteur Cassandra Jenkins . It 's called My Light , My Destroyer . <p> What can I say about this album ? It 's just , this is the album that really carried me through this very complicated year . What I love about what Jenkins does is that she creates these little luminous worlds in her songs . The album , it 's often about loss . It seems to be sort of about romantic loss , but it 's also about those tiny moments in life that become illuminated by some kind of magic . From the sound she 's cultivated to the stories she tells to the way she uses field recordings on this record -- including a wonderful conversation with her mom in which they are stargazing , and her mom , who 's a science teacher , is explaining the stars at night -- I found so much solace , and not just solace , but imaginative life in this album . It really meant a lot to me . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> And then another album in which I also sought , I guess , refuge -- I do n't know , maybe we can talk about how much we needed refuge in music this year versus needing other things , like motivation or just pleasurable release , but I found myself needing refuge a lot -- is this beautiful collaboration between the Brazilian L.A. -- based guitarist Fabiano do Nascimento and the young sax wizard Sam Gendel . It 's called The Room . And usually Sam Gendel is a guy who uses a lot of effects and tricks with his sax . And on this album , he and Fabiano , they just bring their instruments into a room and make beautiful , spare , highly vulnerable music together . And Fabiano do Nascimento -- he 's a fascinating guy , and he 's been doing tons of really interesting collaborations of late , but this record stood out even within his growing body of work as one that I kept returning to . <p> Advertisement <p> Wilson : Thanks , Ann . Yeah , I very much identify with that desire for quiet places to retreat into in music this year . But Julianne , perhaps you 'll take us in another direction . What are your choices ? <p> Julianne Escobedo Shepherd : My first pick is an album called I Hit the Water by the New York -- based musician Lollise . It is an album about immigration and limitations and the lack of limitations and family . Lollise is originally from Botswana , and so it is a very adventurous piece of work that combines music that she listened to growing up , like South African bubblegum , kwaito , and highlife , alongside music that she learned about when she moved to the United States , such as drum and bass , punk , new wave . And it 's this wonderful m ? lange of all of these genres and these ideas about what it means to migrate and be someone who perhaps your family did n't think that maybe you were going to be . She actually , before she was a musician , was a scientific researcher in a spinal cord laboratory . <p> Powers : Whoa ! <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Shepherd : She became a handbag designer slash musician . So she 's had a lot of interesting jobs , to say the least . And also I think that she started her pop career in her 40s , which is something that I find compelling as well . And it was a beautiful album that I keep going back to . Absolutely original , absolutely deep , and her voice is beautiful , and because she 's a fashion designer , her videos are fantastic to watch . And my second album was Verbathim , by the Palestinian Canadian musician Nemahsis . That album is as perfect an alt-pop album as I could conjure . Her voice is very raspy and clear and she has a lot of range and she also experiments with style . There 's guitar pop , there 's sort of new wave -- y , there 's some folk songs on there . And then also there was a lot of backstory behind it because she wrote it as a nonpolitical album . Her first EP , she considered it to be the political entry in her repertoire , but it became politicized because of who she is and because she was abandoned by her label after Oct. 7 and has been working as an independent artist since then . And so I looked to the album not just to listen to great and beautiful music but because it gave me a lot of solace and hope and beauty and just life in a year that was so exciting at times , to say the least . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Powers : Well , exciting , but maybe not in the way we want to be excited . <p> Shepherd : Yes , exactly . <p> Powers : We 're living in interesting times , as the old saying goes . <p> Wilson : Thank you , Julianne . And Chris ? <p> Molanphy : Well , I guess I 'll go ahead and fulfill my usual role of being Captain Obvious and talk about some widely praised records that I played to death this year , because I am what I am . The album of the year for me was Charli XCX 's Brat , including all of its permutations : Brat but It 's Different but It 's Still Brat , or whatever they all were called . What 's so fascinating -- I was trying to explain this to the Culture Gabfesters when I was on for their " summer strut " show in August , and I think it was Dana Stevens who asked me , " How is it that Brat is supposedly dominating the conversation but there 's no song by Charli that 's kind of in the ' song of the summer ' competition ? " And I was like , " That 's because the whole album is dominating the summer . " It really was an album that played as an album , and it 's kind of a miracle how it coheres as an album . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> And yet , what 's the single from Brat ? Is it " 360 " ? Is it " Apple " ? Is it " Girl , So Confusing " ? You pick your favorite , right ? " Sympathy Is a Knife . " I mean , it was just banger after banger after banger , and they all qualify as the hit . The remixes complicated the story in interesting ways . Obviously the remix of " Girl , So Confusing , " featuring Lorde literally in the title . The redo of " Guess " featuring Billie Eilish , Billie now in her fully queer phase and embracing it , God bless that . Actually , Ann 's husband Eric pointed out that it is dominating the field in the critics polls this year , the way literally no album ever has in the history of Pazz &amp; Jop and everything . It 's like , by a 2-to-1 ratio , everybody 's voting for Brat . And , I do n't know , game recognize game . It won for a reason . <p> Powers : Yes , Eric wo n't shut up about that , which is fair . Which is fair . <p> Shepherd : I do wonder what about Speakerboxxx/The Love Below . <p> Powers : Oh , it 's a good point . It 's a good point . That was huge . <p> Shepherd : That was really big . <p> Powers : He did some math , though , and I feel like he found out there were others that -- who were some of the others ? <p> Molanphy : Nirvana , Nevermind , in 1991 . <p> Powers : Yeah . Time Out of Mind , Bob Dylan . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Molanphy : My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy , in 2010 . There have been albums that have been dominant but not this dominant . <p> Powers : No , it 's crazy . And we can -- as maybe the least brat among us , I totally admire and I 'm for Charli XCX , but the album did n't capture my imagination the way it did virtually everyone else I know . But I have to give it up to her for claiming this moment . <p> Advertisement <p> Wilson : I think that one of the funny things -- you know , I saw backlash kind of in the second week , that critics ' lists were coming out , saying , Oh , all the critics are pretending they love Brat just to be cool with the kids and that kind of thing . But the hilarious thing is that critics in North America have been the main audience for Charli XCX for the past decade . And so it 's really our crossover moment as much as hers , and I think that that accounts in a lot of ways for the energy behind it on this level . But Julianne , you had thoughts about Brat that you wanted to share as well ? <p> Shepherd : The marketing . I think so much of it was really just about the simplicity of the album cover -- not the music , but just the idea of getting the music out there to people who would never have listened to an album that is basically , like , bloghouse and 2001 U.K. garage and that traverses all of these kinds of once-obscure dance genres . That , plus there 's also obviously Charli 's whole persona , which is really hitting right now . I think this sort of laissez-faire party girl feels very aging zoomer to me . <p> Powers : Yes , I agree with that . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Shepherd : But I really think we can not underestimate the graphic design , and obviously it became the meme and went all the way up to the presidential election . But I do think that it 's kind of on a downslope . I think one of the least cool things that I can think of is playing a concert in Times Square for a fast-fashion label . So that was my prediction -- perhaps backlash 2025 , but I did love every bit of the music . <p> Powers : I have a question for you , Julianne . Do you think that Pantone released one of its dullest colors of the year ever , Mocha Mousse , because they just knew they could n't beat Brat ? <p> Molanphy : Brat Green owned the year . I mean , without question . <p> Powers : Yeah , Pantone was defeated instantly by Brat . <p> Shepherd : I fully think your instincts are correct . <p> Powers : Chris , did you have another pick ? <p> Advertisement <p> Molanphy : If I 'm going to highlight one other album , I really want to mention Doechii 's album Alligator Bites Never Heal , my hip-hop album of the year . And that 's saying something , because there have been some bangers this year , including the LL Cool J album , obviously the Kendrick album , but gee whiz , what she brought to the table -- I mean , it 's like a bars album and a pop album and a mixtape , and it 's got it all . I quote my buddy Tom Breihan , who calls her a hard-ass Florida rap technician . I ca n't describe her any better than that . If you have n't watched the Late Show performance of a couple of weeks ago , on Colbert 's show , do yourself a favor . It is stunning , dazzling . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Molanphy : And the album just cooks -- I mean , it just goes and goes , and she 's got bars for days . And it 's conversational too . It 's kind of like she 's engaging the listener in chatter , but yet it 's got flow . And , I do n't know , call me an old-school rap fan , but I like flow . <p> Powers : But not just flow , like you said . She 's building characters . She 's doing musical theater . I have to throw in a little kudos to my team at NPR for inviting her to the Tiny Desk at exactly the right moment . And she killed it with an all-woman band . Honestly , Brat summer gave way to Doechii fall . <p> Shepherd : I agree . The one-two of the late-night performance , and then Tiny Desk , was like , All right , well , she 's blown up . <p> Wilson : We 'll come back to the question of the year in hip-hop , but I think there 's no question that Doechii was the real breath of fresh air in that case , and she was high on my list as well . And that theater-kid energy , I think , is something that -- I did n't structure a question around this , but I was thinking about that over and over again with some of the things this year , and the recent moment with Wicked brings that particularly to mind . But look at the Last Dinner Party , from the U.K. , and all kinds of artists right now . Really , the drama kid is having a moment in pop culture . And l think that 's a reflection of something that 's been going on with the zoomers for a few years and that we 're really seeing crystallize in that way . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Molanphy : Chappell Roan , for one thing , the way she blew up this year -- theater-kid energy . <p> Powers : But she brings more than your average Disney star to the table . <p> Wilson : Just to round out the round , my own full list is up on Slate . But I 'll pick out two things . One that I know that I share with Ann is The Past Is Still Alive , by Hurray for the Riff Raff , which is a band that 's been around for over 15 years out of New Orleans , led by Alynda Segarra . And I think they really made a breakthrough on this album . I 've been fond of previous records , but this one really captivated me , and I think it 's really bringing together things that Segarra has been working on for years and just bringing them into sharp focus . It 's almost kind of an audio memoir , a story of their youth as a kid at risk , basically traveling the roads of America . And through those memories , they kind of talk about America as a whole and about how the past is still alive in both beautiful and threatening and dangerous ways in American life . At the same time , it 's not heavy-handed in the way that Segarra in previous albums had a little bit of a tendency to be . It 's got this beautiful kind of handmade anthemic quality , but it eases off the gas in the right places . And I found it kind of endlessly listenable and moving on that level . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Powers : They 've definitely evolved so much as a songwriter . I mean , I 've been following Alynda since almost the beginning of their career , and I was hooked from the minute I heard their voice . But those early songs , they were so influenced by blues . The songs were very repetitive . They were like train wheels . I mean , Alynda was someone who rode the rails . They were kind of a hobo early on . They were a train hopper , and that was a sound they 'd built . But on these songs , they 've figured out how to structure and tell stories so exquisitely and offering us this intersectional queer vision of bohemian life that -- well , you can imagine that 's my jam . I 'm just so happy for them that they 've reached this apex with this record . <p> Advertisement <p> Wilson : Yeah , absolutely . And the other record that I 'll talk about occupies some similar territory in terms of queer sensibility in America in 2024 , and that 's the soundtrack album for the film I Saw the TV Glow , Jane Schoenbrun 's horror-fantasy trans allegory set in the ' 90s . The movie , to me , is a prime example of how young people right now are using horror as a way to work out anxieties around identity and survival . And that 's really backed up on this album with music from the likes of Frances Quinlan , Caroline Polachek , Florist , L'Rain , and Sloppy Jane with Phoebe Bridgers . It 's a real throwback to the way you could discover a whole host of new artists on a great movie or TV show soundtrack back in the CD age . It 's as if the director had made you a mixtape , which I think was what they were really going for here . And I hope that that cinematic universe kind of expands out for me . I was surprised , while I was watching the film , that I kept stopping to find out who that was on the soundtrack and who that was . And I find the record something that I go back to over and over again as a really rich text of very specific qualities of the zeitgeist right now . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Molanphy : There are certain soundtracks that sort of capture a zeitgeist moment . They sort of freeze-frame something . I 'm thinking of The Harder They Come , in the ' 70s , or Pretty in Pink , in the ' 80s , or , God help us , the Garden State soundtrack , in the aughts , for better or for worse . <p> Wilson : Or Pulp Fiction , in the ' 90s . <p> Molanphy : Pulp Fiction in the ' 90s , lest I skip over that . And so it 's one of those -- it 's like it 's crystallizing something , which is unique , I think . <p> Advertisement <p> Powers : And Jane Schoenbrun definitely has her finger on the pulse of the music scene in that she also cast Lindsey Jordan , i.e. , Snail Mail , in the movie . So , I mean , this is definitely a music movie all the way . And I wonder , Carl , if you found a complement to this soundtrack in the epic Transa compilation that Red Hot put out just recently . Because I 'm fascinated with that compilation . It 's the most collaborative and sort of generative compilation I 've heard in recent memory , with artists repeating on several tracks and different ensembles . And to me , ... these two albums together are sort of presenting kind of a vision of what a trans aesthetic is . Not to speak at all for those forming this aesthetic , but together these works , I think , do present a different way into music and the trans experience . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Wilson : That album , which is I think almost three hours long , came out towards the end of the year . And so it was really difficult to absorb in time for these kinds of year-end reflections . But I 'm really looking forward to going back to it . It definitely has a landmark , in that Sade put out her first song in six , seven years , something like that , on it . Which is a nod to her trans son and kind of an apology for not understanding , and it 's just full of things like that . It 's definitely -- I agree , it 's kind of a landmark . <p> So we might touch back on some of these examples again as we go , but we do need to move along . And I think what we should talk about is kind of the year in pop overall , which I think was kind of a strangely split experience . I remember in the spring and summer , it felt like critics were more excited than any other year this decade about all the fresh faces and energy on the charts , from Sabrina Carpenter and Chappell Roan to Charli XCX and Shaboozey and more , but later in the year that felt like that kind of stagnated and maybe , postelection , kind of soured . And so I 'll turn to Chris as our resident chart maven to give us a bit of an overview of what happened on that level in 2024 . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Molanphy : Yeah , I think you captured it right . It really was a tale of two different years in one , where the first half of the year was just full of all this energy -- not just energy but variety . When you have turnover in the Top 10 , not just among all of these pop women that we 've been talking about , but also , Hozier had a No. 1 hit this year called " Too Sweet , " or folks like Teddy Swims , with what turned out to be the No. 1 record of the year , the impossible-to-categorize " Lose Control . " It 's R&amp;B , it 's pop , it 's rock , it 's a little bit of everything . <p> Powers : Can I ask you a question about that song ? Did it come out in -- it came out in 2023 , did n't it ? <p> Molanphy : It came out in late 2023 , but it basically sat like a stone in the Top 10 all year , which is why , for those who care , for my chart nerds out there , if you 're wondering why a record that only spent one week at No. 1 wound up Billboard 's top record of the whole year , especially in a year when Shaboozey spent 19 weeks at No. 1 , it 's because it just sat like a rock in the Top 10 all year long and just kind of cleared the field . <p> Powers : Like a magic rock , like a shining , beautiful magic rock . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Molanphy : Right . And like you said , Carl , the critics were excited . It was n't just critics . I talk to radio programmers from time to time , and they were excited too , because they 're like , These are not TikTok fad songs . These are actual songs that are connecting with both active audiences and passive audiences who just tune in to the radio and want to hear whatever 's happening . And that first half of the year when Chappell was breaking , when the Teddy Swims record was breaking , when the Hozier record was breaking , when " Espresso , " obviously -- I mean , there was a period where three different Sabrina Carpenter hits were in the Top 10 simultaneously , including when she was competing with herself with " Espresso " and " Please Please Please . " That was really exciting , and then sort of the pattern set in where , once radio finds something that tests well , they just kind of run it into the ground . And that 's a hallmark of radio , which has been kind of under siege for the last five years . Once something tests as well as Shaboozey 's " A Bar Song " -- a terrific record , by the way -- they just kind of put it on autopilot , and that 's your year right there . So I do hope that we have not just the excitement but the musical variety that we saw in the first half of this year back in the Top 10 soon enough . We 'll see what happens after we get past the typical Christmas wave that we 're having right now , with Mariah and Wham ! and all of those records . But it was , for a time , a pretty exciting pop year , and we had n't really had one of those in the 2020s yet . <p> Wilson : So , Julianne , your reactions about the year in pop ? <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Shepherd : I was very thrilled by the year in pop and all of the new faces . I really like what you said about theater-kid energy . No. 1 Miss Theater was Chappell Roan , and I was thrilled to see a queer operatic theater kid who is inspired by her and my favorite drag queen , Sasha Colby . And wearing drag in the mainstream becomes such a huge story of the year . It was very exciting . And then , I agree , it kind of all curdled after the election , but everything curdled after the election . So I do n't know if we can necessarily blame radio , because I was n't listening to terrestrial radio , and it still felt weird to me . <p> Powers : " Good Luck , Babe ! , " for me , just grew . Its beauty grew for me , and every different version I would hear , and I have to single out the Miranda Lambert and Kelly Clarkson performance that they did on Kelly 's show . Because I already love the song -- I was a pretty hardcore " Pink Pony Club " person before that -- but then , when I heard Miranda and Kelly do it together , it struck me anew on two levels . One , on a kind of a story level , because of Miranda bringing it in and saying her brother is gay -- my brother brought this to me , and it was kind of , look , any ounce of solidarity and allyship we can get from a mainstream country star , I 'm like , Yes , thank you . So that , and then also , Chappell 's a great singer , but Kelly is our great cover singer of the moment . She 's so incredible . And to hear her sing that chorus just reminded me of what a stunning structural achievement that song is . <p> Wilson : Yeah , I mean , I think that one of the things that Chappell makes us think about is the ways in which mainstream pop and music in general creates political energy by bringing constituencies together , by making people see themselves reflected back , or seeing people they know , people they love , reflected back and understanding themselves to be part of an audience . But short of that kind of action , which I think we got from a lot of these major stars this year , we were short of directly political music or protest music at a time when things are so volatile . It 's hard to point to anything strong that happened on that level . And I know that we were talking beforehand about that issue in pop right now , and I wonder if it affects how we hear the pop landscape . <p> Powers : I definitely think 2024 is a year in which identity stood in for explicit protests . And honestly , the political conflicts of this year have a lot of the media running scared . I 'm not speaking for any organization , and as an NPR employee , I am nonpartisan . I 'm not taking a stance , but I 'm just saying , ... analyzing the moment , I think we see that . I think we see that there was n't a lot of coverage of artists making protest music . There 's another Palestinian artist , named Saint Levant , who made a record that I find fascinating , and I find this artist 's journey very interesting . He grew up partly in Gaza , in a hotel that his father had built there , and the hotel has been destroyed in the recent conflicts . He made this album that in a lot of ways is a lament . In a lot of ways , it 's an expression of pride in his identity . Complicated , interesting figure . Played at Coachella , has a big global following . And honestly , crickets out there . I mean , nobody covered this record . I do n't know . I find that really , really interesting . So part of it is what the media is willing to take up . Maybe there 's a ton of protest music happening out there and it 's not being tracked . And NPR recently did do a feature on Saint Levant . <p> Shepherd : It does seem like it was much harder for sort of explicitly protest music -- or even music about whatever cultural sociopolitical conflicts are happening right now -- to rise through . And I do n't know if it 's because pop music has become so dominant and there was so much to talk about . But also , I do n't know why it could n't break through other than perhaps media is a little scared . And also perhaps we 're too divided , as they tell us . <p> Molanphy : We are going to pause here , but be sure to tune in to Part 2 of this special Bridge episode with the Slate Music Club . It 's now live in your podcast feed in the second half . We discuss the year in Taylor Swift , the crossover of country music , the epic beef between Kendrick and Drake , and the state of music journalism . If you are n't a Slate Plus member and want to listen to the second half of this conversation , join now at slate.com/hitparadeplus. 
@@119341062 <p> Many people in Gaza lack adequate shelter and are malnourished after more than a year of Israeli attacks and blockades . <p> A mourner sits beside the bodies of Palestinians killed in Israeli air attacks in Gaza City Dawoud Abu Alkas/Reuters <p> Published On 27 Dec 202427 Dec 2024 <p> A Palestinian healthcare worker has died due to " extreme " weather conditions , according to a statement by the enclave 's Ministry of Health , as severe cold compounds the hardship faced by people displaced by Israel 's relentless attacks . <p> The body of Al-Hakim Ahmed al-Zaharneh , who worked at the European Gaza Hospital , was found inside his tent in al-Mawasi area , west of the city of Khan Younis , southern Gaza , the ministry said on Friday . <p> " This incident comes in light of the difficult humanitarian conditions that displaced citizens are experiencing , as the suffering of Gaza residents increases due to low temperatures and the lack of heating means in tents , " the ministry said . <p> The ministry said earlier that four Palestinian babies have died in tents in recent days amid the cold weather and widespread malnutrition . <p> Al Jazeera 's Hani Mahmoud , reporting from Deir el-Balah in central Gaza , said that the number of casualties in vulnerable groups is increasing due to worsening weather conditions . <p> Advertisement <p> " For 14 months now , people here have been lacking basic necessities to help them survive these difficult conditions -- even in summer , " he said . <p> " Now in winter , the temperature has dropped very low , and people in tent camps feel the cold as being colder than the actual levels . " <p> He said that mothers often lack the strength or ability to breastfeed as they are malnourished and unwell . <p> " The conditions are worse for vulnerable groups like babies and , in the absence of humanitarian aid , it is natural that deaths will happen . " <p> The vast majority of the Gaza Strip 's 2.4 million residents have been displaced at least once since war broke out with the Palestinian group Hamas on October 7 , 2023 , with many people living in tents that offer little protection from the cold , rain and flooding . <p> The United Nations and other organisations have repeatedly decried the worsening humanitarian conditions in Gaza , as Israeli attacks and blockades severely curtail access to food , water , medicine and other supplies . <p> A leading United States government organisation monitoring food crises around the world withdrew a new report this week warning of imminent famine in north Gaza under what it called Israel 's " near-total blockade , " after the US asked for its retraction , US officials told The Associated Press . <p> The move follows public criticism of the report from the US ambassador to Israel . <p> The report by the Famine Early Warning Systems Network ( FEWS NET ) had warned that a " famine scenario " was unfolding in northern Gaza where Israel launched a renewed offensive in early October . <p> Advertisement <p> Meanwhile , on Friday , the director of Gaza 's Health Ministry told Al Jazeera that Israeli forces stormed the Kamal Adwan Hospital , one of the few remaining medical facilities in north Gaza , and forced the 350 people there to evacuate , including all the patients and staff . He said contact with the hospital had been lost . <p> Israel 's war in Gaza has killed at least 45,436 Palestinians and wounded 108,038 since October 7 , 2023 , according to figures released on Friday by Gaza 's Health Ministry . <p> An estimated 1,139 people were killed in Israel during the Hamas-led attacks that day and more than 200 were taken captive . 
@@119344472 <p> Giant Christmas tree ornaments are seen near the site " the world 's largest Hanukkah menorah , " Dec. 10 , 2020 , on Fifth Avenue in New York , on the first night of the annual eight-day long Jewish festival of lights . Credit : Kathy Willens / AP <p> The BDN Opinion section operates independently and does not set news policies or contribute to reporting or editing articles elsewhere in the newspaper or on bangordailynews.com <p> Michael Cianchette is a Navy reservist who served in Afghanistan . He is in-house counsel to a number of businesses in southern Maine and was a chief counsel to former Gov . Paul LePage . <p> I sat down to write this on Christmas night . <p> When I opened up my internet browser , I saw the Bangor Daily News ' opinion editors had published the Christmas passage from the Gospel of Luke . The next story over was about the University of Maine System 's board of trustees declining to divest from Israel . <p> I attended an Easter vigil service , where the Christmas gospel came from the Book of Matthew . That is the one with a bevy of " begats , " emphasizing Jesus ' Jewish bloodline . <p> And , lest we not forget , Hanukkah began Wednesday evening as well . <p> The intersection between the Jewish and Christian faiths is especially evident this time of year . And , while Israel does not encompass the totality of Jewish faith , I think there is sometimes a degree of overlap between criticism of the modern Israeli state and antisemitism . <p> For those who express hate , anger or other emotions toward Jewish people generally , be careful claiming Christ . Joseph , a devout Jew , was going to quietly divorce Mary for conceiving a child outside their marriage . <p> Until he received a vision , where an angel told him : <p> " Joseph , son of David , do not be afraid to take Mary your wife into your home . For it is through the holy Spirit that this child has been conceived in her . She will bear a son and you are to name him Jesus , because he will save his people from their sins . " <p> Misguided souls who fall into antisemitism oftentimes simultaneously try to show their Christian bona fides . The two ca n't be reconciled . The essence of the Christian faith is worship of a Jewish carpenter . <p> That does n't mean people of faith are incapable of criticizing Israel . Jesus himself launched a scathing critique of Israeli leadership in antiquity . It is now known as the " cleansing of the Temple , " when he cast out merchants and money changers from the holiest Jewish site . <p> I 'd guess those who continue to advocate for government divestment from modern Israel likely see themselves in a similar role . If that advocacy is wrapped in an ethos of unequivocal nonviolence , then it is easier to say they are living their faith . <p> But , all too often , calls for divestiture from Israel are not followed by calls for divestiture from Palestinian territories . Hamas is the governing party for Gaza . By any measure , it is also the belligerent in the ongoing war . Its surprise terrorist attack on Oct. 7 , 2023 was the largest single-day slaughter of Jews since the Holocaust . <p> That is why the UMaine System board of trustees got it right . <p> Seeking one-sided divestiture when two groups are warring is tantamount to assigning blame . Sanctions on Russia for invading Ukraine are in that category . Rightly so . But blaming Israel exclusively for the ongoing war is a gross oversimplification of a complex situation . <p> In a statement to the groups calling for divestiture , Chair Trish Riley said , " to take a position on your demands would effectively shut down opportunities for conversation -- including about the horrors of the conflict in the Middle East and elsewhere -- and in doing so , undermine our educational mission . " <p> She is right . <p> Over the next week , as Jewish Mainers light their menorahs , Christians should remember that Jesus himself celebrated Hanukkah . It is an opportunity to educate ourselves on how the Jewish faith still informs the Christian faith today . <p> And , without the stain of antisemitism , it offers an opportunity to have a more nuanced and informed conversation about the ongoing war in Gaza . <p> Debate is worthwhile . Divestiture is not . Cheers to the board of trustees for getting it right . 
@@119346663 <p> The courtyard of Kamal Adwan Hospital following an Israeli attack on it and its surrounding buildings in Beit Lahia , Gaza on December 25 , 2024 . <p> Khalil Ramzi Alkahlut/Anadolu/Getty Images <p> CNN -- <p> The Israeli military surrounded one of the last functioning hospitals in northern Gaza , ordering patients and staff to evacuate and remove their clothing , say eyewitnesses , as concern grows for those who remain in the facility . <p> Israeli forces " are besieging Kamal Adwan Hospital and issuing orders for its evacuation , " hospital director Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya said in a post on social media early Friday . <p> A nurse and a journalist inside the hospital , which is in the enclave 's Beit Lahiya district , said the same . In audio messages CNN has listened to , they said people there had been ordered to leave the hospital and go to the yard of the compound . <p> The World Health Organization ( WHO ) raised concern about the hospital on Friday , saying the raid has put the " last major health facility in north Gaza out of service . " It also warned that at least " 60 health workers and 25 patients in critical condition , including those on ventilators , remain in the hospital . " <p> Some staff members accused the Israeli military of starting a fire . The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) has denied any connection to the blaze . " After preliminary examination , no connection was found between IDF activity to the fire , " an IDF spokesperson said on X. <p> A video shared by nurse Walid Al Budi , who was also inside the hospital , showed a fire burning in its archive department . Heavy gunfire can be heard in the background . <p> The Israeli military had been " burning all the operating departments in the hospital , " Abu Safiya said in an Instagram post . Abu Safiya said that some staff had been detained and that a large number had been injured . <p> An audio message from staff at Kamal Adwan said that " surgical departments , laboratory , maintenance , and emergency units have been completely burned , and the fire is now spreading to the buildings . " Ambulances were sent to transport survivors to the Indonesian Hospital , the message added . <p> In a separate statement , the IDF told CNN that " there was a small fire in an empty building inside the hospital that is under control , " adding that it is " unaware " of allegations that the fire was caused by IDF gunfire . It added that its troops " are operating in the area of the hospital and not inside of it . " <p> The IDF said earlier that it had begun operations around the hospital based on intelligence " regarding the presence of terrorist infrastructure and operatives " there . " The Kamal Adwan Hospital serves as a Hamas terrorist stronghold in northern Gaza , " the IDF claimed , adding that its troops are conducting " targeted operations in the area . " <p> " IDF troops facilitated the secure evacuation of civilians , patients , and medical personnel prior to the operation , " it said , " with ambulances for transportation to additional hospitals in the Gaza Strip to ensure continued medical treatment . " <p> Israeli forces launched a renewed aerial and ground incursion in several parts of northern Gaza in early October this year , saying they were targeting a resurgent Hamas presence there . The two-month onslaught has razed streets to carpets of debris , killed entire families , and severely depleted food , water and medical stocks . <h> ' Death surrounds us ' <p> Two nurses told CNN that after the IDF told patients and staff to leave the building , Israeli troops rounded them up and separated them by gender -- a process that took over two hours . <p> The IDF told men and women to remove their clothes and headscarves , Shorouq Saleh Al-Rantisi , a nurse working in the laboratory at Kamal Adwan Hospital , said on Friday . " Those who refused to remove their clothing were beaten , " she said . " I did n't have a phone but those who were refusing to hand over their phones were beaten . " <p> Concrete slabs and barbed wire spill out of the courtyard of Kamal Adwan Hospital , following an Israeli attack , in Beit Lahiya , in Gaza , on December 25 . <p> Khalil Ramzi/Anadolu/Getty Images/File <p> Al-Rantisi said the IDF returned their belongings , before positioning a military vehicle at either end of the group of Palestinians and forced them to walk towards Shadi Abu Ghazala street in the Beit Lahiya neighborhood . <p> " ( They ) ordered us to take off our hijabs and clothes like the men , but we refused , " she told CNN . " The hardest part was the long distance we walked , and their demand that we remove our clothes was the most difficult . They did not respect that we are women ; they looked at us and mocked us . " <p> " All the young men who were at the hospital have been arrested , including my husband , " she told CNN . " They have assaulted the women , ordering them to remove their clothing as well , which we refused to do ... Death surrounds us from all sides . " <h> ' Bodies remain in the street ' <p> The hospital and its surroundings have come under an onslaught of Israeli attacks in recent months , Abu Safiya has said . Late on Thursday , about 50 people , including five medical workers , were killed after Israeli strikes nearby , according to the Ministry of Health in Gaza and Abu Safiya . <p> Among the three hospital workers killed was a paediatrician Dr. Ahmed Samour , who was on duty on Thursday but went to the building opposite the hospital -- where he and his family live -- when the strike hit , said Abu Safiya . <p> Two paramedics were killed in a strike near the hospital while on their way there , the director said . <p> " The number of casualties reported in the media does not align with the information held " by the Israeli military , it said . <p> Israel says that Hamas operates inside and underneath hospitals , and is using them for military operations , including as command centers , weapons stores and to hide hostages . The Israelis have released footage they say is evidence of those Hamas operations . The videos do not offer definitive proof , and Hamas has denied the claims . <p> The WHO has previously said that Israeli authorities have repeatedly denied humanitarian access to Kamal Adwan Hospital and just this week said that a request to deploy international emergency medical teams was denied by Israeli authorities , " despite the need for immediate surgical interventions for injured patients . " <p> Israeli organization Physicians for Human Rights has filed an urgent petition with Israel 's High Court " demanding an immediate cessation of ongoing attacks on Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , " a statement from the organization said on Wednesday . <p> The " petition presents grave evidence of the catastrophic impact on the hospital and its staff over the past year , " the statement says . <p> " Evacuating Kamal Adwan Hospital would abandon thousands of residents in northern Gaza without access to medical treatment for the sick and injured . Many of the patients currently receiving care can not be safely evacuated due to constant gunfire in the vicinity and the military 's restrictions on ambulance operations , " the Israeli human rights organization added . 
@@119350276 <h> While the Houthis may be the last of Iran 's axis standing , Israel 's battle against them will not be so easy . <p> Israel 's battle against the Iran-backed Houthi terror groups in Yemen may be more difficult than previously thought , an anonymous Israeli official told The Washington Post on Friday . <p> One key difficulty is The Houthis " are more technologically advanced than perceived by many , " the official said while stressing that the terror group should not be " underrated . " <p> The official went on to explain that thanks to the backing from the Islamic Republic , the Houthis have been able to take " practical steps " in pursuing their ideology , which calls for the destruction of Israel . <p> " The Houthis want a war of attrition on Israel , to continue firing so that they can say , ' We are the real resistance , ' " Yoel Guzansky , a former official on Israel 's National Security Council , told the Post . <h> Practical struggles in defeating the Houthis <p> Part of the Houthis plan is based on simple economics , Guzansky explained . While the Houthis drones and missiles cost only a few thousand dollars to launch , Israel 's interceptions cost tens of thousands of dollars . Houthi military spokesman , Yahya Sarea , delivers a statement claiming attacks on Israel , during a rally by protesters , mainly Houthi supporters , to show support to Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , in Sanaa , Yemen December 20 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/KHALED ABDULLAH ) <p> While the other terror groups Iran backs border Israel , creating its own challenges , the Houthis are located over a thousand miles away in a mountainous terrain , surrounded by civilians and with very little infrastructure - creating unique challenges for Israel 's response , Danny Orbach , a military historian at Hebrew University in Jerusalem , explained . 
@@119358270 <p> In Asif Kapadia 's latest documentary , " 2073 , " Ivanka Trump celebrates her 30th year as leader of a nightmarish fascist police state that was once America . The docudrama blends interviews with journalists and archival real-life news footage with a fictional story starring Samatha Morton to tell a story about a dystopic future that does n't feel too far off . <p> The film is inspired by Chris Marker 's 1962 featurette " La Jet ? e , " about a time traveler who risks his life to change the course of history and save the future of humanity . " 2073 " follows Morton , who plays a survivor of a near-future global catastrophe caused by AI , climate change , anti-democratic authoritarianism and technocratic mass surveillance . Morton 's character lives in a nightmarish America led by a fascist police state . <h> Related Stories <p> " I felt like , what are the genres that people go to the cinema and see , " says Kapadia . " They love horror films . So I thought , I 'll give you a horror film . " <h> Popular on Variety <p> The Trump family , the Murdoch family , Vladimir Putin , Benjamin Netanyahu , Xi Jinping , Mohammed Bin Salman , Narendra Modi , the Koch brothers , Elon Musk , Mark Zuckerberg , Jeff Bezos , Peter Thiel and many more are featured throughout the docu . The past is pieced together using footage from approximately 60 different countries . In the opening sequence of the doc , clips of the recent devastation in Gaza are used to reveal an earth-shattering catastrophe . <p> " This film came out of my gut instincts and a feeling about something that 's going on globally , " says Kapadia . " The most terrifying things in the film are fact . The most shocking things are being said by real people who are actually now in power in this country . " <p> Backed by Neon , Double Agent , and Film4 , " 2073 " debuted at the Venice Film Festival in September and will be released in theaters on Dec. 27 . <p> Kapadia , who won the Best Feature Documentary Oscar in 2016 for " Amy , " spoke with Variety about " 2073 " ahead of the film 's theatrical release . <p> Members of the Trump family are mentioned in the film , which was made long before the 2024 presidential election . If Donald Trump had not won the election , would you have edited the Trump mentions out of the film ? <p> Pretty much all of the film 's financiers and execs who are from the U.S. at some point said , " Why have you got Trump in the movie ? Get rid of him . " He was old news when I began working on the movie . But the film itself is a time capsule about now . So even if Trump did n't get reelected , his presidency happened . So , I refused to remove any Trump references . That sequence where Ivanka Trump is celebrating her 30th year in power is there because the idea of a two-term American presidency , I do n't think , will be around forever . <p> Did you make " 2073 " a sci-fi horror doc to attract audiences who would n't go to a movie theater to watch a documentary ? <p> Absolutely . With all of my films , particularly the docs that I 've made like " Senna " and " Amy , " I want them to break out of the kind of box of the documentary . I want my films to be for the big screen . I want people to be in a dark room and put away their cell phones so that they can experience something and then talk about it . I always feel that my films should be as cinematic as possible , and I do n't want them to feel like they are meant for television . So , the whole intention with every film I make , because I 'm from that generation , is to make it for the big screen and for it to feel like a movie and to compete with every other movie that 's out there . <p> Is the hope that audiences will watch " 2073 " and try to make a change ? <p> If people are comfortable , nothing changes . Change comes from being afraid . From worrying and from realizing we have to do something . Some people think , " It 's not our problem . It 's someone else 's problem . I 'm fine . " The aim of the film is to shock and scare people to get them to act . That 's the idea . <p> What actions would you recommend taking ? <p> In the film we talk about what life used to be like and where we are heading , and then there 's a bit in-between , which is like the boiling frog in hot water . We are that frog . We are in boiling water right now , and it 's getting hotter in terms of the climate , democracy , journalism , surveillance , and tech . All of that is happening right now . So we have to start doing something . If you are really lost for words and do n't know what to do , then I would say the key thing about the film is that it 's also an ode to journalism . The journalists that we feature who are in the film -- look them up . Read their books . Read their articles . Understand what they stand for , and they will give you the solutions . <p> You began your career as a narrative filmmaker . You could have made " 2073 " a sci-fi fiction movie . Why did you decide to make a hybrid doc ? <p> Because I 'd still be begetting notes on the screenplay , and everything would be out of date . The thing about fiction is something happens , and then they turn it into a movie , and I wanted to make a film before it happened . This film is coming out while it 's happening . That 's why I fell slightly out of love with fiction ; as a process , it 's very conservative . It 's loads of notes , loads of development , and loads of going round and round in circles . Then you are waiting for four years to cast the film . I like flipping it on its head . Also , I find that working in nonfiction and working in docs on a smaller budget , with a smaller crew and team , and with fewer executives , lets me follow my instincts . <p> Were you surprised , given the current docu market that Neon took on this film ? <p> A lot of distributors just do n't want to touch politics . They do n't want to go anywhere near anything political . They do n't want to piss off any world leaders because it might affect where their service is available , let 's just say . So I had the dream team because I wanted " 2073 " to be theatrical , and the people who came on board and believed in me have been there all the way through supporting that vision . 
@@119373471 <h> The biggest geopolitical winners and losers of 2024 <p> Similarly to 2023 , 2024 proved to be one of the most unpredictable years in recent history , with developments completely upending the global order . <p> The largest war in Europe since World War II continued in Ukraine for the third year . At the same time , a series of escalations between Israel and the so-called " Axis of Resistance " completely upended the existing order in the Middle East . <h> Winners <h> Turkey <p> Though its rise has often fallen under the radar , Turkey has one of the best records of power projection of the 21st century . Under President Recep Tayyip Erdogan , Turkey has decisively intervened in conflicts in Libya , Iraq , Syria , and Azerbaijan-Armenia , winning all of them . <p> All the while , Ankara has been able to successfully strong-arm Russia and the West and maintain good relations with each . <p> Turkey pulled off another massive victory in 2024 , being the central figure that backed and armed the rebel coalition that toppled the Assad government , finally reaping dividends for the central role it played in organizing the Free Syrian Army beginning in 2011 . <p> The Syrian Salvation Government , closely allied with Turkey , became the government of Syria on Dec. 8 . The Syrian National Army , effectively a Turkish proxy , played a pivotal role in the final rebel offensive , setting itself up as one of the dominant forces in the fragile new coalition governing Syria . With deposed leader Bashar al Assad gone and Turkey 's allies in control of Syria , Ankara looks poised to finally crush the U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces in the north , long a thorn in its side . <p> It is likely that the new Syrian government , ruling over a country devastated by nearly 14 years of war , will be hugely reliant on Turkey for recovery efforts , allowing Ankara to exert enormous influence . <p> With the drastic losses suffered by Iran in 2024 , Turkey looks set to fill the power vacuum and establish itself in 2025 as the preeminent Islamic power in the Middle East . <h> Israel <p> On one hand , Israel experienced its worst year in recent memory in the realm of global opinion . Casualties from the war in Gaza saw anti-Israel protests break out across the world , particularly across U.S. college campuses . It also received one of its greatest legal blows when the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant . <p> On the other hand , 2024 saw Israel achieve military victories unseen since its famous triumph in the 1967 Six-Day War . <p> Israeli intelligence regained the prestige lost by failing to detect Hamas 's Oct. 7 attack , first through the detonation of thousands of Hezbollah pagers and walkie-talkies on Sept. 17-18 , killing or wounding thousands . This was followed up with a series of decapitation airstrikes that killed every senior Hezbollah commander . Its Oct. 1 invasion of Lebanon met little organized resistance . <p> Hamas political chief Ismail Haniyeh was assassinated in Tehran , while Hamas 's Gaza head , Yahya Sinwar , was killed in a gunfight with the Israel Defense Forces . Hamas 's conventional strength was largely eliminated . <p> Two Iranian drones and missile strikes on Israel failed to inflict any significant damage , while Israel responded with massive strikes on strategic targets within Iran . <p> The crown jewel of Israeli success was the fall of longtime enemy Assad , cutting off Iran 's main supply route to Hezbollah . To prevent jihadist rebels from seizing Assad 's weapons , Israel launched a series of airstrikes that annihilated the Syrian Navy and Air Force . It also launched its first invasion of Syria since 1973 , establishing a buffer zone while encountering no resistance . <p> Israel enters 2025 at the peak of its power , having quashed or degraded nearly every regional enemy while suffering minimal casualties . The massive swell of negative public opinion has been largely irrelevant . <h> The Houthis <p> Houthi fighters march during a rally of support for the Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and against the U.S. strikes on Yemen outside Sanaa , Monday , Jan. 22 , 2024 . ( AP Photo ) <p> While 2024 was distinguished by a series of shocking defeats for Iran and the " Axis of Resistance , " the Houthis proved to be a major exception . <p> The radical Shia militia group has consistently surprised observers in recent years , gaining the upper hand in the Yemeni Civil War and then fighting a nine-country coalition led by Saudi Arabia to a stalemate over the past decade . Following Hamas 's Oct. 7 surprise attacks against Israel , the Houthis entered the war by attacking shipping in the vital global trade chokepoint in the Red Sea . They vowed to continue the attacks until a ceasefire was declared in Gaza . <p> A coalition of over 20 nations led by the United States announced Operation Prosperity Guardian in December 2023 , aiming to protect shipping and degrade Houthi military capabilities . One year later , the massive armada has failed to have a major discernable effect . The Houthis have continued their attacks and even expanded military efforts to strike Israel with ballistic missiles . <p> Analysts have described the effort as the most intense combat experienced by the U.S. Navy since World War II . Some analysts have gone so far as to declare a Houthi victory over the coalition . <p> The Houthis 's victories have won them plaudits from the Islamic world and anti-Israel groups , even winning some sympathy from a few leftist figures in the U.S. They enter 2025 with their prestige at an all-time high , a sole bright point for Iran and the " Axis of Resistance . " <h> Argentina <p> While not experiencing dramatic victories such as Turkey 's or Israel 's , 2024 was Argentina 's best year in recent history . <p> In July , it won a morale boost after winning a record third Copa America title , its third straight major title after winning the same contest in 2021 and the World Cup in 2022 . <p> Victories for Argentina extended well beyond the sports realm , however , with controversial President Javier Milei 's first year in office seeing success . Inflation was drastically cut , the economy began to stabilize , and the deficit was slashed . <p> His work has won him the praise of the Bank of America , IMF , and President-elect Donald Trump . Meanwhile , Argentina 's aggressive foreign policy against Venezuela and Iran won plaudits from several Western allies , boosting its prestige . <p> A recent poll gave Milei a 56% approval rating , the highest of any president in the country 's recent history . For the first time in recent memory , Argentina enters the new year with a sense of optimism . <h> Losers <h> Iran <p> Following the conclusion of the Iran-Iraq War in 1988 , the young Islamic Republic of Iran began carefully building up its stance as a major regional player . By 2024 , Iran had built a network of militias numbering in the hundreds of thousands scattered across Lebanon , Syria , Iraq , Gaza , and Yemen . <p> Following a series of escalations in April , Iran launched its first direct missile attack on Israel , dealing minimal damage . Israel responded with devastating airstrikes on strategic targets , a pattern that repeated itself in September and October . Its deterrence was shattered by the degradation of Hezbollah and its failure to respond to the assassination of Haniyeh in Tehran . <p> Its leadership was left in disarray after the death of its President Ebrahim Raisi , viewed by some as the most likely successor to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , in a helicopter crash . <p> The year concluded with Iran 's biggest loss after jihadist rebels seized Damascus in a lighting offensive . After 13 years of investing tens of thousands of soldiers and billions of dollars in its longest-standing ally , Iran saw its largest base of operations outside of the mainland disintegrate in 10 days . <h> Hezbollah and the ' Axis of Resistance ' <p> A woman lights candles at the site where former Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah was killed by Israeli airstrikes in the southern suburb of Beirut , Lebanon , Nov. 30 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Hussein Malla , File ) <p> Except for the Houthis , the " Axis of Resistance " appeared hesitant to come to Hamas 's aid with the onset of the conflict , with Tehran reportedly angry that the group had n't informed it about its attack plans . Hesitation from the " Axis of Resistance " allowed Israel to seize the initiative on every front , to devastating effect . <p> Hezbollah , which dealt Israel its only major defeat in its history in 2006 , was viewed as the most feared and capable paramilitary organization in the world . This mythos was thoroughly shattered beginning in September with the pager and walkie-talkie attacks . The ensuing Israeli air campaign stripped Hezbollah of the leadership that guided it through the 21st century . <p> By the time Israel launched its invasion of Lebanon on Oct. 1 , Hezbollah was in such disarray that it was unable to launch any significant attacks on IDF forces . The IDF suffered a few dozen killed , compared to potentially thousands of Hezbollah fighters . <p> Meanwhile , the Iraqi Shia militias failed to save the Assad government or take any significant moves against Israel . <p> After the ceasefire was signed on Nov. 27 , Hezbollah emerged as a spent and battered force , if not defeated . Its weakening may challenge its dominance of Lebanese politics in 2025 , while Israel may seek to finish it off . <h> Hamas <p> Hamas launched its surprise cross-border raid into Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , fully knowing that it could not defeat the IDF . Instead , it hoped that the Israeli invasion of Gaza would draw in Iran and the vaunted " Axis of Resistance " in order to overwhelm and defeat Israel . <p> Hamas 's strategy did partially work , bringing Iran and the " Axis of Resistance " into the conflict , but not at all in the way it expected . <p> With Hezbollah 's apparent defeat , the fall of Assad , and the ineffectual response of Iran , Hamas now faces the might of the IDF with no real major allies . <p> The war in Gaza continued throughout 2024 with just as much ferocity as in 2023 , leaving all of Gaza devastated . Haniyeh was assassinated on July 31 , while Sinwar was killed by the IDF on Oct. 16 . The fighting strength of Hamas was further diminished throughout the year . Its conventional fighting strength has vanished , while its overall manpower has been cut in half , according to analysts . <p> Ukraine 's 2024 saw quite a few successes , including an audacious operation in August that marked the first invasion of Russia since Nazi Germany 's Operation Barbarossa in 1941 . Ukrainian drone and missile attacks continued to disrupt the Russian economy and society , while Russia ended the year unable to kick Ukrainian troops out of Kursk fully . <p> However , 2024 was also a year filled largely with defeats for Ukraine , marking the first year where Russia fully seized the momentum across the front for nearly the entire year . Rather than any dramatic defeats such as those seen by Hezbollah and Iran , Ukraine largely saw a constant , grinding series of losses . <p> Beginning with the humiliating loss of Avdiivka in February , Russia proceeded to slowly but steadily advance across the entire Donbas front throughout the year . <p> Russia surpassed U.S. analysts ' expectations , making significant gains in the year 's second half after a predicted stalemate . Russian drone and missile attacks increased drastically , going from 350 in July to 1,500 in September . Despite heavy losses , a U.S. military official told the New York Times that the Russian Army has transformed itself since the stumbles of the initial invasion into a far more capable force . The Russian economy also weathered the massive sanctions for a third straight year , once again outperforming expectations . <p> Meanwhile , Ukraine suffered from heavy losses , manpower and equipment shortages , plummeting morale , and the waning of international interest -- particularly from the U.S. Perhaps the biggest loss for Ukraine in 2024 was psychological . After two years of insisting that it would only accept a return to its 1991 borders , Kyiv now increasingly signals a willingness to compromise on an unfavorable peace to end the war . 
@@119374564 <p> Israel 's army has detained the director of one of the last functioning hospitals in northern Gaza , as the World Health Organization ( WHO ) reiterated its call for hospitals in the bombarded Palestinian enclave to be protected . <p> In a statement on Saturday , the WHO said Kamal Adwan Hospital was " now empty " after the Israeli military raided the facility and forced out dozens of medical staff and patients . <p> " The movement and treatment of these critical patients under such conditions pose grave risks to their survival . WHO is deeply concerned for their wellbeing , as well as for the Kamal Adwan Hospital director who has been reportedly detained during the raid . " <p> The WHO said it lost contact with the director , Hussam Abu Safia , since the raid began . <p> The Israeli military said it launched the raid on Kamal Adwan -- which , as of Friday morning , housed about 350 patients and medical staff -- because the hospital " serves as a Hamas terrorist stronghold " . <p> Advertisement <p> Israel did not provide any evidence to back up its claim , and Hamas , the Palestinian group that governs Gaza , said it " categorically " denied the allegation . <p> This morning 's raid on Kamal Adwan Hospital has put this last major health facility in North #Gaza out of service . Initial reports indicate that some key departments were severely burnt and destroyed during the raid . <p> Gaza health officials said earlier on Saturday that Israeli forces had taken Abu Safia , along with dozens of other hospital staff members , " to a detention centre for interrogation " . <p> The Israeli military later confirmed that Abu Safia was among those detained for questioning . His exact whereabouts are unknown . <p> The Palestinian Health Ministry in Gaza had earlier quoted Abu Safia as saying the military had " set on fire all surgery departments of the hospital " and that there were " a large number of injuries " among the medical team . <h> ' Hospitals become battlegrounds ' <p> The raid on Kamal Adwan Hospital comes amid a renewed Israeli ground offensive in northern Gaza , which began in October . Israel has imposed a siege on the area , severely curtailing deliveries of humanitarian aid to Palestinians there . <p> The WHO said it also documented " escalating restrictions on access and repeated attacks " on the health facility since early October . <p> " WHO calls for urgently ensuring that hospitals in North Gaza can be supported to become functional again , " the agency said in Saturday 's statement . <p> Advertisement <p> " Hospitals have once again become battlegrounds , reminiscent of the destruction of the health system in Gaza City earlier this year . " <p> Israel 's military has claimed that the hospital had become " a key stronghold for terrorist organisations and continues to be used as a hideout for terrorist operatives " . <p> Before initiating the latest attack on Kamal Adwan , the Israeli military said its soldiers had " facilitated the secure evacuation of civilians , patients , and medical personnel " . <p> Hamas denied its fighters were present in the hospital and urged the UN to set up an investigation committee " to examine the scale of crime being committed in northern Gaza " . <p> " We categorically deny the presence of any military activity or resistance fighters in the hospital , " Hamas said in a statement . <p> Al Jazeera 's Hamdah Salhut said the Israeli military has often accused Hamas fighters of operating from medical facilities but has never provided evidence for its claims . <p> " Most notable was the raid on al-Shifa Hospital back in 2023 when the military said Hamas was using al-Shifa as a command and control centre , claims that to this day have never been proven , " she said . <p> " Now , Kamal Adwan was the last functioning hospital in northern Gaza , but again , it was barely functioning because of the siege that was put forward by Israeli forces -- a siege on food , water , and all sorts of medical supplies . " <h> Witnesses recount ordeal <p> Ismail al-Kahlout , a nurse working at the hospital , told Al Jazeera that staff and patients were detained in the cold for hours by the Israeli military after being stripped almost naked . <p> Advertisement <p> Some Palestinians , including those who were wounded or sick , were beaten . " The Israeli soldiers kept us tied up and blindfolded , " he said . " We could hear people screaming but we could not know exactly who was being beaten . " <p> Shorouk al-Rantisi , who was also besieged at Kamal Adwan , said Israeli soldiers denied people water and barred them from going to the toilet . <p> " We live in humiliation , " she told Al Jazeera . " We are exhausted . We are tired . Enough is enough . " <p> The hospital 's director had repeatedly raised concerns about the situation in recent days . <p> " The world must understand that our hospital is being targeted with the intent to kill and forcibly displace the people inside , " Abu Safia said in a statement on Monday . <p> Israel 's assault has killed more than 45,300 Palestinians since October last year , mostly children and women , according to health officials in the enclave . The majority of Gaza 's 2.3 million people have been displaced and much of Gaza is in ruins . 
@@119374566 <p> In July , outgoing United States President Joe Biden claimed he had " done more for the Palestinian community than anybody " . Maryam Hassanein , a political appointee who resigned from his administration , strongly disagrees . <p> " I think his legacy is the opposite , " Hassanein , a former member of the Interior Department , said . " He 's the president who 's done the most harm to Palestinians . " <p> On January 20 , Biden is slated to leave office , joining a short list of presidents who served only a single term in the White House . <p> But as his tenure sunsets , some former members of his government say his approach to Israel 's war on Gaza may prove to be a lasting stain on his legacy . <p> Close to 45,000 Palestinians have been killed , and more than 100,000 wounded . As many as 1.9 million have been displaced from their homes . <p> But since the war was launched in October 2023 , the US has been unwavering in its support for Israel 's campaign . <p> The Biden administration provided at least $17.9bn in military aid to Israel in the first year of the war -- a record sum for the Middle East country . Additionally , earlier this year , the US deployed about 100 troops to assist in operating an advanced missile defence system it sent to Israel . <p> Hassanein was one of about a dozen Biden officials who resigned as a result of these policies . She blames Biden for helping to create a culture of acceptance towards anti-Palestinian violence . <p> " His policies caused immense harm to Palestinians , not just in Palestine but also here in the US , where hate crimes against Palestinians have surged , " Hassanein said . <p> In Biden 's final days , Al Jazeera spoke with former government contractors and staffers like Hassanein who reflected on the president 's controversial legacy and why they had to quit their posts . <h> Josh Paul <p> Resigned on October 18 , 2023 <p> Protestors rally for a ceasefire in Gaza as President Joe Biden visits Warren , Michigan , on February 1 Rebecca Cook/Reuters <p> Protestors rally for a ceasefire in Gaza as President Joe Biden visits Warren , Michigan , on February 1 Rebecca Cook/Reuters <p> Josh Paul , a former director of congressional and public affairs at the State Department 's Bureau of Political-Military Affairs , was one of the earliest departures from the Biden administration . <p> He had spent more than a decade in the State Department . But that tenure came to an end in October 2023 , shortly after the start of Israel 's war . <p> He opposed what he described as Israel 's indiscriminate killing of Palestinians , as well as the US decision to provide unconditional support to Israel . <p> " It was viscerally apparent that not only was there nothing I could do in the context of Gaza to make the situation better , but in fact , anything I could do would only make it worse , " he said of his final days at the State Department . <p> Paul left the Biden administration in October 2023 , shortly after Israel 's war in Gaza began Courtesy of Josh Paul <p> At the time of his resignation , at least 8,000 Palestinians had been killed by Israel . Paul blames US complacency for the thousands of Palestinian deaths throughout the conflict . <p> " The Biden legacy over Gaza will be American complicity in genocide and American tearing down of the rules-based international order -- or at least the first and most significant steps toward that , " Paul said . " Neither of those is a legacy that anyone should be proud of . " <p> Paul added he has no regrets about his decision to leave the Biden administration . He pointed out that Biden has repeatedly established " red lines " that Israel crossed , with no meaningful consequences . <p> For example , in March , Biden called invading the southern city of Rafah a " red line " . But by May , Israel had both bombed the city and brought troops into its densely populated neighbourhoods . <p> " When countries see that the president of the United States sets red lines and does nothing to enforce them , that weakens us globally , " said Paul . <p> Voting in the 2024 presidential election was a challenge for him . The race pitted Biden 's vice president , Kamala Harris , against former President Donald Trump . Both candidates refused to make pledges to curb Israel 's military offensive . <p> Paul said he consulted several Palestinian friends before casting his ballot . He voted for Harris . <p> " As horrific as the Biden-Harris administration has been , there was a better chance of shifting American politics under a Harris administration than there would be under a Trump administration , " he said . Trump , however , ultimately won his bid for re-election . <p> Paul now serves as the president of A New Policy , an organisation he founded with another former Biden official , Tariq Habash , aimed at strengthening US-Middle East relations . <p> Lily Greenberg-Cole is believed to be the first Jewish appointee from the Biden administration to publicly resign over the war in Gaza . <p> Her reasons -- similar to Paul 's -- were " dismay " and " disappointment " over Biden 's policies , which she described as " devastating for Palestinians " . <p> Greenberg-Cole served within the Department of the Interior as a special assistant to the chief of staff . As a political appointee , hired to serve at the pleasure of the president , she felt she had a duty to take a stand against Biden 's policies . <p> " I felt kind of uniquely privileged in being able to speak up within the administration in a way that some of my other colleagues , especially people who were non-white or Muslim , were opposed to and felt much more censored , " Greenberg-Cole said . <p> Four years ago , Greenberg-Cole admits she was excited about Biden 's victory in the 2020 election . She considers herself a lifelong Democrat and even campaigned for Biden in Pennsylvania . <p> At first , she was proud to serve in Biden 's administration . She pointed to the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act ( IRA ) as a particular high point . <p> It marked a major investment in clean energy and climate change policies , and Biden himself touted it as " the biggest step forward on climate ever " . But Greenberg-Cole believes that accomplishment will be overshadowed by Biden 's policies towards Gaza . <p> " There were things the administration did that were really good for us in terms of domestic policy , like passing climate change legislation and the IRA , " Greenberg-Cole said . " I think no one is going to remember that . " <p> Critics point out that domestic human rights laws , including the Leahy Law , prevent the US from transferring aid to foreign forces facing " credible " accusations of human rights violations . <p> Greenberg-Cole is among those who believe the US has violated its own standards . <p> " The US has broken so many of our own laws to continue giving Israel weapons despite the massive amounts of evidence of war crimes committed , " she said . <p> In her opinion , Biden will be remembered as a " war criminal " who showed almost no empathy or care for Palestinian suffering -- and allowed for the " complete dehumanisation of Palestinians and Lebanese people and Arabs in general " . <h> Alex Smith <p> Resigned on May 27 , 2024 <p> Demonstrators in Boston , Massachusetts , protested during a visit by President Joe Biden on May 21 Steven Senne/AP Photo <p> Demonstrators in Boston , Massachusetts , protested during a visit by President Joe Biden on May 21 Steven Senne/AP Photo <p> While serving as a contractor and senior adviser for the US Agency for International Development ( USAID ) , Alex Smith had a broad mandate . <p> He was tasked with offering insight on issues concerning gender , infectious disease , nutrition , and the health of mothers and children . <p> And all of those issues converged in Gaza , as Israel 's siege unfolded . The siege limited access to food , water and medicine , forcing the closure of hospitals and medical units . The United Nations has also repeatedly warned that northern Gaza is at " imminent " risk of famine . <p> According to the nonprofit Save the Children , at least 3,100 children under age five had been killed in Gaza as of October . In a survey of children in that age group , the nonprofit found nearly 20 percent were suffering from acute malnutrition . A further 4 percent faced severe acute malnutrition . <p> The UN likewise found that an estimated 46,300 pregnant women in Gaza were grappling with " crisis levels " of hunger . <p> Smith worked as a contractor , advising on issues including maternal and child health Courtesy of Alex Smith <p> Smith decided to raise the alarm within his agency . He said he wrote emails to his higher-ups , including Samantha Power , the administrator of USAID -- all to no avail . <p> The final straw , Smith said , was when senior leadership pulled his presentation on maternal and child mortality among Palestinians , despite initially agreeing to let him speak . <p> In the lead-up to the presentation , he said his slides were scrutinised , and he was given detailed instructions on what language to use . <p> He recalled being told not to refer to Arab Israeli citizens as " Palestinians " , even if they identified as such , and to avoid phrases like " at the border of Gaza " . Even a map of Gaza was deemed " unacceptable " . <p> " It was all very Orwellian , " Smith said , referencing the British dystopian novelist George Orwell . " It 's pretty much straight out of the pages of 1984 . " <p> After the presentation 's cancellation , Smith said he was made to choose : either resign or face dismissal . He chose the former . <p> Currently , he works for a think tank , the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , collecting evidence for tribunals . <p> As he reflects upon his time in the Biden government , Smith notes a stark contrast between Biden 's support for war-torn Ukraine and his lack of support for Gaza , where entire neighbourhoods have been levelled . <p> " When we talk about Ukraine , we can condemn the bombing of hospitals . We can talk about the resilience of the people who are being attacked . We can talk about the perpetrators who are attacking them , " Smith said . <p> " But when it comes to Gaza , we do n't talk about those people . We do n't plan for their health systems to be rebuilt . " <p> When he voted in the 2024 presidential race , Smith knew he could not back Biden 's vice president , Harris , fearing a continuation of the president 's policies . <p> His home state of Maine employs a ranked-choice system , allowing residents to offer support to multiple candidates . Smith used his ballot to rank Harris as his last choice , behind the third-party candidates Cornel West and Jill Stein . <p> Smith explained he has a grim view of Biden 's legacy will be perceived in the years to come . " He will be remembered as the US president who manufactured a genocide against children in Gaza . " 
@@119374570 <p> " By almost every measure , 2024 has been one of the worst years on record for children in conflict in UNICEF 's history -- both in terms of the number of children affected and the level of impact on their lives , " said UNICEF Executive Director Catherine Russell . <p> According to Russell , a child growing up in a conflict zone is far more likely to be out of school , malnourished , or forced from their home compared with a child living in places with no conflict . <p> " This must not be the new normal . We can not allow a generation of children to become collateral damage to the world 's unchecked wars , " the director said . <p> Advertisement <p> The proportion of children living in areas of conflict has doubled -- from about 10 percent in the 1990s to almost 19 percent today , UNICEF said . <p> According to the report , 47.2 million children were displaced due to conflict and violence by the end of 2023 . <p> The trends for 2024 indicate a further increase in displacement because various conflicts have intensified , including in Haiti , Lebanon , Myanmar , the Palestinian territories and Sudan . <p> Additionally , in the latest available data , from 2023 , the UN verified a record 32,990 grave violations against 22,557 children -- the highest number since UN Security Council-mandated monitoring began , UNICEF said . <p> There is an overall upward trend in the number of grave violations , with this year likely to see another increase , as " thousands of children have been killed and injured in Gaza , and in Ukraine " , the agency said . <p> Sexual violence against children has surged , their education has been affected , children 's malnutrition rates have risen and armed conflicts have taken a larger toll on children 's mental health , UNICEF also reported . <p> " The world is failing these children . As we look towards 2025 , we must do more to turn the tide and save and improve the lives of children , " Russell said . <h> Gaza 's children ' cold , sick , traumatised ' <p> In Gaza -- where the Israeli military has killed more women and children in the past year than in any recent conflict over a single year , Oxfam reported in September -- the ongoing war is a " nightmare " for children , UNICEF Communication Specialist Rosalia Bollen said last week at a media briefing . <p> Advertisement <p> " Children in Gaza are cold , sick and traumatised , " Bollen said last Friday . <p> About 96 percent of women and children in Gaza can not meet their basic nutritional needs , she said , lamenting the lack of aid able to reach children in the Strip . <p> " Gaza must be one of the most heartbreaking places on Earth for humanitarians . Every small effort to save a child 's life is undone by fierce devastation , " said Bollen . <p> " For over 14 months , children have been at the sharp edge of this nightmare . " <p> Bollen said that many children in the besieged enclave do n't have winter clothes , have to resort to searching through rubbish for provisions and are plagued with diseases . <p> She urged the use of political capital and diplomatic leverage to push for the evacuation of injured children and their parents to leave Gaza and seek medical care in East Jerusalem or elsewhere . <p> " This war should haunt every one of us . Gaza 's children can not wait , " she pressed . 
@@119374571 <h> When burning hospitals are no longer news <p> A fire burns as seen through a window of Kamal Adwan hospital in Beit Lahiya , in the northern Gaza Strip on December 18 , 2024 File : Reuters/Stringer <p> This morning , I opened social media to search for Gaza news . I had to scroll for a while through my newsfeed before seeing the first mention of my homeland . <p> Yet , the news we receive from Gaza through friends , family and social media is no less grim than it was a year ago . Its people continue to cry out for help , hoping the world would hear them . <p> For three months , Dr Hussam Abu Safia , the director of Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya , northern Gaza , sent appeals for help to the world , as the Israeli army besieged the hospital , cut off supplies , bombarded it , slaughtered people in its vicinity and injured some of the medical staff and patients inside . <p> In a video appeal posted on December 12 , Dr Abu Safia lamented : " We are now without any capacity and providing a low-level service . I hope that there are listening ears . We hope that there is a living conscience that hears our plea and facilitates a humanitarian corridor to the hospital so that Kamal Adwan Hospital continues its work to provide services . " <p> Advertisement <p> But his cries for help fell on deaf ears . The day after Christmas , Israeli bombardment killed a woman at the hospital 's front gate and five medical workers : Dr Ahmed Samour , a paediatrician ; Esraa Abu Zaidah , a laboratory technician ; Abdul Majid Abu al-Eish and Maher al-Ajrami , paramedics ; and Fares al-Houdali , a maintenance technician . Shrapnel shattered the skull of nurse Hassan Dabous inside the hospital , putting his life in danger . <p> Yesterday , Israeli soldiers stormed the hospital and set it on fire , expelling 350 patients and kidnapping Dr Abu Safia and other medical staff . <p> This horrific news barely made a blip in international media ; there were no reactions from foreign governments or leading institutions , except a few Middle Eastern states and the WHO . Israel has clearly been successful in normalising its brutal attacks , destruction of Palestinian hospitals , and killing of Palestinian patients and medical staff . <p> There was also no reaction from the world when earlier this month , Dr Said Joudeh , the last remaining orthopaedic surgeon in north Gaza , was assassinated on his way to work at the barely functioning al-Awda Hospital in Jabalia refugee camp . Dr Joudeh was a retired surgeon who felt compelled to return to work because of the desperate shortage of doctors caused by Israel 's targeted killings . <p> Just a week before his murder , he had learned that his son , Majd , had been killed . Despite his grief , Dr Joudeh continued his work . <p> Israel is seeking to eliminate all aspects of civilian life in northern Gaza as part of a policy to depopulate it . For this reason , it is targeting civilian infrastructure across the north and obstructing its functioning . The few medical facilities were the last remaining vestiges of civilian life . <p> Advertisement <p> Apart from trying to exterminate medical workers , the Israeli army is also systematically blocking civil defence teams and ambulances from saving lives in the north , often hitting and killing them when they try to do so . <p> And it is not just appeals from the north that are being ignored . <p> The whole of Gaza has been stricken by famine as Israel has dramatically decreased the number of humanitarian and commercial trucks entering the Gaza Strip . Hunger is omnipresent and is affecting even those who may have some means to buy food but can not find any . <p> My cousin , an UNRWA teacher , recently told me about his visit to his sister , who was ill and displaced in Deir el-Balah . While he was visiting , he could not sleep . He had not eaten bread for 15 days , but it was not his own gnawing hunger as a diabetic that kept him up . It was the cries of his sister 's children who begged for just a piece of bread . Desperate to comfort them , my cousin told them story after story until they drifted to sleep . But he remained awake , haunted by their hunger and his own . <p> Apart from food , Israel is also blocking the delivery of much-needed materials to build shelters . Four babies have already frozen to death since the start of this month . <p> Amid the famine and harsh winter , Israeli bombardment of homes and tents of the displaced has not stopped . <p> On December 7 , a distant relative , Dr Muhammad al-Nairab , lost his wife and three daughters when the Israeli army hit their home in Sheikh Radwan neighbourhood , west of Gaza City . Two of his daughters , Sally and Sahar , were doctors , helping save lives . They no longer can . <p> Advertisement <p> When my niece , Nour , a mother of two , reached out to her uncle , Dr Muhammad , to extend her condolences , she found the pain of his loss intolerable . I spoke to her shortly after . Her words pierced through the despair like a scream : " When will the world hear us and see us ? When will these massacres matter ? Are we not human ? " <p> On December 11 , another family was hit not far from Dr Muhammad 's home in Sheikh Radwan neighbourhood . That Israeli attack killed Palestinian journalist Iman al-Shanti , along with her husband and three children . <p> Days before her murder , Iman shared a video of herself reflecting on the reality of genocide . " Is it possible for this level of failure to exist ? Is the blood of the people of Gaza so cheap to you ? " she asked the world . <p> There was no answer . Just like war crimes against Palestinians have been normalised , so has Palestinian death and pain . This normalisation not only silences their suffering but also denies their humanity . <p> Yet for Palestinians , the pain of loss is anything but normal -- it lingers , sinking into the soul , raw and unrelenting , carried in the echoes of those they have lost , both inside and outside Gaza . It is a transnational pain , a grief that crosses borders and defies boundaries , binding Palestinians in exile to those enduring the horrors of genocide . <p> In a December 3 social media post , journalist Dayana al-Mughrabi , who is currently displaced in Egypt , captured the unending grief of Gaza 's people : " Our loved ones do n't die once , they die many times after their actual death . A person died the day he died , then he died again the day his watch that I kept on my wrist for years was broken . He died again when the teacup he used to drink from shattered . That person died yet again on the day that reminds us of their actual date of death , and after their burial , when the coffee residue was washed from his last cup , and when I saw someone collecting the rest of his medicine to get rid of it . Those we love continue to die many times -- they never stop dying -- not a single day . " <p> Advertisement <p> While this replaying of death happens more than 45,000 times , the world seems ready to move on from Gaza . Fifteen months into this genocide , advocates and activists across the globe are devastated and exhausted by the endless destruction in Gaza and the overwhelming silence and acceptance of it . <p> As a native Palestinian and third-generation Palestinian refugee , despite the indelible marks left on the soul by genocide -- marks that time can not erase -- I refuse to lose hope . I am reminded of the words of Czech dissident Vaclav Havel : " Hope is definitely not the same thing as optimism . It is not the conviction that something will turn out well , but the certainty that something makes sense , regardless of how it turns out . " <p> The South Africa case against the apartheid regime at the International Court of Justice and the work of the International Criminal Court are not just significant -- they are crucial in establishing Israel 's status as a pariah , one among nations that have sought the eradication of entire peoples . The world must not forget Gaza . Now , more than ever , its cries must be heard and the call for justice must be answered . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@119374661 <p> The buyer of Chicago Bulls legend and NBA Hall of Famer Michael Jordan 's mansion in Highland Park has been revealed : a 42-year-old real estate executive from Lincolnshire . <p> John Cooper , a partner at Lincolnwood-based HAN Capital , bought the 56,000-square-foot property for $9.5 million Dec. 10 , according to his hometown newspaper in Nebraska , the Lincoln Journal Star . <p> The mansion , at 2700 Point Lane , sits on more than 7 acres and first went on the market for $29 million in 2012 . The listing price had been reduced at least five times since then , according to Zillow . The home went under contingent contract in September with an asking price of $14.855 million . <p> Cooper has lived in the Chicago area for more than 10 years . He recalls seeing news of the basketball superstar listing the house in 2012 and " thinking how cool it would be for the person that buys the home , " he told the newspaper . <p> The custom-designed mansion , built in 1995 after Jordan announced his return from his first retirement , features nine bedrooms and 19 bathrooms ( 15 full ) . <p> The property includes a basketball court , tennis court , swimming pool , a putting green and a cigar lounge . It also features a front gate adorned with a large " 23 , " a nod to Jordan 's jersey number . <p> Cooper has so far hosted his birthday party and met with several contractors to make repairs and upgrades to the home , according to the newspaper . <p> " I 'll announce some exciting plans for the property in January , " Cooper told the Journal Star . " I do not have any major renovation plans . I will honor the property 's legacy . This place is great just the way it is . " <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza . 
@@119374662 <p> His overpriced $9.5 million salary-cap hit makes him a lightning rod for criticism from fans , many of whom somehow believe the Hawks would be better off without him -- which is objectively untrue . Not only is he a skilled defenseman who eats minutes , but also there are plenty of stats that demonstrate how much worse the Hawks have fared when playing without him in recent years . Jones has objectively struggled , however , in his first three games since returning ( just before the holiday break ) from a right foot injury that cost him 16 games . It 's a tricky situation for him , too , considering the Hawks changed coaches and systems during his absence . <p> He attended all the meetings interim coach Anders Sorensen held to discuss the system changes , but there 's a difference between seeing something on video and doing it on the ice . His teammates got a head start with the latter . <p> Sorensen met with him on Friday morning in Buffalo to give some individual feedback . <p> " He just got back , so ... you do n't want to put too much on him , " Sorensen said . " He 's got to find his game . He 's been around a long time , and we know what he can do . He knows where his game needs to be . He 's watched a lot of our games ; he 's been in meetings . In terms of the concept and the structure , he 's aware of all of it . Now it 's just a matter of executing it . " <p> Jones has averaged 23:55 of ice time in those three games , so his workload remains large -- although slightly smaller than it was under ex-coach Luke Richardson , who was giving him an NHL-leading 25:43 per game . <p> The Hawks have an even goal differential of 4-4 during his five-on-five shifts since he returned , and he scored Friday in the Hawks ' 6-2 loss to the Sabres . Sorensen commended him for winning a net-front battle to give the Hawks possession and then wisely joining the rush before eventually burying a pretty shot-pass from Pat Maroon . <p> " It comes back to the competing level , " Sorensen said . " That was a good moment where you see he did that and he was effective . " <p> But Jones ' overall analytics in these three games are poorer : the Hawks have been outshot 29-20 with a 34.5% expected-goals ratio during his five-on-five shifts . Fans were apoplectic about an ill-advised pinch that led to a Flames shorthanded goal in his first period back , as well . He just has n't looked particularly sharp . <p> Jones said Friday morning he 's trying to " get some of the timing back with the breakout plays " and adjust to the faster and more frequent decision-making that Sorensen 's system requires from defensemen . <p> He was one player benefiting from Richardson 's passive 1-2-2 forechecking structure because it helped cover for his subpar zone-entry defense and backward skating ability . He has allowed 16% fewer opponent zone entries leading to scoring chances this season than last season , per All Three Zones . <p> Sorensen 's neutral-zone trap , which has become basically an aggressive interpretation of a 1-1-3 , puts more pressure on defensemen to hold the blue line tightly and gives them less support while doing so . That represents a challenge for Jones . <p> Jones said Friday night that he felt better as the Sabres game progressed but knows " there 's still room to improve to where I was pre-injury . " Sorensen called that a " fair assessment . " <p> As far as the injury itself , he 's still dealing with some pain and noticeably limping after every game . But doctors believe his foot is fully healed , and he believes the nagging discomfort is not affecting his play . <p> " It was just an extremely annoying bone that I had no idea about until you look at the anatomy of the foot , " Jones said . " You 're like , ' What the hell is that ? ' " <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza . 
@@119374671 <p> He was 22 , the first pick in the 1974 NBA draft , taken by the Portland Trail Blazers out of UCLA where he 'd been a two-time NCAA champion under legendary coach John Wooden . I was 25 , almost 26 , in my infancy as a contributor to Sports Illustrated . <p> Walton was the generational center who could change a pro franchise from an also-ran to a champion , back before tall men in the middle were cheapened by a 3-point shot that turned basketball into the long-distance shoot-a-thon it is today . <p> Me ? I was a nobody , eager to make it as a professional writer , not as an office guy , but as somebody who could be out there writing profiles , traveling to distant cities , seeking adventure , learning things , trying to make sense of the world . <p> When Walton died last May at 71 of cancer , he left a legacy of a man who strode his own path and simply did things , well , differently . He would become a two-time NBA champion with the Trail Blazers and then the Celtics , but our trails crossed that half-century ago when neither of us had any real certainty about what the future held . <p> Walton was n't playing due to bone spurs in his feet ( injuries that were " in his head , " critics liked to say ) . He was frighteningly skinny from a grains-and-nuts diet , had a beard , and wore his red hair in a ponytail . Back then , that look was unusual , trust me . He hated the gray and rainy Oregon winters , despised the selfishness he saw in the pro ranks , and even said he was thinking about quitting the NBA entirely and going back to California where the sun always shined . <p> He had a stutter , which could make him seem difficult , even surly , when one tried to communicate with him . And being 7 feet tall -- which he was , though he always said he was 6-foot-11 , because , as teammate Sidney Wicks told me , " He feels 7 feet is where being a freak starts ' ' -- made everything difficult . Still , we hit it off at the start . He told me about the music he liked ( he 'd been to his first Grateful Dead show in college ) and made it clear he was against Richard Nixon , foreign wars and imperialism . <p> We sat next to each other on an airplane ride from Los Angeles to Portland -- this was 50 years ago , and at the time NBA teams flew on commercial jets . A lady behind Walton complained that his seat was too far reclined , apparently unaware that his knees were already up near his head . He said something rude to her and got up and found another seat . For the rest of my assignment , I felt he pouted , or stayed angry . <p> To me , he seemed near some kind of breakdown , and it was hard not to side with those basketball people who said he was spoiled and immature and did n't know how to play through adversity . There had n't been much adversity at UCLA where he was named national college player of the year three times , and his varsity teams had gone 86-4 , including 73 wins in a row . <p> I had been flown to the Sports Illustrated offices in New York City before the assignment , so editors could talk to me . I was , I think , the youngest writer on the masthead , and I remember editor Jerry Tax saying the magazine was hopeful I , the young dude who had played a sport in college , would be able to get through to Walton , who very much did n't like the press . <p> We did get along at first . He showed me a magazine article by Isaac Asimov on solar energy in which the author discussed America 's arrogance in non-use of the largest , free energy source on the planet . This proved , Walton explained to me , that the government was more interested in profit than people 's welfare . Walton was vehemently against the war in Vietnam , racism and " the establishment , " and he told me the two philosophers most in line with his thinking were Bob Dylan and singer Joe McDonald of Country Joe &amp; the Fish . <p> But his teammates did n't like him too much . He was a newcomer , an idealist , a rigid one who believed things should be done the proper way . Right now . An 82-game schedule with cross-country travel and exhaustion built in was something he 'd never experienced . The physical reality of the NBA would take its toll . Idealism might get sanded off fast . Walton , at this point , had no idea about any of that . He wanted things , it seemed to me , he did n't deserve yet , things he needed to earn . Like teamwork , respect , a leadership role . I do n't know , maybe he just needed to grow up . That was a funny thought coming from a twentysomething like me . <p> I was a pickup basketball-playing nut , a gym ball rat , and I would have loved to have traded places with him , to get a sniff of the magical NBA , to get showered with cash like him , to simply play a wonderful game . Maybe , in some silly way , I was jealous of him . For the first time I pondered deeply what it must be like to go through life never blending in . If you were n't a red-haired giant with a speech impediment and damaged feet , making tons of money , yet depressed and aloof , how could anybody really understand you ? I only wrote about Walton again because of his death . I had n't written about him in the 50 years since that 1974 visit to Portland . I 'm still pretty sure I did n't understand him . I 'm not sure I totally understand myself . <p> I tried to write a nice eulogy in my Sun-Times column last spring for the man who was a transcendent but wounded athlete . He had his flaws when I met him , but I certainly had my own . And if I was harsh in my appraisal of him back then , I apologize . I was almost 26 , he was 22 , and both of us were trying to make sense of the world . <p> Rick Telander , shown in 1970 , played football at Northwestern University . <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza . <p> A decade ago , a Cook County judge who dismissed a lawsuit by former Northwestern professor Peter Ludlow confirmed that " rape " and " sexual assault " -- what he was technically accused of -- are interchangeable in common usage . <p> Last week , President Joe Biden commuted the sentences of 37 of the 40 prisoners on federal death row . More than 2,000 others remain on death row in 27 states . Illinois abolished the death penalty more than a decade ago . 
@@119374672 <h> College MAP grants for Illinois inmates are a ' sound investment in public safety ' <h> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza . <p> The Illinois Senate is considering legislation to restore the Monetary Award Program funding , or MAP grants , for incarcerated people . These grants help lower-income people attend college . <p> It is not just a matter of fairness . It 's a sound investment in public safety , economic stability and community well-being . Illinois has barred those incarcerated from accessing MAP funding since 1987 , a decision that limits their access to education and potential for rehabilitation . <p> The Quad City Business Journal recently reported on the success of David Staples , the first graduate of the Augustana Prison Education Program at the East Moline Correctional Center in Rock Island . The Emmy-nominated " Prison Behind Bars " documentary also explores numerous stories that challenge conventional views on incarceration and the transformative role of education . <p> According to the Rand Corp. , every dollar invested in prison education saves $4 to $5 in incarceration costs , addressing the hefty price Illinois pays for recidivism incidents , which average $152,000 each . <p> Restoring MAP funding would also address longstanding racial and economic inequities , disproportionately impacting Black , Brown and low-income communities . The Illinois Task Force for Higher Education in Prison is advocating for the restoration of MAP funding as a key component in expanding educational opportunities for incarcerated individuals . <p> Restoring MAP funding would create safer communities , reduce prison costs and empower individuals to reintegrate into society with the skills and knowledge to succeed . I 'm working closely with lawmakers in Springfield to ensure more people like Staples can take advantage of programs that would result in reduced recidivism , better employment prospects , cost savings and greater equity . Everyone stands to gain . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters , D-Chicago <p> SEND LETTERS TO : letters@suntimes.com . To be considered for publication , letters must include your full name , your neighborhood or hometown and a phone number for verification purposes . Letters should be a maximum of approximately 375 words . <h> Wall Street Journal takes Trump to task <p> As I read Mona Charen 's screed attacking The Wall Street Journal 's editorial page for having " succumbed to Trumpian populism " last week , I felt obliged to ask how often Ms. Charen actually reads the Journal 's editorial page . <p> On the very day Ms. Charen 's piece was published in the Sun-Times , the Journal 's lead editorial blasted President-elect Donald Trump for his ham-handed interference in the budget process , comparing him to hapless New York Jets owner Woody Johnson . This well-deserved attack on Mr. Trump is not at all out of the ordinary for The Wall Street Journal . <p> The Journal 's editorial page has regularly and consistently lambasted Mr. Trump for his foreign policy ; his industrial policy of which his bluff and bluster about tariffs is the most salient feature ; his stated desire to interfere with the Fed ; his selection of inexperienced and otherwise questionable individuals for cabinet positions ; his intensifying courting of labor bosses ; his general flightiness and inconsistency ; and a whole host of other policies and characteristics that make the Journal , and , indeed , any thinking conservative , apprehensive about Mr. Trump . <p> Trump loyalists are , understandably , not at all pleased with the Journal 's editorial page , attacking it as the herald of the neocons , the deep staters and RINOs ( Republican in name only ) who are intent on sabotaging Mr. Trump 's agenda . <p> Those of us who understand what it means to be a conservative , however , figure that if both Mr. Trump 's most ardent sycophants and the likes of Ms. Charen are attacking the Journal 's editorial page , it must be doing something right . <p> Mark M. Quinn , Naperville <h> Charrettes promote equity , respect <p> The Dec. 26 , letter to the editor , A charrette or a charade ? , misses the mark about a new community public forum procedure implemented by Alds . Angela Clay ( 46th ) and Matt Martin ( 47th ) during a recent community meeting to garner feedback on a land use plan for the Broadway corridor . <p> The public forum protocol was clearly developed to ensure everyone had input in community planning and development , including racially and economically minority residents who are often openly and publicly discriminated against in largely white communities . <p> On the Far Northwest Side , another largely white community , bigoted and intolerant comments about housing choice voucher holders , formerly known as " Section 8 , " and others who pay rent using various housing subsidies commonly occur during community meetings called to discuss planned developments -- without condemnation or consequences , leaving residents who rely on housing subsidies at risk for stigma , discrimination and traumatization . <p> Open public forums called to discuss community planning and development must include procedures to ensure residents who require affordable and subsidized housing are not publicly discriminated against during community meetings . And that their input is just as welcomed and valued as anyone else 's . <p> If that means smaller , more controllable , round table discussions and written comments on sticky notes , well , so be it . The open public discrimination of legally protected classes of people , during public forums in Chicago , must end . I hope all City Council members learn to conduct public forums using protocols that promote equity and respectfulness . <p> Monica Dillon , Norwood Park <h> Flag 's meaning has been distorted <p> As the new year beckons , I find myself contemplating one of the many controversies that shaped the political discourse of 2024 : the troubling debate surrounding the historic " Appeal to Heaven " flag that erupted over the summer when it was revealed Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito had flown it at his vacation home . <p> As someone who has long displayed this flag proudly in my own home , I am deeply unsettled by how distorted its meaning has become , and by the apparent desire of some groups to label the flag as an irredeemable symbol of extremism . <p> The " Appeal to Heaven " flag , with its pine tree and bold inscription , has its origins in the Revolutionary War , but the phrase itself comes from English philosopher and Enlightenment thinker John Locke , whose " Second Treatise on Government " argued that all people have the moral right , when civil power has become unjust or otherwise corrupt , to appeal to a higher authority . <p> Locke wrote , " Should either the executive or the legislative , when they have got the power in their hands , design , or go about to enslave or destroy them , the people have no other remedy in this , as in all other cases where they have no judge on earth , but to appeal to Heaven . " <p> This powerful idea so boldly stated resonated deeply with the devout colonists . It embodied their plea for divine justice in their struggle against British tyranny , as well as their burning desire for a new kind of government . <p> Unfortunately , extremists have in recent years attempted to co-opt the flag , aligning it with Christian nationalism and even the Jan. 6 insurrection . This is a hideous distortion , one that reduces the flag to a partisan emblem devoid of its original profound meaning as a call for justice and accountability . <p> It is my prayer this holiday season that Americans of all backgrounds and persuasions reclaim this symbol of resistance to tyranny . Let it remind us of the founders ' belief that no leader is above the people nor any government beyond accountability . <p> Symbols matter , and this one belongs to all of us . And it is one worth fighting for . <p> John C. Engle , Logan Square <h> U.S. must end bloodshed in Gaza <p> How utterly futile to bear witness to 450 days ( and counting ) of Israel 's senseless bombardment of Gaza 's unarmed population . With Gaza having been reduced to unsustainable conditions , a result of Israel 's intense and reckless bombardments , it seems unfathomable to citizens of conscience that western nations , including the United States , refuse to intervene to finally stop the genocide of a people . <p> Case in point : The few trucks that attempt to deliver food to a starving population are often attacked . Children , including amputees who lie in demolished hospitals , are deprived of being sent for critical treatment to the U.S. , the U.K. and EU member states . Ninety six percent of children in Gaza fear imminent death . <p> The list of atrocities continue unabated while too many in our population seem entirely deaf to Gaza 's ordeal . Instead , we need to muster our collective humanity to speak out to the Biden as well as the incoming Trump administration , clamoring for immediate cessation of money , bombs and weapons to Israel while its genocide rages on . <p> The U.S. must also intervene directly to assist the oppressed and beleaguered population with food , water , medicine , electricity and other necessities . It took us a while to intervene in World War II . We must intervene now . <p> Sid Sussman , Hallandale Beach , Florida <p> Not channeling JFK <p> On Jan. 20 , 1961 , John F. Kennedy , 35th president of the United States , made the following statement at his inaugural address to the nation " ... " Ask not what your country can do for you -- ask what you can do for your country , " <p> I see Donald Trump 's rhetoric to read ... " Ask not what your country can do for you -- let me show you what I can do your country , " His recent brazen attempt to raise the national debit ceiling is an example of this rhetoric ( as well as his cabinet appointments . ) His attempt , to raise the national debit limit , would have left the government as an open ATM , possibly using citizens ' money for the benefit of those already with millions of dollars already in their personal account . <p> Voters should now begin to realize that what Trump was grifting was not in the best interest of the American people , but for him his million dollar supporters . <p> John Prusko , Carol Stream <h> Mixed signals <p> Mayor Brandon Johnson wants to " signal his support for education and teachers " by maintaining his teacher status . The only signal I 'm reading is that he wants to increase his pension substantially . Could n't he just issue a news release stating , " I support education and teachers ? " Does n't every voter in Chicago know this already ? It might be less humiliating to taxpayers if they did n't have to eat such rancid baloney and listen to a so-called progressive sneak by with the old Chicago motto , " Where 's mine ? " <p> Ted Hild , Springfield <h> Seeking counsel <p> Perhaps if Mr. Trump is interested in reclaiming Greenland and the Panama Canal , he should contact his buddy Vladimir Putin to get a few pointers on how to execute an invasion ( excuse me , " special military operation " ) . I 'm sure he would get little resistance from the Greenland and Panama Canal armies . On second thought , Putin 's advice might not be the best . <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . 
@@119374673 <h> Trump is n't the first to sue over the word ' rape . ' A Northwestern professor lost his case <h> A decade ago , a Cook County judge who dismissed a lawsuit by former Northwestern professor Peter Ludlow confirmed that " rape " and " sexual assault " -- what he was technically accused of -- are interchangeable in common usage . <p> A major media outlet reported that a public figure accused of sexual assault was accused of " rape . " The accused saw an opportunity to use the court system to retaliate . He filed a defamation lawsuit seeking substantial damages . <p> The effect of the lawsuit on the climate for press freedom was ... nonexistent . It was thrown out of court , and the plaintiff did n't see a dime . <p> As you might have guessed , I 'm not talking about Donald Trump , who recently extracted a $15 million settlement from ABC over George Stephanopoulos using the R-word in discussing the sexual abuse verdict against the president-elect . Many fear the settlement will lead to timidity by the press during Trump 's second term . <p> I 'm talking about Peter Ludlow , a Northwestern professor accused of sexual assault over a decade ago . The court that disposed of his lawsuit confirmed that " rape " and " sexual assault " -- what he was technically accused of -- are interchangeable in common usage ( they 're synonyms according to Merriam-Webster ) . An appellate court affirmed the dismissal , though on different grounds . <p> Opinion bug <h> Opinion <p> Full disclosure : I was part of the legal team that defended the Chicago Sun-Times against Ludlow 's lawsuit , along with my former law partner , Damon Dunn , whom ABC probably should have hired . Ludlow also unsuccessfully sued Cumulus Broadcasting and Fox Television Stations . <p> The court , of course , got it right . No damages result from which synonym a reporter chooses . Find me the person or company that 's eager to do business with alleged sexual assailants and abusers but draws the line at alleged rapists . It 's certainly not Northwestern . The university initiated termination hearings against the professor after an investigation found he sexually harassed two students , leading to his resignation . <p> So why did the ABC case turn out differently ? To ABC 's credit , it did seek early dismissal , just like Sun-Times , but it lost . It should 've prevailed , but sometimes a case just draws the wrong judge . <p> Losing a motion to dismiss is n't the end of a court case , though . Plus , news outlets usually do n't pass up opportunities to depose presidents about serious , salacious allegations . Imagine a news broadcaster surrendering a chance to question Bill Clinton under oath about his sex life during the Monica Lewinsky scandal . <p> Some have speculated there must be more to the story . Did ABC fear embarrassing correspondence coming out in discovery ? Maybe . Fox News probably wishes it settled ( much stronger ) defamation claims by Dominion Voting Systems before damaging messages emerged . <h> Why settle flimsy case ? <p> But there 's too much at stake for Disney-owned ABC to worry about embarrassment . Paying millions to settle a flimsy case from an anti-press president-elect sets a damaging precedent , especially for smaller outlets and independent journalists without Mickey Mouse 's moneybags . <p> Anyway , whatever discovery would 've revealed does n't change what Stephanopoulos said or impact the legal question of whether it was meaningfully more damaging than the undisputed truth : A jury of Trump 's peers found him liable for sexual abuse . <p> That jury , by the way , awarded E. Jean Carroll $5 million . Was Trump damaged three times more by Stephanopoulos ' choice of words than Carroll was by being sexually abused ? And contrary to common belief , the $15 million is n't going to a presidential library , it 's going to a private foundation Trump 's team can use to fund a propaganda shrine . <p> Other reports , citing anonymous Disney executives , suggest ABC believed it was serving the greater good ( seems like the kind of self-serving " leak " someone doing damage control might recommend , but I digress ) . Those sources noted that if the case proceeded , Trump could use it as a vehicle to challenge New York Times v. Sullivan . <p> That Supreme Court case established a high bar for defamation claims against public officials , recognizing the Fourth Estate needs breathing room for inadvertent errors to speak truth to power . The line between caution and self-censorship is thin . <p> Attempts to walk Sullivan back are a real concern -- at least one Supreme Court justice , Clarence Thomas , wants to do just that -- as does Florida Gov . Ron DeSantis . But that excuse for settling seems like a cop-out . If news outlets write eight-figure checks to get rid of defensible cases out of fear of harming Sullivan , then what good is Sullivan anyway ? <p> Back in the days when news outlets were owned by news companies , a strong First Amendment was fundamental to their economic interests . Unless they 'd messed up badly , they rarely settled , even when it would be cheaper than litigating . It 's fair to question whether that equation changes when news comprises just a fraction of ownership 's holdings . <p> As newsrooms shutter nationwide , Trump and other censorial public figures emboldened by his antics will continue attempting to tame the watchdogs by kicking them while they 're down . To their future victims : Be like the Sun-Times and its co-defendants . Do n't be like Disney . <p> Seth Stern is the director of advocacy at Freedom of the Press Foundation and a First Amendment lawyer . <p> The views and opinions expressed by contributors are their own and do not necessarily reflect those of the Chicago Sun-Times or any of its affiliates . <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza . 
@@119375073 <p> DEIR AL BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- Israel 's army detained the director of one of the last functioning hospitals in northern Gaza as overnight strikes in the enclave killed nine people including children , Palestinian medical officials said , while sirens rang out across Israel . <p> Gaza 's Health Ministry said Saturday that Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , was arrested by Israeli forces . The announcement comes a day after Israeli troops stormed the hospital , forcing many staff and patients outside to strip in winter weather , according to the ministry . <p> Israel 's army did n't respond to questions about Dr. Abu Safiya . On Friday , it denied claims it had entered or set fire to the complex and said it was conducting operations against Hamas infrastructure and militants in the area and had ordered people out of the hospital . <p> Israel 's nearly 15-month-old campaign of bombardment and offensives has devastated Gaza 's health sector . The war has killed more than 45,400 Palestinians , more than half women and children , and wounded more than 108,000 others , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry . Its count does not distinguish between civilians and combatants . <p> Dr. Abu Safiya was detained Friday along with dozens of other staff from the hospital and taken to an interrogation center , the ministry said . <p> On Friday , MedGlobal , the humanitarian organization where Dr. Abu Safiya worked , said he was a lead physician for the group and was gravely concerned about him . The group said the incident follows the October detention of five other of its staff , calling it an " alarming and egregious pattern of targeting medical personnel and spaces . " <p> Since October , Israel 's offensive has virtually sealed off the northern Gaza areas of Jabaliya , Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahiya and leveled large parts of them . Tens of thousands of Palestinians were forced out but thousands are believed to remain in the area where Kamal Adwan and two other hospitals are located . <p> Israel has vowed to destroy Hamas after the militants ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on southern Israel in which they killed around 1,200 people and abducted some 250 others . Around 100 Israelis remain captive in Gaza , around a third believed to be dead . <p> On Saturday , Israel continued attacks across Gaza . An overnight strike killed at least nine people in Maghazi , including women and children , according to an Associated Press reporter who saw the bodies and staff at Al Aqsa Martyrs Hospital where they were taken . <p> Israel said its troops had also begun operating in the northern city of Beit Hanoun , following intelligence that fighters and Hamas infrastructure were in the area . <p> Strikes also continued into Israel . Early Saturday morning , air raid sirens once again awoke Israelis and the military said it intercepted a missile fired by Yemen 's Houthi rebels . <p> Israeli warplanes bombed key infrastructure in Yemen again on Thursday . The Iran-backed Houthi rebels have also been attacking shipping in the Red Sea and say they wo n't stop until Israel agrees to a ceasefire in Gaza . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@119375078 <h> AP News Summary at 12:12 a.m . EST <p> Trump asks Supreme Court to delay TikTok ban so he can weigh in after he takes office <p> President-elect Donald Trump has asked the Supreme Court to pause the potential TikTok ban from going into effect until his administration can pursue a " political resolution " to the issue . Trump 's request Friday came as TikTok and the Biden administration filed opposing briefs to the court . Oral arguments are scheduled for Jan. 10 on whether the law , which requires TikTok to divest from its China-based parent company or face a ban , unlawfully restricts speech in violation of the First Amendment . The brief said Trump opposes banning TikTok at this junction and " seeks the ability to resolve the issues at hand through political means once he takes office . " <p> US to send $1.25 billion in weapons to Ukraine , pushing to get aid out before Biden leaves office <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- U.S. officials say the United States is expected to announce it will send another $1.25 billion in military assistance to Ukraine . It 's part of a push by the Biden administration to get as much aid to Kyiv as possible before leaving office on Jan. 20 . Officials say the large package of aid includes a significant amount of munitions , including for the National Advanced Surface-to-Air Missile Systems and the HAWK air defense system . It also will provide Stinger missiles and 155 mm- and 105 mm artillery rounds . The officials say they expect the announcement will be made on Monday . They spoke on condition of anonymity to provide details not yet made public . <p> Bloodied Ukrainian troops risk losing more hard-won land in Kursk to Russia <p> KYIV , Ukraine ( AP ) -- Five months after their shock offensive into Russia , Ukrainian troops are bloodied by daily combat losses and demoralized by the rising risk of defeat in Kursk . Some want to stay in the region at all costs . Others question question the value of having gone in at all . Battles are so intense that commanders are unable to evacuate their dead . Lags in communication and poorly timed operations have cost lives and commanders say they have little way to counterattack . The overstretched Ukrainians have lost more then 40% of the territory they won in the lightning incursion that seized much of Kursk in August . <p> Canadian Cabinet ministers meet with Trump 's nominee for commerce secretary in bid to avoid tariffs <p> TORONTO ( AP ) -- Two top Canadian Cabinet ministers have met with President-elect Donald Trump 's nominee for commerce secretary at Mar-a-Lago as Canada tries to avoid sweeping tariffs when Trump takes office . New Finance Minister Dominic LeBlanc and Foreign Minister M ? lanie Joly met with Howard Lutnick , Trump 's nominee for commerce secretary , as well as North Dakota Gov . Doug Burgum , Trump 's pick to lead the Interior Department . The meeting was a follow up to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau 's meeting with Trump at Mar-a-Lago last month . Trump has threatened to impose sweeping tariffs if Canada does not stem what he calls a flow of migrants and fentanyl into the United States . <p> Israeli airstrikes hit a Yemen airport as a jet with hundreds onboard was landing , UN official says <p> UNITED NATIONS ( AP ) -- The top U.N . humanitarian official in Yemen says Israeli airstrikes hit Yemen 's main airport as a civilian Airbus 320 with hundreds of passengers on board was landing this week . He says a U.N . delegation led by the head of the World Health Organization was waiting to leave on Thursday as two Israeli airstrikes hit the airport in the capital of Sanaa . Julien Harneis told U.N . reporters on Friday that the most frightening thing about the airstrikes was n't the effect on him and about 15 others in the VIP lounge at the international airport . Rather , it was the destruction of the airport control tower as a Yemenia Airways plane was taxiing in after touching down . <p> DEIR AL-BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- Gaza 's Health Ministry says Israeli troops have stormed one of the last hospitals operating in the territory 's north and forced many of the staff and patients outside . Then they had to remove their clothes in winter weather . Friday 's incident was the latest assault on Kamal Adwan Hospital . Staff say it has been hit multiple times in the past three months by Israeli troops waging an offensive against Hamas fighters in the surrounding neighborhoods . Israel 's military says Hamas uses the hospital as a base . It did not provide evidence , and hospital officials have denied it . <p> Judge signals that contempt hearing for Rudy Giuliani over his assets might not go well for him <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- A federal judge is signaling that Rudy Giuliani 's contempt hearing next Friday might not end so well for the former New York City mayor and onetime personal lawyer for President-elect Donald Trump . Judge Lewis J. Liman issued an order Friday in which he was dismissive of what he described as attempts by Giuliani and his lawyer to dodge providing information to lawyers for two Georgia election poll workers who won a libel case against him . The election workers were awarded $148 million in the defamation case and their lawyers have been trying to recover Giuliani 's assets to collect the judgment . <p> An online debate over foreign workers in tech shows tensions in Trump 's political coalition <p> WEST PALM BEACH , Fla . ( AP ) -- An online spat between factions of Donald Trump 's supporters over immigration and the tech industry has thrown internal divisions in the president-elect 's political movement into public display . The argument previews fissures and contradictory views his coalition could bring to the White House . The rift laid bare tensions between the newest flank of Trump 's movement -- that is , wealthy members of the tech world who want more highly skilled workers in their industry -- and people in Trump 's Make America Great Again base who championed his hardline immigration policies . <p> A 9th telecoms firm has been hit by a massive Chinese espionage campaign , the White House says <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- A top White House official says a ninth U.S. telecoms firm has been confirmed to have been hacked as part of a sprawling Chinese espionage campaign that gave officials in Beijing access to private texts and phone conversations of an unknown number of Americans . Administration officials said this month that at least eight telecommunications companies , as well as dozens of nations , had been affected by the Chinese hacking blitz known as Salt Typhoon . But Anne Neuberger , a deputy national security adviser , said Friday that a ninth victim had been identified after the administration released guidance to companies about how to hunt for Chinese culprits in their networks . <p> Sportscaster Greg Gumbel dies from cancer at age 78 <p> Longtime CBS sportscaster Greg Gumbel has died from cancer . He was 78 . His family announced his death in a statement released by CBS on Friday . In March , Gumbel missed his first NCAA Tournament since 1997 due to what he said at the time were family health issues . Gumbel was the studio host for CBS since returning to the network from NBC in 1998 . Gumbel signed an extension with CBS last year that allowed him to continue hosting college basketball while stepping back from NFL announcing duties . David Berson , the president and CEO of CBS Sports , described Gumbel as someone who broke barriers and set standards for others during his career . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@119381664 <h> Egypt completes trial run of new Suez Canal channel extension <h> Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi said that the country had lost approximately $7 billion in 2024 . <p> By REUTERS DECEMBER 28 , 2024 18:34 Updated : DECEMBER 28 , 2024 19:06 <p> A CONTAINER SHIP sails near the Suez Canal Bridge , known as the ' Peace Bridge . ' The Hamas-Israel war is causing severe damage to the Egyptian economy , with the most impacted sectors being the Suez Canal and tourism , the writer says . ( photo credit : SUEZ CANAL AUTHORITY/HANDOUT VIA REUTERS ) <p> Egypt said on Saturday it had successfully tested a new 10 km. channel near the southern end of the Suez Canal , even as its revenue from the waterway has plunged since Houthi terrorists began attacking vessels in the Red Sea . <p> The Suez Canal Authority said in a statement that during a trial run , two ships passed through a new stretch of the canal 's two-way section without incident . <p> Following the 2021 grounding of the container ship Ever Given , which blocked the vital waterway for six days , Egypt accelerated plans to extend the second channel in the southern reaches of the canal and widen the existing channel . <p> Its revenue from the waterway , the gateway to the shortest route between Europe and Asia , has nevertheless tumbled since Houthi terrorists began attacking ships in the Red Sea in November 2023 in what they say is solidarity with Hamas in Gaza . <p> Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi said on Thursday that due to " regional challenges , " the country had lost approximately $7 billion in Suez Canal revenue in 2024 , marking more than a 60% drop from 2023 . People enjoy the water as a container ship crosses the Gulf of Suez towards the Red Sea before entering the Suez Canal , in El Ain El Sokhna in Suez , east of Cairo , Egypt , September 5 , 2015 ( credit : Amr Abdallah Dalsh/Reuters ) <h> Expanding Canal 's capacity <p> According to the Suez Canal Authority , the latest expansion extends the total length of the canal 's two-way section to 82 km. from a previous 72 km . The canal is 193 km. long in total . <p> " This expansion will boost the canal 's capacity by an additional 6 to 8 ships daily and enhance its ability to handle potential emergencies , " the Suez Canal Authority said in its statement . <p> Earlier this year , Egypt said that it was considering an additional expansion project separate from the 10 km channel extension . 
@@119381665 <h> " No matter how few they are , we must not invisibilise the Israelis who stand against Occupation , Apartheid , Genocide , " Albanese wrote . <p> Press briefing by Francesca Albanese , Special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the occupied Palestinian Territories at UN Headquarters on October 27 , 2022. ( photo credit : Lev Radin/Shutterstock ) <p> Responding to a recent libel on X/Twitter that Jews eat human flesh , United Nations Special Rapporteur Francesca Albanese stated that not all Jews should be blamed for Israel 's actions . In another post , she wrote that it was important not to " invisibilize " the " few " Israelis who were against occupation , apartheid , and genocide . <p> In a post on X , Albanese referenced an opinion piece published in Haaretz , a left-wing Israeli newspaper , which cited an IDF veteran 's anonymous report that he saw his commander break a 4-year-old Palestinian boy 's arm and leg with his bare hands . <p> Albanese said that the report referenced in Haaretz proved that " not only the Israeli army is ROTTEN to the core , but so are all governments that allow these sickening crimes to be normalized . " <p> Stories like the Israeli commander breaking the bones of a 4 year old Palestinian child with bare hands , are a confirmation that not only the Israeli army is ROTTEN to the core , but so are all governments that allow these sickening crimes to be normalized. https : **39;997;TOOLONG ... An account commented below her original thread and said that the purported violence was " not surprising coming from the Jews . " The comment continued to assert that " Jews are capable of eating human flesh . " Francesca Albanese , UN special rapporteur on human rights in the Palestinian territories , attends a side event during the Human Rights Council at the United Nations in Geneva , Switzerland , March 26 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/DENIS BALIBOUSE ) <h> Albanese 's response <p> " Do not attribute what Israel does to all Jewish people , please , " the UN special rapporteur wrote . " Many , including Holocaust survivors , continue to rise against Israel 's crimes against the Palestinians . " <p> In another tweet , replying to anti-Israel commentator Sulaiman Ahmed , Albanese implied the majority of Israelis were in favor of " Occupation , Apartheid , Genocide . " <p> No matter how few they are , we must not invisibilise the Israelis who stand against Occupation , Apartheid , Genocide . May more of them join the anti-Apartheid struggle . Not living a lie and not being racist will be liberating . https : //t.co/yXY8Bdd1aa <p> " No matter how few they are , we must not invisibilise the Israelis who stand against Occupation , Apartheid , Genocide , " Albanese wrote . " May more of them join the anti-Apartheid struggle . Not living a lie and not being racist will be liberating . " <p> Albanese 's rhetoric , beyond being slammed as anti-Israel , had been repeatedly criticized by many as antisemitic . <p> In February of 2024 , she stated that the October 7 massacre was a " reaction to Israel 's oppression " and called Gaza " the largest and most shameful concentration camp of the 21st century . " <p> She has also previously compared Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to Adolf Hitler and made parallels between Israel and Nazi Germany , which the World Jewish Congress called " not only deeply offensive but a gross distortion of history . " <p> UN Watch has called for sanctions against Albanese , but no action has been taken yet . 
@@119381668 <h> In an exclusive interview , Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar shared his vision , laying bare the challenges and opportunities ahead for Israel on the international stage . <p> Earlier this week , while we sat in front of the very new Foreign Minister MK Gideon Sa'ar , he shared that he was tired , working on fumes , after a night of votes in the Knesset plenum . <p> He opened the drawers in the Jerusalem office of the foreign minister , which he had yet to get used to . Since he had only slept two hours the previous night , he asked his staff if they had chocolate or energy bars . In this exclusive interview , he assured the Magazine that since he has decades of experience as a politician , the fatigue wo n't affect his ability to speak about all the threats and opportunities for Israel in the near future . <p> He is not one to shy away from the complex realities of diplomacy . He has tackled pressing issues with a pragmatic approach , ranging from Iran 's nuclear ambitions to regional instability in Syria , relations with the US , and delicate diplomatic ties with Europe . In a candid interview , Sa'ar shared his vision , laying bare the challenges and opportunities ahead for Israel on the international stage . <h> Trump 's second term , ' an opportunity ' <p> Sa'ar began by expressing optimism about Donald Trump 's upcoming presidency , highlighting the alignment between the two nations on key strategic issues . " First and foremost , there is a shared perspective on the Iranian issue , which has the potential to lead to strategic understandings at the highest level , " Sa'ar remarked . <p> He reflected on Trump 's first presidency as a period of significant breakthroughs for Israel , citing the Pompeo Doctrine on settlements , the recognition of Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights , and the relocation of the US Embassy to Jerusalem . " These were groundbreaking steps that were not standard policies , even by American terms , " he said . ( Illustrative ) Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar over a backdrop of Houthi military recruits . ( credit : Canva , FOREIGN MINISTRY , REUTERS/KHALED ABDULLAH ) <p> Acknowledging that disagreements with Washington are inevitable , Sa'ar nonetheless emphasized the strategic importance of shared views . " When there 's no clear gap between us and America , Israel becomes diplomatically stronger , " he explained . This alignment , he added , serves as a deterrent to Israel 's adversaries , who often look for fissures between the two nations . " Our adversaries are always searching for rifts in the US-Israel relationship , " he stated . <p> While flexibility will be required to navigate differences , Sa'ar is confident that the foundation for collaboration is strong . " You ca n't expect to always get exactly what you want , but flexibility is essential in diplomacy , " he said . <h> Israeli presence in Gaza <p> When asked if he assumes there will always be an Israeli military presence in Gaza , Sa'ar was unequivocal : " My working assumption is that in the foreseeable future , only we can ensure our security . " However , he clarified that this does not mean reestablishing Jewish settlement in Gaza . " Although I opposed the disengagement from Gush Katif , the Israeli settlements in the Gaza Strip in 2005 , the goals set by the cabinet do not include such plans , " he said . <p> Sa'ar expressed skepticism about the existence of an external force capable of effectively guaranteeing security in Gaza . " I doubt there will be an effective entity that can provide security in Gaza , which is why I believe Israel will need to remain the controlling force from the Mediterranean to the Jordan River , west of the river , " he stated . <p> He described Hamas 's rule in stark terms : " What has happened in Gaza is the creation of a foreign military force . This is n't just a terror organization -- it 's a terror state with a terror army . They control everything . " <p> He elaborated on the consequences of Hamas 's military buildup . " They 've created an insane system of weaponry and underground tunnels , and in a short time you saw the consequences of having a foreign military force near civilian communities : 1,200 people killed in one day , " he said . Sa'ar made it clear that Israel would not allow the establishment of another foreign military force in Gaza , " Israel can not allow the construction of another foreign military force west of the Jordan River , " he declared . <p> However , he expressed openness to exploring autonomous governance for civilian matters in Gaza . " We must create an autonomous entity to manage civilian affairs , " he said , paralleling past events . " Look at history : In 1994-95 , we withdrew from cities under the Oslo Accords , and by 2000 the Second Intifada erupted . It took them just five years to manufacture explosives . " <p> Sa'ar emphasized the necessity for clear communication with international partners . " We need to approach the new administration in the US and present these realities in simple terms , " he explained . " It 's not that we refuse to consider models , but we can not take unnecessary risks . On Oct. 7 , we were fortunate that the attack did n't occur on multiple fronts simultaneously . " <h> Hamas 's exploitation <p> Sa'ar was frank about the challenges surrounding humanitarian aid in Gaza , particularly Hamas 's exploitation of these resources . " This is a complicated issue . It 's being used as a weapon to attack Israel , " he said . " The bigger problem is n't the humanitarian aid itself but the fact that Hamas takes over and loots the aid . " <p> He called for a reassessment of how aid is managed , though he remained realistic about the limitations . " Do I believe that aid will stop being appropriated by Hamas the day Trump takes office ? No , I do n't think so , " he admitted . <p> Sa'ar also highlighted potential shifts in US policy under Trump , particularly concerning international legal bodies like the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) , which has blamed Israel for a " genocide " : " We may see US legislation against the ICC . There could be a shift . The Americans say , ' We 're next . ' <p> " If international law becomes a tool , then they too are at risk , " he said , noting that both Israel and the US are not members of the court . He speculated that this shared vulnerability could prompt action . " I believe we 'll see action -- maybe even sanctions against the court , " he added . <p> Regarding Iran , Sa'ar 's tone was unyielding . Still , he was also very conservative in his response , not getting into details of a reported possible third Israeli strike on Iran . " Iran must never possess nuclear weapons ; this is a red line we can not play with , " he declared , focusing on the existential threat a nuclear-armed Iran would pose to Israel and the region . <p> He stressed the importance of collaboration with the US in preventing Tehran from achieving its nuclear ambitions . However , he criticized the public discourse surrounding potential military action . " The entire public discussion about attacking Iran does not serve our interests . This is not something that should be handled in this manner , " he said . <p> According to Sa'ar , international awareness of Iran 's destabilizing activities has grown significantly in the past year . He attributed this shift to two factors : Iran 's collaboration with Russia in Ukraine , and its increasingly aggressive use of proxies in the Middle East . <p> Even in Europe , where skepticism about Iran 's threat had previously prevailed , there is now greater recognition of the danger . " Today , even the Europeans understand the issue , " he said . <p> When asked about Qatar as a mediator in the hostage deal , Sa'ar said that in his opinion , they are " a highly problematic player , deeply hostile toward Israel . " <p> " There could have been a debate about whether it was right to involve them in a mediating role , but we took the approach that anyone who can influence Hamas should be used for this purpose , " Sa'ar added . " However , it is important to understand that the distance between Hamas and Qatar is very small -- they are not on opposite ends of the spectrum . This must be acknowledged , especially given Qatar 's alignment with Turkey and their shared ideology of the Muslim Brotherhood . <p> " This is something we need to monitor closely , as it has the potential to impact regional dynamics , " the minister explained . <h> Not falling for Syria 's facade <p> Few issues illustrate the complexity of Sa'ar 's foreign policy agenda as vividly as the situation in Syria , and it is probably the most important to him . Following the fall of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad and the Syrian Armed Forces , the country , Sa'ar said , is a fractured state plagued by competing factions and extremist ideologies . <p> " The reality in Syria has n't stabilized , " Sa'ar stated . " The regime in Damascus is essentially a gang -- not a legitimate government . Other areas , like Idlib , are controlled by Islamist groups with extreme ideologies . " <p> Assad was a member of the Alawites , an Arab ethno-religious group primarily residing in the Levant . They adhere to Alawism , a religious sect that splintered from early Shi'ite Islam in the 9th century . <p> Among the most concerning figures in Syria , according to Sa'ar , is Abu Mohammed al-Julani , the leader of the al-Nusra Front , a group with historic ties to al-Qaeda , whom the West has recognized as the new leader of Syria . <p> " The international community may understand the reasoning behind entering buffer zones , but understanding does not equate to approval . After Oct. 7 , taking proactive measures is essential , " Sa'ar said . " The cabinet was presented with three options : to do nothing , to seize strategic areas that provide control over the region , or to pursue the third option -- conquering up to the Syrian missile line , 12-15 km. in . <p> " This measure is limited and temporary . When asked how long ' temporary ' means , I respond : ' until we see the situation stabilize and can return to the previous line . ' However , the situation in Syria has not indeed stabilized , " the minister said . " While one gang may have taken control of Damascus Julani , and another rules Idlib , this does not equate to stability . " <p> He added that the emerging regime is centered in Damascus , not all of Syria . " This so-called leadership is the Idlib gang , not an inclusive authority . They are Islamists with a highly extreme worldview , " he explained . <p> " For example , Syria 's new justice minister demanded the removal of female judges , with cases transferred exclusively to male judges . These players are deceiving the West , yet the world rushes to Damascus , " he cynically pointed out . " There are even those who would like us to do the same . But why is the world so eager to engage with Damascus ? After all , this is an Islamist regime , not a moderate one , " he concluded . <p> Sa'ar analyzed this situation , adding an explanation : There 's the issue of Syrian refugees , which affects not only countries like Turkey and Jordan but also Europe , he said . " In Europe , this issue carries enormous political ramifications . Their goal is clear : to claim the situation is stable , thereby enabling the return of refugees to Syria . This longing drives much of the current process , " he observed . <p> According to the minister , another significant motivator for the recognition of this regime is an anti-Russian sentiment . " The defeat of Russian interests has brought considerable satisfaction , particularly within the European Union . They claim they will evaluate actions on the ground . Still , the rapid rehabilitation of Julani and his associates raises questions -- and there is no guarantee it wo n't lead to disappointment , " Sa'ar said . <p> Sa'ar also addressed the broader dangers posed by Islamist groups in the region . " Groups like ISIS have risen and fallen in this region , and the lesson is clear : We can not allow Islamist extremism to gain a foothold near our borders , " he warned . <p> Israel has taken proactive measures to protect its security amid Syria 's ongoing chaos . " We struck Assad 's forces because we feared their weapons could fall into Islamist hands or be sold on the black market , " Sa'ar explained . Establishing buffer zones was another critical step prompted by violations of separation agreements . <p> " The cabinet decided on this after armed groups entered the area and even attacked UN positions . We had to act quickly to prevent a situation where hostile forces like Hamas or Hezbollah would operate right on our border , " he said . <p> While the international community has understood these measures , criticism persists . " The world may understand why we 've entered buffer zones , but understanding does n't mean they wo n't criticize us , " Sa'ar acknowledged . Despite this , he emphasized the necessity of these actions , particularly in light of the Oct. 7 attacks . " Proactive measures became a necessity . We can not afford to wait for threats to materialize , " he asserted . <h> A minority in the Middle East <p> Sa'ar emphasized Israel 's diplomatic involvement in supporting the Kurds , calling on the international community to uphold its responsibilities . " In conversations I 've had with foreign ministers worldwide -- from US Secretary of State Antony Blinken to others -- I 've stressed the international community 's responsibility to the Kurds , " he said . Sa'ar highlighted the sacrifices made by the Kurds in their fight against ISIS and warned of the dangers of dismantling Kurdish autonomy . <p> While Israel has not taken military action to defend the Kurds , Sa'ar underscored the moral and diplomatic imperative of supporting them . " The Kurds are a pro-Western and friendly group , and we must stand by them , " he stated . <p> He also drew attention to the disparity in global attention given to the Kurdish cause compared to other issues . " They 're not Palestinians , but give them even one percent of the attention you give the Palestinian issue , " Sa'ar said , recounting his conversations with foreign ministers . He likened Israel 's ties to the Kurds to its relationship with the Druze community , describing the bond as one rooted in shared principles . " It 's a matter of principle -- both morally and diplomatically -- to stand by them , " he stressed . <p> When asked about the role of the European Union in Israel 's foreign policy , Sa'ar described the EU as a critical partner . " The European Union is Israel 's largest trading partner , and maintaining strong ties is crucial , " he said . <p> While acknowledging past challenges , particularly under the leadership of Josep Borrell , the former European Union foreign policy chief , Sa'ar expressed optimism about resetting relations with the EU 's new foreign minister . " The new foreign minister High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Kaja Kallas in Europe presents an opportunity to reset relations . We aim to strengthen not only diplomatic but also scientific and economic ties , " he predicted . <p> Sa'ar highlighted an upcoming meeting in Brussels as a chance to build momentum . " In a few months , we 'll have another meeting in Brussels , which I see as a fresh start , " he noted . However , he tempered his optimism with realism , pointing out that fundamental shifts in Europe 's stance are unlikely . " The key question is whether they 're open to hearing a different perspective and engaging in a genuine dialogue . If they are , we can work toward constructive solutions , " Sa'ar said . <h> Ireland and antisemitism <p> One of Sa'ar 's boldest and most controversial decisions was closing Israel 's embassy in Ireland . While the move sparked debate , Sa'ar defended it as a necessary response to Ireland 's persistent hostility toward Israel . <p> " Ireland 's actions repeatedly demonstrated hostility toward Israel , " he said , noting Ireland 's alignment with South Africa at the International Criminal Court and its push to expand the definition of genocide . " That was the final straw , but this decision had been under consideration for some time . " <p> Sa'ar detailed a litany of grievances against Ireland , including its failure to combat antisemitism and its dismissive attitude toward Israeli diplomacy . " Even basic meetings we the Israeli ambassador to Ireland requested with Irish ministers did n't happen , " he revealed . Maintaining the embassy , he argued , only gave Ireland " a false sense of legitimacy to act against us without consequences . " <p> The decision was supported by Foreign Ministry professional assessments , according to Sa'ar , which concluded that the embassy offered negligible benefits . " This is taxpayer money , and we must ensure it is spent responsibly , " he said . By closing the embassy , Israel sent a message not only to Ireland but to other nations . " We can not allow a country to target us while we do nothing in response repeatedly , " he explained . <p> Sa'ar was particularly critical of Ireland 's approach to antisemitism . " You can not allow antisemitism to go unchecked , especially from a country that should know better , " he stated . For him , the decision was as much about principle as policy . " Ireland displayed consistent anti-Israel and antisemitic behavior . Closing the embassy was entirely justified , " he said . <p> Sa'ar said that he announced the opening of an Israeli embassy in Moldova for the first time as an answer to closing the one in Ireland . " With over 100 diplomatic missions worldwide and many countries requesting Israel to open embassies , we must prioritize , " he said . " For example , Moldova , which has consistently supported Israel , is now home to a new Israeli embassy . <p> Moldova , Sa'ar made a point to mention , " ranked 22nd in voting support for Israel , repeatedly asked why we had n't opened an embassy there . " <p> " When deciding to open or close embassies , we must evaluate a country 's relationship with Israel across several parameters . If there 's potential for a significant change in the near term , the decision might differ , " he concluded . <h> Blame Canada <p> Turning to the alarming rise of antisemitism in Canada , Sa'ar did not hold back . " The situation in Canada is intolerable , " he said , citing a 670% increase in antisemitic incidents . <p> He expressed frustration that such hostility is occurring in a country traditionally friendly to both Israel and Jews . " We 've called on the government to use every available tool to combat this . President Isaac Herzog discussed this issue extensively with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau , " he revealed . <p> Sa'ar noted that the rise in antisemitism is not unique to Canada but is part of a broader trend in other friendly nations like Australia . <p> A major part of Sa'ar 's agreement to join the coalition was the promise by Netanyahu to receive about a half-billion shekels to invest in Israeli public diplomacy worldwide . In November , The Jerusalem Post 's Eliav Breuer reported that the Foreign Ministry will receive a NIS 545 million budget increase for hasbara ( public diplomacy ) . According to a statement by Sa'ar in November , the budget will go toward " media campaigns abroad , in the foreign press , on social media , and more . " <p> These will include " concentrated activity on US campuses to change their attitude toward Israel and its policies while cooperating with the Jewish community in the US and without harming the activity of the Diaspora Affairs Ministry . " <p> " There 's a growing battle for public opinion , which ties into a broader diplomatic struggle , " Sa'ar told the Post this week . " We 're currently working on plans and objectives , meeting with many groups involved in this field , " he said . <p> The goal is to enact both immediate and long-term changes . " We 're trying to implement small immediate changes and set the stage for larger changes in the medium term , " Sa'ar said . He and Deputy Minister Sharren Haskel hold weekly briefings with foreign journalists to ensure accurate coverage . " Even small quotes in articles can make a difference , " he noted . <p> Sa'ar expressed gratitude for the many ideas and initiatives within the Jewish community . " Many Jews want to contribute and create partnerships , but the problem has been a lack of funding , and understanding that this requires a systematic approach , " he said . <p> He also stressed the importance of public diplomacy in shaping global perceptions . " I hope to lay the foundation for a Foreign Ministry that excels not just in diplomacy but also in public advocacy , " he stated . <p> Sa'ar concluded by emphasizing the importance of equipping embassies in strategic locations like India with the resources to engage effectively . <p> " It 's unacceptable that embassies in places like India lack the funding to organize essential activities , " he said . ? 
@@119381669 <h> The menorah is made up of fragments from Iranian ballistic missiles , drones from Yemen , and rockets from Lebanon . <p> A menorah made of missile fragments from Iran , Hamas , Hezbollah , and the Houthis displayed in Hostages ' Square on Saturday , December 28 , 2024. ( photo credit : Paulina Patimer ) <p> A menorah that was made out of missile fragments by numerous terrorist organizations that fired on Israel was installed and displayed at the Hostages Square in Tel Aviv on Saturday night . <p> " In each fragment - a story of survival . Pieces of Iranian ballistic missiles , fragments of UAVs from Yemen , and rockets from Lebanon have been transformed into a symbol of hope , light emerging from darkness , " the menorah 's inscription says . <p> The menorah was created by artist Eli Gross.A menorah made of missile fragments from Iran , Hamas , Hezbollah , and the Houthis displayed in Hostages ' Square on Saturday , December 28 , 2024. ( credit : Paulina Patimer ) <p> The Hostages Square also saw another protest by families of the remaining hostages in Gaza that night . A separate demonstration was also held in Haifa at the Carmel Center around the same time , and clashes with police were reported at a demonstration in Jerusalem 's Paris Square . <p> The remaining hostages have been held captive in Gaza for 449 days as of Saturday . Einav Zengauker speaks at a demonstration calling on the Israeli government to accept a hostage release deal . Her son , Matan , has been held captive in Gaza for 449 days as of December 28 , 2024. ( credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/MAARIV ) <p> The demonstration at Hostages ' Square also saw candle lighting for the holiday 's fourth night . <p> At the Tel Aviv protest , Einav Zangauker , whose son Matan is being held captive in Gaza , attacked Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , accusing him of sabotaging a hostage release deal . <p> " Today , on the fourth night of Hanukkah , " she stated , " the negotiations for the deal are at a crucial point . A comprehensive deal can be reached , but Netanyahu refuses to end the war for criminal reasons . While he is telling everyone to be quiet , he is running to torpedo the deal in interviews and media briefings , " she continued . <p> " He has no intention of ending the war , again introducing new conditions just before the deal is closed and introducing the spin of the hostage lists . Anyone who invents a new excuse to prevent a deal each time is passing a death sentence on the hostages . <p> " He is afraid of Ben-Gvir and Smotrich and refuses to end the war , in complete contradiction to Israeli interests . Netanyahu and Israel Katz are sitting in heated rooms and bragging about continuing the war while Matan and the other hostages are freezing and rotting in tunnels . The blood is on your hands . " <p> Yehuda Cohen , the father of kidnapped soldier Nimrod Cohen , addressed US President-elect Donald Trump , saying : " Netanyahu is trying to deceive you . Ending the war and returning all the hostages is in the interest of the State of Israel . You may be the last person who can put pressure on Netanyahu . Do not compromise on a partial deal that is just a death sentence for the remaining hostages and will not bring about an end to the war . " <p> Democrats Party leader Yair Golan spoke at a demonstration on Kaplan Street the same night , stating , " This evil government abandons the kidnapped men and women to die in captivity in agony . This government sacrifices soldiers to die in Gaza . They do n't want to end the war because they fantasize about annexation and settlements in Gaza . " <h> Hostage Family Forum activities the day before <p> Demonstrations to raise awareness for a hostage release deal took place on Friday morning at Kibbutz Sde Boker in the Negev desert , where participants used their vehicles to create the hostages ' ribbon symbol using 100 cars - one representing each hostage still held in captivity . Participants in Friday morning 's demonstration in Sde Boker for a hostage deal form an SOS signal . ( credit : AVIV ATLAS , YAIR PALTI ) <p> Demonstrators line their cars up to create a hostage ribbon on Friday , December 27 , 2024 ( Video credit : Aviv Atlas , Yair Palti ) 
@@119381670 <h> I sat down with Mustafa Alian , an east Jerusalem dual national , for an in-depth talk on his life struggles with the confines of the conflict . <p> KALANDIYA CROSSING , the main point of entry into the Ramallah area from east Jerusalem . ( photo credit : Abbas Momani/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> I invited Mustafa Alian to my Jerusalem home on a cold November evening . His attire , like his calm smile and manner , reflected his easy-going nature . Being invited into a Jewish household did not seem to faze him . <p> We sat down in the living room , enjoying two steaming cups of mint tea , for an honest conversation between two Jerusalem residents -- one from west of the city , the other from the east . <h> Mustafa , it 's good to see you . How are you feeling tonight ? <p> I 'm feeling quite relaxed , to be honest . I 've never done this before , so I am a bit nervous , but it is the good kind of nervous -- the one you get before doing an important thing . <h> It is important , without a doubt . This is not a common occurrence in this city . It takes courage , and I thank you for having it . Let 's begin by hearing about yourself . Who is Mustafa Alian ? <p> I was born on the Israeli side of Beit Hanina , which is the expansion of the old Beit Hanina on the other side of the fence , in the West Bank . My town is a part of east Jerusalem , and so we are citizens of Israel and have easy access to the Begin Highway , which leads straight into the city . It only took me about 20 minutes to get here Jerusalem 's Baka neighborhood . <p> I have five siblings , which is pretty standard where I come from . I am 23 and finishing my bachelor 's degree in computer science at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem . AERIAL VIEW of Beit Hanina . The Begin Highway can be seen in the distance , separating the Israeli Beit Hanina from the older Palestinian one . ( credit : Courtesy Hagai Agmon-Snir ) <h> Are your parents originally from Beit Hanina ? <p> My mother was born and raised in the Ramallah area to a family of farmers . They were simple people who worked the land and sold its produce . They were loving and caring , always sacrificing for the sake of family . My mother followed in their footsteps , always caring for us , until today . <p> I remember visiting my mother 's parents as a child , passing through rigorous checkpoints that would last for many hours . During periods of escalation , we would , at times , be stuck in the West Bank , unable to return until the roads were cleared . <p> As I grew older , and with my grandparents ' passing , I stopped visiting my mother 's family in Ramallah altogether . It was just too overwhelming to make that difficult trip over the border and back , especially when you could be caught in the crossfire at any moment . <p> My father was born and raised in Jerusalem 's Old City to a family that originated from Hebron . They moved to Jerusalem during the British Mandate . His father was a troubled person and could not provide a stable livelihood for his family . The home was lower class , to say the least , and my father had to leave school and start working at the young age of 12 . <p> As the oldest , he bore the responsibility of being the father and provider of his household from a very early age . He decided to be this same strong provider for his own children so that we could focus on our future instead of our survival , like he had to . This was not a simple task . My father 's side is a family of 300 , and my household is the only one to have not dropped out of the educational system . That is only two percent . <p> I can not tell you where my parents met . But they got married and moved to Beit Hanina . My father was an Israeli citizen , which granted my mother a similar status . My mother would travel to the West Bank , studying architecture at Bir Zeit University north of Ramallah . Eventually , she had to drop out because of the First Intifada , which made traveling back and forth impossible . <p> The violence of the intifada was so bad that she sadly had a miscarriage as a result of the conditions on the roads and checkpoints . It was at that point that she chose the path of raising her family in Beit Hanina , leaving her past life and dreams in Ramallah behind . <h> I 'm sorry to hear she had to go through that . So , they settled in Beit Hanina and started a family . What was it like growing up there ? <p> My siblings and I would play in the streets with the other children . I was happy and carefree until the others started being hateful and spiteful , choosing power and popularity over decency and kindness . Being mean was considered cool . <p> The kids around me would be disrespectful and brazen . I wanted to distance myself from them . I found the computer provided a place where I could be comfortable and worry-free . <p> I was disconnected from my environment and utterly absorbed by the computer . English was everywhere , and I loved the challenge of understanding this unknown written word . <p> The world around me did not know English , so the computer was my only available teacher . I wanted to learn as much as was available . Creating a Facebook account was a real achievement for me . Interacting on the Internet gave me a thrill like no other . <p> I was enthralled by American pop culture . Every time I was asked in school about my dream , it was to move to New York and become a software engineer . This has been my dream since the fourth grade . " <h> How important was religion in your life ? <p> I grew up religious , even though my parents were not . The first time I saw my father pray was when I was 17 ! He turned to religion during that time . <p> School was the natural place to discover Islam . I had always believed in a greater power , and I had looked to Allah in search of that connection . In east Jerusalem , the atmosphere is one where Islam is constantly praised , and I was interested in discovering more of its greatness . <p> But puberty had changed me completely . I became disengaged from my Arabic environment and culture . I started questioning every previous belief of mine . I challenged every reality and every conception . In truth , it all stemmed from my connection with the World Wide Web . <p> When online , I was always surrounded by free and open individuals who did not scrutinize or judge me at all . I felt more comfortable with them than I did with my own community . I started seeing everyone around me as a collective that did not challenge any element of their lives . People would blindly follow the path laid out for them . No questions were ever asked . Free will was nowhere to be seen . <p> I could n't be like them . I noticed that religion was overbearing or misused for malicious purposes . Everything always stemmed from religion . Every bad thing that happened was justified by Allah and his teachings . People around me would twist their religious beliefs and practices based on their own preferences , often staining the beauty and kindness of faith for their own greed . I felt like it was just too controlling . It canceled individuality . <p> Over the next few months , I kept questioning my world and came up with the same conclusion . Islam , in its current form , was not for me . Islam had spiraled out of control , and I did not want to be a part of the storm . Religion was used as a justification for hatred , and I was sick of this hatred that had no end and no good purpose . <p> I left Islam as a young teenager . I hid my secularism from everyone , as it was simply not allowed . I would still uphold the five pillars of Islam publicly , but inside I was completely uninterested in Islam . Being forced to be a devout Muslim only distanced me more from that world . <p> However , Islam has many values concerning humanity and family . The traditions of Islam all revolve around being with family and sharing abundance with loved ones . There are many elements of Islam that I believe in and hope to keep for myself and my future family . <h> Please tell me more about your national identity ? <p> The recurring wars in Gaza made me hate the Jewish state . My entire Arab society and our Arabic news channels would show the worst scenes and stories from the war . I became afraid of the IDF and the Jewish people . <p> I was convinced that the evil Zionist entity was hell-bent on the destruction of the Arab way of life . Stories of the sinister occupying Israelis were everywhere . <p> The computer was a place where I could be exposed to all types of people from around the world . And I soon became quite close with a person online who was an Israeli Jew . I had always expected people to act upon national lines and definitions , but he did n't . <p> That was a real turning point for me , and I started seeing people for who they really are and not how they are categorized . Unfortunately , our interaction with Israeli officials is always negative . This negative interaction solidifies the anti-Israeli education and media we receive . <p> Leaving Islam and discovering the cosmopolitan world online opened up a plethora of questions and curiosities . Once you start questioning parts of your reality and personality , you then cultivate this compulsion to question everything . I started working at McDonald 's and met many Israelis who were good to me . This reality was in direct contradiction to what was taught to us as Arabs . <p> I kept seeing the Palestinian nationality movement as one that only strives to create animosity and strife with the Israelis instead of finding positive interaction and common ground for a viable solution . The Palestinian narrative views the settlements as a warning sign ; if they do not strengthen their own religious identity and defiance to the Israeli people , their entire reality will collapse . <p> You must understand that the Palestinians are afraid of losing their land , their culture , everything . They are afraid of disappearing from this world . This fear is the fuel that the Palestinian Authority uses to accelerate hate and antagonism among the Palestinian people toward Israelis . That was when I decided to abandon the Palestinian cause . It did not follow the values of goodness and humanity that I hold . I did not believe in this life of fear and hatred . <h> Was this your state of mind when starting your degree at the Hebrew University ? <p> It feels good to say these things out loud . Yes , I arrived at the university with this state of mind . I knew that I needed a good degree in order to fulfill my lifelong dream of making a living elsewhere , be it in New York or any other Western place , so I enrolled at the Hebrew University to study computer science . I was determined to envelop myself in the world of computers , which I cherished so dearly . <p> Learning was awful . I was the only Arab student to attend the lectures , since all of the others had stopped coming . We started with 40 Arabs out of 600 students ; now only 15 have remained . <p> We never communicated with the Israeli Jews , who were much older and in different stages of their lives compared to us younger Arab students . Quite frankly , none of us really wanted to engage with the Israelis . And so , we were n't really part of the university at all . There was no interaction at all ; just exams , assignments , and grades . <h> That sounds like a really rough start . Did things improve ? <p> After the first year , I became a teaching assistant and simultaneously interned at the university 's tech lab , which ultimately forced me to interact with Jewish Israelis . I finally managed to connect with them in real life . I started making new friends with Israelis , with whom I shared many common interests . <p> For the first time in my life , I had real unfiltered conversations with Israelis who were grateful to interact with an Arab , and that really moved me . I was inspired by this to do the same with other Israelis . <p> The other Arab students at school were extremely toxic regarding my new relationships . They did n't hold back their opinions and would constantly try to persuade me not to believe the Israelis , insisting that they are colonizers trying to wipe out my Arab culture and identity . <p> I chose to distance myself from some and hide my Israeli friendships from others who were closer to me . It was an extremely anxious period ; it became so intense that I had to stop going to the campus for a while . This double life was just too much for me to control . <p> Things are better now -- do n't look so worried ! My ability to connect with both cultures eventually fell into the daily routine on campus and everyone got used to it , which came as a huge relief for me . I even went to therapy for an entire year in an attempt to find the right medium for coping with reality . <p> I had this intrinsic feeling of not belonging anywhere . I would hide my identity from the world , and that created a sense of hopelessness and despair . I felt alone and unsure of who I was and what I stood for . Therapy made me more confident and even proud of my identity , regardless of religion and race . It taught me to accept myself for who I truly am . <h> What a mental journey you 've endured . What does the future have in store for you , now that you 've weathered the storm ? <p> The dream -- from all the way back in fourth grade -- is still there . A degree in computer science has made it more possible than ever before . <p> I am a Palestinian , and I am an Israeli . I 'm connected to both spheres . However , I am simply disconnected from most of these two nationalities , and that is why I want to live abroad . I want stability for myself and for my future family . I want them to be free to choose their own path . <p> I want them to live in a place that allows for questioning reality . I want them to live in a place where they can be whoever they want , for I could not . In Jerusalem , you are never free . There is no place for people like me in Jerusalem . <p> I considered heading north to Haifa , Nazareth , Acre , and other places . But after meeting many , many northern Arab students , I could not find anyone who felt both Israeli and Palestinian , living in true coexistence . They could not even consider the concept . In their eyes , one identity comes at the cost of the other . <h> But why not stay ? Why not be that person who blurs the lines between these two polar worlds ? <p> I 'm sorry , Yonatan , but this is not my fight . I do n't want to be a part of this conflict , and so I ca n't be a part of its solution . My views are too alienated from both societies . I could never live freely in Israel or the West Bank , as religion and family are the main factors that root the Arab communities to this land . <p> The same can also be said for most Jewish communities . I respect many of the values which are upheld by these indigenous lifestyles , but their versions of life are not ones that I share . <p> The search for national and social identity , coupled with their paramount importance in the daily lives of everyone occupying this land , is too dominant for me . <p> I do not share this life orientation , and I do not belong to the communities that do . <h> I 'm sad to hear that , Mustafa . I think you could have been an integral part of a real cultural revolution . <p> Perhaps you are right . But I still carry the profound belief that real peace in Jerusalem between the Arabs and the Jews is possible . It will take a generation or two , and we will no doubt require some strong leaders who share this vision , but every new generation will bring with it more Arabs and Jews equipped with the acknowledgment of the positive effects that come from the interactions between them . <p> The next Arab generation will be more embedded in Israeli society in every way . The next Jewish generation will be more aware of the Arab presence in this land . The key is to combine these two worlds and try to build a culture that includes the other side , all while maintaining their individual integrity as two separate identities . <p> By educating the next generation on the values of respect and equality between themselves and their neighbors , we can begin viewing each other as people of the world , as goodwill individuals , as true equals , and as human beings . <p> Due to the sensitive contents of this conversation , Mustafa Alian 's real identity has remained anonymous . The name provided here is an alias . 
@@119381671 <p> ( JTA ) -- The Israeli government plans to offset wartime spending and an economic slowdown with tax hikes and deep cuts to public services . But the proposed budget for 2025 also includes a massive new allocation : toward pro-Israel advocacy efforts abroad . <p> Under the new budget , Israel 's Foreign Ministry will receive $150 million , on top of what it gets for its existing activities , for what 's officially known as public diplomacy , or in Hebrew , hasbara . That sum is more than 20 times what such efforts have typically been allotted in past years . <p> The dramatic expenditure is the result of a political deal that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu struck last month to shore up his governing coalition . Politician Gideon Saar and his New Hope party agreed to rejoin the coalition in return for the funding and the appointment of Saar as Israel 's foreign minister . <p> The news comes as public opinion about Israel in the United States and elsewhere around the world has been intensely battered as a result of a war that has left the neighboring Gaza Strip in ruins with much of its population facing displacement , disease , and hunger . <p> Saar does n't have a detailed plan for how to spend the money yet , but at the time he signed the coalition agreement with Netanyahu , his office released a statement saying it would be used to influence sentiment in the foreign press and on social media . Newly appointed Israeli minister of Foreign Affairs Gideon Saar attends a replacing ceremony at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Jerusalem on November 10 , 2024. ( credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <h> A focus on US college campuses <p> Saar 's statement also said he foresees a focus on American college campuses , which have been rocked by pro-Palestinian protests since the war broke out when Hamas attacked Israel in October 2023 . The statement noted that its activity will be carried out in cooperation with American Jewish groups and alongside similar efforts by the Diaspora Affairs Ministry . <p> " Israel 's hasbara efforts and consciousness warfare have for decades not received the critical and life-saving resources and tools they require , " Saar told the Israeli newspaper Maariv . " I am determined to make a change . Every shekel devoted to this cause is an investment , not an expense , and will strengthen Israel and its standing in the world . " <p> Saar and his team have been holding brainstorming sessions with a wide array of individuals and groups who are involved in pro-Israel advocacy around the world , Jewish Insider reported . Participants include social media influencers , cultural figures , professional hasbara advocates and representatives of various Jewish groups . <p> Whatever comes of the planning , the Israeli government will attempt to improve upon its weak record of executing similar , albeit smaller advocacy initiatives in the past . Millions spent on the national effort against antisemitism and the delegitimization of Israel around the world over the past decade have not produced almost any fruit in the eyes of Israeli government officials , according to reporting from investigative journalist Uri Blau in the Israeli digital outlet Shomrim . <p> " This activity has failed by every conceivable parameter , " Avi Cohen-Scali , the director general of the Ministry of Diaspora and Combating Antisemitism told Shomrim. 
@@119381676 <p> NOW THAT ISRAEL revised its doctrine , neighboring states ' armies should be deterred in peacetime and preempted in wartime , but jihadist militias should be fought anytime , because Israel can not afford their presence anywhere along its borders . Here , Houthi supporters raise their rifles along with th ( photo credit : ABDALLAH ADEL/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> It 's also possible that the interception occurred in an area that caused the sirens in these places to go off . <p> What matters is that the Houthis are not deterred despite recent IDF airstrikes . They appear ready to continue to attack Israel almost every night . They usually fire one missile at a time , meaning they would need to have a stockpile of dozens or hundreds of these missiles to keep this volume up for the next months . <p> Meanwhile the head of the Iranian Islamic Revolution Guards Corps ( IRGC ) Major General Hossein Salami praised the Houth " resistance and their support for Palestine , " saying that they will eventually emerge victorious , Iranian state media said . " The Yemenis Houthis will continue their resistance , as they have so far resisted with dignity , and they will ultimately win , " Salami said in an interview with the Houthis Al-Masirah TV Network on Saturday . A Houthi follower wears a vest portraying the Houthi leader Abdul-Malik al-Houthi during a parade held as part of a ' popular army ' mobilization campaign by the movement , in Sanaa , Yemen February 7 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/KHALED ABDULLAH ) <h> Iran claims " resistance axis " is as strong as ever <p> The IRGC leader claimed that Iran 's " resistance " axis has not been weakened . He is referring to Hezbollah and the fall of Assad . He is thus putting on a brave face as Iran invests in the Houthis as a kind of " last man standing " in the Iranian map of proxies in the region . Iran wants the Houthis to continue their attacks to keep pressure on Israel . <p> " He also hailed the Yemenis for their weekly rallies , which they have been holding on Fridays in support of the Palestinians in Gaza since the Israeli regime unleashed its war there in early October last year , " IRNA wrote . Iran is watching the Houthi attacks closely and hopes that they can keep them up for the next months . Iran knows that a ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon , that caused Hezbollah to stop its attacks , could end in the next weeks . Iran is watching closely what happens next . 
@@119381679 <p> The Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions ( BDS ) and The Palestinian Campaign for the Academic &amp; Cultural Boycott of Israel ( PCACBI ) movements called on Saturday for people to boycott Marvel and Disney over the companies 's " whitewashing - and therefore enabling - Israel 's ongoing genocide against the Palestinian people . " <p> PACBI took issue with Marvel 's Captain America : Brave New World and Disney 's Snow White remake . Both movies are set for release in early 2025 and , according to PACBI , " normalize anti-Palestinian racism and cover up Israel 's ongoing carnage in Gaza . " <p> The Israel-Hamas War being fought in Gaza began when Hamas terrorists invaded southern Israel , breaking an existing ceasefire , and murdered some 1200 people . In the terrorist organization 's cross-border attacks , during which the terror organization engaged in murder , sexual violence , and looting , Hamas abducted some 250 people - many of whom remain hostage in Gaza . <h> Casting Israelis <p> In Captain America : Brave New World , PACBI took particular issue with the character Ruth Bat-Seraph , aka " Sabra . " Sabra was created by Marvel in the 1980s and has consistently been written as a Mossad agent . <p> Sabra is set to be played by Shira Haas , a famed Israeli actress known for her roles in Shtisel and Unorthodox . PACBI took issue with her casting - claiming Haas 's military service would only make Sabra 's character " more racist . " ACTRESS SHIRA HAAS attends a ' Light of Israel ' ceremony at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Jerusalem in 2021. ( credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <p> PACBI also described Israel 's intelligence agency Mossad as " criminal . " <p> In a similar stance against Snow White , PACBI decried the casting of famed Wonder Woman actress Gal Gadot as the Evil Queen , taking issue with Gadot 's past service in the Israeli military . <p> " We amplify the growing calls of Palestinian filmmakers ' to do everything humanly possible to stop and end complicity with this unspeakable horror ; and stand against working with production companies that are deeply complicit in dehumanizing Palestinians , or whitewashing and justifying Israel 's crimes against us , ' " The Palestinian Campaign for the Academic &amp; Cultural Boycott of Israel said in its petition against Marvel and Disney . " The decision of Marvel and Disney leadership to platform ambassadors to Israel 's settler-colonial regime makes both Captain America and Snow White complicit in violations of Palestinian human rights . " 
@@119383978 <h> Larry Wilson : The lost art of college students talking to each other <h> Share this : <p> Bridges Auditorium , on the campus Claremont 's Pomona College , will be the venue for " A Candlelight Christmas , " to be presented Dec. 13 and 14 , 2024 , by Inland Pacific Ballet and Candlelight Pavilion . ( File Photo by David Allen , Inland Valley Daily Bulletin/SCNG ) <p> After 125 years or so of being the most collectively Joe College nation on Earth , many Americans have turned sour on the idea that a higher education -- or at least the four years we have traditionally set aside for young adults to get a bachelor 's degree -- is key to an informed , successful life . <p> Not me . <p> But the varsity blues are otherwise rampant . <p> Perhaps our culture had gone a little bit too all-in on the tradition , and this is just a course correction . I have noted before in this space that in my observations of car rear windshields in dozens of countries around the world , we are the only one that is positively bonkers in identifying the schools in which we , or our children , have matriculated , through decals and bumper stickers . <p> The Citroens of Paris and the Jaguars of London are not adorned with signifiers bragging " Sorbonne " or " Oxford . " I do n't quite know if it 's simple humility or a lack of school spirit , but the fact is their license-plate holders do not announce , as does mine , " Go Bears ! , " or the equivalent , to the driver behind them at the stop light . <p> I do realize I was lucky in having been accepted into the University of California system during its golden age of taxpayer support . I got to study at the greatest public university in the world for a tuition that never varied from its annual $637.50 price tag from September 1973 through June 1977 . That , the $200 monthly check my ( sainted ) mother sent me and the $15 a week I made for writing for the student newspaper covered everything : rent , books , meals , beer , whatnot . <p> Undergraduate bliss . Or , if not always entirely that -- there were inevitable heartbreaks , and the vague existential dread of adult life around the corner , in which you 'd somehow have to make ends meet -- four formative transitional years in between living under your parents ' roof and having to fend entirely on your own . If I was lucky , at least I knew that I was , and never took it for granted . I was n't smart enough to be a slacker . I never missed a single class , freshman through senior years . <p> Of course , the information imparted was n't always at the hands of the professors . On a university campus , you have your beliefs challenged , or at least you ought to . For instance , as a perhaps naive believer in the essentially correct nature of American foreign policy , the Vietnam debacle aside , I had never for a minute as a high school student been exposed to any notion that Israel was anything but entirely righteous and correct in its dealings with its Arab neighbors . But walking through Sproul Plaza one day , with its ubiquitous " tablers " espousing various political causes , from Young Communists through Young Republicans , I stopped to read some pamphleteering giving the Palestinian side . You mean land was taken from families with an ancient claim to it without proper compensation ? The world was more complicated than one had been led to believe . <p> And now , as is only fitting , it 's time to play the role of old grouch . Students arrive on campus these days more set in their views , less open to conversion . You hang with the like-minded and issue trigger warnings to those who would challenge you . The Palestine-Israel situation is a sadly perfect example of that . And so , as someone who still spends a lot of time on college campuses , I was glad to read recently of efforts by college administrators to get young people to open up . In a story headlined " To Dial Down Campus Tensions , Colleges Teach the Art of Conversation , " New York Times reporter Anemona Hartocollis writes : " On a warm November day , a group of Columbia University professors set up ' listening tables ' near the center of campus and hailed students rushing to class , inviting them to stop and talk . " <p> They smartly bring pizza as an enticement , so some things never change . But it 's often the dire wolf of Gaza that still howls loudest at the tables . A woman in a kaffiyeh in one conversation talked about " this genocide . " <p> " I would n't call it a genocide , " said Scott Barry Kaufman , a psych prof moderating the group . <p> " Do you hate me because I disagree with you ? " <p> " No , she did not hate him -- ' for that reason , ' she said , " Hartocollis reports . 
@@119389279 <h> Share <p> Copy Link <p> copyShortcut to copy Link copied ! <p> Updated : 12:11 PM EST Dec 28 , 2024 <p> Well , not *** lot of detail was provided about the specifics of the call between Netanyahu and Trump . But there 's enough there that we can kind of read between the lines and understand the critical timing of that conversation and what it tells us about the kind of broader pattern here we know that the Israeli Prime Minister spoke with President Elect Trump about the ongoing negotiations to try and reach *** cease fire and hostage deal . The Israeli Prime Minister himself has said that they spoke about the need to complete Israel 's victory but also about the need to free the hostages . And so you can hear in that certainly that the Israeli Prime Minister is trying to make the case for both getting to *** deal , but also perhaps not the war in Gaza altogether until Hamas is completely defeated as he continues to kind of pursue this total victory that he has promised the Israeli public since October 7th of last year . What we also know though is that the Biden administration and the incoming Trump administration have been really working quite closely together to try and see if *** deal is achievable and not necessarily that that deal would have to wait until President elect Trump takes the oath of office on January 20th . Rather , when we saw the national security adviser , Jake Sullivan here in Tel Aviv last week , he talked about his hope that through his travels in Israel , but then subsequently to Cairo and to Doha that he could put in place what would be needed to get *** deal by the end of the month . And so that seems to be what all of the parties are racing towards is to see whether or not in the coming weeks , if *** deal can indeed be put together . We heard the Israeli Defense Minister today say in *** , as he was testifying before the Foreign Affairs Committee of the knesset , the Israeli Parliament , that *** deal is quote closer than ever . We have of course heard such such optimistic pronouncements from other officials in the past and Jake Sullivan was very cautious on Friday to say , you know , I 've been optimistic before . We thought we were close before and we did not get there . So they do n't wan na uh say that *** deal is done until it actually is , but certainly there is cause for optimism and uh the the parties seem to be narrowing uh the gaps , how soon they can actually do that and whether they can get it over the finish line is anyone 's guess at this point . <p> Advertisement <p> Israel detains the director of one of northern Gaza 's last functioning hospitals during a raid <h> Share <p> Israel 's army detained the director of one of northern Gaza 's last functioning hospitals as overnight strikes elsewhere in the territory killed nine people , including children , Palestinian medical officials said Saturday . Israel 's military alleged that Hamas militants were using the facility and said over 240 people were detained.Related video above : Trump 's call with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ( 12/17/24 ) Gaza 's Health Ministry said Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , was arrested Friday along with dozens of other staff and taken to an interrogation center . The ministry said Israeli troops stormed the hospital and forced many staff and patients outside , and told them to strip in winter weather , according to the ministry.Israel 's military on Saturday confirmed it detained the hospital director and called him a suspected Hamas operative while providing no evidence . It said it encircled the hospital , and special forces entered and found weapons in the area . It said militants fired on its forces and that they were " eliminated . " On Friday , the military denied it had entered or set fire to the hospital complex but acknowledged it had ordered people outside . The military repeated claims that Hamas militants operate inside Kamal Adwan but provided no evidence . Hospital officials have denied that.The hospital has been hit multiple times over the past three months by Israeli troops waging an offensive in largely isolated northern Gaza against Hamas fighters it says have regrouped . The health ministry said a strike on the hospital earlier this week killed five medical personnel.MedGlobal , the humanitarian organization for which Abu Safiya worked , said Friday it was gravely concerned about him . It said the incident follows the October detention of five other staff , calling it an " alarming and egregious pattern of targeting medical personnel and spaces . " Israel 's nearly 15-month-old campaign of bombardment and ground offensives has devastated Gaza 's health sector . The World Health Organization has said the raid on Kamal Adwan has put northern Gaza 's last major health facility " out of service " after growing restrictions on access , adding that " this horror must end and health care must be protected . " The Health Ministry said conditions for Kamal Adwan patients who were relocated to the damaged Indonesian Hospital nearby -- also raided in the past -- were " extremely difficult . " The Israeli military statement Saturday said 350 patients , along with medical personnel , had been evacuated from Kamal Adwan in recent weeks , and another 95 patients , caregivers , and medical personnel were evacuated to the Indonesian Hospital during the operation . It also said it had provided fuel and medical supplies to both hospitals.The war has killed more than 45,400 Palestinians , over half of them women and children , and wounded more than 108,000 others , according to the Health Ministry . Its count does not distinguish between civilians and combatants.Since October , Israel 's offensive has virtually sealed off the northern Gaza areas of Jabaliya , Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahiya and leveled large parts of them . Tens of thousands of Palestinians were forced out , but thousands are believed to remain in the area where Kamal Adwan and two other hospitals are located.Israel has vowed to destroy Hamas after the militants ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on southern Israel , in which they killed around 1,200 people and abducted some 250 others . Some 100 Israelis remain captive in Gaza , and around a third are believed to be dead.Israel continued attacks across Gaza on Saturday . An overnight strike killed at least nine people in Maghazi , including women and children , according to staff at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital where they were taken and an Associated Press reporter who saw the bodies.Men cried as the bodies , wrapped in bloodied white plastic , lay on the floor of the morgue.The Health Ministry said Saturday that 48 people had been killed in the past 24 hours by Israeli fire.Meanwhile , Israel said its troops had begun operating in the northern city of Beit Hanoun , citing intelligence that fighters and Hamas infrastructure were in the area.Strikes also continued in Israel . Air raid sirens sounded early Saturday , and the military said it intercepted a missile fired by Yemen 's Iran-backed Houthi rebels.Israeli warplanes bombed key infrastructure in Yemen again on Thursday . The Houthis also have been attacking shipping in the Red Sea and say they wo n't stop until Israel agrees to a ceasefire in Gaza . Mednick reported from Jerusalem . <p> DEIR AL BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) 
@@119405278 <p> Head of one of northern Gaza 's last partially functioning hospitals arrested as Israeli military raids the facility and forces out dozens of doctors and patients . <p> Calls for Israel to release director of Gaza 's Kamal Adwan Hospital <p> Published On 29 Dec 202429 Dec 2024 <p> Concerns are rising about the safety of the director of one of the last partially functioning hospitals in northern Gaza after the Israeli military detained him . <p> Hussam Abu Safia , 51 , was arrested by Israeli forces during their raid on Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya on Friday . It is not known where he has been taken . <p> The World Health Organization said it lost contact with Abu Safia after the raid , which also saw the Israeli military force out dozens of medical staff and patients . <p> The director general of the Ministry of Health in Gaza , Munir al-Barsh , said Abu Safia was severely beaten with batons and sticks by Israeli forces , who forced him to strip and put on clothes meant for prisoners . <p> It was the second time in as many months that Abu Safia had been detained by Israeli forces as they conduct their genocide in Gaza . <p> Here 's what you need to know about him : <p> Abu Safia , a paediatrician by training , is a prominent figure in Gaza 's healthcare system . He holds a master 's degree and a Palestinian board certification in paediatrics and neonatology . <p> Advertisement <p> Also known by his nickname Abu Elias , Abu Safia was born on November 21 , 1973 , in the Jabalia refugee camp in the northern Gaza Strip . His family was displaced in 1948 from the Palestinian town of Hamama in the Ashkelon district . <p> Abu Safia refused multiple Israeli orders to leave Kamal Adwan Hospital after the Israeli military imposed a devastating blockade on the northern Gaza Strip on October 5 . The siege saw Israel cut off supplies of food and water to the Palestinians in the area while launching air strikes and conducting shelling , killing hundreds of civilians . <p> The siege also has had a devastating impact on the region 's hospitals . Abu Safia was briefly arrested and then released when Israeli forces stormed the facility in late October and detained 44 of its staff members , leaving him and a handful of medical workers to care for dozens of wounded people . <p> During the same operation , Israeli forces killed Abu Safia 's son Ibrahim in a drone strike at the gate of the hospital . The doctor led the funeral prayers for his son in the hospital 's courtyard as he accused the Israeli military of killing his son to punish him for refusing to leave the hospital . <p> In spite of the siege , the medical team , which included a few doctors such as Abu Safia and a small group of nurses , remained at the hospital , refusing repeated orders from the Israeli military to leave . <p> By staying put in the hospital , Abu Safia had kept the world informed of Israel 's near-daily attacks , issuing video statements and pleading for international intervention to end the attacks . <p> Advertisement <p> He was wounded by shrapnel from an Israeli drone attack on the hospital on November 23 while he was exiting the operating room . He sustained six shrapnel wounds to his thigh , which caused ruptures in his veins and arteries . But he pleaded to continue his work . <p> " This will not stop us , " he said . " I was injured at my workplace , and that is an honour . My blood is no more precious than that of my colleagues or the people we serve . I will return to my patients as soon as I recover . " 
@@119414977 <h> The meaning of Chanukah : Showing the menorah without fear <h> Share this : <p> The festival of Chanukah commemorates the Maccabees ' victory over the Syrian tyrant Antiochus IV , who had conquered Jerusalem and seized the Temple in his efforts to Hellenize Judea . Resisting assimilation , the Maccabees defeated the Syrian army , and reclaiming the Temple , they kindled again its holy lamps with only a small cruse of oil . <p> According to the Talmud , Chanukah celebrates the miracle of that oil lasting eight days . But the greater significance remains the Jewish community 's refusal to bend and disappear , or to hide . <p> Last December , a congregant emailed me a photograph of her living room window decorated with an Israeli flag and a Chanukah menorah . " In my window like you said we 're supposed to do , " she wrote . " I was surprised that some Jews said they were afraid to put the menorah in the window , afraid somebody would smash it . But I am a Michigan Wolverine and we 're fearless . " <p> During those early weeks of Israel 's war in Gaza , as posters of the hostages were being torn down and Jews whose dress so identified them were being assaulted , the Jewish community awakened to a reality we should have anticipated because we had seen it before : how hatred of Israel is intertwined with hatred of Jews , anti-Zionism with antisemitism . While I admired this congregant 's courage , I understood why others were afraid . <p> A decade ago , the Jew-hatred we feared most came from the far right , from white nationalists and replacement theorists like Robert Bowers who murdered 11 at Pittsburgh 's Tree of Life Synagogue , and from Islamist extremists . <p> Until recently , the antisemitism of the left still operated primarily through boycotts , divestment , sanctions , and other insidious channels . It lurked beneath the surface in social exchanges and academic spaces . But this past year it burst into the open , intimidating and menacing , and claiming a right to free expression -- nowhere more than on college campuses . <p> The campus has long been home to activists who conflate the Palestinian-Israeli conflict with other liberation struggles and implicate Israel 's Jewish supporters in every societal injustice . <p> But for even longer , the academy has harbored educators who exploit the lectern as a pulpit to inveigh against Israel , some employing the grotesque antisemitism of Holocaust inversion characterizing Israel as the Third Reich , others demonizing Israel as a colonialist regime , as if Jewish families who have been living on the land for centuries , or those who arrived from displaced persons camps , had some other home to go back to . <p> But at some universities today , being a Jew on campus has become an act of courage , every walk to class a gauntlet of verbal bullying and physical harassment . According to an ADL/Hillel survey , 73% of Jewish students claim to have seen or experienced antisemitism in the aftermath of Hamas 's attack . Prior to Oct. 7 , 2023 , 64% said they had felt comfortable revealing their Jewish identity ; after Oct. 7 , only 39% did . <p> Through more history than less , Jews have faced danger . That is why the Talmudic instruction to display the Chanukah menorah is nuanced : " Our rabbis taught : it is incumbent to place the Chanukah lamp by the door of one 's house on the outside . If one dwells in an upper chamber , he places it at the window nearest the street . But in times of danger it is sufficient to place it on the table . " In other words , demonstrate your Jewish identity proudly , if it is safe . <p> For more than a year , that is the choice many Jews have been compelled to make : to wear their yarmulke in public , or cover it with a baseball cap ; to display their Star of David necklace , or tuck it inside their sweater ; to brave the walk to synagogue , or tune in online . <p> In 1993 , Billings , Montana endured a rash of white supremacist activity culminating in a December attack on a Jewish home , where a brick was thrown through a window with a menorah in it . The city responded in remarkable fashion . Residents of all faiths and of no faith at all placed pictures of Chanukah menorahs , published in the Billings Gazette for that purpose , in their windows . Together , the city beat back the forces of hate . <p> Fortunately , most Jews I know have responded like my proud congregant , the Michigan Wolverine . They have chosen not to be intimidated . And on Chanukah they will light the candles and place them in their windows for all to bear witness to the enduring miracle of Jewish survival . <p> But what a statement it would make for other New Yorkers to take a page out of the Billings Gazette and do it too ! 
@@119414978 <h> The meaning of Chanukah : My holiday wish for an Israel at war <h> Share this : <p> Israeli army reservists light a nine-branched menorah candelabrum during a protest against a bill that will grant exemption of ultra-Orthodox Jews from serving in the army , in front of the Israeli Defense Ministry in Tel Aviv on December 26 , 2024 . ( Photo by JACK GUEZ/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> This Chanukah I join Jews around the world in celebrating Israel 's recent military victories , that parallel the holiday 's commemoration of the Maccabees ' triumphant war against the powerful Syrians , more than two millennia ago . Yet , in disabling her enemies Israel may have elevated internal forces that will make it painful for liberal Zionists like myself to embrace the Jewish state . <p> I had neither visited nor cared much about Israel until my late 30s , when I toured the country . The endless desert sand , the gold-topped Dome of the Rock set against a cloudless sky , the black-garbed Haredi set against the Western Wall 's white stone , the uniformed soldier with a rifle draped over his shoulder , carrying a challah loaf , the Holocaust survivor sobbing as he told his story of survival to our tour group , filled a hole in my psyche I never knew existed . <p> I suddenly felt linked to the Jewish state and its biblical promise to be a light among the nations . <p> When I returned to New York City I took Jewish education courses , to learn about my religious heritage . I eventually married an observant woman , who has many Israeli relatives . <p> My Jewish immersion coincided with the hopefulness of the Oslo accords . A nation great enough to make peace with its enemies became my lodestar for the Jewish state . <p> For many years I have done organizing work to promote a peaceful resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . But Israel has drifted far from this vision , culminating in its current government 's outspoken goal of annexing the West Bank , while degrading the rights of Arab Israelis . <p> An Israeli I met in Brooklyn , who shared my hopes for a two-state solution , told me that he had no sympathy for Gaza 's civilians . According to him , they were all aligned with Hamas . <p> Several months ago I visited Israel , when four hostages were rescued in a military operation that killed 40 civilians . The nation was understandably ecstatic , but the civilian deaths went unremarked upon by most Israelis . " I know we are a traumatized people , but not to even notice that 40 people lost their lives . " an exasperated Israeli , who I knew from New York , said to me . <p> " Where has our humanity gone ? " She asked . <p> The next day I had lunch with a friend in Jerusalem , who identified with Israel 's political left . " The foreign press highlighted the civilians who were killed , " my friend said , talking about the rescue mission . " F ? - ? - ? k them . " <p> Driven by the insecurity and shame of centuries of Jewish powerlessness , Israel 's military victories can easily translate into a reflexive triumphalism . I fear that Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu 's refusal to heed America 's call for restraint , and to prioritize a hostage deal , will be seen as proof that force and confrontation , rather than compromise and negotiation , are the keys to Israel 's future ; that the extremist 's goal of annexing the West Bank and establishing settlements in Gaza will come to define the Jewish zeitgeist . <p> The prospect of a Zionism that values conflict over coexistence is disorienting . My attachment to Israel and her people are an essential part of my makeup , which could leave me with an unresolvable internal contradiction -- an aspect of my identity that clashes with the rest of my persona . <p> Still , I know Israelis who are fighting against their country 's extremist tendencies , through protest and political organizing . During one of my trips to Israel I marched with many of these liberal Zionists in a demonstration against their right-wing government . They are the Israelis I feel closest to , which includes many of my relatives , who are deeply patriotic and deeply disturbed by their homeland 's illiberal turn . <p> With Hamas , Hezbollah , and Iran on the defensive , Israel will have the opportunity to redefine itself . The choices Israelis make will help determine the course of Judaism , and how Jews around the world see themselves . <p> It is worth noting that the Maccabees were religious zealots , who employed cruelty to enforce their intolerant views . Religious scholars believe that the fictional miracle of one day 's worth of oil lasting eight days was added as a way of diluting the story 's martial aspect . Hopefully today 's military triumph 's will not unleash the type of cruelty that will cause future generations of Jews to downplay the IDF 's accomplishments . <p> For this holiday season my wish is that Israel and Jewish communities around the world are bathed in the light of tolerance , rather than the darkness of zealotry. 
@@119415674 <p> In a world where the news does n't stop getting more bat-guano crazy just because it 's Christmas , where a phony war between the United States and Denmark consumes more electrons than the heartbreakingly real ones in Gaza and Ukraine , you might have missed a major escalation in the world conflict that matters most . <p> The unrelenting and wildly successful war on facts , also known as truth . <p> Advertisement <p> A man with 11 kids who spends Christmas Eve tweeting , Elon Musk -- the ketamine-fueledBond villain and richest human in world history who emerged from the Trojan horse of America 's 2024 presidential election hell-bent on world domination -- showed yet again that it 's never enough for him . <p> Sure , his $44 billion dagger into the heart of the U.S. political conversation by buying flawed-but-freewheeling Twitter and turning it into a right-wing cesspool called X helped drag Donald Trump over the Nov. 5 finish line , but what about those pesky pockets of fact-diggers and truth-tellers he has n't bought or destroyed yet ? <p> No wonder the $436 billion man wants to crush Wikipedia ( yearly budget , $177 million ) , the nonprofit internet encyclopedia that uses a messy but open and democratic editing process to grind toward truth . Musk , whose feuds with a website where he ca n't buy and bury details from his antisemitic tweets to allegedly asking a SpaceX employee to " have his babies " are not new , fired off a series of new salvos . <p> " Stop donating to Wokepedia until they restore balance to their editing authority , " wrote Musk atop a tweet from a right-wing font of disinformation called Libs of TikTok . In typical fashion , Musk 's case against the Wikipedia Foundation was based on a gross misrepresentation of its budget , a claim that its efforts to ensure unbiased political entries in contentious , far-flung elections or to build a less-sexist encyclopedia are proof of the MAGA movement 's chief boogeyman , " DEI . " <p> Musk -- who basically set more than $30 billion on fire by deliberately destroying Twitter 's once-high valuation -- has also offered $1 billion for Wikipedia , although it 's unclear whether he actually wants to own it or just change its name to a second-grade-level penis joke . The world dictator of disinformation wants to devalue reality-based information any way he can , because , as Wikipedia-beat journalist Stephen Harrison wrote in 2022 , the site " occupies what appears to be an increasingly rare internet niche : a place where billionaires can not purchase their preferred version of events , nor own the means of conversation . " <p> With little fanfare , the recent Musk-initiated , Trump-enabled assault on the federal government funding deal managed to shut down a $61 million-a-year U.S. State Department office -- set up in 2016 , amid the first wave of Russian election interference -- that employed 120 people to combat foreign-generated disinformation . <p> You know , the kind of folks who might prove useful the next time Russia shoots down a commercial jet and its civilian passengers and tries to pretend it 's a bird strike -- or when it tells Black Americans in Milwaukee to stay home in the next election . But to " President Musk , " these U.S. diplomats were interfering with the only guaranteed constitutional right that matters -- their right to tell lies . <p> This significant surrender on the war against propaganda , and the campaign against a holdout pocket of resistance in Wikipedia , got scant attention in a mainstream media that was decimated both morally and economically over the course of 2024 . Instead , the scribes at the New York Times , Washington Post and elsewhere were on the scavenger hunt for a new batch of shiny objects planted by the nominal president-elect : wild threats to take over the Panama Canal and Greenland and maybe even Canada . <p> Forget Greenland . My strong -- and maybe naive ? -- hunch is that Denmark 's vast , mineral-rich Arctic territory wo n't prove to be 2025 's Sudetenland , but Trump 's blustery and out-of-left-field pitch for American lebensraum is important as the leading edge of Team MAGA 's real World War III -- against any consensus on objective truth . <p> Much like the global upheaval of the 1940s , the real Trump-Musk war is already well underway , waged in every possible theater . In a world where content is king , Trump and his Lion King-hyenas alliance with billionaire oligarchs has now bought and ruined the most prominent real-time information exchange in Twitter-turned-X -- while fighting relentlessly to destroy traditional newsroom or network journalism , through lawsuits , licensing threats or nonstop verbal attacks , on Musk-owned X or elsewhere . <p> I 'm sure that even the late , great George Orwell would have been amazed and impressed at the ways that Trump and Musk have been able to portray these crusades as a battle for free speech , rather than the mother of all conflicts to destroy it . Here , too , we saw a watershed moment this past week as Trump and a lawyer for his incoming administration filed a brief with the Supreme Court to undo the ridiculous , looming ban on the Chinese-owned social-media app TikTok ( a colossal blunder by Dems led by President Joe Biden , but that 's for another day ) . <p> Today 's TikTok , ironically , seems a lot like pre-Musk Twitter -- a wide-open frontier of information that can be fake or scammy or bitingly real , mixing dude-bro Trump agitprop with vital pleas for sanity and truth . But it 's smart politics for the president-elect to position himself as TikTok 's savior . <p> That 's because , in the big picture , TikTok is part of the unreality-based world that flourishes from your uncle 's Facebook feed to YouTube influencers to the supermarket checkout line -- the toxic miasma that got a convicted felon reelected by the most uninformed electorate in modern U.S. history . <p> While championing TikTok , the MAGA movement has worked with remarkable success to undo a movement for professional , trained fact-checking that arose after 2016 's tsunami of disinformation . A prime example is the site NewsGuard , whose ambitious , nonpartisan goals of promoting truth-seeking newsrooms have been undermined by the same unholy alliance of Big Tech and congressional Republicans that has stopped or weakened similar efforts from Harvard to Homeland Security . <p> And so the un-democracy 's Legion of Doom is winning WWIII when American voters are as badly confused and misinformed as those the Washington Post interviewed this past week , like Trump voter Lori Mosura of New Castle , Pa. , who barely subsists largely on Social Security and food stamps . She said , " I think he knows it 's the poor people that got him elected , so I think Trump is going to do more to help us . " This as Musk , Vivek Ramaswamy and their faux commission called DOGE is scheming to somehow slash $2 trillion from the U.S. budget . <p> They are winning their World War III when the elite media takes seriously Trump 's obviously fake bluster about taking over Canada or lowering grocery prices ( or that Trump invented the word " groceries " ) , or when ABC News-owning Disney Corp . grovels with $15 million for a Trump library grift , or when owners of major newspapers spike pro-democracy editorials or invent insane contraptions like a " bias meter . " <p> And the less that the media -- or citizens who prefer to live in a reality-based world -- fight back , the worse things are going to get . This week , a 39-year-old taxi driver and self-described ex-Marine from Grand Junction , Colo. , followed a TV journalist of Pacific Islander descent some 40 miles and then physically attacked him after allegedly yelling , " This is Trump 's America now ! " and " I took an oath to protect this country from people like you ! " <p> The fact that 2024 was also one of the worst years , globally ( and largely due to Gaza ) , for killing journalists since modern record-keeping should be a wake-up call for what can happen here . But yet there is also hope , and not just because the post-Christmas Trumpist meltdown on X -- pitting the billionaire oligarchs of New MAGA against the Classic MAGA of white supremacy -- led to Musk 's blatant efforts to silence his online critics and in the process make an utter mockery of his free speech mantle . <p> Not surprisingly , donations to Wikimedia Foundation from everyday folks outraged by Musk 's renewed assaults have risen sharply since Christmas , perhaps by as much as 400% , although the exact figure is unclear . The aftermath of Trump 's election victory has also sparked a broader conversation about getting smart about fighting disinformation -- by supporting local news and nonprofit ( and thus non-billionaire ) newsrooms and creating alternative ways of getting reality bites to an electorate that is now feasting on fake news . <p> It 's past time to fight their war and defeat them on their turf , which thankfully is not in the frigid glaciers of Greenland . 
@@119437965 <h> From the right : Carter the Terrible <p> Jimmy Carter " was a terrible president but an even worse former president , " thunders National Review 's Philip A. Klein . His " true legacy is one of economic misery at home and embarrassment on the world stage . " " He left the country in its weakest position of the post-World War II era " and " spent the rest of his life meddling in U.S. foreign policy " in a " manner that could fairly be described as treasonous . " And that 's to say nothing about his " obsessive hatred of Israel . " We 'll see " an effort to rewrite history and claim that the 39th president was underappreciated and that people have been too harsh on him . But the truth is that historians have not been harsh enough . " <h> Conservative : Good Riddance to GEC Censorship <p> By denying it funding , Congress has forced " the Global Engagement Center , an office housed within the State Department . ? . ? . to close up shop , " cheers the Washington Examiner 's Gabe Kaminsky . " The taxpayer-backed GEC , " created in the name of thwarting misinformation , " violated its mandate to work only overseas and devolved into a partisan enabler of speech suppression in the United States " by granting funds " to the British Global Disinformation Index , which created a blacklist of " right-leaning US-based websites ( including The Post ) that reported on such stories as " the Hunter Biden laptop story and COVID-19 lab leak hypothesis . " The GEC " even circulated internal guidance with the aim of discrediting " critical reporters such as Kaminsky and Matt Taibbi . Its defunding " is a further vindication of our reporting on its seemingly unlawful activities . " <h> Media watch : Distorting Reality in Gaza <p> " Nothing is as it seems " in Gaza , fumes Commentary 's Seth Mandel . Take the Kamal Adwan Hospital and its medical director , Hussam Abu Safyia . The New York Times mentioned " dismissively " that Israel " claims " Hamas was using the hospital , and Safyia penned an opinion column griping about conditions . But a recent IDF raid on the site revealed it was in fact hosting 240 suspected terrorists , " including Safyia . " Many tried to flee . " It 's easy to see through the mainstream press 's smokescreen " around " medical staff and patients who are n't medical staff or patients , trying to flee the hospital that is n't a hospital . " " Journalists who are n't journalists , " " teachers who are n't teachers " and " aid workers who are n't aid workers -- who are these folks even trying to fool ? " <h> More From Post Editorial Board <h> From the left : Uncovered Story of the Year <p> Racket News ' Matt Taibbi notes that " 2024 was the year in which people we used to call ' elites ' " fell back on " trying to bulls ? - ? - ? t their way through crises holding no cards at all , " with " over-covered pseudo-stories " like " the politics of joy " and " ostentatious non-coverage of big , real questions , many still unanswered . " For one : " Who 's running the county ? " " We now know America has n't had a functioning president for at least this year and probably longer , which means someone other than the president has been making presidential decisions . " Indeed , " this real-world Dave script involves someone not named Biden steering presidential authority to approve billions for shooting wars in Ukraine and the Middle East , while handing out pardons in record numbers , among God knows how many other things . Is there even a word for fraud on that scale ? A lot of people need to go to jail behind this caper . " <h> Urban beat : Dems vs . ' Livable ' Cities <p> The horrific video of a " woman burning to death " on a Big Apple subway " is a snapshot of the city 's problems : crime , mentally deranged and intoxicated vagrants , undocumented migrants and unsafe subways , " observes The Wall Street Journal 's Allysia Finley . Though New York City 's " subways are a microcosm of its disorder , " it " seems to be an epidemic in big Democrat-controlled cities like Chicago , San Francisco and Los Angeles . " While " Democrats love to talk about making cities ' livable , ' ? " it 's " their high taxes , crime and chaos " that have made them " unbearable . " " When Christmas dinner conversations turn to a poor soul burned to death on a New York subway , Democrats have a five-alarm fire on their hands . " 
@@119437966 <h> Hamas spent 7 years collecting intel on security cameras , guards and even a kindergarten in Israeli communities massacred on Oct. 7 : report <p> Hamas terrorists were able to watch their Israeli victims through hacked security cameras and collected troves of intel as part of a seven-year operation before the Oct. 7 massacre , according to a bombshell report in Israeli media . <p> Documents seized from Hamas operatives showed that the spying on the kibbutzim went on for at least seven years before the attack -- revealing a complex operation by a sophisticated enemy , local Channel 12 reports . <p> Among the intel that Hamas obtained were details about an Israeli kindergarten and a health clinic , IP addresses and serial numbers of all the security cameras for the communities where the worst atrocities occurred and even the phone numbers of several security guards working at the border , according to the report . <p> Several of the locations caught on film and reviewed by Hamas were among the hardest hit Kibbutz where the terror group slaughtered more than 1,200 people . AP <p> Shalom Ben Hanan , a former top official with Israeli spy agency Shen Bet , told Channel 12 that it was shocking to see just how much information Hamas had been able to gather , as Israeli officials repeatedly pegged the group as a minor threat when compared to Iran and its other terror proxies . <p> " We see a very , very accurate and very detailed intelligence from an army ... that collects intelligence on its targets for attack and is preparing files for attack , " Hanan said of the Hamas files . <p> Eerie footage aired during the report showed various surveillance shots of the communities along the border that Hamas terrorists were able to monitor and use for their eventual attack . <p> Hamas murdered more than 1,200 people -- mostly civilians , including women and children -- and kidnapped another 251 in the 2023 terrorist attack . <p> Israeli officials surmised Hamas gained access to the cameras because civilians were freely passing around the access codes to the devices on WhatsApp and Telegram , which made them prime targets for hackers . <p> Reports indicate that Hamas was able to hack into public and private cameras set up around border communities . News12 Israel <p> The terror group was also able to infiltrate the emails of security officials , which gave them hints on where the border was the weakest -- helping them to plan the their attack on the lightly guarded region , according to the report . <p> One email , which Hamas had intercepted in 2023 , showed messages from IDF forces requesting security fencing , according to the outlet . <p> Hamas was even able to track the movements of top security officials stationed at several border communities , including Sdot Negev Regional Council 's Chief Tamir Idan , his chief of staff Rafi Babian , and Sha'ar Hanegev Regional Council chair Ofir Libstein , the latter of whom was killed on Oct. 7 . <p> Hamas was also allegedly able to hack into military emails that may have given them insight on weak spots around the Gaza border . News12 Israel <p> Amnon Ziv , the police chief in Ashkelon , just north of Gaza , said it was clear Hamas was compiling a hit list against security forces along the border ever since he received a direct threat from the terrorists in 2022 . <p> " Two years ago , I myself received a video from Hamas about me with various clues , " Ziv told the outlet . <p> " They downloaded a picture of me from Facebook , and at the end of the 10-second video , it also said ' We will get to you . ' " <p> It remains unclear exactly how Hamas managed to obtain all the intel on Israel border communities , but previous reports from Israeli media suggested the terror group had hackers who spent years trying to work their way into the IDF security camera system . <p> Hamas allegedly gained access to dozens of civilian and private cameras by exploiting old passwords on the security devices , giving them a clear view of several border communities , Israel Hayom reported earlier this year . <p> Former senior Shin Bet official Shalom Ben Hanan said he was shocked to learn how much information Hamas was able to gather prior to Oct. 7 . Channel 12 <p> The reach of the terror group 's breach was not made entirely clear until Israeli forces invaded the Gaza Strip and uncovered troves of documents detailing Hamas 's intelligence and planning . <p> " The perception in Israel was that Hamas does not have serious intelligence agencies and that at most they can ' pick up binoculars ' and observe from afar , and that terrorist organizations are not Russia or China , " Nathaniel Palmer , a senior lecturer in the Middle East Studies department at Bar-Ilan University , told Israel Hayom . <p> While the IDF has conducted several investigations into Oct. 7 and the failings that allowed Hamas terrorists to launch the surprise attack , Jerusalem has repeatedly refused to appoint an independent commission to probe the matter . <p> Several of Israel 's top security leaders and ministers have resigned over their handling of the terror attack and its aftermath , but the buck has stopped short of reaching embattled Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his political allies . <p> Oct. 7 remains one of Israel 's biggest security failures , with reports since the attack indicating that the warning signs of a massive Hamas assault were always present , and that officials were warned about the possibility ahead of time . 
@@119438076 <p> " At my direction , the United States will continue to work relentlessly to strengthen Ukraine 's position in this war over the remainder of my time in office , " Biden said in a statement . <p> The US made available $3.4 billion in budget aid to Ukraine , which has been used to help keep the President Volodymyr Zelensky 's government running as Russian forces target critical civilian infrastructures during the war . <p> The additional assistance marks the final disbursement of funds appropriated under bipartisan legislation that Biden , 82 , signed earlier this year as part of a $95 billion foreign aid package that included nearly $61 billion in military and economic funding for Ukraine , $17 billion in military assistance for Israel , $9 billion for Gaza and other war-torn regions and $8.1 billion for Taiwan and other Indo-Pacific allies . <p> The Ukraine provisions comprised $1.25 billion in weapons from Pentagon stockpiles and allocates the remaining $1.22 billion left of USAI funds to purchase new military equipment for Ukraine . <p> While the weapons from US stockpiles are likely to make it into Ukrainian hands before Trump takes office , those given through the USAI funds typically take months to years to deliver because they must first be procured . <p> " It has been a top priority of mine to provide Ukraine with the support it needs to prevail , " Biden said . " Today 's announcement ... builds on this effort and will provide Ukraine with both an immediate influx of capabilities that it continues to use to great effect on the battlefield and longer-term supplies of air defense , artillery and other critical weapons systems . " <p> In total , Congress has given Ukraine roughly $175 billion in both military , economic and humanitarian assistance since Moscow invaded the country on Feb. 23 , 2022 . <p> About $61.4 billion of those funds went toward weapons systems and other military aid , according to the Pentagon . <p> " The Department of Defense is in the process of delivering hundreds of thousands of artillery rounds , thousands of rockets and hundreds of armored vehicles which will strengthen Ukraine 's hand as it heads into the winter , " Biden said . <p> Yellen said continued economic aid for Ukraine was crucial to allow it to " defend its sovereignty and achieve a just peace by maintaining the critical government services that underpin its brave fight . " <p> President Biden said in a statement that he will " work relentlessly to strengthen Ukraine 's position in this war " for the rest of his term . AP Photo/Susan Walsh <p> " Ukraine 's success is in America 's core national interest , " she said , noting that the aid is " conditioned on reforms related to strengthening law enforcement , improving transparency and efficiency of government institutions , and bolstering anti-corruption rules and procedures . " <p> " Stopping Russia 's illegal invasion will help uphold a global democratic , rules-based , order that advances American security and economic interests , and it will send an unmistakable message to autocrats and would-be aggressors around the world that they will face unshakeable resolve . We must not retreat in this effort . " 
@@119438173 <p> Biden associates now say that the outgoing president regrets dropping out of the race and believes he could have beaten President-elect Donald Trump . <p> Unless the 22nd Amendment is soon repealed , one thing Biden will always be able to say is that he is the only politician who has ever beaten Trump in a national election . While the Democratic sample size is small , Trump has defeated upwards of two dozen Republicans , including some of the party 's top political talent . <p> Both times Biden was dissuaded by Democratic leaders from seeking the presidency , deferring to Hillary Clinton in 2016 and then passing the baton to Harris this year , Trump won the White House . <p> It is therefore not surprising that Biden , who has been actively campaigning for president since at least 1987 before finally winning the office in 2020 , would have second thoughts . <p> " Biden and some of his aides still believe he should have stayed in the race , despite the rocky debate performance and low poll numbers that prompted Democrats to pressure him to drop out , " the Washington Post reported . " Biden and these aides have told people in recent days that he could have defeated Trump , according to people familiar with their comments , who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe private conversations . Aides say the president has been careful not to place blame on Harris or her campaign . " <p> Concerns about Harris 's electability factored into the weeks of limbo between Biden 's disastrous June 27 debate performance and his July 21 withdrawal from the race . Biden nevertheless immediately threw his support behind his vice president , thwarting Democratic detractors who had hoped for a more competitive process to replace him as the nominee . The primaries were already over and Biden had won nearly all of them . <p> Biden would likely have outperformed Harris among private sector union members . Both the Teamsters and the International Association of Firefighters declined to endorse a presidential candidate this year . Polls of the rank and file showed they would have backed Biden but preferred Trump to Harris . <p> Teamsters officials later complained that Harris , who would go on to lose all seven battleground states , was arrogant in her dealings with them . <p> " And her declaration of the way out was , ' I 'm going to win with you or without you , ' ' Teamers President Sean O'Brien told Tucker Carlson . O'Brien said he called former Labor Secretary Marty Walsh , now head of the NHL Players ' Association , and asked , " Excuse my French . Who does this f***ing lady think she is ? " <p> It is also likely that Biden would have been less reliant on celebrity endorsements than Harris was , with the question of whether Beyonce would perform at one of the vice president 's events becoming a recurring disappointment of her campaign . <p> At the same time , Biden would have had an even bigger problem turning out younger and nonwhite voters than Harris did . As far back as 2022 , a New York Times/Siena College poll found that 94% of Democrats under the age of 30 preferred a different nominee . <p> " I 'm just going to come out and say it : I want younger blood , " a 38-year-old preschool teacher in northern Michigan told the outlet . " I am so tired of all old people running our country . I do n't want someone knocking on death 's door . " <p> Biden would have dealt with the same splits over Gaza that helped cost Harris Michigan and contributed to why she did not choose Gov . Josh Shapiro ( D-PA ) as her running mate . He might have received a lower percentage of the black and Hispanic vote than Harris did . <p> The Biden campaign would have been run by most of the same people who oversaw Harris 's , sans some old Barack Obama hands . The Harris campaign remained headquartered in Wilmington , Delaware , because it was largely inherited from Biden . The president would have leaned even more heavily into the democracy protection themes that proved ineffective and would probably have remained more defensive about the economy , which exit polls showed was the top issue . <p> " Then we find out when the Biden campaign becomes the Harris campaign , that the Biden campaign 's own internal polling , at the time when they were telling us he was the strongest candidate , showed that Donald Trump was going to win 400 electoral votes , " Pod Save America host and Obama alumnus Jon Favreau said in November . <p> While Biden was behind by just 3.1 points nationally in the RealClearPolitics polling average when he dropped out , some public and private polls showed Trump 's lead more than twice that . <p> The final results in Virginia , Minnesota , New Hampshire , New Mexico , and New Jersey were all close enough with Harris as the nominee to suggest Biden could have lost those states . Biden was also less competitive in the Sun Belt states and could have lost Arizona or Nevada by a big enough margin to change the outcome of their Senate races . <p> Republicans won control of the Senate with 53 seats , but somewhat bigger Trump coattails could have flipped seats in Michigan and Wisconsin as well . <p> As Trump enters his second term , there will be a protracted debate over whether an underestimated Biden should have continued his campaign or his decision to run again approaching his 82nd birthday doomed any Democrat who would eventually replace him , especially Harris , who had trouble distancing herself from him . <p> But a lot of the Biden diehards will be people from his inner circle , coloring his legacy going forward . 
@@119440260 <p> Rabbi Yaakov Kotlarsky lights the menorah at North School Park in Arlington Heights to mark the fifth night of Hanukkah during a celebration Sunday hosted by the Chabad Jewish Center of Arlington Heights . Ryan Rayburn for the Daily Herald <p> It has been a year of challenges for the Jewish community as it faces an ongoing rise of antisemitism , the holding of Jewish hostages by Hamas , and Israel 's ongoing military conflicts in Gaza and elsewhere . <p> But the year culminates in a festival marking the triumph of light over darkness , and the resilience of the Jewish people in the face of a threat to their faith . <p> Jews from the Northwest suburbs gathered Sunday in Arlington Heights to celebrate Hanukkah with music , games , food and the lighting of the menorah . <p> " Hanukkah is just a perfect example of one of those events that brings us together as a community , " said Arlington Heights resident Laura DiMasi , who wore mini-menorah earrings while attending the celebration with her husband , Paul , and 4-year-old daughter Tessa . " We all have a commonality , and it 's something to celebrate and embrace . " <p> But amid the joy , the events in Israel and Gaza were still on people 's minds . <p> " There are still hostages . There is still a war going on , " DiMasi said . <p> Hosted by the Chabad Jewish Center of Arlington Heights , the event began at the Arlington Heights Memorial Library for latkes , dreidel games and menorah-themed crafts . <p> The group then walked to North School Park for the annual menorah lighting . The center 's co-director and rabbi , Yaakov Kotlarsky , recited the Shema , the Hebrew prayer proclaiming in the oneness of God . <p> Arlington Heights firefighters drop chocolate coins called gelt to waiting children Sunday during a menorah-lighting ceremony at North School Park in Arlington Heights . Ryan Rayburn for the Daily Herald <p> The holiday commemorates the victory of the Maccabees , a group of Jewish freedom fighters , over the Syrian-Greek occupiers of Judea in the second century before the common era . The Maccabees recaptured the temple and lit the menorah , which , with only enough pure oil for one day , miraculously burned for eight days . <p> Arlington Heights resident George Sachs said Hanukkah rekindles childhood memories of presents . But it also contains a valuable lesson . <p> " When rationally everything is overwhelming , it stands for hope , " he said . <p> " This is an empowering moment , " Kotlarsky said . " We 're united by a shared vision to create a beautiful world , a world of justice , light , kindness , filled with mitzvahs . <p> " The best way to resist darkness is by focusing on introducing light in every generation , even when powerful forces seek to destroy our Jewish life , " he added . <p> Arlington Heights resident Susan Auvinen takes a selfie with a dancing dreidel mascot Sunday during a menorah-lighting ceremony at North School Park in Arlington Heights . Ryan Rayburn for the Daily Herald <p> Guidelines : Keep it civil and on topic ; no profanity , vulgarity , slurs or personal attacks . People who harass others or joke about tragedies will be blocked . If a comment violates these standards or our terms of service , click the " flag " link in the lower-right corner of the comment box . To find our more , read our FAQ. 
@@119474064 <h> 2024 in pictures : The 100 best photos that captured the year <p> These are the 100 best photographs that captured a snapshot of 2024 . Everything from Taylor Swift and Travis Kelce 's Super Bowl kiss , the attempted assassinations of Donald Trump , drones over New Jersey to illegal migrants rushing Texas border , the Paris Olympics and the devastating hurricanes that battered the US . <p> 1 of 100 <p> Japan Airlines Flight 516 collided with a Coast Guard plane as it landed at Haneda Airport in Tokyo , Japan , on January 2 , 2024 . Five people were killed . REUTERS <p> 2 of 100 <p> A missing window and portion of a side wall of an Alaska Airlines Flight 1282 , suffered depressurization soon after departing Portland , Oregon , on January 5 , 2024. via REUTERS <p> 3 of 100 <p> Rabbinical students who were found hiding ' inside a hole ' refused to leave an illegal synagogue tunnel under the Chabad-Lubavitch headquarters in Crown Heights , Brooklyn , on January 8 , 2024 . AP <p> 4 of 100 <p> E. Jean Carroll leaves Federal court , on Janusary 26 , 2024 . A jury awarded her $83.3 million for defamatory comments Donald Trump made about her in 2019 . AP <p> 5 of 100 <p> King Charles III leaves the London Clinic on January 29 , 2024 . He had undertaken prostate surgery on January 26 . AFP via Getty Images <p> President Joe Biden watches on as casket containing the remains of U.S. Army Sgt. Kennedy Ladon Sanders , 24 , arrives at Dover Air Force Base , Delaware , Friday , Febreuary 2 , 2024 . Sgt. Kennedy Sanders was killed in a drone attack on a U.S. outpost in Jordan . AP <p> 8 of 100 <p> Lava crosses the main road to Grindav ? k and flows on the road leading to the Blue Lagoon in Iceland , Thursday , February 8 , 2024 . AP <p> People take cover during a shooting at Union Station during the Kansas City Chiefs Super Bowl LVIII victory parade in Kansas City , Missouri , on February 14 , 2024 . One person was killed and 22 other people were injured after shots were fired at the end of the parade . Getty Images <p> 11 of 100 <p> Zendaya attends the World Premiere of " Dune : Part Two " in Leicester Square on February 15 , 2024 in London , England . Samir Hussein/WireImage <p> 12 of 100 <p> Caitlin Clark of the Iowa Hawkeyes celebrates after breaking the NCAA women 's all-time scoring record during the first half against the Michigan Wolverines at Carver-Hawkeye Arena on February 15 , 2024 in Iowa City , Iowa . Getty Images <p> 13 of 100 <p> Hunter Biden arrives for a closed-door deposition before the House Committee on Oversight and Accountability , and House Judiciary Committee in the O'Neill House Office Building on February 28 , 2024 in Washington , DC . Getty Images <p> 14 of 100 <p> Emma Stone celebrates backstage at the Oscars with Sally Field , Michelle Yeoh and Jennifer Lawrence . Emma Stone won Best Actress for her role in ' Poor Things ' , on March 10 , 2024 . Getty Images <p> 15 of 100 <p> Moment illegal migrants battle Texas National Guard and tear down fence at the border in El Paso , Texas , on March 21 , 2024 . James Breeden for NY Post <p> An airplane passes near the total solar eclipse as seen from Bloomington , Indiana , April 8 , 2024 . The solar eclipse was visible across a band covering parts of North America , from Mexico to Canada . Bobby Goddin / USA TODAY NETWORK <p> 18 of 100 <p> A Russian servicemen secures an area outside the Crocus City Hall after an ISIS coordinated terrorist attack in Moscow Oblast , Russia , on March 22 , 2024. 145 people were killed , 551 injured . AP <p> 19 of 100 <p> Five Household Cavalry horses ( two seen here ) escaped their riders after they were spooked by the noise of builders during a routine exercise on Horse Guards Parade in Whitehall , London , on April 24 , 2024 . PA Images via Getty Images <p> 20 of 100 <p> Students walk past a Pro-Palestinian encampment on the lawn of Columbia University , NYC , on April 22 , 2024 . Protests began on April 17 . James Keivom <p> 21 of 100 <p> A dust cloud from the Sahara Desert in Africa covered the Acropolis and city of Athens , Greece , on April 23 , 2024 . Getty Images <p> 22 of 100 <p> A member of the maintenance crew confronts a Pro-Palestinian demonstrator attempting to barricade themselves inside Hamilton Hall , NYC , on April 30 , 2024 . Getty Images <p> 23 of 100 <p> April 29 , 2024 , NASA releases an image taken by the Webb Telescope of a close-up portion of the Horsehead Nebula , about 0.8 light-years wide . NASA/ESA/CSA <p> 24 of 100 <p> The New York -- Dublin Portal was an interactive installation created by Lithuanian artist Benediktas Gylys to allow people in New York City and Dublin to interact with each other using two 24-hour live streaming video screens . Seen here on May 10 , 2024 . Michael Nagle <p> 25 of 100 <p> Harrison Butker makes controversial commencement speech at Benedictine College on May 11 , 2024 . During his address , Butker made remarks that many perceived as homophobic and sexist . Benedictine College <p> 26 of 100 <p> Golfer Scottie Scheffler , ranked World No. 1 , was arrested by Louisville Metro Police after attempting to drive into the entrance of Valhalla Golf Club , on May 17 , 2024 . LMPD <p> 27 of 100 <p> Robert De Niro argued with Donald Trump supporters , after speaking to reporters in support of President Joe Biden across the street from Trump 's criminal trial in NYC , May 28 , 2024 . AP <p> 28 of 100 <p> Donald Trump approaches the media after a jury found him guilty of 34 felony counts of falsifying business records , on May 30 , 2024 . Steven Hirsch <p> 29 of 100 <p> Photos released June 7 by the NYPD , shows an officer taking down a migrant riding an illegal moped in Midtown Manhattan . The NYPD began to crack down on migrant moped gangs . NYPD <p> 30 of 100 <p> An October 7th hostage , Almog Meir Jan , is seen after his rescue by IDF forces , on June 8 , 2024 . REUTERS <p> 31 of 100 <p> A viral video appeared to show Joe Biden wandering off during a skydiving demonstration at the G7 summit in southern Italy , on June 13 , 2024 . Reuters <p> 32 of 100 <p> Catherine , Princess of Wales waves during Trooping the Colour , in London , England , on June 15 , 2024 . This was Kate 's first public appearance since announcing her cancer diagnosis . UK Press via Getty Images <p> 33 of 100 <p> Justin Timberlake 's mugshot following his arrest for driving while intoxicated in Sag Harbor , New York , on June 18 , 2024 . Sag Harbor PD <p> 34 of 100 <p> Pope Francis met with 106 comics , including Stephen Colbert , Chris Rock and Jimmy Fallon , at the Vatican , on June 14 , 2024. via REUTERS <p> 35 of 100 <p> WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange raises his fist after arriving at Canberra Airport , Australia , on June 26 , 2024 . Assange returned home to Australia to start life as a free man . AFP via Getty Images <p> 36 of 100 <p> Joe Biden mumbled , stumbled and froze during his train wreck debate with Donald trump , on June 27 , 2024 . CNN <p> 37 of 100 <p> Karen Read and her lawyers addressed the crowd outside court in Dedham , Massachusetts , on July 1 , 2024 , after a mistrial was declared in the murder of her Boston police officer boyfriend . David McGlynn <p> 38 of 100 <p> A " Recortador " is gored by a bull during the Pamplona festival , northern Spain , July 7 , 2024 . AP <p> 39 of 100 <p> Emergency workers respond at the Okhmatdyt children 's hospital hit by Russian missiles , in Kyiv , Ukraine , on July 8 , 2024 . AP <p> 40 of 100 <p> Alec Baldwin hugs his attorney after a judge dismissed his involuntary manslaughter trial in Santa Fe , New Mexico , on July 12 , 2024 . POOL/AFP via Getty Images <p> 41 of 100 <p> A bloodied Donald Trump is surrounded by U.S. Secret Service agents after an assassination attempt at a campaign rally in Butler , Pennsylvania , on July 13 , 2024 . AP <p> 42 of 100 <p> Joe Biden addresses the nation about his decision to drop his Democratic presidential reelection bid , from the White House , July 24 , 2024 . AP <p> 43 of 100 <p> A fox fleeing from flames through tall grass during the Park Fire in Butte County , California , on July 25 , 2024 . AP <p> 44 of 100 <p> Iron Man actor , Robert Downey Jr . is unveiled to play Doctor Doom , another Marvel character , during Comic-Con International at San Diego Convention Center on July 27 , 2024 . Getty Images <p> 45 of 100 <p> A photo goes viral of Brazil 's Gabriel Medina reacting to catching a large wave in the 5th heat of the men 's surfing event during the Paris 2024 Olympic Games in Tahiti , on July 29 , 2024 . AFP via Getty Images <p> 46 of 100 <p> Riot police hold back protesters near a burning police vehicle after disorder broke out on July 30 , 2024 . Misinformation spread online about a 17-year-old suspect in the killing of three young girls at a Taylor Swift-themed dance event in Southport , England . Getty Images <p> Wall Street Journal journalist Evan Gershkovich , hugs his mother , Ella Milman , upon his arrival at Joint Base Andrews , Maryland , U.S. , on August 1 , 2024 . Gershkovich had been wrongly detained in Russia since March 2023 on charges of espionage . Bloomberg via Getty Images <p> 49 of 100 <p> Algeria 's Imane Khelif and Italy 's Angela Carini faced off in a controversial Olympic boxing match in Paris on August 1 , 2024 . The bout ended abruptly after just 46 seconds when Carini withdrew , citing intense pain following a punch from Khelif . AP <p> 50 of 100 <p> The picturesque setting of the Olympic Beach Volleyball , with the Eiffel Tower in the backdrop at dusk , in Paris , on August 4 , 2024 . REUTERS <p> Breakdancing made its Olympic debut , and Raygun of Team Australia became a global sensation after her routine at Place de la Concorde , Paris , on August 9 , 2024 . Getty Images <p> 53 of 100 <p> Barron Trump leaves Trump Tower in NYC for his first day at New York University 's Stern School of Business on September 4 , 2024 . New York Post <p> 54 of 100 <p> Colt Gray , charged as an adult with four counts of murder , sits in the Barrow County courthouse during his first appearance for the shooting at Apalachee High School in Winder , Georgia , on September 6 , 2024 . AP <p> 55 of 100 <p> Kamala Harris shakes hands with Donald Trump during a presidential debate at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia , Pennsylvania , on September 10 , 2024 . AFP via Getty Images <p> 56 of 100 <p> Billionaire Jared Isaacman became the first private citizen to conduct a spacewalk during SpaceX 's Polaris Dawn mission , on September 12 , 2024 . SpaceX <p> 57 of 100 <p> Ryan W. Routh , suspected of attempting to assassinate Donald Trump at his West Palm Beach golf course , is led by two Martin County Sheriff 's Office deputies after his arrest during a traffic stop near Palm City , Florida , on September 15 , 2024. via REUTERS <p> 58 of 100 <p> Members of Hezbollah were targeted by a series of coordinated explosions involving booby-trapped pagers and walkie-talkies , resulting in at least 37 deaths and over 3000 injuries across Lebanon and Syria , on September 17 , 2024. @Osint613 <p> 59 of 100 <p> Harvey Weinstein is seen for the first time since recovering from emergency heart surgery as he leaves Bellevue Hospital , NYC , on September 18 , 2024 . Appearing in court that day he pleaded not guilty to a new charge of first-degree criminal sexual act in New York . Probe-Media for NY Post <p> 60 of 100 <p> A driver clings to the hood of a car during flooding caused by Hurricane Helene in Boone , North Carolina , on September 27 , 2024 . REUTERS <p> 61 of 100 <p> New York City Mayor Eric Adams appeared in Manhattan federal court to face charges of fraud and bribery , on Septemebr 27 , 2024 . AP <p> In the aftermath of an Iranian missile attack , Israeli citizens stand on top of the remains of a missile in the Negev Desert near Arad on October 2 , 2024 . AFP via Getty Images <p> 64 of 100 <p> California physician Mark Chavez exits federal court in Los Angeles on October 2 , 2024 . Chavez pleaded guilty to conspiring to distribute the drug ketamine to the late actor Matthew Perry , who died of a ketamine overdose in October 2023 . AFP via Getty Images <p> 65 of 100 <p> Elon Musk jumps on stage as he joins Donald Trump during a campaign rally at site of his first assassination attempt in Butler , Pennsylvania , on October 5 , 2024 . AFP via Getty Images <p> 66 of 100 <p> NASA astronaut Matthew Dominick captured this view of Hurricane Milton over Florida from the International Space Station , on October 8 , 2024 . Matthew **25;980;TOOLONG <p> 67 of 100 <p> The damaged stadium roof of Tropicana Field , the morning after Hurricane Milton hit the region in St. Petersburg , Florida , on October 10 , 2024 . AP <p> 68 of 100 <p> Sean " Diddy " Combs made his first federal court appearance in Manhattan on September 17 , 2024 , following his arrest on charges of sex trafficking and racketeering . REUTERS <p> 69 of 100 <p> SpaceX 's Starship Super Heavy Booster is caught using mechanical arms known as " Mechazilla " upon its return to Earth at Starbase near Boca Chica , Texas , on October 13 , 2024 . This event marked a pivotal step toward developing a fully reusable rocket system . AFP via Getty Images <p> 70 of 100 <p> Hamas chief and Oct. 7 mastermind , Yahya Sinwar , was killed by Israeli forces during a firefight in southern Gaza , on October 17 , 2024 . IDF <p> 71 of 100 <p> Geoff Payne , the father of former One Direction singer Liam Payne , greets fans at the Casa Sur Hotel in Buenos Aires , Argentina , where his son tragically fell to his death from his room balcony two days earlier on October 16 , 2024 . AP <p> 72 of 100 <p> Donald Trump works the drive-through line as he visits a McDonald 's restaurant , in Feasterville-Trevose , Pennsylvania , on October 20 , 2024 . Getty Images <p> 73 of 100 <p> A missile launched from an Israeli jet hits a building in Ghobeiri , Beirut , Lebanon , Tuesday , October 22 , 2024 . AP <p> 74 of 100 <p> LA District Attorney George Gasc ? n shakes hands with Diane Hernandez ( niece of Kitty Menendez ) after he announced his decision on a possible resentencing recommendation for Erik and Lyle Menendez , on October 24 , 2024 . The Menendez brothers have spent over 30 years in prison for the 1989 murders of their parents , Jos ? and Kitty Menendez , at their Beverly Hills mansion . Getty Images <p> 75 of 100 <p> Fans interfere with a foul ball caught by LA Dodgers right fielder Mookie Betts during the first inning in Game 4 of the baseball World Series against the Yankees , in NYC , on October 29 , 2024 . AP <p> The " Wicked " press tour begins ; Jeff Goldblum , Ariana Grande , Cynthia Erivo and Jonathan Bailey attend the Australian premiere of " Wicked " at State Theatre , Sydney Australia , on November 3 , 2024 . WireImage <p> 79 of 100 <p> A new migrant caravan in Tapachula , Mexico , makes its way to the U.S. on November 5 , 2024 . REUTERS <p> 80 of 100 <p> Donald Trump , joined by Melania Trump and Barron Trump , makes his first appearance after winning the 2024 presidential election at the Palm Beach County Convention Center in West Palm Beach , Florida , on November 6 , 2024 . AP <p> 81 of 100 <p> Pygmy hippo Moo Deng splashes in a bucket of water in her enclosure at the Khao Kheow Open Zoo in Pattaya , Thailand , on November 11 , 2024 . The hippo became a popular internet meme after images were posted on the zoos official Facebook page . Getty Images <p> Joe Biden meets with President-elect Donald Trump in the Oval Office of the White House , on November 13 , 2024 . AP <p> 84 of 100 <p> Former U.S. Marine Daniel Penny arrives with his mother , Gina Penny , at Manhattan Criminal Court on November 19 , 2024 , for his trial in the death of Jordan Neely , who died after being placed in a chokehold on a subway train . Penny was acquitted on December 9 , 2024 . REUTERS <p> 85 of 100 <p> Spain 's Rafael Nadal , the 22-time Grand Slam champion , acknowledges the crowd after his final professional tennis match , at the Davis Cup Finals at the Palacio de Deportes Jose Maria Martin Carpena arena in Malaga , Spain , on November 19 , 2024 . AFP via Getty Images <p> 86 of 100 <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's nominee to be attorney general , Matt Gaetz closes a door to a private meeting with Republican Senate Judiciary Committee members , at the Capitol in Washington , on November 20 , 2024 . The next day Gaetz withdrew from consideration for AG , citing concerns that his nomination was distracting the transition team . AP <p> 87 of 100 <p> Family members and friends of Laken Riley react as Superior Court Judge H. Patrick Haggard announces the guilty verdict of Jose Ibarra , at Athens-Clarke County Superior Court , Georgia , on November 20 , 2024 . AP <p> 88 of 100 <p> Smoke rises following an Israeli airstrike on Dahiyeh , in Beirut , Lebanon , on November 26 , 2024 . AP <p> Juan Soto was introduced as the newest New York Met , at Citi Field on December 12 , 2024 . Soto agreed to a record-breaking 15-year , $765 million contract with the Mets , marking the largest deal in professional sports history . Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post <p> Soldiers try to enter the National Assembly building in Seoul after South Korea President Yoon Suk Yeol declared martial law , on December 4 , 2024 . AFP via Getty Images <p> 93 of 100 <p> Taylor Swift concluded her record-breaking Eras Tour with a poignant final concert at Vancouver 's BC Place Stadium , on December 8 , 2024 . The Eras Tour began on March 17 , 2023 , in Glendale , Arizona . Getty Images for TAS Rights Management <p> 94 of 100 <p> An organist plays during the first mass in the newly restored Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris , France , on December 8 , 2024 . Blondet Eliot/ABACA/Shutterstock <p> 95 of 100 <p> Syrians drag a toppled statue of the late President Hafez al-Assad through the streets during a rally in Damascus , on December 15 , 2024 . President Bashar al-Assad was ousted on December 8 , ending five decades of Baath rule in Syria . AFP via Getty Images <p> 96 of 100 <p> Time Magazine names President-elect Donald Trump its " Person of the Year , " marking the second time he has won the accolade in acknowledgement of his political comeback . TIME <p> 97 of 100 <p> Luigi Mangione , the suspect in the murder of UnitedHealth Group executive Brian Thompson , arrives in NYC after being extradited from Pennsylvania , on December 19 , 2024 . REUTERS <p> 98 of 100 <p> Gisele Pelicot gives a statement outside court in Avignon , France , after her ex-husband , Dominique Pelicot , and 50 other men were convicted on charges of raping her over a multiyear period , on December 19 , 2024 . Getty Images <p> 99 of 100 <p> Video surveillance captures the moment a car plows into a crowd at the Magdeburg Christmas market in Germany on December 20 , 2024 . Five people were killed , and over 200 others were injured . <p> 100 of 100 <p> The wreckage of the Jeju Air aircraft that went off the runway and crashed lies at Muan International Airport in Muan , South Korea , on December 30 , 2024 . The plane was carrying 181 people , only two survived . REUTERS 
@@119475462 <p> The year may be coming to an end , but the extraordinary political events of the United States election season will cast a long shadow into 2025 and beyond . <p> There were many historic moments : from President-elect Donald Trump 's unprecedented conviction in his New York hush-money trial , to President Joe Biden 's surprise -- and very much delayed -- exit from the race , to two assassination attempts against the soon-to-be president-elect . <p> And , of course , there was Trump 's victory in the November presidential election -- a return to the very top for a man who many thought was finished politically when he lost the 2020 election , and refused to accept the result . <p> With the dust settling on Trump 's victory over Vice President Kamala Harris , several trends have emerged over what does and does not motivate voters in one of the most influential countries in the world . <h> A commanding victory ? <p> Trump did sweep the battleground states , making for an Electoral College map on election night that was strikingly red . <p> Advertisement <p> He took 312 Electoral votes , compared with Harris 's 226 , and for the first time in his political career , won the national popular vote , improving on his 2020 results with several key demographics as well as in northern urban areas long considered Democrat territory . <p> But with the final results of the vote submitted on December 11 , the " unprecedented and powerful mandate " Trump claimed on election night has proven to be a more subdued shift . <p> In the final count , Trump failed to win the support of a majority of US voters , taking 49.9 percent to Harris 's 48.4 . That is one of the tightest margins of victory since 1968 , second only to the razor-thin margin of George W Bush vs Al Gore in 2020 . <p> It is far from the 8.5 percent margin of victory President Bill Clinton won in 1996 , and further still from the 18.2 percent margin Ronald Reagan commanded in 1984 , Seth Masket , the director of the Center on American Politics at the University of Denver , pointed out . <p> " This is still the era of polarisation , " said Masket , the author of Learning from Loss : The Democrats 2016-2020 . <p> He predicted less of a large-scale realignment in the years to come and more of the entrenched partisanship -- and incremental shifts -- that have defined the US . <p> Masket further pointed to both parties ' attempts to highlight endorsements from across the aisle , notably Harris 's decision to campaign along with Republican hawk Liz Cheney . <p> " I think there was a time when that sort of thing might have mattered , " he said . " But I think that 's in the past . " <p> Advertisement <h> Pocket book over ' democracy ' ? <p> Trump 's victory may not quite have been resounding but it has been illustrative , revealing a high tolerance among voters for both Trump 's criminal record and his record of seeking to undermine US democracy . <p> It was already well known that Trump 's four criminal indictments -- and one conviction -- had helped to stir up his base . This was widely expected , given Trump 's proven resilience within the Republican Party and his years-long brand-building as the victim of a political " witch-hunt " . <p> Trump 's efforts to overturn the 2020 election result , an extraordinary campaign that cut to the very core of US democracy , also did not make him a political pariah . In the months and years after his supporters stormed the seat of the US legislature , the Republican Party instead coalesced around Trump 's unfounded claims that the vote had been marred by fraud . <p> So , why did the Democrats ' message not connect ? <p> " One possibility is that arguments about the threat to democracy are a little bit too abstract or esoteric to make sense to people , " said Jennifer Victor , an associate professor of political science at George Mason University 's Schar School of Policy and Government . <p> " Another way to read this is that there are just a lot of Americans who are n't as interested in democracy any more , or are very attracted to ... at least the rhetoric that goes along with more anti-democratic forms of government , " she said . <p> Then there is voter perception of the economy , an issue that exit polls consistently showed outpaced concerns over immigration , abortion , and indeed , democracy . <p> Advertisement <p> While voters grappled with the high cost of living in the US , macro indicators like job creation and earning growth have generally shown a relatively robust post-COVID recovery . The difference between individual experience and perception and those larger trends will inform the political years ahead , Victor said . <p> " The difference between what the macro indicators tell us and what people 's perception of the economy is , is really one of the big stories this year , " Victor said . <p> " The narrative that particularly Trump was putting out there about the US being in such bad shape is one that a lot of people seemed to internalise , even if it did n't meet with some of the regular indicators that we would use to evaluate that , " she added . <h> Do US voters care about abortion ? <p> Yes , but not necessarily in the way the Harris 's campaign -- and Democrats in general -- were hoping . <p> Like the protection of democracy , abortion rights had been a defining platform in Harris 's bid for the White House . Federal abortion protections were rolled back during Trump 's first term by a Supreme Court dominated by his appointees . <p> Harris had repeatedly warned that Trump , if elected , would work with Republicans to pass a federal abortion ban . Trump had softened from his previous support for such a ban in the final stretch of the election , saying the decision should instead be left up to state governments , although his statements have done little to allay concerns . <p> There was a gender gap in the presidential election : Harris won 53 percent of women voters compared with Trump 's 46 percent . But it was still far from the surge of women voters her campaign had hoped for . <p> Advertisement <p> Perhaps more frustratingly for Democrats , voters in three states -- Arizona , Missouri and Montana -- supported enshrining abortion in their state constitutions , while simultaneously voting for Trump . <p> " I think some of this is probably due to bullet voting -- individuals who only voted in the presidential contest , but not on other ballot issues/contests , " said Kelly Dittmar , the director of research at the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University -- Camden . <p> " But also , there might have been some voters who felt that preserving access to abortion through direct initiative was enough for them to feel ok about casting a ballot for Trump due to alignment or expectations on other issues , like the economy , " she said . <p> " The bet that at least some Democrats were making on abortion being a key galvaniser of votes did n't appear to pan out , as reflected in lower turnout data , " she said . <h> Did US policy towards Israel 's war in Gaza matter ? <p> The Democratic Party has faced a reckoning over the Biden administration 's unconditional support for Israel amid the war in Gaza . This became particularly clear as hundreds of thousands of voters cast " uncommitted " ballots in protest of Biden 's policy during the primary season . <p> To be sure , Arab and Muslim voters were among several demographics that shifted away from the Democratic presidential candidate this year when compared with 2020 . Most starkly , in the city of Dearborn , Michigan , the largest Arab-majority city in the US , Harris won just 36 percent of the vote , down from the 69 percent Biden won in 2020 . <p> Advertisement <p> Polls have repeatedly shown that the majority of Democrats support conditioning aid to Israel , but Harris hewed close to Biden 's policy when she entered the race . <p> James Zogby , the director of the Arab American Institute , warned against discounting how impactful that decision was . It was likely a factor that contributed to the lower-than-expected support Harris saw from young people , he said , among other groups . <p> " There 's no question that it had an impact . We see it in the polls , and we saw it in turnout , " Zogby told Al Jazeera . " What we saw was that there were groups that were affected by this war , by the Biden administration 's failure to act in a decisive way to deal with the humanitarian crisis and the genocide that was unfolding . " <p> " The net impact of that was a loss of votes among several component groups : Arabs , obviously , but also young people and Black and Asian voters , " he said . <p> " What it translated to was people staying home , people just saying it did n't matter , people voting for down-ballot candidates but not voting for president , " he said . <h> Racial realignment ? <p> But the shift in support for Trump among Latino and Black voters , particularly men under the age of 45 , has prompted the most analysis . <p> About three in 10 Black men under 45 voted for Trump -- about double the share he got in 2020 . Latino men in the age bracket broke about evenly for Trump and Harris , solidifying a years-long trend away from the Democrats . <p> Advertisement <p> Some analysts have pointed to the results as evidence that the racial coalition that has long been seen as the backbone of the Democratic Party is no more . Others have noted that the shift could have implications for federal laws meant to protect minority voting rights , as those laws are generally predicated on the notion that certain groups broadly vote in unison . <p> However , William Frey , a demographer at the Brookings Institution , warned against being too enthusiastic with any predictions of a wider party realignment . While significant , these shifts are still relatively gradual , and could be a temporary phenomenon related to global trends . <p> " This could be a ' blip ' election trend toward Republicans for Black and Hispanic voters , who still mostly favoured Democrats , " Frey told Al Jazeera. 
@@119485560 <p> Palestinians survey the destruction after an Israeli strike in Jabalia , in the northern Gaza Strip , in November , 2024 . Photograph by Omar Al-Qattaa / AFP / Getty <p> Whenever I hear the Arabic word mukhayyam , or camp , my mind leaps to Jabalia refugee camp , in northern Gaza . I was born in Al-Shati refugee camp , a few miles away , but Jabalia was where my maternal grandparents were born , grew up , and had my mother . It is the largest of Gaza 's camps , a place that more than a hundred thousand people call home , and over time its informal settlements grew into a dense collection of concrete structures , which expanded as families added rooms and floors . I studied in Jabalia between fifth and ninth grade . On Fridays , I went shopping there with my mother , and later with my wife . <p> When I was a boy , I saw how a narrow street in the camp could turn into a sort of makeshift caf ? . On a summer afternoon , someone would bring out a chair to escape the indoor heat and humidity . Another neighbor would join . Soon , a dozen people would be chatting in the street about work , soccer , food , border crossings , family . Each person would talk like a political analyst , a sports commentator , or a food critic . Children would sit on squares of cardboard cut from boxes , listening . <p> My mother 's parents lived on Hawaja Street , just a twenty-five-minute walk from our house in Beit Lahia . On our way to visit them , we always passed a trash bin so big that people called it " the ship . " Their home had two bedrooms , a living room , and a storage room , which contained a sack of wheat flour and a mattress for guests like me . The kitchen was smaller than a bedroom and had no table , so we ate meals on the living-room floor , our chewing drowned out by the sound of people talking as they shuffled by . <p> In Jabalia , almost every wall was spray-painted . I remember seeing jokes , messages , phone numbers for cooking-gas providers , and the names of people killed in Israeli strikes . Once , I saw a dark joke : " Neighborhood for Sale . " When there was a big soccer match , the streets and shops emptied . Every caf ? with a TV filled up with Palestinians of all ages . If you were n't watching , you still knew when there was a goal by the rumble of voices that shook windows and doors . The special thing about life in the camp was that we created our own reasons to celebrate , even if they did n't last . <p> After October 7 , 2023 , my family had to flee Israeli strikes in Beit Lahia and move into a relative 's apartment in Jabalia . We all felt like refugees , but the camp was still alive with its old spirit . On October 28th , I was sitting in the street when I heard one boy tell another that Real Madrid had beaten Barcelona , 2 -- 1 . They were probably in seventh grade . That same day , an air strike blew up the home we had left behind . <p> Israel was also carrying out strikes in the camp . On the afternoon of October 31st , we heard explosions , followed by my father shouting at us to disperse across the apartment . When my kids stopped screaming , I went out onto the street . I saw two men carrying a headless body . With my phone , I filmed a first responder desperately trying to resuscitate a young girl . A teen-aged girl was crying , " My eye ! " Then I came to a view of hell -- an area of at least twenty-seven thousand square feet , flattened and ablaze . I had never witnessed such devastation in my life . When I returned to my family , I told them , " There can not be more destruction like this . " I could not imagine anything worse . <p> What is happening in Jabalia now , however , outstrips anything that I saw there . Buildings that were already bombed are being bombed again . It is as though Israeli forces are taking revenge on the camp itself , by erasing it . In many photographs , the camp looks like a landfill . There are no people in sight . <p> Recently , I scrolled through a Hebrew-language Telegram account that describes its posts as " security updates . " In one video , the camera spins in a circle , showing a **30;1824;TOOLONG view of broken concrete and ruined buildings . A voice , speaking in Hebrew , says the word " Jabalia . " The few structures that are still standing do not look inhabitable . <p> Another video , apparently filmed from a drone , shows a field of rubble from above . An explosion shakes the camera , and two skeletal buildings -- the only ones visible on the entire block -- collapse in a mushroom cloud . On social media , someone had taken a screenshot and labelled it with Arabic place names . I knew the entire neighborhood . I could see the location of Maysara , an electronics shop where I used to get my wireless router serviced . In the middle of the photo is Hawaja Street , where my grandparents once lived . <p> For a long time , I wondered what my paternal grandparents , Hasan and Khadra , experienced in 1948 , when Zionist militias expelled them from their homes in Jaffa . After they moved into the newly formed Al-Shati refugee camp , on the banks of the Mediterranean , did they keep their bags packed , ready for the day when they would return home ? How many weeks or years did it take them to unpack for good , realizing that Al-Shati was now their home ? My father , his siblings , and most of my siblings were born there . Decades later , when Hasan and Khadra died , they were buried in a nearby cemetery . <p> What if Hasan and Khadra could have filmed what happened to their homes in Jaffa ? What if they had footage of their journey to Gaza and the start of their lives in the camp ? If Palestinians had live-streamed the start of the catastrophe that we are still living in , could it have been prevented ? What became of their house , and the mulberry tree in their yard ? I do n't have answers to these questions . But , in 2024 , I felt that I started to understand my grandparents . <p> A few years ago , seventy per cent of Gazans were refugees . In 2024 , the U.N . reported that ninety per cent of Gazans were displaced . All of Gaza 's universities are gone . About ninety-five per cent of schools have been damaged or destroyed . Whole neighborhoods are filmed as they get blown up . A house where one of my aunts lived , on the edge of Jabalia , was hit by an air strike that killed sixteen relatives , including one of her daughters . My grandmother 's sister , Um Hani -- whom I called sitti , or grandma -- was killed , too . Her body is still under the rubble . <p> My wife 's family has moved to a soccer stadium in Gaza City , where they live in tents without enough clothing or bedding for cold winter conditions . My father and some of my siblings are in northern Gaza . My mother is in Qatar with one of my sisters , who is ill . My wife , children , and I left Gaza in December , 2023 , and are now nearly six thousand miles away in Syracuse , New York . We have all had to flee refugee camps in order to find refuge , and so we are twice removed from the places our grandparents once lived . More than a year after October 7th , there are barely any families left in Jabalia . There are hardly any streets in which to gather or chairs in which to sit . <p> In 2023 , for all of the horror around me , the devastation in Jabalia camp could be lived with . Gaza still had kindergartens , colleges , and clinics , even if they , too , were becoming shelters and being attacked . The hope of returning to some kind of normal life , after a ceasefire that we kept waiting for , never faded . We kept telling ourselves , " It shall pass . " I never forgot how , nine years earlier , an air strike had levelled our neighbor 's home and blown out walls in our bedrooms . We had lived through a cold winter , stayed in our house , and built new walls . <p> I have less hope now . I do not hope that we will return to a normal life , or return to these places as they were before . The most important thing is that people I care about survive so I can see them again . <p> On the morning of December 19th , Human Rights Watch , following in the footsteps of Amnesty International , concluded in a meticulous report that Israel was committing acts of genocide in Gaza . Later that day , I looked through recent satellite photos of Jabalia in Haaretz and the Guardian . On my iPad , I searched for the same places on Google Maps , which showed the camp as it used to be . In both sets of photos , before and after , I recognized the Abu Rashed rainwater-harvesting pool , which I used to pass on the way to my grandparents ' house . I followed familiar streets to the location of Khadamat Jabalia Club , where I used to play soccer with workmates and friends , and where people used to watch our matches from their windows . I found the site of Falouja Cemetery , where we buried some of my aunts and uncles . <p> In the new photos , I could see little more than piles of concrete , blurred by dust that probably came from non-stop bombardments . There were no green areas , no soccer fields , no colorful buildings or roofs . Only the streets and clearings could be made out . I looked at the photos again and again , and an image of a graveyard that grows and grows formed in my mind . <p> One of my mother 's sisters , my Aunt Iesha , lived in the Jabalia camp and helped teach me English . She was born at the house on Hawaja Street , and when she got married , to a man who was also from Jabalia , she moved into another house in the camp . She only left when she had to . This month , I sent Aunt Iesha a message , asking what she missed about Jabalia . " Hard to live without your neighbors , " she wrote . " Hard to live without seeing all the buildings of my camp that I had memories in . " <p> I asked her what she thought the camp would be like after a ceasefire . " The first year is so difficult even to imagine , " she told me . " If it will be in fact . . . " When that day comes , she said , she hopes to go to the house where she grew up , and to visit the grave of her father -- my grandfather , who passed away in 2024 . We can rebuild the camp , she wrote , but not as it was . I keep thinking of a line that is attributed to the Palestinian poet Mahmoud Darwish . I can not find the original source , but the words have become a sort of proverb to Palestinians : " If they bring back to you the old caf ? s , who will bring back to you the old friends ? " ? <p> A whistle-blower report and other documents suggest that Trump 's nominee to run the Pentagon was forced out of previous leadership positions for financial mismanagement , sexist behavior , and being repeatedly intoxicated on the job . 
