@@118322756 <p> After forging close partnership in the defence domain , India and France are now looking at ramping up economic and trade ties as it is crucial to rely on " trusted " partners in these " turbulent times " , French foreign trade minister Sophie Primas has said . <p> In an interview to PTI , Primas said French companies are looking at expanding engagement with India in sectors like aeronautics , transport , energy infrastructures , sustainable development and emerging technologies . <p> " India and France have always maintained a relationship of deep trust over the years , which becomes even more significant in the context of geopolitical turmoil and disruptions in supply chains , " she said . <p> " In these turbulent times , it is crucial to rely on trusted partners to advance together and develop joint cooperation . The stability and strength of our bilateral ties ensure resilience and strategic advantage as we navigate these challenges together , " the minister added . <p> Her comments came amid rising concerns in Europe over the escalating tensions between Russia and Ukraine , the conflict in Gaza and uncertainty on implications of the economic policy of the incoming Donald Trump administration . <p> At the same time , Primas highlighted the upward trajectory of India-France bilateral partnership affirming that both sides are now focusing on boosting economic and trade relations . <p> " Strategic alignment , especially in defence , has been a cornerstone of our relations over the years . Recently , there has been a significant boost in our economic and commercial exchanges , " the minister said in her written response . <p> The defence and strategic ties between the two countries have witnessed major upswing in the last few years with India procuring a number of mega military platforms including fighter jets and missiles from France . <p> Primas said France is also looking forward to further negotiations between New Delhi and the European Union for finalisation of a " mutually beneficial " free trade deal that could expand two-way economic engagement . <p> " The EU remains committed to negotiating a mutually beneficial deal that incorporates ambitious sustainable development goals . Continued dialogue at the EU level is anticipated to further this objective , " she said . <p> India and the EU relaunched negotiations for the ambitious trade deal in June 2022 after a gap of over eight years but the talks have dragged on for a variety of reasons including the 27-nation bloc 's position on carbon tax . <p> On bilateral trade , the French foreign trade minister , who visited India from November 27-29 , said there is potential for more growth in the trade sector . <p> " Despite France being the top European destination for foreign investments continuously since 2020 , it ranks only sixth for Indian investments in Europe , " she said . <p> " I encourage Indian firms to seize the opportunities offered by the France-India 2047 partnership and leverage France 's advanced technological and industrial ecosystem to significantly boost their growth and invest in a country that is a hub for foreign investment in Europe , " she added . <p> The 2047 ' Horizon Partnership ' was unveiled following wide-ranging talks between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris in July last year . Its aim was to shore up bilateral ties including in trade and investment . <p> The French foreign trade minister noted that the volume of India-France trade increased by 20 per cent in 2022 , 13 per cent in 2023 , and early data for the first half of 2024 is highly encouraging as it showed a 26 per cent increase to Euro 9.4 billion . <p> At the same time she said there is room to expand and enhance the trade ties further . <p> " French companies are committed to supporting India 's development in transport , digital , and energy infrastructures , recognising significant potential in sectors like aeronautics , sustainable development , and emerging technologies , " she said . <p> " France and India already have a strong partnership in aeronautics , where French firms hold a substantial market share . " <p> " There is also a focus on enhancing French presence in transport infrastructure , and clean energy sectors due to India 's growing needs , " Primas said . <p> The minister also highlighted " significant opportunities " for deeper engagement between the two sides in digital technologies like Artificial Intelligence , and space . <p> Asked about the fast-track mechanism mentioned in the 2047 Horizon document for addressing issues pertaining to investments , Primas said it has proven to be a valuable forum . <p> " Yes , the Fast-Track mechanism , established in 2020 , has proven to be a valuable bilateral forum for addressing investment issues faced by French and Indian investors , " she said . <p> " It convenes biannually at a high level and has been very effective in maintaining momentum and fostering open dialogue . Regular meetings are crucial as they help ensure continuous progress and keep the channels of communication open , " she added . <p> Asked about the India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor ( IMEEC ) project , Primas said it will strengthen strategic supply chains and that Paris views it as a source of regional integration , peace and stability . <p> Billed as a pathbreaking initiative , the IMEEC envisages a vast road , railroad and shipping networks among Saudi Arabia , India , the United States and Europe with an aim to ensure integration among Asia , Middle East and West . <p> The IMEEC also envisages to include an electricity cable network , a hydrogen pipeline , high-speed data cable network to facilitate overall economic growth in the partner countries . <p> The project is also seen as an initiative by like-minded nations to gain strategic influence in the face of China 's Belt and Road Initiative ( BRI ) that has faced increasing criticism over lack of transparency and disregard for sovereignty of the nations . <p> The BRI is a mega connectivity project that connects China with Southeast Asia , Central Asia , Russia and Europe . <p> Nominations for ET MSME Awards are now open . The last day to apply is November 30 , 2024 . Click here to submit your entry for any one or more of the 22 categories and stand a chance to win a prestigious award . 
@@118322968 <h> The Islamist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham launched an offensive in Syria 's Aleppo , the biggest flare-up in the civil war since 2020 . <p> Vehicles burn after an airstrike against opposition fighters in Syria 's Aleppo . ( AP ) <p> After a major attack led by the Islamist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham in the Syrian city of Aleppo , Russia 's Defence Ministry said its air force carried out strikes in support of President Bashar al-Assad and the Syrian Army , according to Russian news agencies . <p> The attack was the fiercest rebel attack in Syria in years after a civil war forced the front lines to remain frozen since 2020 , becoming the biggest challenge for the Army as well as President Assad . However , the Army has prepared a counterstrike , with airstrikes targeting rebel gatherings and convoys patrolling the city . <h> related stories <p> The Russian Center for Reconciliation of the Opposing Parties in Syria said the Army supported by the Russian air force launched missile strikes on gathering areas , controls and positions of the insurgents , killing more than 300 rebel soldiers , TASS News Agency reported . <p> The rebels also took control of Aleppo airport , according to a statement by their operations room and a security source . Two rebel sources also told Reuters that the insurgents had captured the city of Maraat al Numan in Idlib province , bringing all of that area under their control . <p> Notably , Assad is a close ally of Russia , while the rebelling Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , once known as the Nusra front , is designated a terrorist group by the United States , Russia , Turkey and other states . The Islamist group penetrated the heart of the Aleppo city earlier this week in a surprise attack , causing the ongoing chaos . <h> Aleppo Offensive : When It All Began ? <p> The rebel offensive began on Wednesday , becoming the first major attack in years between the Syrian opposition and the regime of President Bashar al-Assad , who has ruled the war-torn country since 2000 . Assad is currently in Russia , where he is visiting his ailing wife . <p> The insurgents seized several towns and villages along the way , blew up vehicles and clashed with government forces . Some people were killed after projectiles from insurgents struck several facilities , including Aleppo 's university . <p> Aleppo had been a critical battleground in the Syrian civil war and is located about 350 km north . Once Syria 's largest city , Aleppo had been firmly held by the government since a 2016 victory , when Russia-backed Syrian forces entered and laid waste to rebel-held eastern areas there . <p> Acknowledging the rebel advance , the Syrian army command said insurgents had entered much of Aleppo . The Syrian military command said militants had attacked in large numbers and from multiple directions , prompting " our armed forces to carry out a redeployment operation aimed at strengthening the defence lines in order to absorb the attack , preserve the lives of civilians and soldiers " . <h> Why Is This Attack Significant ? <p> The fighting has raised the prospect of another violent front reopening in West Asia , at a time when US-backed Israel is fighting Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon , both Iranian-allied groups . It is the most intense fighting in northwestern Syria since 2020 , when government forces seized areas previously controlled by opposition fighters . <p> With Assad backed by Russia and Iran , and Turkey supporting some of the rebels in the northwest where it maintains troops , the offensive has brought focus to the geopolitical ramifications of these decades-old conflict . Fighting in northwest Syria had largely ceased following a de-escalation agreement between Russia and Turkey in 2020 . <p> The United States has about 900 troops in northeast Syria , far from Aleppo , to guard against a resurgence by the Islamic State . Both the US and Israel have conducted occasional strikes against government forces and Iran-allies militias . However , Washington has denied involvement in the ongoing rebel offensive in Aleppo . <p> Sean Savett , the spokesperson of the US National Security Council , said Syria 's refusal to engage in a political process and its reliance on Russia and Iran had created the current conditions , " including the collapse of Assad regime lines in northwest Syria . " He said the US had nothing to do with the offensive led by " a designated terrorist organisation " and urged de-escalation. <h> top videos <p> Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi told Lavrov in a phone call that the rebel attacks were part of an Israeli-US plan to destabilise the region , Iranian state media said . The opposition fighters have said the campaign was in response to stepped-up strikes in recent weeks against civilians by the Russian and Syrian air forces in areas of Idlib province . 
@@118323191 <h> Massad Boulos Family : What We Know About Wife And Son Michael <p> Massad Boulos , Tiffany Trump 's father-in-law and a Lebanese American businessman , was named a senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern matters by President-elect Donald Trump . Boulos helped Trump succeed in places with sizable Arab populations by playing a crucial part in his outreach to the Arab American community , particularly in Michigan . Boulos , who has political links to Lebanon , contributes significant expertise to the development of U.S. Middle East strategy . <p> President-elect Donald Trump announced on Sunday that Massad Boulos , a Lebanese American businessman , would serve as a senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . In addition to being Trump 's daughter Tiffany Trump 's father-in-law , Boulos was essential in the Trump campaign 's efforts to engage the Arab American community , especially in Michigan . Democratic President Joe Biden 's position on Israel 's military operations in Gaza and Lebanon has infuriated this group . Trump was able to win in Dearborn Heights and other Michigan cities with a majority of Arab Americans as a consequence of these initiatives . <p> Tiffany Trump and the Boulos Family <p> Following Tiffany Trump 's marriage to Michael Boulos , the Boulos family has gained increased fame . Tiffany , the daughter of Donald Trump and his second wife , Marla Maples , has mostly avoided the spotlight . She did , however , make noteworthy appearances at the Republican National Conventions in 2016 and 2020 . Announced in January 2021 , Tiffany 's engagement to Boulos garnered a lot of interest , particularly because it brought the Boulos family into the public eye . <p> Although not much is known about Boulos ' private life , his son Michael Boulos has made a name for himself in business and politics . An important link between the Trump family and the Lebanese-American community is Tiffany Trump 's marriage to Michael , according to Today.com . <p> Massad Boulos ' Political Background <p> Boulos has a history of involvement in Lebanese politics . He previously sought office in Lebanon and has maintained strong ties with political figures in the country . He is uniquely positioned to impact U.S. Middle East policy , especially those pertaining to Arab-American relations , because of this experience . His enduring ties to the area might be helpful in determining Trump 's foreign policy , according to a US News report . <p> Trump 's Peace Commitment <p> Regarding bringing peace to the Middle East , Trump and Boulos have made audacious statements , according to Firstpost . Neither of them , though , has given precise instructions on how this would be accomplished . Trump 's foreign policy in the area is being closely examined at the time of the appointment . His relationship with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is well known , and he has shown significant support for Netanyahu 's administration in a number of his national security appointments . <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from US News , World and around the world . 
@@118323204 <p> Massad Boulos , a Lebanese-American millionaire and the father-in-law of Tiffany Trump , has been named Senior Adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern Affairs by Donald Trump . In the wake of rising Middle East tensions , Boulos , who has been hailed for his commercial savvy and contribution to Trump 's campaign outreach to Muslim and Arab American supporters , must manage a challenging geopolitical portfolio . Charles Kushner 's recent nomination as U.S. Ambassador to France is one of the high-profile family-related positions in Trump 's cabinet . <p> President-elect Donald Trump announced the appointment of Massad Boulos as Senior Adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern Affairs . The most recent member of Trump 's family to land a high-profile position in his administration is the father-in-law of Trump 's daughter Tiffany , a Lebanese-American billionaire . Truth Social made the news on Sunday . <p> " I am proud to announce that Massad Boulos will serve as Senior Adviser to the President on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs , " Trump said . He cited Boulos 's commercial savvy , leadership abilities , and broad global experience as essential requirements for the role . <p> Navigating a Challenging Portfolio <p> As tensions in the Middle East rise , Boulos takes on his new position . A tenuous truce with Hezbollah in Lebanon is being repeatedly violated , while Israel 's battle in Gaza is further intensifying . Rebel troops in Syria have made progress against the regime of Bashar al-Assad . Boulos will need to use tactful diplomacy and smart navigation to navigate the region 's complicated political and military realities . <p> Role in the Trump Campaign <p> Trump 's presidential campaign relied heavily on Boulos . He concentrated on enlisting Muslim and Arab American voters , many of whom voiced discontent with the current U.S. strategy in Gaza . Trump praised Boulos for creating " tremendous new coalitions " in local neighborhoods and called him a " dealmaker . " <p> Family Connections in the White House <p> Boulos 's hiring comes after Trump made another high-profile choice . Charles Kushner , the father of Jared Kushner , the son-in-law , was appointed U.S. Ambassador to France by Trump on Saturday . Important White House positions are further entwined with family ties through the marriage of Michael , Boulos 's own son , to Tiffany Trump . <p> Business and Legal Expertise <p> Boulos is a renowned leader in international business and a skilled attorney . His vast background in international business is in line with his new duties . Trump spoke to Boulos as a " asset to my campaign , " highlighting his dedication to conservative and Republican principles . <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from US News , World and around the world . 
@@118323818 <h> Donald Trump has appointed Massad Boulos , father-in-law of his daughter Tiffany , as a senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . Boulos played a key role in engaging the Arab-American community in Michigan . He is known for promoting Republican values and building coalitions with Arab Americans . <p> President-elect Donald Trump announced the appointment of Massad Boulos , a Lebanese American businessman and father-in-law to Trump 's daughter Tiffany , as a senior adviser for Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . <p> Boulos played a pivotal role in Trump 's campaign by mobilizing Arab American voters in Michigan , organizing numerous meetings in regions with significant Arab-American populations disenchanted by Democratic support for Israel 's actions in Gaza and Lebanon . <p> Boulos has deep-rooted political ties in Lebanon and has previously sought public office there . His involvement signals a continuity in Trump 's approach to Middle Eastern policy , focusing on creating new alliances with the Arab-American community . 
@@118323844 <h> Just In <h> The UN agency for Palestine refugees decided on Sunday to pause aid delivery through the Kerem Shalom crossing , a main entry point for humanitarian ... <p> The UN agency for Palestine refugees decided on Sunday to pause aid delivery through the Kerem Shalom crossing , a main entry point for humanitarian aid into the Gaza Strip , citing ongoing safety concerns along the route . <p> On November 16 , a large convoy of aid trucks was stolen by armed gangs , and on Saturday , a few food trucks were also taken , the UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) said on social media platform X. <p> " The responsibility to protect aid workers and supplies lies with the State of Israel as the occupying power . They must ensure aid flows into Gaza safely , " it added . <p> UNRWA Commissioner-General Philippe Lazzarini stated on X that this difficult decision comes at a time when hunger is rapidly deepening in Gaza . " The delivery of humanitarian aid must never be dangerous or turn into an ordeal , " Lazzarini said . <p> In Gaza , the humanitarian operation has become unnecessarily impossible due to " the ongoing siege , hurdles from Israeli authorities , political decisions to restrict the amounts of aid , lack of safety on aid routes and targeting of local police , " he further explained . <p> A UN convoy of 109 trucks carrying food supplies was " violently looted " on November 16 after entering Gaza , with 97 trucks in total lost and drivers forced at gunpoint to unload aid , according to the UNRWA , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> On November 18 , Hamas said 20 people were killed in a security operation east of Rafah , southern Gaza , which targeted gangs accused of looting aid trucks entering Gaza . 
@@118324191 <p> Palestinian militant group Hamas has released a video of an American-Israeli hostage , Edan Alexander , who is urging US President-elect Donald Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for release of hostages . <p> The purported video , Titled ' Soon ... Time is running out ' was posted on Hamas ' Telegram channel by the Qassam Brigades . <p> In the video 20 year old kEdan , who was held hostage by the militant group during its attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 , appealed to Trump to use his " influence and the full power of the United States to negotiate for our freedom " . <p> Though the authenticity of the footage has not been independently verified , Edan 's mother , Yael Alexander , has expressed her distress . She said that she was " shaken by the video " . <p> In a statement , she said , " My Edan , my love , we miss you so much . I want to tell you that following your request , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called me about an hour ago . <p> He gave me strength and assured me that now , after the deal in Lebanon , the conditions are ripe to release you and bring you home . " <p> Yael also mentioned that she had been in contact with Netanyahu 's office and conveyed to the prime minister the importance of keeping his promise to free the hostages . Netanyahu 's office later confirmed the conversation and labeled the video released by Hamas as " cruel psychological warfare " while reiterating Tel Aviv 's commitment to securing the release of all hostages . <p> In the video , Edan implored , " Please do not make the mistake Biden has been doing . " <p> He expressed his fear of suffering the same fate as fellow American-Israeli hostage Hersh Goldberg Polin , who was killed by Hamas in captivity in August . <p> The White House strongly condemned the footage and called it " a cruel reminder of Hamas 's terror against citizens of multiple countries , including our own " . <p> " President Joe Biden and the US will continue to work round the clock to secure the release of our citizens , including through diplomatic efforts and by increasing pressure on Hamas terrorists through sanctions , law enforcement actions and other measures . " <p> On October 7 , 2023 , more than 240 individuals were taken hostage by Hamas and other attackers . Israel confirms that 97 hostages , initially abducted that day , remain in Gaza . <p> At present , according to Israeli authorities , more than 60 hostages are still alive , while the bodies of about 35 others , also taken on October 7 , remain in Gaza . <p> In a significant development on November 28 , 69 civilians were released by Hamas in exchange for 180 Palestinian prisoners , as part of a temporary ceasefire agreement between Israeli forces and Palestinian armed groups . <p> Meanwhile , Israeli authorities have detained nearly 7,000 Palestinians , most held for alleged security offenses . Many of them have been imprisoned since the October 7 attacks . According to HaMoked , an Israeli human rights organisation , the majority of these detainees -- over 2,000 -- are being held in administrative detention . It means they have not been formally charged or tried in court . The detainees include women and children , many of whom have never been convicted of any crime . <p> More than 45,000 people have been killed in the Israel-Hamas war , including 43,391 Palestinians and 1,706 Israelis , as of November 5 , 2024 . Among them are 134 -- 146 journalists , 120 academics and over 224 humanitarian workers , who also include 179 UNRWA employees . <p> On the other hand , the Israel Defense Forces have reported 807 military fatalities , including soldiers , officers and reservists . Of them , over 305 killed were on the Gaza border and at least 380 during ground operations in Gaza . The Israel Police has listed 58 officers killed , including those involved in confrontations on the Gaza border , hostage rescue operations and terror attacks in Israel and the West Bank . <p> On October 7 , 2023 , Hamas launched an assault on Israel and reportedly around 1,200 people . It militants infiltrated towns and attacked military positions and fired thousands of rockets . 
@@118324192 <p> Tensions continue to escalate in West Asia as Israeli airstrikes killed at least 40 Palestinians in northern Gaza . A Hamas delegation is currently in Cairo for renewed efforts to secure a ceasefire agreement in Gaza , while Tuesday 's ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah remains in effect despite reported violations by the Israeli military , as per the news reports . <p> Meanwhile , Syria 's 13-year civil war has resurfaced with a sudden rebel offensive on Aleppo , one of the country 's largest cities . The surge in fighting has raised the prospect of another violent front emerging in the already war-torn region . <h> Latest Updates From West Asia <p> Over 40 Palestinians Killed in Northern Gaza : <p> Israeli airstrikes targeted a house in the Jabalia refugee camp in northern Gaza , killing more than 40 people , the Gaza Civil Defense said Saturday . The death toll from Israel 's attacks on Saturday rose to at least 100 people . Mahmoud Basal , Civil Defense spokesman , stated on Telegram that the bombing targeted a house belonging to the Al-Araj family in the Tel al-Zaatar neighborhood in northern Gaza . <p> Since October 5 , Israel has carried out a ground operation in northern Gaza , citing the need to counter Hamas . However , Palestinians accuse Israel of seeking to occupy the area and forcibly displace its residents . Humanitarian aid , including food , medicine , and fuel , has been blocked from entering the area , leaving the population -- estimated at 80,000 -- on the brink of famine . <p> Attacks On Aid Workers In Gaza <p> There have been a number of deadly Israeli attacks on aid operations and workers in Gaza in the past 24 hours . Twelve people were killed in southern Khan Younis while waiting for food aid . In a separate incident , three workers from the World Central Kitchen were killed in Khan Younis , marking the third attack on the US-based aid organisation this year . <p> Additionally , Save the Children staff member Ahmad Faisal Isleem Al-Qadi was killed in an Israeli airstrike , and Gaza Soup Kitchen chef Mahmoud Almadhoun was killed in a drone attack in northern Gaza . <p> Syrian Troops Withdraw From Aleppo <p> Syrian government forces withdrew from the city of Aleppo after an offensive by rebels opposed to the rule of President Bashar al-Assad . The army acknowledged that rebels had entered " large parts " of the city but vowed to stage a counterattack . <p> The offensive marks the most significant fighting in Syria 's civil war in recent years . More than 300 people , including at least 20 civilians , have been killed since it began on Wednesday , according to the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights ( SOHR ) . The civil war , which has left around half a million people dead , began in 2011 after the Assad government responded to pro-democracy protests with a crackdown . The conflict has been largely dormant since a ceasefire in 2020 , but opposition forces have maintained control of the northwestern city of Idlib and much of the surrounding province . <p> Death Toll <p> Israel 's war on Gaza has killed at least 44,382 Palestinians and wounded 105,142 since October 7 , 2023 . At least 1,139 people were killed in Israel during Hamas-led attacks that day , and more than 200 were taken captive . In Lebanon , at least 3,961 people have been killed and 16,520 wounded in Israeli attacks since the war on Gaza began . 
@@118324234 <p> Hello Readers ! Through this rundown , we bring you the top stories of the day . Today 's list includes developments on Cyclone Fengal and Sambhal mosque row along with West Asia updates and more . <p> Here we have the top stories of the day . <p> Cyclone Fengal Weakens , Puducherry Deals With Aftermath Of Landfall <p> According to the latest update from the India Meteorological Department ( IMD ) , Cyclone Fengal has weakened into a deep depression . The cyclonic weakened on Sunday but torrential downpours under its influence paralysed the union territory of Puducherry . The Army stepped in to evacuate stranded persons in inundated streets . Villupuram in neighbouring Tamil Nadu also suffered following heavy rains and inundation , with Chief Minister M K Stalin terming the rainfall in the district as ' unprecedented . ' READ FULL STORY <p> A three-member judicial commission visited the Shahi Jama Masjid and other violence-affected areas in Sambhal on Sunday . The visit is part of its ongoing investigation into the deadly clashes that broke out on November 24 during a court-ordered survey of the Mughal-era mosque . The violence , which left four people dead and several others injured , has sparked intense controversy and concerns over communal tensions in the region . READ FULL STORY <p> West Asia : 40 Killed In Gaza , Syrian Troops Withdraw From Aleppo City <p> Tensions continue to escalate in West Asia as Israeli airstrikes killed at least 40 Palestinians in northern Gaza . A Hamas delegation is currently in Cairo for renewed efforts to secure a ceasefire agreement in Gaza , while Tuesday 's ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah remains in effect despite reported violations by the Israeli military , as per the news reports . <p> Meanwhile , Syria 's 13-year civil war has resurfaced with a sudden rebel offensive on Aleppo , one of the country 's largest cities . The surge in fighting has raised the prospect of another violent front emerging in the already war-torn region . READ FULL STORY <p> Trump Threatens BRICS Nations With 100% Tariff -- Here 's Why <p> United States President-elect Donald Trump on Saturday threatened tariffs of 100 per cent against BRICS countries unless their governments agree not to create a new currency as an alternative to the US dollar . <p> " The idea that the BRICS Countries are trying to move away from the Dollar while we stand by and watch is OVER . We require a commitment from these Countries that they will neither create a new BRICS Currency , nor back any other Currency to replace the mighty U.S. Dollar or , they will face 100% Tariffs , and should expect to say goodbye to selling into the wonderful U.S. Economy , " Trump posted on Truth Social on Saturday . READ FULL STORY 
@@118324742 <h> Yemen 's Houthi rebels shoot down US drone <p> Yemen 's Houthi rebels shot down what they described as an American drone early Friday , potentially the latest downing of a US spy drone as the militants continue their attacks on the Red Sea corridor . <p> The US military acknowledged the videos circulating online showing what appeared to be a flaming aircraft dropping out of the sky and a field of burning debris in what those off-camera described as an area of Yemen 's al-Jawf province . The military said it was investigating the incident , declining to elaborate further . <p> It was n't immediately clear what kind of aircraft was shot down in the low-quality night video . The Houthis , in a later statement , claimed to have downed an American MQ-9 Reaper drone . <p> The Houthis have surface-to-air missiles -- such as the Iranian missile known as the 358 -- capable of downing aircraft . Iran denies arming the rebels , though Tehran-manufactured weaponry has been found on the battlefield and in sea shipments heading to Yemen for the Shiite Houthi rebels despite a United Nations arms embargo . <p> The Houthis have been a key component of Iran 's self-described " Axis of Resistance " during the Mideast wars that includes Lebanon 's Hezbollah , Hamas and other militant groups . <p> Since Houthis seized the country 's north and its capital of Sanaa in 2014 , the rebels have shot down MQ-9 Reaper drones in Yemen in 2017 , 2019 , 2023 and 2024 . The US military has declined to offer a total figure for the number of drones it has lost during that time . <p> Reapers , which cost around $ 30 million apiece , can fly at altitudes up to 50,000 feet ( 15,240 metres ) and have an endurance of up to 24 hours before needing to land . The aircraft have been flown by both the US military and the CIA over Yemen for years . <p> The Houthis have targeted more than 90 merchant vessels with missiles and drones since the Israel-Hamas war in the Gaza Strip started in October 2023 . They seized one vessel and sank two in the campaign that has also killed four sailors . Other missiles and drones have either been intercepted by a US-led coalition in the Red Sea or failed to reach their targets , which have also included Western military vessels . <p> The rebels maintain that they target ships linked to Israel , the US or the UK to force an end to Israel 's campaign against Hamas in Gaza . However , many of the ships attacked have little or no connection to the conflict , including some bound for Iran . The tempo of the Houthi sea attacks also has waxed and waned over the months . <p> In October , the US military unleashed B-2 stealth bombers to target underground bunkers used by the Houthis. 
@@118324796 <h> US President-elect Donald Trump , on Sunday , announced Massad Boulos as an adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . <h> Advertisement <p> US President-elect Donald Trump , on Sunday , announced Massad Boulos as an adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . Trump confirmed the appointment of Lebanese American businessman Massad Boulos will serve as a senior adviser . Reports suggest that the president-elect of the United States met with Boulos repeatedly met with Arab American and Muslim leaders , during the US presidential elections campaign . Notably , Boulos is also the father-in-law of Trump 's daughter Tiffany . <p> After his decision , Trump said in a post on his social media handle , " He has been a longtime proponent of Republican and Conservative values , an asset to my Campaign , and was instrumental in building tremendous new coalitions with the Arab American Community . " <p> Reports suggested that Boulos arranged Trump campaign efforts to engage the Arab American community in Michigan , organising dozens of meetings in areas with large Arab American populations angered by Democratic President Joe Biden ' s backing of Israel 's offensives in Gaza and Lebanon . Trump won the majority Arab American city of Dearborn Heights on his way to sweeping Michigan and other swing states . <p> Trump and Boulos said the Republican president-elect would bring peace to the Middle East , but neither has publicly offered concrete details on Trump 's plans for the region . <p> Boulos has previously sought office in Lebanon and has long-standing ties to political figures in the country . Other Trump picks for key national security positions are staunch supporters of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , a Trump ally . <p> Mike Huckabee , Trump 's pick for ambassador to Israel , has consistently rejected a Palestinian state in territories seized by Israel . He has claimed " there really is n't such a thing " as Palestinians , in referring to the descendants of people who lived in Palestine before the establishment of Israel . <p> Trump 's pick for defence secretary , Pete Hegseth , advocated for rebuilding a biblical Jewish temple on the site of Al-Aqsa Mosque , one of Islam 's holiest sites . <p> Boulos helped capitalise on dissension within the Democratic base over support for the Israeli offensive in Gaza , where more than 44,000 people have died since Hamas ' attacks on Oct 7 , 2023 , according to health officials in the Hamas-run territory who do n't separate civilians and fighters in their totals . <p> Trump won Michigan by just over 10,000 votes in 2016 and Biden retook the state for the Democrats in 2020 by roughly 154,000 votes . Trump carried Michigan in November over Vice President Kamala Harris , the Democratic nominee , with 49.7% of the vote . <p> " Massad is a dealmaker and an unwavering supporter of PEACE in the Middle East , " Trump said on Truth Social . <p> Trump , who has long installed family members and their relatives in key positions , is signalling that he will run his second administration the same way . On Saturday , he announced that he intends to nominate real estate developer Charles Kushner , father of Trump 's son-in-law Jared Kushner , to serve as ambassador to France . 
@@118324804 <h> The UN agency for Palestinian refugees said it was halting the aid deliveries through the main cargo crossing into the war-torn Gaza Strip . <h> Advertisement <p> Deir al-Balah ( Gaza Strip ) : The UN agency for Gaza 's Main Crossing , on Sunday , said it was halting the aid deliveries through the main cargo crossing into the war-torn Gaza Strip due to the threat of armed gangs who had looted convoys . It blamed the breakdown of law and order in large part on Israeli policies . <p> Decision Likely To Worsen Gaza 's Humanitarian Crisis <p> The decision could worsen Gaza 's humanitarian crisis as a second cold , rainy winter sets in , with hundreds of thousands of Palestinians in squalid tent camps and reliant on international aid . Experts already warned of famine in the north , which Israeli forces have almost completely isolated since early October . <p> Armed Men Loot Nearly 100 Trucks <p> Philippe Lazzarini , the head of UNRWA , the main aid provider in Gaza , said the route leading to the Kerem Shalom crossing is too dangerous on the Gaza side . Armed men looted nearly 100 trucks on the route in mid-November . <p> Kerem Shalom is the only crossing between Israel and Gaza that is designed for cargo shipments and has been the main artery for aid since the Rafah crossing with Egypt was shut in May . Last month , nearly two-thirds of aid entering Gaza came through Kerem Shalom , and in previous months it accounted for even more , according to Israeli figures . <p> In an X post , Lazzarini largely blamed Israel for the breakdown of humanitarian operations in Gaza , citing " political decisions to restrict the amounts of aid , " lack of safety on routes and Israel 's targeting of the Hamas-run police force , which previously provided public security . <p> " Yesterday we had assurances aid would be fine . We tried to move five trucks and they were all taken , " Scott Anderson , director of UNRWA affairs in Gaza , told The Associated Press . " So we 've kind of reached a point where it makes no sense to continue to try to move aid if it 's just gon na be looted . " He emphasised that there is no systemic diversion of aid in Gaza . <p> A spokesman for UNICEF , Ammar Ammar , confirmed the security situation was " unacceptable " and said it was evaluating its operations at the crossing , adding that other entry points are needed . <p> The Israeli military body in charge of humanitarian aid to Gaza said in an X post that it will " continue to work with the international community to increase the amount of aid making its way into Gaza " through Kerem Shalom and other crossings , and said UNRWA coordinated less than 10% of the aid that entered Gaza in November . <p> The Israeli military accuses UNRWA of having allowed Hamas to infiltrate its ranks -- allegations denied by the UN agency -- and passed legislation to sever ties with it last month . <p> Israeli strikes kill at least six people , including children Israeli strikes in Gaza killed at least six people overnight , including two children , ages 6 and 8 , in their family 's tent , medical officials said Sunday . <p> The strike in the Muwasi area , a sprawling coastal camp housing hundreds of thousands of displaced people , also wounded their mother and 8-month-old sister , according to nearby Nasser Hospital . An Associated Press reporter saw the bodies , which were buried in the sand . <p> A separate strike in the southern city of Rafah , on the border with Egypt , killed four men , according to hospital records . <p> The Israeli military said it was not aware of strikes in either location . Israel says it only targets militants and tries to avoid harming civilians , but its daily strikes across Gaza often kill women and children . <p> In a separate development , a projectile fired by Iran-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen set off air raid sirens in central Israel . The Israeli military said it intercepted the projectile before it entered Israeli territory . <p> Former defence minister accuses Israel of war crimes A former top Israeli general and defence minister has accused the government of ethnic cleansing in northern Gaza , where Israeli forces have been waging their latest offensive against Hamas . <p> The army has sealed off the towns of Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahiya and the Jabaliya refugee camp and allowed almost no humanitarian aid to enter . Tens of thousands of people have fled . The United Nations estimates up to 75,000 remain . <p> Moshe Yaalon , who served as defence minister under Benjamin Netanyahu before quitting in 2016 and becoming a critic of the prime minister , said the current far-right government is determined to " occupy , to annexe , to ethnically cleanse " . <p> Pressed by a local news outlet on Saturday , Yaalon said : " ( They ) are actually cleaning the territory of Arabs . " He added Sunday in an interview with Israeli radio : " War crimes are being committed here . " Netanyahu 's Likud party criticised his earlier remarks , accusing him of making " false statements " that are " a prize for the International Criminal Court and the camp of Israel haters " . <p> The ICC has issued arrest warrants against Netanyahu , another former defence minister , Yoav Gallant , and a Hamas commander , accusing them of crimes against humanity . The International Court of Justice is investigating allegations of genocide against Israel . <p> Israel rejects the allegations and says both courts are biased against it . <p> Israel says Gaza ceasefire talks resume ' behind the scenes ' The war in Gaza began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel on Oct 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking around 250 hostages . Some 100 captives are still held inside Gaza , and around two-thirds are believed to be alive . <p> Israel 's retaliatory offensive has killed at least 44,429 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , which does not say how many of the dead were combatants . Israel says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> The war has destroyed vast areas of the coastal enclave and displaced 90% of the population of 2.3 million , often multiple times . <p> Israel reached a ceasefire with Lebanon 's Hezbollah militants last week that has largely held , but that agreement did not address the war in Gaza . <p> The United States , Qatar and Egypt have tried to broker a ceasefire in Gaza and the release of remaining hostages , but those efforts stalled as Israel rejected Hamas ' demand for a complete withdrawal from the territory . The Biden administration has said it will make another push for a deal . <p> " There are negotiations taking place behind the scenes , and it can be done , " Israel 's mostly ceremonial president , Isaac Herzog , said Sunday . He spoke after meeting with the mother of Israeli-American hostage Edan Alexander , who appeared in a video released Saturday by Hamas. 
@@118334850 <h> Gaza Stands As a Killing Field For Journalists <h> Share : <p> Over 190 Palestinian journalists have been killed in Gaza since 7 October , 2023 for daring to report and utter the truth . <p> The Government Media Office in Gaza states the number of journalists killed in Gaza , as reported on 30 November , 2024 , now stands at 191 after the death of Mamdouh Quneita in the Baptist-al-Ahli Arab Hospital . <p> Quneita was an editor of the Al-Aqsa satellite channel , the media office said which means that he also managed the television station as well as reporting . <p> " The Government Media Office condemns in the strongest terms the targeting , killing and assassination of Palestinian journalists by the Israeli occupation . We hold it fully responsible for committing this heinous crime . " <p> His name is trending on the social media for he was killed by an Israeli drone in the middle of Gaza City on Saturday afternoon in the courtyard of the Baptist Al Ahli hospital . <p> According to the Anadolu Agency , as of Nov 27 , 190 journalists have been killedinGaza from Israeli attacks since 7 October , 2023 . This is the latest targetting by the Israeli army . <p> One blogger writes : Shame on mainstream medias and all western journalists who remain silent in the face of Palestinian journalists being killed in unprecedented numbers by the Israeli colonial and apartheid regime . @MariamBarghouti , @ReporterSol <p> Another said Israeli forces shot and killed Mamdouh Quneita with a direct bullet to the head while he was performing his journalistic duties near Al Mamadani ( Baptist ) hospital . He added that 191 journalists are bow killed by Israel in just 13 months . This should be met with outrage and consequences in the West . <p> Israeli forces shot and killed Mamdouh Quneita with a direct bullet to the head while he was performing his journalistic duties by Mamadani hospital . <p> Quneita was killed at the same hospital that Israel bombed on 17 October , 2023 killing 400 people in one go and setting the precedent for what later became a targeted attack on the Palestinian health infrastructure -- including the rape and execution of doctors , nurses , and their own children . <p> One writes that the killing of Palestinian journalists is more than that of the whole of WWI , WWII and Vietnam war combined yet the killing goes on the silence by the international community is maintained . <h> Related Posts <p> The arrest warrants by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant are a diplomatic disaster for Israel , reported The Economist , ... <p> The International Criminal Court ( ICC ) has issued arrest warrants for child- , mother- and women-killing Jewish Israeli monsters Benjamin Netanyahu and Yoav Gallant over their key roles in the ongoing Gaza ... <p> New York ( Quds News Network ) - Tanya Haj Hassan , a paediatric intensive care doctor who addressed UN member states on the 2024 International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People on Tuesday , shared ... 
@@118334855 <h> Share : <p> The International Criminal Court ( ICC ) has issued arrest warrants for child- , mother- and women-killing Jewish Israeli monsters Benjamin Netanyahu and Yoav Gallant over their key roles in the ongoing Gaza Genocide associated with over 300,000 Palestinians killed by violence and imposed deprivation , hundreds of thousands injured and 2.3 million displaced , traumatized , and criminally deprived of life-sustaining water , food , shelter , clothing , sanitation , electricity , medicine and medical care . <p> Serial war criminal America and Apartheid Israel do not accept the authority of the ICC and immediately rejected the ICC decision , as did neo-fascist Hungary and new Vichy France . Some other US Alliance members , notably fervently pro-Apartheid Israel and hence pro-Apartheid nations racist White Australia and neo-Nazi Germany equivocated over their legal obligation to act on the arrest warrants . The pro-Apartheid Israel and hence pro-Apartheid UK reluctantly conceded that it must arrest Netanyahu if he enters UK territory but will continue to talk to Netanyahu . Action on the ICC arrest warrants was of course accepted by all law-abiding parties to the Rome Statute and the ICC . <p> Professor Janina Dill ( International Law , University of Oxford ) : " It 's quite important to stress that Benjamin Netanyahu makes decisions about how the war in Gaza unfolds , about humanitarian access , about the use of weapons there , that the conduct at the heart of the arrest warrant is persisting . That means that currently any state that diplomatically or materially supports Israel 's war in Gaza risks supporting crimes against humanity and war crimes . It 's really quite clear to me that third states should take this as a really relevant piece of information in deciding whether they put themselves in legal jeopardy in supporting Israel 's war " 1 . <p> It is useful to ( A ) sketch the background and illegality of genocidal Zionazi crimes in Palestine before ( B ) analyzing UN , ICC and ICJ actions and global responses to the ICC arrest warrants . <p> ( A ) . Background and illegality of genocidal Zionazi crimes in Palestine . <p> ( a ) . Zionism is genocidal racism in horrible theory and in intentional , genocidal practice . Zionists from Hungarian founder of Zionism , Theodor Herzl , to war criminal Benjamin Netanyahu have shamelessly advocated ethnic cleansing Palestine of its Indigenous Palestinian inhabitants ( for an alphabetical compendium of these appalling genocidal Zionist opinions see 2 ) . Thus , for example , racist psychopath Theodor Herzl ( 1895 ) : " We shall try to spirit the penniless population across the border by procuring employment for it in the transit countries , while denying it employment in our country . The property owners will come over to our side . Both the process of expropriation and the removal of the poor must be carried out discretely and circumspectly " , and serial war criminal Benjamin Netanyahu ( 1989 ) : " Israel should have exploited the repression of the demonstrations in China , when world attention focused on that country , to carry out mass expulsions among the Arabs of the territories " 2 . <p> ( b ) . Zionism is genocidal racism and Nazism without gas chambers but with 90 nuclear weapons , delivery systems ( including neo-Nazi Germany-supplied submarines ) , one of the world 's biggest high technology militaries , world-leading arms and surveillance industries 3-5 , and a Nazi-style record of gross human rights abuse , criminality , rejection of International Law , and war criminal invasion and occupation of other countries 6-8 . The terms " fascist " and " Nazi " have precise meanings but " neo-Nazi " and " fascist " are commonly but loosely applied to violent young neo-Nazi extremists in the streets of America , France , Germany , Australia and the UK , and to extreme right-wing and human rights-violating leaders such as Benjamin Netanyahu ( Apartheid Israel ) , Jair Bolsonaro ( Brazil ) , Donald Trump ( US ) , and Victor Orb ? n ( Hungary ) . A precise descriptive for genocidal Jewish Israeli extremism would be the neologism Zionazism . Indeed there is a shocking list of 52 Zionist- and Apartheid Israeli-Nazi Germany comparisons 6 , and shocking comparisons have been made between the Jewish Israeli-imposed Gaza Genocide and with Nazi German atrocities 7 . <p> ( c ) . Palestine has a 4,000-year history as part of the Fertile Crescent that made a huge contribution to civilization in terms writing , literature , philosophy , mathematics , music , art , astronomy , agriculture , architecture , hydrology , plant breeding , animal breeding , and medicine 8-12 . In 1880 Palestine contained about 500,000 Indigenous Palestinians ( 90% Muslim and 10% Christian ) and 25,000 Jews ( half of these being immigrants ) 13-16 . The discovery of strategically vital oil in Iran ( 1908 ) prompted the British to invade Iraq ( 1914 ) , divide the Ottoman Empire 's Arab Middle East on paper between the UK and France ( Sykes-Picot Agreement , 1916 ) , conquer Palestine ( 1917 ) , grant Palestine as a homeland for Jews via the Balfour Declaration ( 2 November 1917 ) , open the flood gates to Jewish immigration ( mainly non-Semitic , Turkic Khazar-origin Ashkenazi Jews ) , and suppress the subsequent Arab revolt ( by British forces and British-trained and British-armed Zionists ) . In the 1948 Nakba ( Catastrophe ) the Zionazis seized 78% of Palestine , expelling 800,000 Palestinians , killing 15,000 , emptying 530 villages , and destroying 100 mosques . In the 1967 Naksa ( Setback ) the Zionazis seized all of Palestine ( plus other Arab lands ) and expelled a further 400,000 Arabs . The 57 year Occupation by settler-colonialist Zionazis led to brutal Zionazi suppression of successive Palestinian revolts ( Intifadas ) in the Gaza Concentration Camp with an Occupied/Occupier Reprisals Death Ratio of about 20 and imposition of a deadly blockade of Gaza for 16 years that permitted only bare survival 8 , 17-21 . <p> ( d ) . Before the Palestinian Breakout from the Gaza Concentration Camp on 7 October 2023 , the 15 million mostly impoverished , dispossessed and grossly violated Indigenous Palestinians included 7 million Exiled Palestinians ( substantially state-less refugees and excluded on pain of death from the land continuously inhabited by their forebears for over 4,000 years ) , 5.6 million Occupied Palestinians ( excluded from all human rights set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights , utterly dispossessed by genocidally racist and thieving Zionazis , excluded from voting for the government ruling them , subject to highly abusive military rule and confined to ever-diminishing mini-Bantustans , specifically the 3.3 million in the West Bank and East Jerusalem and 2.3 million in the Gaza Concentration Camp that has been bombed and blockaded for 16 years ) , and 2.1 million Israeli Palestinians ( the only Indigenous Palestinian Subjects of Apartheid Israel allowed to vote for the government ruling them , albeit only for approved candidates and as Third Class citizens under 65 Nazi-style , race-based and discriminatory laws ) 8 , 22-24 . Before 7 October 2023 , the GDP per capita was $55,500 ( Apartheid Israel ) , $3,500 ( Occupied Palestine ) and a deadly $1,000 ( the Gaza Concentration Camp ) . Before the Breakout Indigenous Palestinians represented 51% of Apartheid Israeli Subjects ( Jewish Israelis 47% ) 8 . <p> ( e ) . Gaza Genocide , Palestinian Genocide and Palestinian Holocaust : the Awful Truth versus Zionazi lies propagated by Apartheid Israel , the US and the US Alliance . Zionist-perverted and egregiously mendacious Western Mainstream media plug the false Zionazi " official story " of a surprise Hamas attack on Israel on 7 October 2023 with 1,139 Israelis killed in a " terrorist Hamas massacre " , 250 Israelis seized as hostages , and an Israeli bombing and siege response on the basis that " Israel has the right to defend itself " . Prize-winning Western journalists have provided a quite contrary , evidence-based version of the now 14 month Gaza Massacre and Gaza Genocide : <p> ( 1 ) . The US and Apartheid Israel were aware of the planned Breakout for a year before it happened ; <p> ( 2 ) . 2 Israeli battalions were withdrawn from near Gaza prior to the Breakout ; <p> ( 3 ) . the Breakout was evidently devised to capture hostages to swap for then over 5,000 ( now over 10,000 ) Palestinian hostages highly abusively confined in Israeli military prisons ( not to mention the 5.6 million Occupied Palestinians Israeli Subjects highly abusively confined under Apartheid Israeli military rule to the West Bank ( 3.3 million ) and the Gaza Concentration Camp ( 2.3 million ) ; <p> ( 4 ) . 1,139 Israelis and 1,500 Palestinians were killed in the fighting in Israel on or about 7 October 2023 ; <p> ( 5 ) . 97.5% of the Israeli dead were adults ( and hence because of military conscription mostly past or present Jewish Israeli members of the war criminal Occupying IDF ) and 2.5% were innocent children ; <p> ( 6 ) . The Occupied Palestinians have a right to resist Occupation ( as set out in the Preamble to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in Article 51 of the UN Charter ) but the war criminal Occupier Apartheid Israel does not have the right to defend itself in a belligerently and war criminally occupied territory ; <p> ( 7 ) . The Gaza Concentration Camp -- the world 's biggest open air prison -- was hermetically sealed by a double layer incarceration and surveillance system ( Apartheid Israel being the world leader in these technologies 4 , 5 ) but was allowed by the IDF to be readily penetrated ; <p> ( 9 ) . The IDF response was delayed for hours and when it came involved high explosive IDF tank shelling and helicopter-launched Hellfire missiles that killed many Israelis under the IDF " Hannibal Directive " ( designed to prevent hostage taking even if it means killing Israelis ) ; <p> ( 10 ) . Deaths in a fire zone are directly proportional to the firepower used and it is accordingly likely that the high explosive IDF response rather than Palestinian light arms was responsible for most of the Israeli deaths as evidenced by hundreds of mangled and incinerated cars and bodies and burned and bombed houses ; <p> ( 11 ) . It is glaringly obvious that the Zionazis permitted the Breakout followed by the subsequent bloody IDF response to provide a 9/11-style excuse for atrocities ( see 25-29 ) -- the subsequent Gaza Massacre and Gaza Genocide , bombing of the West Bank , likely annexation of Gaza and the West Bank , confinement of all Occupied Palestinians in Gaza-like concentration camps , and possible total expulsion of all Occupied Palestinians ( see former US Ambassador to the UN and Israel , Tom Pickering 2 ) ; <p> ( 12 ) . Before 7 October 2023 the Indigenous Palestinians represented about 51% of the Subjects of Apartheid Israel but after the killing of 335,500 Gazans by 5 September 2024 30 this had shrunk to 50% . Apartheid Israel is a democracy by genocide . <p> ( 13 ) . Gaza deaths from violence reportedly totalled 44,249 not counting dead under rubble as of 27 November 2024 31 . However global health expert Professor Devi Sridhar ( University of Edinburgh ) estimated 335,500 deaths from violence and imposed deprivation in 11 months ( 7 September 2024 30 ) . Noting that under-5 infant deaths are 70% of deaths from deprivation in impoverished countries ( " Body Count . Global avoidable mortality since 1950 " 17 ) this translates to about 366,000 deaths in the first year of the Gaza Massacre , including 267,000 children , 31,000 women and 71,000 men 32 , 33 , horrific mass murder ignored by Zionist-subverted , genocide-complicit and mendacious Western Mainstream media 32-39 . <p> ( 14 ) . The century-long Palestinian Genocide and Palestinian Holocaust are now associated with about 2.5 million deaths from violence ( 100,000 ) and imposed deprivation ( 2.4 million ) i.e. similar in magnitude to Jewish deaths in the WW2 Jewish Holocaust ( 5-6 million deaths from violence and imposed deprivation ) 40-42 . For shocking comparisons of the Gaza Genocide and the Palestinian Genocide in general with Nazi atrocities see 6 , 7 . <p> ( 15 ) . The ancient , culturally important and huge city of Gaza has been reduced to uninhabitable rubble and its inhabitants have been subject to massive bombing ( 75,000 tons of US-supplied bombs ) and deadly substantial exclusion from water , food , shelter , winter clothing , sanitation , electricity , medicine and medical care , with 16% of the pre-war population killed in the first year . The Occupied Palestinian /Occupier Israeli Reprisals Death Ratio was 6,407/308 = 21 in the period 2008-6 October 2023 ) 43,44 but in the first year since 7 October 2023 has been 366,000/1,139 = 321 ( ignoring the huge IDF killing of Israelis on 7 October 2023 , and 32 times greater than the Reprisals Death Ratio of 10 ordered by Nazi leader Hitler and effected in the 1944 Ardeatine Cave Massacre in Rome ) 45 . And lest we forget Zionazi-devastated Lebanon with an Occupied/Occupier Reprisals Death Ratio in the latest Zionazi invasion of 3,823/70 = 55 46 , 47 . Nazi is as Nazi does . Terrorist is as terrorist does . Zionism is Zionazism , Apartheid Israeli Nazism without gas chambers but with mass murder of children , mothers , women and men . <p> ( 16 ) . Before and after 7 October 2023 serial war criminal and Zionazi Apartheid Israel has been grossly violating 15 international laws and conventions 8 , notably the UN Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide ( " acts committed with intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group " ) 48 and " Articles 55 and 56 of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War ( the Fourth Geneva Convention ) that unequivocally state that an Occupier must provide its conquered Subjects with life-sustaining food and medical requisites " to the fullest extent of the means available to it " 49 . <p> ( B ) . International Law , ICC and ICJ referrals and genocide-complicit countries not prepared to act on the ICC arrest warrants . <p> Wonderful exponent of human rights and peaceful action , Mahatma Gandhi , stated what is obvious to all decent human beings ( 1938 ) : " Why should they the Jewish Zionists not , like other peoples of the earth , make that country their home where they are born and where they earn their livelihood ? Palestine belongs to the Arabs in the same sense that England belongs to the English or France to the French . It is wrong and inhuman to impose the Jews on the Arabs . What is going on in Palestine today can not be justified by any moral code of conduct " 50 . <p> 10 years later the Universal Declaration of Human Rights ( UDHR ) was adopted in 1948 by the UN General Assembly ( UNGA ) 51 . However the settler colonialist invader Zionazis , having seized and substantially ethnically cleansed 78% of Palestine in 1948 seized all of Palestine in 1967 and removed Occupied Palestinians from all the Human Rights set out in the 30 Articles of the UDHR . Of particular note in the present context are Article 1 ( All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights . They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood ) , Article 2 ( Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration , without distinction of any kind , such as race , colour , sex , language , religion , political or other opinion , national or social origin , property , birth or other status . Furthermore , no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political , jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs , whether it be independent , trust , non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty ) , Article 3 ( Everyone has the right to life , liberty and security of person ) , Article 13 ( ( 1 ) . Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each state , ( 2 ) . Everyone has the right to leave any country , including his own , and to return to his country ) , and Article 14 ( ( 1 ) . Everyone has the right to a nationality . ( 2 ) . No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality nor denied the right to change his nationality ) 51 . <p> In 1947 the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 181 ( the " Partition Plan " , November 29 , 1947 ) called for the partition of Palestine into two states , one for 630,00 Jews ( 630,000 ) and one for Indigenous Palestinians ( 1,324,000 ) , but this was rejected by the genocidally racist , egregiously mendacious and endlessly thieving Zionazis who seized 78% of the land and expelled 800,000 Palestinians or 60% of the Indigenous Palestinian population . Now about 90% of Palestine has been ethnically cleansed by the Zionazis who , with continuing violent ethnic cleansing in Gaza and to a much lesser extent in the West Bank , are heading towards 95% ethnic cleansing ( see US ambassador to Israel and the UN , Tom Pickering 2 ) . <p> In 2016 Resolution 2334 of the United Nations Security Council ( UNSC ) ( 13 December 2016 ; unanimously supported except for the Obama-instructed US abstention ) ruled that that Israel 's establishment of settlements in Occupied Palestinian territory since 1967 , including East Jerusalem , had no legal validity , constituting a flagrant violation under international law and a major obstacle to a 2-state solution . Racist White Australia , a non-member of the UNSC and a craven US lackey , opposed Resolution 2334 53-55 . <p> In December 2022 the United Nations General Assembly ( UNGA ) requested the ICJ to give an advisory opinion relating to the legality of the Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories . This was opposed by the US and its racist lackeys , including racist White Australia . The ICJ advisory opinion ( 19 July 2024 ) was that the Palestinian territories constitute one political unit and that Israel 's occupation since 1967 , and the subsequent creation of Israeli settlements and exploitation of natural resources , are illegal under international law . The court also ruled that Israel should pay full reparations to the Palestinian people for the damage the occupation has caused and determined that its policies violate the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination 56 . <p> On 17 November 2023 South Africa , Bangladesh , Bolivia , Comoros and Djibouti sent a war crimes referral of Israel to the ICC 57 . A year later the ICC issued arrest warrants for Benjamin Netanyahu , Yoav Gallant and for 3 Hamas officials ( however the Hamas officials had all been killed in the ongoing Gaza Massacre ) 58 . Amnesty International : " One month after the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) ordered " immediate and effective measures " to protect Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip from the risk of genocide by ensuring sufficient humanitarian assistance and enabling basic services , Israel has failed to take even the bare minimum steps to comply " 59 . The horrific killing , maiming and traumatizing of Gazans by violence and egregiously imposed deprivation continues while the world looks on . <p> 125 countries signed up to the Rome Statute and the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) . Wikipedia : " The Rome Statute established four core international crimes : genocide , crimes against humanity , war crimes , and the crime of aggression . Those crimes shall not be subject to any statute of limitations . Under the Rome Statute , the ICC can only investigate and prosecute the four core international crimes in situations where states are " unable " or " unwilling " to do so themselves . The jurisdiction of the court is complementary to jurisdictions of domestic courts . The court has jurisdiction over crimes only if they are committed in the territory of a state party or if they are committed by a national of a state party . An exception to this rule is that the ICC may also have jurisdiction over crimes if its jurisdiction is authorized by the United Nations Security Council " 60 . States Parties to the ICC are accordingly obliged to arrest these child- , women- and mother- killing Zionazis . <p> The 125 countries that have signed up to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) are all obliged to act on the ICC arrest warrants 60 . The ICC said it had found ' reasonable grounds ' to believe that the Israeli officials were responsible for starvation in Gaza . Countries refusing to act on the ICC-issued arrest warrants for the Zionazi war criminals Benjamin Netanyahu and Yoav Gallant include ( a ) serial war criminal countries that reject the authority of the ICC ( Apartheid Israel and the US ) and ( b ) ICC signatory countries already rejecting the ICC arrest warrants ( neo-fascist Hungary and new Vichy France ) . Countries not unequivocally stating that they will act on the ICC arrest warrants include genocide-complicit neo-Nazi Germany , and genocide-complicit , and genocide-denying neo-Nazi and pro-Apartheid Australia 61 . <p> International Law expert Francesca Albanese is unequivocal : " The International Criminal Court should have acted much earlier ... We should have seen these people before the International Criminal Court ... This is what justice is about . Instead , they 3 Hamas officials proposed for arrest warrants were killed ... There should be more in the dock , in my view . And it 's taking ages . This is because the political pressure on the international justice system is extreme ... And we see pressure on the prosecutor , pressure on the judges . Israel is trying to obstruct it by moving exceptions against the independence of the judges . And the US is making pressure through open threats ... We might lose what we have , what we have built . Multilateralism is on the edge , and international law is on a knife 's edge . It 's about us , all of us students , doctors , professors , journalists , ordinary people in the street to protect it if our elected government officials do n't do that " 62 . <p> Professor Janina Dill ( a professor of International Law at the University of Oxford ) : " Currently any state that diplomatically or materially supports Israel 's war in Gaza risks supporting crimes against humanity and war crimes . It 's really quite clear to me that third states should take this as a really relevant piece of information in deciding whether they put themselves in legal jeopardy in supporting Israel 's war " 1 . The ICC in issuing arrest warrants for Netanyahu and Gallant declared in particular that " They bear criminal responsibility for the war crime of starvation as a method of warfare ... The Chamber considered that there are reasonable grounds to believe both individuals intentionally and knowingly deprived the civilian population in Gaza of objects indispensable to their survival , including food , water , and medicine and medical supplies , as well as fuel and electricity , from at least 8 October , 2023 , to 20 May , 2024 ? 63 . <p> As sketched below , the Gaza Genocide-complicit and ICC-rejecting neo-Nazi countries have an appalling record of invading other countries and war crimes within living memory . Provided for each country is a Genocide Score given for most perpetrators as " The occupation-related 1950-2005 avoidable deaths from imposed deprivation in nations variously occupied in the post-WW2 era by the specified invading country " ( for details see 17 ) . <p> ( 2 ) . United States of America . The US wo n't act on the ICC arrest warrants -- it is not a signatory to the Rome Statute and rejects the authority of the ICC . The US is a horrendous serial invader of other countries and has invaded 72 countries ( 52 since WW2 and many repeatedly ) , has committed 469 invasions from 1798 onwards , has committed 251 invasions since 1991 , and has 800 military bases in over 70 countries 17 , 18 , 67- 75 . In the 21century alone 32 million Muslims have died from violence ( 5 million ) and imposed deprivation ( 27 million ) in 20 countries invaded by the US and the US Alliance since the US Government 's 9/11 false flag atrocity that killed 3,000 Americans 27 , 28 , 76-83 . However 1.7 million Americans die avoidably each year from " life-style choice " and ' political choice " reasons and about 40 million Americans have died thus since 9/11 72 . The long-term accrual cost of the 21st century US wars has been about $6 trillion 18 , 81 . Thus since 9/11 the US has spent $6 trillion on killing over 30 million Muslims abroad ( mostly children ) instead of trying to keep 40 million Americans alive 81-83 . America , Apartheid Israel and Hungary were among 14 countries that voted No to a 27 October 2023 UNGA resolution for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza . Germany , Australia , Ukraine and the UK were among a further 45 countries who abstained . As of 3 November 2023 , reported Palestinian deaths in the latest and most dreadful Gaza Massacre totalled about 11,000 killed in Gaza or buried in rubble , and 1,500 Palestinian fighters killed in Israel , this carnage as reprisals for 1,139 Israelis killed on 7 October 2023 ( most probably killed by the IDF 25 , 26 ) for an Occupied/Occupier Reprisals Death Ratio of 12,500/1,139 = 11 at this early stage of the Gaza Genocide 84 . The geriatric child-killer Genocide Joe Biden/Kid-Killing Kamala ( KKK ) Harris Administration unforgivably supplied 75,000 tons of bombs to the genocidal Zionazis 85-87 . Genocide Score : 82 million 17 . <p> ( 3 ) . France . France is a signatory to the Rome Statute and the ICC but despicably rejected acting on the ICC arrest warrants on the bizarre grounds that Israel is not a signatory and that the matter is " a legally complex issue " 89 . This is like saying that serial killers should not be arraigned if they do n't think that what they are doing is wrong . When asked whether he thought that Australian PM had lied to France over abrupt cancellation of a huge , ongoing submarine deal , French president Emmanuel Macron famously replied " I do n't think , I know " 90 . Decent Humanity if asked if it thinks France has made itself complicit in the Gaza Genocide would surely likewise reply " I do n't think , I know " . France has invaded 80 countries since 800CE 68 , 91 . France devastated the Americas , Africa , South Asia , South East Asia and Oceania with slavery , subjugation , exploitation , and racist settler colonialism 17 . Indeed France contributed to the Palestinian Genocide by joining Britain in the 1916 Sykes-Picot Agreement that carved up the Arab and largely Muslim Middle East between non-Arab and non-Muslim Britain and France and disastrously permitted the genocidally racist UK to give the ancient country of Palestine to proto-Nazi Ashkenazi Jewish Zionists in 1917 . During WW2 Vichy France collaborated with the Nazis with 22 % of the pre-WW2 French Jewish population being killed 40 , 92 . After WW2 , violent French resistance to decolonization and Indigenous self-determination devastated Algeria and Vietnam in particular 17 . France , the home of Liberty via the French Revolution has denied freedom , justice and human rights to the sorely oppressed Palestinians in 76 years of fervently supporting Apartheid Israel and hence the vile crime of Apartheid . France joined a neo-Nazi club of 50 countries including Australia , Germany , Hungary , the UK , Ukraine , and the US that disgracefully and unforgivably voted No to the annual UNGA Anti-Nazism Resolution -- even Zionazi Apartheid Israel voted Yes for 6 million obvious reasons 93 . The new Vichy France stinks of complicity in the mass murder of Palestinians in Gaza ( mostly children ) -- ergo , do n't buy French perfume . Genocide Score : 142 million 17 . <p> ( 4 ) . Hungary . The authoritarian , pro-Apartheid Israel and hence pro-Apartheid Hungarian Prime Minister , Viktor Orb ? n , has declared that he would invite Netanyahu to visit and defy the ICC arrest warrant 61 . The racist and neo-fascist President Javier Milei of Argentina has likewise rejected the ICC arrest warrants 61 , noting that both Hungary and Argentina have appalling records of genocide in the 20th and 19th century , respectively 17 , and both belong to the 35 member , all European , anti-Arab anti-Semitic , anti-Jewish anti-Semitic and holocaust-ignoring International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance ( IHRA ) that has been condemned by over 40 anti-racist Jewish organizations . Hungary sided with Nazi Germany in WW2 17 . In 1944-1945 German and Hungarian Nazis attempted to exterminate the Jewish Hungarian population with 28% of the pre-war Jewish population being murdered 40 , 92 ( I come from a very famous Jewish Hungarian family but our property in Buda and Pest has not been returned ) . Hungary was among 14 countries that voted No to a 27 October 2023 UNGA resolution for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza . Hungary also voted No to the annual UNGA Anti-Nazism Resolution in 2022 93 . Genocide Score : 0.2 million Jewish Hungarians killed by German and Hungarian Nazis in WW2 . <p> ( 5 ) . Germany . Neo-Nazi Germany has fervently supported Apartheid Israel from 1948 onwards . German reparations for Nazi war crimes were committed to Zionazis doing to the Indigenous Palestinians what the Nazi Germans had done to Jews , Gypsies and Slavs ( 30 million killed in the WW2 European Holocaust , 23 million in the WW2 Soviet Holocaust ) . An evidently unrepentant neo-Nazi Germany has supplied 30% of the weapon imported by Apartheid Israel 62 and has an ugly record of persecuting Palestinians and their supporters . Zionism is genocidal racism and Nazism without gas chambers but with killing , expulsion and highly abusive confinement of unwanted Indigenous people in concentration camps like the Gaza Concentration Camp and West Bank ghettoes . Indeed I have carefully documented a shocking list of 52 Zionist- and Apartheid Israeli-Nazi Germany comparisons 95 . Prior to 7 October 2023 neo-Nazi Germany supported genocidally racist neo-Nazi Apartheid Israel in 12 ways was subsequently complicit in the Gaza Genocide in 11 ways 96 . Germany has supplied 30% of Apartheid Israeli arms imports , the US 69% . In particular Germany supplied 5 submarines to carry Apartheid Israeli nuclear-armed missiles 96 . Together with Australia , the UK , France and a total of 49 countries , neo-Nazi Germany abstained from the annual UNGA anti-Nazism Resolution in 2021 ( the US and Ukraine voted No ) 94 but with 51 other US Alliance countries ( including Australia , France , Hungary , the US , the UK and Ukraine ) actually voted No to the resolution in 2022 93 . Neo-Nazi Germany fervently supports Apartheid Israel and denial of human rights to Indigenous Palestinians . Anti-racist Jewish American scholar Professor Bertell Ollman ( NYU ) : " An all out struggle against Zionism by Jews , therefore , is also the most effective way to fight against real anti-Semitism . Furthermore , if Zionism is indeed a particularly virulent form of nationalism and , increasingly , of racism and if Israel is acting toward its captive minority in ways that resemble more and more how the Nazis treated their Jews , then we must also say so . For obvious reasons , the Zionists are very sensitive about being compared to the Nazis ( not so sensitive that it has restrained them in their actions but enough to bellow " unfair " and to charge " anti-Semitism " when it happens ) . Yet , the facts on the ground , when not obscured by one or another Zionist rationalization , show that the Zionists are the worst anti-Semites in the world today , oppressing a Semitic people as no nation has done since the Nazis " 97 . The neo-Nazi German Government obscenely persecutes those supporting Palestinians human rights but fervently supports Apartheid Israel and hence the vile crime of Apartheid . The Nazi-style Right is resurgent in present day neo-Nazi Germany . Germany wo n't say what it will do over the ICC warrants . Thus Matthias Goldmann , ( professor of International Law at EBS University of Business and Law in Wiesbaden and Oestrich-Winkel ) : " Germany is in a dilemma here . On the one hand , it wants to support the ICC , but on the other hand , it has very close historical and political ties with Israel . And the German government is now somehow trying to get itself out of this situation , " 98 . Genocide Score : 30 million Slavs , Jews and Roma killed in WW2 by Nazi Germany . <p> ( 6 ) . Australia . Racist White Australia is second only to the US as a fervent supporter of Apartheid and hence for the utterly vile crime of Apartheid . The cowardly , Zionist-perverted and US lackey Australian Labor Government will not say whether it will act on the ICC arrest warrants . However the far-right Coalition opposition rejects acting on the ICC warrants . Thus Susan Ley ( Deputy Liberal leader of the Liberal Party-National Party Coalition Opposition ) : " Australia agrees with the US that the ICC does not have jurisdiction over these matters . It 's a position that we all used to hold , it 's a position I expect the government to adhere to . I know that Australians would be troubled today to see this targeting of a democratically elected leader who is trying to protect his country from terrorists " 99 . <p> Conversely , the Australian Palestinian Advocacy Network ( APAN ) : " Despite the ongoing genocide in Gaza , the Australian government has persistently refused to take a definitive stance , failing to either condemn the atrocities by Israel or uphold its obligations to prevent genocide , under international law . While we welcome Foreign Minister Penny Wong taking a different approach to the US , and saying that Australia respects the ICC and international law -- in response to news of the arrest warrants -- we urge the government to go further and commit to enforcing them . While calling for a ceasefire and humanitarian relief without naming the perpetrators and the victims , Wong 's statement sidesteps Australia 's responsibility to uphold international law and hold war criminals accountable . Australia 's inaction and complicity has gone on for far too long in the face of stark evidence of Israel 's unrelenting violence against Palestinians . Australia must publicly and urgently declare that it will honour its commitments under the Rome Statute , comply with the ICC 's arrest warrants , and support all international justice mechanisms " 100 . The anti-racist Jewish Council of Australia : " The International Criminal Court has issued arrest warrants for the Israeli prime minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , and the country 's former defence minister Yoav Gallant for alleged war crimes relating to the Gaza war . In light of these developments , and the worsening conditions imposed on Palestinians in Gaza , and the West Bank , the Jewish Council of Australia calls on the Government to immediately cut all military ties and place sanctions on Israel . The Albanese Government must also place travel bans on those suspected of war crimes and clarify that it will arrest Netanyahu and Gallant if they enter Australia . These actions would be in line with Australia 's obligations under international law " 101 . <p> However a 2002 Australian law gives the power to the attorney general ( presently a Jewish Zionist ) to veto any action on the ICC warrants . David Hurst : " Legal experts say a ' carve-out ' clause in the law relating to extraditions June 2002 could let the attorney general decline to enforce arrest warrants issued under international law " 102 . Don Rothwell ( international law , Australian National University ) commenting on a provision allowing the Australian Attorney general to refuse an ICC arrest warrant : " The provision is sufficiently broad that the attorney general could exercise such a discretion to ensure that an ICC arrest warrant is not acted upon in the case of certain persons where the Australian government of the day took the view that the arrest warrant had no merit .. It was sufficient for the Howard government to win over doubters in the party room and Australia became an original party to the Rome Statute on its entry into force on 1 July 2002 " . Douglas Guilfoyle , ( professor of law and international security at the University of New South Wales Canberra ) : " Australia has an obligation under international law to execute any ICC warrant it receives and surrender suspects to the court . Obviously , failure to comply in practice would usually breach international law . But there may be cases where the attorney general has a genuine need for discretion , including cases where Australia may be faced with competing extradition requests from another state or states for the same suspect " 102 . As of 2 November 2024 the 2-party preferred vote in Australia 's excellent compulsory and preferential voting system is 52.1% Coalition ) versus 47.9% for Labor . In the May 2022 elections Labor won government with 52.1% versus 47.9% for the Coalition 103 . If the election results in May 2025 reflect the present polling then child- , mother- and women -- killing war criminals Netanyahu and Gallant will be very safe to visit fervently pro-Apartheid Israel and hence pro-Apartheid Australia . Genocide Score : 2 million 17 . <p> ( 7 ) . United Kingdom(UK) . The racist UK enabled the genocidal settler colonialism that wrecked Palestine and is now remorselessly heading to total genocide in Gaza 1 , 5 , 104 and to completely obliterating the physical testament to the remarkable and important 4,000 year history of Gaza and Palestine 9-12 . In a bloody 1,000 year history the British have invaded 193 countries ( nearly every country in the world ) in a deadly , greed-driven rampage of invasion , occupation , slavery , genocide and settler colonialism 68 , 104 . The UK abstained from the UNGA Anti-Nazism Resolution in 2021 but voted No in 2022 -- Nazi is as Nazi does and Neo-Nazi is as neo-Nazi does 93 , 94 . The UK Foreign Secretary David Lammy has stated that he would continue to talk and meet with Benjamin Netanyahu after the ICC issued the arrest warrant , but that he would comply with the ICC 's request to arrest Netanyahu if he entered the UK 105 . Genocide Score : 727 million 17 . <p> It must be noted that Apartheid Israel , the US , France , Germany , Hungary , Argentina , Australia and the UK are all members of the all-European International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance ( IHRA ) that is anti-Arab anti-Semitic and anti-Jewish anti-Semitic ( by falsely defaming anti-racist Jews , Palestinians , Arabs and Muslims as assertedly " anti-Semitic " ) , holocaust denying ( by ignoring all WW2 holocausts other than the WW2 Jewish Holocaust ) and pro-Apartheid ( by fervently supporting Zionazi Apartheid Israel ) 106 . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Final comments . <p> The subtitle of my 2024 book " Free Palestine . End Apartheid Israel , Human Rights Denial , Gaza Massacre , Child Killing , Occupation and Palestinian Genocide " 107 lists 6 key things that must happen to free Palestine . However the simplest vital thing that could happen immediately and without negotiation is restoration to all Palestinians of all the human rights set out in the 30 Articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 51 . Full human rights for all is an utterly unexceptional proposition for decent human beings who are guided by the core Kindness and Truth ethos of Humanity but is utterly rejected by the genocidally racist , egregiously mendacious and endlessly thieving Zionazis . <p> Rejection of full human rights for all by neo-Nazi Apartheiders led the world to unite in ultimately successful sanctions that brought down the Apartheid regime in South Africa with establishment of a secular , democratic state . The genocidal neo-Nazi Apartheid Israeli regime must be removed and immediately replaced by a unitary , secular , and democratic state with all human rights for all , equal opportunity for all , respect , justice , economic justice , truth-telling , reconciliation , return of refugees , zero tolerance for racism , internationally guaranteed security ( initially with existing armed forces and foreign peace keepers ) , removal of nuclear weapons , recompense , reparations , and the unhindered freedom of all citizens to go anywhere in Palestine from the river to the sea 108 . <p> Whether the serial war criminals Benjamin Netanyahu and Yoav Gallant actually face the ICC or not , their war crimes trials ( if necessary conducted in absentia ) will document the shocking truths of the Gaza Genocide and the century-long , Jewish Israeli-imposed Palestinian Genocide and Palestinian Holocaust ( 2.5 million Palestinians killed by violence , 0.1 million , and imposed deprivation , 2.4 million ) . Meanwhile the appalling US- and US Alliance-backed killing continues through US-supplied bullets and bombs and deadly Jewish Israeli-imposed deprivation . All decent people around the world must resolutely act ( a ) by informing everyone they can , and ( b ) by urging , applying and enforcing rigorous Boycotts , Divestment and Sanctions ( BDS ) against genocidally racist Apartheid Israel and all people , politicians , parties , collectives , corporations and countries supporting this Zionazi abomination . <p> The arrest warrants by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant are a diplomatic disaster for Israel , reported The Economist , ... <p> New York ( Quds News Network ) - Tanya Haj Hassan , a paediatric intensive care doctor who addressed UN member states on the 2024 International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People on Tuesday , shared ... 
@@118334856 <h> American Voters : Ignorant , Insouciant , or Both ? <h> Share : <p> In the US presidential election on 5 November 2024 , American voters provided people in the United States and elsewhere a stupendous gift : the ouster of the Joe Biden-Kamala Harris administration . Simultaneously , the voters bequeathed fellow Americans and people of the world the nightmare of four more years of Donald Trump . <p> Prior to the election , I asked whether Americans would vote for genocide ? Clearly , if a voter was paying attention , which is , arguably , a sine qua non for a person about to responsibly cast a vote , then a voter would have been aware that a genocide was ( and still is ) being perpetrated by the Jewish State against Palestinians , and that this genocide was ( and still is ) being abetted by the US government . The Democratic administration headed by proud Zionist Joe Biden ( aka Genocide Joe ) and his partner in genocide , Kamala Harris , have been integral to the carrying out of the genocide . The main opponent , or the only opponent as the US monopoly media portrays it , was another arch Zionist , Donald Trump of the Republican Party who pledged to support Israeli war aims . <p> Was it damned if you do and damned if you do n't ? <p> No . As pointed out previously , a voter could have selected a candidate opposed to horrific Israeli war crimes against Palestinians ; for example , Cornel West , Libertarian Chase Oliver , and candidate Jill Stein . <p> So , Americans did not have to cast a vote for a candidate who backs genocide . <p> Given the overwhelming casting of votes for the genocide-abetting Harris and Trump , one possible conclusion is that Americans were ignorant of the consequences of what their vote would support . More sinister is that Americans knew that their vote would further the Jewish Israeli genocide of Palestinians . If so , this would signify that Americans voters have a lack of compassion for other humans , insouciance for the Other , or a hatred of the Other . It might be argued that Americans merely voted for the candidate who they considered would be best for the economy and a better life at home in the US . However , were that so , it would still be damning , as it would indicate their personal economic fortunes take precedence over their country destroying the lives and economy of other human beings . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The US election produced a damning result . And with Trump loading his incoming cabinet with Zionists this augurs poorly for a peaceful and loving world . <p> Given the composition of many western governments which are indifferent to the plight of Palestinians , it can be surmised that the voting class of such countries display likewise , a lamentable ignorance or insouciance . <p> Kim Petersen is an independent writer . He can be emailed at : kimohp at gmail.com . <p> The arrest warrants by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant are a diplomatic disaster for Israel , reported The Economist , ... <p> The International Criminal Court ( ICC ) has issued arrest warrants for child- , mother- and women-killing Jewish Israeli monsters Benjamin Netanyahu and Yoav Gallant over their key roles in the ongoing Gaza ... <p> New York ( Quds News Network ) - Tanya Haj Hassan , a paediatric intensive care doctor who addressed UN member states on the 2024 International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People on Tuesday , shared ... 
@@118339738 <p> In 2009 , Boulos reportedly ran unsuccessfully for a parliamentary seat in Lebanon . He has maintained close connections within Lebanon 's Christian political circles , partly due to his father-in-law 's significant financial support of the Free Patriotic Movement , a Christian party aligned with Hezbollah . <p> President-elect Donald Trump announced the appointment of Dr. Massad Boulos , a prominent Lebanese-American businessman and father-in-law to Tiffany Trump , as Senior Adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern Affairs . <p> " I am proud to announce that Massad Boulos will serve as Senior Advisor to the President on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs , " Trump shared on TRUTHSocial . <p> Highlighting Boulos ' extensive experience , Trump praised his legal expertise , international business acumen , and his role in fostering Republican values and coalitions with Arab American communities . <h> Trump Picks Senior Adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern Affairs <p> Boulos played a pivotal role in engaging the Arab American community during Trump 's campaign . He spearheaded numerous meetings across Michigan and other areas with significant Arab populations , working to address community concerns and shift support . <p> His efforts contributed to flipping some of the 300,000 Arab American and Muslim voters in Michigan , who had previously backed Joe Biden in 2020 but became disillusioned with his policies regarding Israel , Gaza , and Lebanon . <p> These meetings often included appearances by Richard Grenell , a former acting Director of National Intelligence , who was well-received by attendees . <h> Who Is Massad Boulos ? <p> Massad Boulos , a Lebanese-born businessman , moved to Texas as a teenager to attend the University of Houston . He began his career by joining his family 's automotive ventures in Nigeria , eventually rising to leadership roles at SCOA Motors and Boulos Enterprises . <p> He earned a degree from the University of Houston and eventually became a U.S. citizen . His family has a storied history in Lebanese politics , with connections to various factions , including Hezbollah . <p> In 2009 , Boulos reportedly ran unsuccessfully for a parliamentary seat in Lebanon . He has maintained close connections within Lebanon 's Christian political circles , partly due to his father-in-law 's significant financial support of the Free Patriotic Movement , a Christian party aligned with Hezbollah . <p> In an October interview , Boulos clarified his political stance , asserting that he is " not affiliated with any party in Lebanon " but has relationships with various Lebanese Christian leaders . He also disputed earlier claims by Arab News and the Associated Press that he had previously run for parliament . <p> Boulos described himself as a " friend " of Lebanese politician Suleiman Frangieh , leader of the Marada Movement , who has been endorsed by Hezbollah as a presidential candidate . Notably , Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah publicly supported Frangieh 's candidacy in 2023 before Nasrallah 's death in a late-September Israeli airstrike on Beirut . <p> Boulos is the father of Michael Boulos , who married Tiffany Trump in 2022 . Recently , he has been instrumental in Donald Trump 's presidential campaign , focusing on strengthening support among Arab American voters , particularly in Michigan . <p> According to Axios , Boulos has also served as a key intermediary between Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and Trump , facilitating communication during critical moments in the campaign . <p> This combination of business acumen , political connections , and outreach efforts has positioned Boulos as a significant figure within both the Trump campaign and broader Middle Eastern political discussions . <p> Boulos has been described as a " dealmaker " and a strong advocate for peace in the Middle East . Trump praised him as a valuable asset to the administration , capable of representing U.S. interests effectively . <p> Massad Boulos ' appointment underscores Trump 's focus on fostering strategic relationships within the Arab American community and navigating the intricate political dynamics of the Middle East . His background in business and politics positions him as a key figure in shaping the administration 's policies in the region . 
@@118341929 <p> Beirut : Hezbollah leader Naim Qassem declared a ' great victory for the resistance ' , asserting that his group had thwarted Israel 's efforts to eliminate Hezbollah and undermine the resistance . <p> " We won because we prevented the enemy from ending Hezbollah and the resistance , " Qassem proclaimed during his first televised speech since the ceasefire with Israel came into effect early Wednesday morning , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> Reflecting on the Israeli ground offensive that began 64 days ago , Qassem acknowledged that the initial attacks had caused about ten days of confusion within Hezbollah . However , he emphasised that the group quickly regrouped , regained its strength , and re-established its command and control systems , eventually launching strikes on Israel 's home front . <p> Qassem described the outcome as " a great victory for the resistance over the Israeli enemy , surpassing even the victory of the July 2006 war , " referencing the 34-day conflict between Hezbollah and Israel that ended with a United Nations-brokered ceasefire . <p> On the ceasefire agreement , Qassem clarified that it " is not a treaty or a new accord , but rather a framework to implement UN Resolution 1701 " . <p> He also underlined the coordination between Hezbollah and the Lebanese army in ensuring the agreement 's execution . " The army will oversee security within Lebanon and along its borders , while the resistance remains strong and retains its right to self-defence , " he stated . <p> Qassem also reaffirmed Hezbollah 's unwavering support for Palestine , noting that this commitment would continue through various means . <p> The Israeli cabinet on Tuesday night approved a ceasefire deal with Lebanon , paving the way for an end to a nearly 14-month conflict tied in great part to the ongoing one in the Gaza Strip . ( IANS ) 
@@118343575 <p> The Covid- pandemic exposed the vulnerability of global supply chains ( GSCs ) . The subsequent geopolitical crises , including the Suez Canal blockage in 2021 , the ongoing Israel-Gaza conflict , and the Russia-Ukraine conflict , have further destabilized the already fragile ecosystem of GSCs . <p> These current situations characterised as VUCA ( Volatility , Uncertainty , Complexity , and Ambiguity ) , has profoundly affected GSCs , eroding its resilience and reliability . <p> Despite the debilitating impact of disruptions on India 's shipping industry , the path to building resilience in the face of VUCA lies in acknowledging India 's pivotal role and harnessing a collaborative global effort . <p> By recognizing the interconnectedness of global supply chains and the effects of VUCA , India can leverage its strategic position to foster a unified response , promoting a more robust and adaptable shipping ecosystem . Through collective action and international cooperation , India can transform these vulnerabilities into strengths , ensuring a more resilient and sustainable future for its shipping industry . <p> To build resilience against VUCA , strategic alliances within container shipping provide a blueprint . By improving schedule reliability from 60 per cent to 90 per cent , these alliances enable shippers to plan their export-import ( EXIM ) operations more effectively . <p> India can become a key player in stabilizing global supply chains by initiating modernization of ports , enhancing inland connectivity , and promoting the ' Make in India ' campaign . <h> VUCA resilience <p> For developing countries , VUCA resilience requires a balanced approach combining self-regulation and organized trade regulation . There is a critical need for the shipping industry to build trust among stakeholders , including freight forwarders , non vessel operating common carriers , and the broader trade network . <p> India , as a major exporter with a strong MSME base , can play a pivotal role by driving greater transparency in logistics costs , promoting stability in freight rates , and leading the push for collective crisis management within the global trade network . <p> Moreover , global forums like the International Maritime Organization ( IMO ) and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development ( UNCTAD ) must prioritize discussions on regulatory frameworks to manage future disruptions . India can champion better global regulatory standards , protecting developing economies ' interests . <p> In September 2022 , the government launched the National Logistics Policy to enhance the country 's resilience to VUCA challenges through targeted processes , actions , and technological interventions . <p> This improved India 's logistics ranking from 44 to 38 globally . The government also focuses on enhancing port performance and promoting transparency and efficiency in the logistics market by establishing a service improvement group to address issues impacting ease of doing business . <h> Tech initiatives <p> On the technology front , a Unified Logistics Interface Platform ( ULIP ) is being developed , with the marine version -- Sagarsethu already operational . Infrastructure improvements are a priority , with the PM GatiShakti initiative leveraging geospatial technologies to plan multi-modal infrastructure projects . <p> The development of multi-modal logistics parks , seamless last-mile road/rail connectivity to ports , and guidelines for boosting domestic ship building and container manufacturing are key initiatives . <p> Additionally , the government recently approved the establishment of 12 industrial corridors , which will further boost manufacturing and exports . <p> In conclusion , GSC disruptions should be viewed as a challenge for global economy , requiring global cooperation based on geoeconomic considerations more than geopolitical ones , to withstand the high VUCA waves . <p> Therefore , amidst trend toward regionalization and strategic trade positioning in this new era of trade dynamics , a global solution through collaboration in times of conflict is essential . The Global South , in particular , must collectively develop strategies to mitigate these disruptions . <h> Comments <p> Comments have to be in English , and in full sentences . They can not be abusive or personal . Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments . <p> We have migrated to a new commenting platform . If you are already a registered user of TheHindu Businessline and logged in , you may continue to engage with our articles . If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments . Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle . <p> Sign into Unlock benefits ! <p> Access 10 free stories per month <p> Access to comment on every story <p> Sign up/Manage to our newsletters <p> Get notified by email for early preview to new features , discounts &amp; offers <p> Looks like you are already logged in from more than 3 devices ! <p> To continue logging in , remove at least one device from the below list 
@@118343972 <h> UN halts aid shipments through Gaza 's main crossing after looting <p> Deir Al-Balah , Dec 1 : ( AP ) The UN agency for Palestinian refugees said Sunday it is halting aid deliveries through the main cargo crossing into the war-ravaged Gaza Strip because of the threat of armed gangs who have looted recent convoys . It blamed the breakdown of law and order in large part on Israeli policies . The decision could worsen the humanitarian crisis in Gaza as the cold , rainy winter sets in , with hundreds of thousands of Palestinians living in squalid tent camps and reliant on international food aid . Experts were already warning of famine in the territory 's north , which Israeli forces have almost completely isolated since early October . Philippe Lazzarini , the head of UNRWA , the main aid provider in Gaza , said the route leading to the Kerem Shalom crossing is too dangerous on the Gaza side . Armed men looted nearly 100 trucks travelling on the route in mid-November , and he said gangs stole a smaller shipment on Saturday . Kerem Shalom is the only crossing between Israel and Gaza that is designed for cargo shipments and has been the main artery for aid deliveries since the Rafah crossing with Egypt was shut down in May . Last month , nearly two-thirds of all aid entering Gaza came through Kerem Shalom , and in previous months it accounted for an even larger amount , according to Israeli figures . In a post on X , Lazzarini largely blamed Israel for the breakdown of humanitarian operations in Gaza , citing " political decisions to restrict the amounts of aid , " lack of safety on aid routes and Israel 's targeting of the Hamas-run police force , which had previously provided public security . ( AP ) <h> Follow us <h> About Us <p> The Shillong Times first appeared as a tabloid weekly on 10th August 1945 under the editorship of Late Sudhindra Bhusan Chaudhuri . In 1958 it was converted to a Daily . Owing to financial constraints , within six months it reverted back to a weekly . 
@@118345357 <h> Israel-Hamas war : White House not there yet on ceasefire , hostage deal , says US NSA <h> Story highlights <p> Earlier on Sunday , Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar said there were indications progress could be made on a deal securing the release of hostages by Hamas in Gaza . <p> United States ( US ) National Security Advisor ( NSA ) Jake Sullivan said on Sunday that the White House was working on a ceasefire and hostage deal in the war between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip but " was not there yet . " <p> " We are working actively to try to make it happen . We are engaged deeply with the key players in the region , and there is activity even today , " NSA Sullivan told NBC . <p> " There will be further conversations and consultations , and our hope is that we can generate a ceasefire and hostage deal , but we 're not there yet , " he added . <h> The Gaza war and failed ceasefire talks <p> The war in Gaza began last year after Hamas launched an unprecedented attack against Israel on October 7 , 2023 , killing 1,200 people . Israel struck back hard at the Gaza Strip , killing more than 44,000 people , mostly civilians , as per Hamas ' claims . 
@@118345387 <p> FILE PHOTO : Displaced Palestinians make their way as they flee areas in northern Gaza Strip following an Israeli evacuation order , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , in Jabalia , October 6 , 2024 . Photograph : ( Reuters ) <h> Story highlights <p> We are pausing the delivery of aid through Kerem Shalom , the main crossing point for humanitarian aid into Gaza . The road out of this crossing has not been safe for months . On 16 November , a large convoy of aid trucks was stolen by armed gangs , UNRWA head Philippe Lazzarini said in a post on X. <p> The UN agency for Palestinian refugees has halted the delivery of aid through the key Kerem Shalom crossing between Israel and Gaza after it became " impossible " , its chief said Sunday . <p> " We are pausing the delivery of aid through Kerem Shalom , the main crossing point for humanitarian aid into Gaza . The road out of this crossing has not been safe for months . On 16 November , a large convoy of aid trucks was stolen by armed gangs , " UNRWA head Philippe Lazzarini said in a post on X. <p> " Yesterday , we tried to bring in a few food trucks on the same route . They were all taken , " he added , warning hunger was " rapidly deepening " in Gaza . <p> Lazzarini listed how the humanitarian operation had become " unnecessarily impossible " due to " the ongoing siege , hurdles from Israeli authorities , political decisions to restrict the amounts of aid , lack of safety on aid routes and targeting of local police " . <p> It comes after the United Nations warned Friday that Gaza has descended into anarchy , with hunger soaring , looting rampant and rising numbers of rapes in shelters as public order falls apart . <p> Lazzarini called on Israel to ensure aid flowed to Gaza and said the country " must refrain from attacks on humanitarian workers " . <p> According to UNRWA 's count , only 65 aid trucks per day had been able to enter Gaza the past month , compared to a pre-war average of 500 . <p> Israel , which imposed a total siege on the Hamas-ruled territory in the early stages of the war last year , blames the inability of relief organisations to handle and distribute large quantities of aid . <h> ' Catastrophic ' <p> During a press visit Thursday , the Israeli army showed aid shipments at the crossing and said they wait at the Gaza side of Kerem Shalom for " months " . <p> Lazzarini 's announcement follows an Israeli strike Saturday that killed three contractors of the US charity World Central Kitchen , including one who Israel 's military said was involved in Hamas 's October 7 , 2023 attack . <p> The United Nations said last month that 333 aid workers had been killed since the start of the war in October of last year , 243 of them employees of UNRWA . <p> Lazzarini reiterated his call for a ceasefire " that would also secure the delivery of safe and uninterrupted aid to people in need " . <p> Jean-Francois Corty , president of France-based charity Medecins du Monde , warned UNRWA 's decision was a " very bad omen " and " tragic in a context that was already so " . <p> Claire Nicolet , head of mission in Jerusalem for Doctors Without Borders , told AFP the situation was " already catastrophic " and that UNRWA 's announcement was the " straw that broke the camel 's back " because the UN agency was " the backbone of aid for the supply of food and equipment " . <p> The Hamas attack on October 7 , 2023 resulted in the deaths of 1,207 people on Israeli side , most of them civilians , according to an AFP tally based on official Israeli figures . <p> At least 44,429 Palestinians , a majority of them civilians , have been killed in Israel 's military campaign in the Gaza Strip since the war began , according to data provided by the Hamas-run health ministry in the territory . The UN has acknowledged these figures as reliable . <p> Disclaimer : This story has been published from a news agency feed with minimal edits to adhere to WION 's style guide . The headline may have been changed to better reflect the content of the story or to make it more suitable for WION audience . 
@@118357037 <p> President-elect Donald Trump demands the release of hostages held by Hamas in Gaza before his January 2025 inauguration , warning of severe consequences . Over 100 hostages remain in captivity from the October 2023 Hamas attacks . Israeli officials express gratitude , but negotiations remain tense as Hamas links release to an end of Israeli military operations . <p> File photo : US President-elect Donald Trump ( Picture credit : AP ) <p> President-elect Donald Trump issued a stern warning to Hamas on Monday , demanding the immediate release of hostages held in Gaza . Writing on his Truth Social platform , Trump stated that if the hostages were not freed before his inauguration on January 20 , 2025 , there would be " all hell to pay " in the Middle East . " Everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire World , in the Middle East - But it 's all talk , and no action ! Please let this Truth serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be all hell to pay in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity " , he wrote . <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied history of the United States of America . Release the hostages now ! , " he added , calling for the immediate release of those still in captivity.This marks Trump 's most direct comments on the issue since his election in November.According to Israeli officials , over 250 hostages were taken during Hamas-led attacks on October 7 , 2023 . Of these , approximately 100 remain in captivity , with some confirmed dead , reported the news agency Reuters . <p> The assault , which left 1,200 dead , is considered the deadliest in Israel 's history.Israeli response and ongoing negotiationsIsraeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu or his office has not commented on Trump 's statement as of now . However , President Isaac Herzog expressed gratitude , posting on X , " Thank you and bless you , Mr. President-elect @realDonaldTrump . We all pray for the moment we see our sisters and brothers back home ! " <p> Hamas has reportedly linked any release of hostages to an end to Israel 's military operations in Gaza and a complete withdrawal from the territory . The Biden administration has engaged in extensive diplomacy , brokering a fragile ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon , but Hamas has shown little willingness to negotiate for a broader peace deal , according to US officials cited by news agency AP.Devastating toll of warThe conflict , which began with Hamas ' surprise attack , has devastated Gaza . As per Reuters , Israeli airstrikes have killed over 44,400 Palestinians , with nearly 90 per cent of Gaza 's 2.3 million residents displaced , as per the territory 's health ministry . The war has also levelled significant portions of the enclave.Trump 's threats came just hours after Israel confirmed the death of Omer Neutra , a dual US-Israeli citizen , whose remains are believed to still be in Gaza . Meanwhile , Hamas released a video of Edan Alexander , an Israeli soldier held hostage , urging Trump to secure the freedom of those captured.Trump 's allies hope for a hostage release deal before his return to office , but the situation remains tense , with both Israel and Hamas showing no signs of compromise . <h> About the Author <p> At TOI World Desk , our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock . With an unwavering commitment to accuracy , depth , and timeliness , we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world , delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers . Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world . 
@@118357058 <p> Captain Omer Maxim Neutra , a 21-year-old Israeli soldier , was confirmed dead after being taken hostage by Hamas during their attack on October 7 , 2023 . Neutra , a tank platoon commander from New York , served in the IDF . Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu assured efforts to return the bodies of all hostages , including Neutra 's , for proper burial . <p> Omer Maxim Neutra ( Picture credit : The Times of Israel ) <p> The Israeli military confirmed Monday that captain Omer Maxim Neutra , 21 , was killed during the October 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack . His body is being held hostage in the Gaza Strip.Neutra 's death has been confirmed 14 months after the Hamas attack . The military 's rabbinate declared his death based on new intelligence . It was previously believed that Neutra was alive and held hostage.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu offered condolences to Neutra 's family and promised to return his body to Israel . " Omer was a man of values , blessed with talents and a Zionist in every sense of the word , " said Netanyahu . " He immigrated to Israel to enlist in the IDF , chose a combat path and was chosen to command and lead . " <p> Netanyahu added , " Israel will not rest or be silent until we return him home for a Jewish burial , and we will continue to act resolutely and tirelessly until we return all of our hostages . " <p> Who was Neutra ? Omer Maxim Neutra , a " lone soldier " from New York , US , served as a tank platoon commander , according to the Israel-based news outlet The Times of Israel . His parents were not in Israel . He commanded a tank platoon in the 7th Armored Brigade 's 77th Battalion . His tank crew included <p> Sgt Shaked Dahan as the driver , Sgt Nimrod Cohen as the gunner , and Sgt Oz Daniel as the loader.From basketball team captain to Israeli armyNeutra was a Knicks fan while growing up in Long Island , New York , and served as captain of his high school basketball team , as well as the volleyball and soccer teams when needed.Neutra postponed his plans to attend Binghamton University to join the Israeli army after spending a gap year in Israel in 2020 . His parents , Ronen and Orna Neutra , last contacted him on October 6 . After learning of the October 7 attacks , Ronen Neutra repeatedly attempted to reach his son . Eventually , the family learned of his capture . <p> " They said that he 's been taken captive , " said Orna Neutra , as quoted by The Times of Israel . " So many have died that it 's just insane to feel relief thinking that your son is not dead , you know ? " Ronen Neutra previously told CBS News that his son was interested in peace-building and planned to return to Long Island to attend college . " That 's just the kind of person he is , " said Ronen Neutra . <p> How was Neutra killed ? On the morning of October 7 , 2023 , Neutra and three other crew members were stationed in a tank near the Gaza border , by the southern community of Nahal Oz , according to The Times of Israel . They came under RPG and explosive attack during Hamas 's assault . The attack resulted in their abduction to Gaza , as widely circulated footage captured Hamas terrorists dragging the soldiers out of the smoking tank.Neutra 's tank crew member , driver Sgt Shaked Dahan 's death was confirmed in November 2023 , and loader Sgt Oz Daniel 's in February 2024 . Now , after 14 months , Neutra 's death has also been confirmed . According to the IDF , all three were killed on October 7 , 2023 . Other hostages held by HamasOf the 251 hostages Hamas abducted on October 7 , 2023 , an estimated 97 remain captive in Gaza , including the bodies of at least 35 confirmed dead , according to the Israeli Defense Forces ( IDF ) . Hamas released 105 civilian hostages during a week-long truce in late November 2023 , after the prior release of four other hostages . Israeli troops rescued eight hostages , and the bodies of 37 hostages have been recovered , three of whom died accidentally during escape attempts , according to a report by The Times of Israel.In addition to the October 7 hostages , Hamas also holds the remains of two IDF soldiers killed in 2014 and two Israeli civilians who entered Gaza separately in 2014 and 2015 , said the report . These civilians are believed to be alive . <h> About the Author <p> At TOI World Desk , our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock . With an unwavering commitment to accuracy , depth , and timeliness , we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world , delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers . Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world . 
@@118357644 <h> In Short <p> US President-elect Donald Trump said on Monday there would be " hell to pay " in the Middle East if hostages held in the Gaza Strip were not released prior to his January 20 inauguration . <p> During their deadly 2023 attack on Israel , Hamas-led militants captured more than 250 people , according to Israeli tallies , including dual Israeli-American nationals . <p> Around half of the 101 foreign and Israeli hostages still held incommunicado in Gaza are believed to be alive . <p> advertisement <p> Making his most explicit comments on the fate of the hostages since his election in November , Trump said on social media : <p> " If the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity . " <p> Trump added , " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied history of the United States of America . " <p> Hamas has called for an end to the war and total Israeli withdrawal from Gaza as part of any deal to release remaining hostages . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said the war will go on until Hamas is eradicated and poses no more threat to Israel . <p> On Monday , Hamas said that 33 hostages in Gaza had been killed during the almost 14-month-old war between the Palestinian militant group and Israel in the enclave , without giving their nationalities . 
@@118358251 <h> Who Was Captain Omer Maxim Neutra ? US-Israeli Hostage Killed By Hamas <p> Born and raised on Long Island , New York , Neutra put his plans for higher education at Binghamton University on hold to join the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) . A year spent in Israel inspired him to enlist , despite his parents being in the US . <p> Captain Omer Maxim Neutra , the 21-year-old US -Israeli soldier , who was missing since the October 7 Hamas attacks , was confirmed to have been killed amid the attack and his boyd was being held hostage in the Gaza Strip . <h> Who Was Captain Omer Maxim Neutra ? <p> Neutra , a " lone soldier " from New York -- a term used because his parents were not in Israel -- served as a tank platoon commander in the 7th Armored Brigade 's 77th Battalion . <p> Born and raised on Long Island , New York , Neutra put his plans for higher education at Binghamton University on hold to join the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) . A year spent in Israel inspired him to enlist , despite his parents being in the US . <p> Omer 's parents , Orna Neutra and Ronen Neutra , were very vocal about the need to quickly secure a hostage release deal with Hamas . They made public appearances in Washington after meeting with administration officials at the White House . <p> How Did Omer Die ? On the morning of October 7 , 2023 , Neutra was stationed in a tank on the Gaza border near the southern community of Nahal Oz . He served as the tank commander , with Sgt. Shaked Dahan as the driver , Sgt. Nimrod Cohen as the gunner , and Sgt. Oz Daniel as the loader . <p> During the assault on southern Israel , their tank was attacked by Hamas terrorists with RPG fire and explosive devices . All four were then abducted and taken to Gaza . <p> Dahan 's death was confirmed in November 2023 , and Daniel 's in February . Now , after 14 months , Neutra 's death has also been confirmed . According to the IDF , all three were killed on October 7 , 2023 . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sent his condolences to Neutra 's family and vowed that his body would be brought back to Israel for burial . <p> " Omer was a man of values , blessed with talents and a Zionist in every sense of the word , " said Netanyahu . " He immigrated to Israel to enlist in the IDF , chose a combat path and was chosen to command and lead . " <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from World and around the world . 
@@118358736 <p> Anti-government fighters take a position near the northern Syrian town of Tal Rifaat on December 1 , 2024 APF <p> The Bashar al-Assad regime gave up control of Aleppo within three days , thanks to the ongoing war in Ukraine and the Lebanon conflict that saw ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah . <p> On the heels of Arab Spring , the rebels in Syria captured Aleppo for the first time in 2012 and held on to it until 2016 when the Assad troops took back control of the city . The rebels , Hei'at Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , first gained prominence in 2020 when Turkey intervened in Syria 's Idlib region on its border . <p> Rebels in Syria have breached the outskirts of Aleppo after staging two car bomb attacks - Syrian Observatory for Human Rights <p> Russia has been fighting in Ukraine since 2022 while in the Middle East , Israel has defeated Iranian proxies Hamas and Hezbollah in Gaza and Lebanon respectively . <p> With its allies engaged in continuous war elsewhere , the supply of arms to the Syrian troops were depleted , allowing the rebels to take advantage of the situation . <p> Russia had earlier withdrawn its S-300 missile systems from Syria when the Ukraine war started . <p> Tel Aviv has also pounded Iranian proxies in Syria following the Hamas attack on Israel . Iran is cautious in intervening in the new offensive in Syria as it could prompt further bombing from Israel side . <p> On Monday , it was reported that the Assad forces have bolstered security in Hama , which lies south of Aleppo , and pushed back the rebels advancing towards them . Russia has also supported the regime with airstrikes and supply of heavy equipment . <p> In Aleppo province , the rebels have taken control of a military base on the city outskirts and 15 villages besides cutting of the highway that connects Aleppo and Damascus . 
@@118358761 <h> Hezbollah fires at Israeli-held border zone its first strike since ceasefire began <p> PTI Updated : December 03 , 2024 00:04 IST <p> Jerusalem , Dec 2 ( AP ) Hezbollah fired into a disputed border zone held by Israel on Monday in the first attack by the Lebanese militant group since its ceasefire with Israel took hold last week , saying the volley was a warning shot after what it called repeated Israeli violations of the truce . Israeli leaders threatened to retaliate , further straining the fragile US- and French-brokered ceasefire . The truce called for a 60-day halt in fighting , aiming to end more than a year of war between Hezbollah and Israel that 's part of a wider regional conflict sparked by the devastating Israel-Hamas war in Gaza . The Hezbollah volley came after multiple Israeli strikes in Lebanon in recent days that have killed at least four people and wounded others . Lebanon 's parliament speaker , Nabih Berri , accused Israel of violating the truce more than 50 times in recent days , with strikes , demolition of homes near the border and overflight of drones . Israel has said its strikes were in response to unspecified Hezbollah violations . There was no immediate comment from the United States and France , which lead a commission meant to monitor adherence to the ceasefire 's terms . The Israeli military said Hezbollah launched two projectiles toward Mount Dov , a disputed Israeli-held territory known as Shebaa Farms in Lebanon , where the borders of Lebanon , Syria , and Israel meet . Israel said the projectiles fell in open areas and no injuries were reported . Hezbollah said in a statement that it fired on an Israeli military position in the area as a " defensive and warning response " after what it called " repeated violations " of the ceasefire deal by Israel . It said complaints to mediators tasked with monitoring the ceasefire " were futile in stopping these violations " . <p> Israel threatens retaliation <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the Hezbollah fire was " a serious violation " and vowed , " Israel will respond forcefully . " Defence Minister Israel Katz said the volley " will be met with a harsh response " . Under the ceasefire deal , Iran-backed Hezbollah has 60 days to withdraw its fighters and infrastructure from southern Lebanon , pulling back north of the Litani River , which is about 30 km from the Israeli-Lebanese border . During that time , Israeli troops are also to withdraw to their side of the border . On Monday before the Hezbollah fire , Israeli carried out at least four airstrikes and an artillery barrage on different parts of southern Lebanon , including a drone strike that killed a person on a motorcycle , according to Lebanese state media . Another strike killed a corporal in the Lebanese security services , state media said . The Israeli military said it carried out operations in the south against Hezbollah militants , " thwarting threats to Israeli civilians , " without elaborating . Another drone strike Monday hit a Lebanese army bulldozer , wounding a soldier , in the northeastern town of Hermel -- far north of the Litani River . The Israeli military said it hit military vehicles operating " in the area of a Hezbollah missile manufacturing site " . The Lebanese army , which stayed on the sidelines of the Israel-Hezbollah fighting , is supposed to deploy additional troops in the south alongside UN peacekeepers to ensure Hezbollah 's withdrawal from the area . An Israeli strike on Saturday in the southern Marjayoun area killed two people , according to state media . In a video statement , Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar said Israel was striking Hezbollah fighters in the south when they are identified or seen attempting to move weapons . " Their presence south of the Litani River is the most basic violation of the understandings ... They must move north immediately , " he said , despite the 60-day period the deal gives for a pullback . <p> Fears of hunger mount in Gaza <p> In Gaza , meanwhile , alarm over increasing hunger was growing -- with the amount of food allowed in by Israel plunging over the past two months , compounded by a decision Sunday by the UN to halt aid deliveries from the main crossing into the territory because of the threat of armed gangs looting convoys . Experts already warned of famine in the northernmost part of Gaza , which Israeli forces have almost completely isolated since early October . Muhannad Hadi , the UN humanitarian coordinator for the occupied Palestinian Territories , warned on Monday of " severe hunger surging " in central and southern Gaza as well . Speaking at a conference in Cairo aimed at increasing aid , he said more than 1 million people have not received their monthly food rations since July . Israel 's campaign in Gaza , triggered by Hamas ' Oct 7 , 2023 attack on southern Israel , has driven almost the entire population of the territory from their homes . Hundreds of thousands of Palestinians now live in squalid tent camps and reliant on international aid . In a tent camp in the central Gaza town of Deir al-Balah , Palestinians lined up at makeshift mud ovens trying to buy a few loaves of flatbread for their families . With the price of flour mounting because of scarcity , the bakers -- women displaced from further north -- said they could bake less bread , and families could afford far less . " They divide them to their children , one loaf every day , " said Wafaa al-Attar , who was selling bread she made in a clay oven . A distant relative also selling bread , Enayat al-Attar , said some people cut up a single piece of flatbread among themselves . " Flour is running out for everyone , " she said . The Israeli military said it allowed 40 trucks carrying 600 tons of flour for the World Food Programme to enter the southern Gaza Strip on Sunday night , as well as 16 other food trucks . Israel has said it is working to increase the flow of aid . November saw an increase in the average number of humanitarian trucks it let into Gaza , up to 77 daily from 57 the month before , according to official Israeli figures . But the levels are still nearly the lowest of the entire 15-month war . And the UN says less than half of that actually reaches Palestinians because Israeli military restrictions , fighting and robberies make it too dangerous to deliver the aid . On Sunday , the UN agency for Palestinian refugees , known as UNRWA , said it is halting aid deliveries through Kerem Shalom , the main artery for aid , because of repeated robberies . It blamed the breakdown of law and order in large part on Israeli policies . ( AP ) SCYSCY <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI ) 
@@118358816 <h> Arms producers saw revenue up in 2023 with wars in Ukraine and Gaza , new report says <h> Major companies in the arms industry saw a 4.2 per cent increase in overall revenue in 2023 with sharp rises for producers based in Russia and the Middle East , a new report said Monday.The report by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute , or SIPRI , said revenues from the top 100 arms companies totalled USD 632 billion last year in response to surging demand related to the wars in Ukraine and Gaza.It said that smaller producers were more efficient at responding to new demand . By contrast , some major companies such as US-based Lockheed Martin Corp . <p> Major companies in the arms industry saw a 4.2 per cent increase in overall revenue in 2023 with sharp rises for producers based in Russia and the Middle East , a new report said Monday . <p> The report by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute , or SIPRI , said revenues from the top 100 arms companies totalled USD 632 billion last year in response to surging demand related to the wars in Ukraine and Gaza . <p> It said that " smaller producers were more efficient at responding to new demand . ' ' By contrast , some major companies such as US-based Lockheed Martin Corp . and RTX that were involved in complex , long-term contacts registered a drop in earnings . <p> The 41 US-based arms companies among the world 's top 100 saw revenues of USD 317 billion , a 2.5 per cent increase from 2022 , the report said . <p> Since 2018 , the world 's top five companies in the industry are Lockheed Martin Corp. , RTX , Northrop Grumman Corp. , Boeing and General Dynamics Corp . <p> Six arms companies based in the Middle East and in the world 's top 100 saw their combined revenues grow by 18 per cent , to a total of USD 19.6 billion . <p> " With the outbreak of war in Gaza , the arms revenues of the three companies based in Israel in the top 100 reached USD 13.6 billion , " the highest figure ever recorded by Israeli companies in the SIPRI reports , the institute said . <p> The slowest revenue growth in 2023 was in the European arms industry , excluding Russia . Revenue totalled USD 133 billion or 0.2 per cent more than in 2022 , as most producers were working on older , long-term contracts . <p> But smaller companies in Europe were able to quickly tap into the demand related to Russia 's war against Ukraine . <p> Russia 's top two arms companies saw their combined revenues increase by 40 per cent , to an estimated USD 25.5 billion . <p> " This was almost entirely due to the 49 per cent increase in arms revenues recorded by Rostec , a state-owned holding company controlling many arms producers , " the SIPRI report said . <p> ( This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed. ) 
@@118358854 <h> Trump 's Stern Warning : ' Hell to Pay ' Over Gaza Hostages <h> President-elect Donald Trump issued a stern warning about hostages in the Gaza Strip , stating there would be severe consequences if they were not released before his inauguration on January 20 . He vowed that those responsible would face unprecedented retaliation from the United States . <p> President-elect Donald Trump has issued a stern warning concerning hostages currently held in the Gaza Strip . With his inauguration looming on January 20 , Trump declared that there would be severe repercussions if the captives were not freed . <p> In a strong statement made via social media , Trump warned that those accountable would face an unprecedented response , stating , ' Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . ' <p> The comments underscore the gravity with which Trump views the situation , setting a tense prelude to his upcoming presidency . 
@@118358855 <h> Trump Demands Gaza Hostage Release Ahead of Presidential Term <h> Donald Trump , President-elect , demands the release of Israeli hostages held in Gaza , threatening consequences if not freed by January 20 , 2025 . Israeli President Herzog supports Trump 's stance . The conflict began with Hamas attacks on Israel , resulting in ongoing diplomatic efforts by the Biden administration for resolution . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> President-elect Donald Trump has issued a stern ultimatum , urging the release of Israeli hostages still held by Hamas in Gaza . Trump warned of severe consequences in the Middle East if they are not freed before his anticipated inauguration on January 20 , 2025 . <p> The Israeli government has remained largely silent on Trump 's demands , with only President Isaac Herzog publicly expressing gratitude for Trump 's support in a social media post . The war in Gaza escalated following an October 7 , 2023 , attack by Hamas militants , resulting in significant casualties and hostages . <p> The Biden administration , meanwhile , continues diplomatic efforts to mediate between Israel and Hamas , despite setbacks . They have yet to witness any commitment from Hamas towards negotiations . The ongoing conflict has led to significant Palestinian casualties and widespread displacement in Gaza . 
@@118359154 <p> " There is a need to stop ( incidents like Sambhal ) . I will tell the government of India to stop ( such acts ) because they can not throw the Muslims ( of India ) into the sea . Where will they throw 24 crore Muslims ? Treat Muslims as equals , that is what our Constitution stands for . If they fiddle with the Constitution , how will India survive , " Abdullah asked while speaking to reporters here . The National Conference ( NC ) president , who recently performed Umrah ( minor Hajj pilgrimage ) along with his son and chief minister Omar Abdullah and several of his colleagues , said no one was against the return of Kashmiri Pandits to the Valley . " Who is stopping Kashmiri Pandits from coming back ? Every political party has said they should return . It is their decision when they want to return . Our hearts are open for them . Even when I was the chief minister , when the situation was bad , we tried to bring them back , " he said . On demands seeking review of the reservation policy in Jammu and Kashmir , Abdullah said the government should review the same . " We will tell the government to review it . Reservation is for the underprivileged sections so that they can come up as equals , " he said . The NC government has formed a Cabinet sub-committee to look into the demands for rationalisation of reservations , which have gone up to 70 per cent in the Union Territory . On Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha last week firing two government employees for their alleged terror links , Abdullah said the government " will keep an eye on everything and go into why the two employees were terminated " . The veteran politician also welcomed the Israel-Lebanon ' ceasefire ' , but called for an end to attacks on Gaza , Syria and Iran as well . " It ( ceasefire ) is a very good step , but it is necessary to stop attacks jointly being carried out by Israel and America -- in Gaza , Syria and Iran , which are continuing even today . This is dangerous . They should immediately resort to ceasefire . " You must have watched the debates in the ( UN ) Security Council . If there is a purpose for ( the existence of ) Security Council , it should work on the directions given to Israel . They should enforce a ceasefire and allow humanitarian aid , " Abdullah said . On his recent religious pilgrimage , Abdullah said he not only prayed for Kashmir , but for the entire Muslim world . " The problems we are facing today , may Allah deliver us from these . May Allah guide us to the right path . I prayed that we stay away from evil and for the end of religious hatred that has spread in our country . I prayed for unity and harmony , " he said . ( Agencies ) 
@@118359249 <p> As the Reserve Bank of India gears up for its policy meeting , experts anticipate a status quo on rates but keep the case for a CRR cut alive . Meanwhile , the government is poised to roll out a new GDP series starting FY26 , promising a more current economic snapshot . <p> In government policy , the windfall tax on crude oil , petrol , diesel , and ATF exports has been scrapped , offering relief to exporters . Parliament also saw key discussions on India-China ties , alongside Cybercon insights revealing how fraudsters are preying on the booming stock market . Over ? 4,600 crore has been lost to trading scams in just the first nine months of 2024 , with fake apps and dubious schemes duping investors . <p> Internationally , the conflict in Gaza continues to escalate , with mounting casualties reported . Closer to home , the BJP is set to announce its pick for Maharashtra 's new chief minister on the eve of the swearing-in . <p> Stay tuned as we delve into these stories , from policy shifts and market moves to cybersecurity warnings and everything in between . <p> Nifty 50 extends gains for second session , reclaiming 24,250 led by heavyweights <p> The Nifty 50 rose on Monday , posting broad-based gains and ending in the green for a second consecutive session , driven by strong performances from heavyweight stocks such as Reliance , Infosys , and HDFC Bank . <p> The government on December 2 , informed Parliament about its decision to withdraw the windfall gains tax levied on the exports of crude oil , petrol , diesel , and ATF , with immediate effect . <p> Confirming the November 18 , newsbreak of CNBC-TV18 , the government , via Notifications Nos. 29/2024 and 30/2024 , issued with immediate effect the withdrawal of the windfall tax , i.e. , the special additional excise duty ( SAED ) levied on the production of crude and the export of ATF , as well as the SAED and Road and Infrastructure Cess ( RIC ) on the export of petrol and diesel . <p> Ola Electric led with 27,746 registrations , securing a 25.09% market share . However , its lead over rivals narrowed , with TVS close behind at 23.55% ( 26,036 registrations ) and Bajaj Auto at 22.59% ( 24,978 registrations ) . <p> November saw overall registrations fall by 18% compared to October , reflecting a post-festival slowdown . Ola Electric 's sales dipped sharply by over 40% , from 41,756 units in October to 27,746 in November . TVS and Bajaj fared better , with sales declines of 13.4% and 12% , respectively , indicating more stability . <p> Year-to-date , Ola Electric remains the leader , selling 392,176 vehicles and capturing 37% of the market . TVS trails at 19.5% with 201,966 units , while Bajaj Auto stands at 16.6% with 173,721 vehicles . Ather Energy , with over 1 lakh vehicles sold and an 11% share , also holds a significant position . <p> As per Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre data , in the first nine months of 2024 , Indians have lost close to ? 4,600 crore in stock market trading scams . Sandeep Walunj of Motilal Oswal , Ashutosh Naik of Groww &amp; cyber expert Ritesh Bhatia dives deep into the modus operandi of the scamsters &amp; how not to fall prey to scams . <p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is expected to make a statement in the winter session of Lok Sabha on Monday regarding the recent developments in India-China relations following the border disengagement agreement . <p> Israeli Attacks On Gaza Kill At Least 47 ; Around 108 Wounded <p> Israeli forces have killed at least 47 Palestinians &amp; wounded 108 in the last 24 hours , says Gaza 's health ministry . The death toll reached 44,429 , with more than 105,250 wounded . At least 10,000 people are still missing , likely dead and buried under rubble . <p> Maharashtra CM Live Updates : Mahayuti to declare new CM name on eve of swearing-in <p> The name of the Maharashtra chief minister will be announced on Wednesday , a day ahead of the swearing-in ceremony of the Mahayuti government , after the BJP elects its legislature party leader , a senior functionary said on Monday . <p> The BJP on Monday named Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and former Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani as central observers for its Maharashtra legislature party 's meeting , where the MLAs will elect their leader . <p> The government has decided to revise the base year for GDP estimates to 2022-23 , up from the current base year of 2011-12 . As reported by CNBC-TV18 in June , the 26-member Advisory Committee on National Accounts has been tasked with computing not only the new GDP series but also the CPI , IIP , WPI , and PPI ( Producers Price Index ) . <p> The new GDP series will likely be rolled out from February FY26 , according to sources . It will cover the FY26 Q3 estimate , FY26 second advance estimate , FY25 first revised estimate , and FY24 second revised estimate . Additionally , a new Consumer Price Index ( CPI ) series for inflation is also expected to be implemented from February FY26. 
@@118359779 <h> How Would Kanafani and Edward Said Position This Genocide In Gaza <h> ' Palestinian , you are on your own ! ' <p> Ghassan Kanafani and Edward Said remain two of the most influential Palestinian public intellectuals of our time . Much of their reputation derives from their critique of Zionism , colonialism , in its various forms , Arab despotism and oligarchy . The question is what would they have said about the current events in Palestine ? What would they have said about October 7th and the subsequent ongoing Genocide ? How would they have positioned this particular historical moment within the world of " representation and historical narrative " ? <p> Both Kanafani and Said would have started by reminding us that settler-colonial Israel was built on the ruins of the indigenous people of Palestine , whose livelihoods , houses , culture , and land had been systematically destroyed long before October 7 . ( Men in the Sun , The Land of Sad Oranges , The Question of Palestine , and The Politics of Dispossession are but a few of their visionary writings in this regard . ) <p> Said would have made it absolutely clear that It 's time for the international community to understand that the price Israel demanded for offering the Palestinians a form of limited administrative autonomy , i.e , less than a Bantustan , was a total surrender of any national struggle or agenda . ( As he did in " The Morning After " ) <p> And Kanafani would have reminded us that Genocide denial in Israel and the colonial West is aided by the overall negation of the Palestinians as a people . Genocide , Kanafani would have maintained , is being perpetrated in Gaza and denied both by Apartheid Israel and the United States . Because the mechanism of denial is so forceful in genocidal Israel and among its supporters in the colonial West , it is of utmost importance for the Palestinian people and the peoples of the global South to " bang on the walls of the tank " , so that they can be heard by people on the outside . <p> Both giant intellectuals would have reminded the world how it has been Apartheid Israel 's policy to erase the distinction between civilian and non-civilian targets through senseless , mass killings that have turned all Gaza , and now Lebanon , into one ' legitimate ' military target . <p> The escalation in military means by employing all possible killing machines the Israeli occupation forces possess . The escalation is conspicuous in the number of casualties : with each so-called military operation ( or rather , with each acceleration of the deliberate and planned Genocide ) , a much larger number of people get killed and wounded , especially children and women . The ' military operations ' have become a strategy in themselves in order to solve ' the Gaza problem " . <p> Said would have quoted Colonel Gabby Siboni who back in 2009 , told an academic conference at the Institute for National Security in Tel Aviv university that the Dahiyya doctrine ( an Israeli euphemism for unbridled destruction of Palestinian infrastructure and often , lives ) would apply to Gaza and that " ( it ) is meant to inflict damage that would take ages to recover from " . <p> But because , to quote Said , " where cruelty and injustice are concerned , hopelessness is submission , and therefore ... is immoral . " Therefore , resistance must become the rule . Kanafani 's literary texts are , as most of my Gazan students have told me , our " living reality " . Gaza IS the " land of sad oranges " where , in the words of a displaced student from Gaza City , Returning to Haifa is being enacted And All That 's Left is our will to resist/exist <p> This is why Said argued , eloquently , that " the power to narrate , or to block other narratives from forming and emerging , is very important to culture and imperialism , and constitutes one of the main connections between them . " Is this why we are writing our stories ? And why Genocide Israel is deliberately killing Palestinian academics , intellectuals , and journalists ? <p> Undoubtedly , both writers would have publicly raised " embarrassing questions , .. confronted orthodoxy and dogma ( rather than produced them ) , would not have been easily co-opted by governments or corporations , and whose raison d ' ? tre would have been to represent all those people and issues that are routinely forgotten or swept under the rug " , namely forgotten , slaughtered Gazans , as Said wrote in Representations of the Intellectual . But neither of them would have appeared on Piers Morgan 's genocide-washing program to answer his tired , racist clich ? d questions . <p> Let me close with a quote from another Palestinian intellectual giant , Mahmoud Darwish . This is a verse that offers what I believe is a combination of the best of Kanafani and Said 's visionary input : <p> " My prison guard looks me in the eye/ I can see his fear/ Like me , he knows that/ today 's warden is already tomorrow 's prisoner " . <p> Professor HAIDAR EID was in Gaza 's al-Aqsa University until recently . A witness to the ongoing genocide this renowned scholar has written several books , and raised his voice for justice for the Palestinians through the decades . The views expressed here are the writer 's own . 
@@118360028 <h> Asks party leaders to gear up for Urban Local Bodies , Panchayat elections <p> Srinagar , Dec 02 : Jammu and Kashmir National Conference president Dr Farooq Abdullah on Monday expressed concern over what he termed as growing insecurity among Muslims in India . He called for equal treatment for the country 's largest minority as guaranteed by the Constitution . Speaking to reporters here , Abdullah said Muslims in India feel unsafe , and this sentiment can not be ignored . " Where will you throw 24 crore Muslims ? Into the ocean ? Treat us equally ; that is what our Constitution stands for , " he said , urging the government to ensure inclusiveness and harmony . The former chief minister said the government should stop the survey of Sambhal and avoid actions that spread fear and division . " Hatred is growing in our country , and this must end , " he added , calling for measures to restore trust and brotherhood . He said international conflicts , like those in Gaza and Lebanon , also require immediate attention . " Ceasefires are necessary , and human aid should be allowed in affected areas , " he said . The NC chief said the government must ensure that reservation policies remain intact . " Reservation is essential for equality and upliftment . It was introduced to provide fairness , and that purpose should not be forgotten , " he said . He said that dismissals of government employees based on adverse reports need clarity . " No one should be fired without proper justification . The administration must provide transparent reasons , " he said . Dr Abdullah said Kashmiri Pandits are welcome to return to the valley . " Who is stopping them ? All groups here have extended their invitation . It is their decision when to return , and we respect that , " he said . The former CM said the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir 's statehood is long overdue . " What about statehood ? Ask the government where it stands . It 's time to fulfill this promise , " he said . Meanwhile , according to a party statement issued here , Dr Farooq addressed senior party leaders and stressed the importance of rigorous preparation for the upcoming Urban Local Bodies and Panchayat elections . He underscored the need to field young and educated candidates to ensure effective governance at all levels . " A government is strong only when the foundation of the party at the grassroots level is robust , " he said . The NC chief called for strengthening party cadres and working tirelessly for the welfare of the people of Jammu and Kashmir . 
@@118360215 <h> Russian President Vladimir Putin is expected to visit New Delhi next year for the 23rd India-Russia Annual Summit . <h> Advertisement <p> Russian President Vladimir Putin is expected to visit New Delhi next year for the 23rd India-Russia Annual Summit . On similar lines , Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Moscow on July 8-9 , 2024 , for the 22nd India-Russia Annual Summit . Kremlin aide Yury Ushakov said , " Our leaders have an agreement to hold meetings once a year . This time , it 's our turn . We received Mr. Modi 's invitation and we will certainly consider it positively . " <p> The visit comes at a critical juncture in global geopolitics . The " special operation " of Russia in Ukraine has crossed the 1000-day mark , with over 45,000 killed in the conflict between Hamas and Israel in Gaza , the rebel offensive against the Assad regime in Syria gaining ground , and the soon-to-be U.S. President ready to break the global supply chain and wage trade wars with states not to his liking . <p> India 's foreign policy stands firm on the pillars of strategic autonomy , and Moscow appreciates that . Despite pressure from India 's Western partners over Moscow 's war in Kyiv , New Delhi has remained independent in its approach towards the West and Russia . During his visit to Moscow last year , India 's Minister of External Affairs , Dr S. Jaishankar , hailed Russia as a " valued and time-tested " partner . His Russian counterpart , Sergey Lavrov , applauded India 's " responsible approach " to world affairs , particularly the war in Ukraine . <h> The Tightrope of Diplomacy : <p> India came under intense heat over its non-condemnation of the war in Ukraine . However , New Delhi 's play of cards ensured closeness to Russia while increasing its cooperation with the West . In 2023 , Modi was honoured with a state visit at the White House in June and an invitation from the Kremlin . <p> The G20 Summit , hosted by India in 2023 , was a " Triumph for Indian foreign policy " , as per Sergey Lavrov . Not only did n't India successfully pass the New Delhi Declaration , but it also navigated the political battlefield between the West , Russia , and the Global South . <p> In a statement , Lavrov , while batting for India 's permanent seat at the UNSC , said , " The G20 Summit in New Delhi that took place last year was truly a triumph for Indian foreign policy , the triumph for multilateral diplomacy , and it was possible primarily due to the chairmanship of G20 . It did n't allow the final communique to be one-sided ; it reflects the perfect balance of interest . " <h> Cheap Oil : Bring It In , Sell It Out <p> India overtook China as the largest importer of cheap Russian oil in July . Crude comprised 44% of India 's imports , crossing a record 2.07 million barrels daily ( bpd ) . According to data from the Ministry of Commerce and Trade , this is 4.2% higher than in June and 12% higher than a year ago . This is comparatively higher than China 's July imports of 1.76 million bpd per Chinese customs data . <p> However , India is not the only nation benefiting from Russian crude . Indian refiners are surfing on cheap oil , processing it for domestic needs and selling the excess to Europe . India 's crude oil exports to Europe between 2018-2019 and 2023-2024 have risen by 253788% . <p> In May of last year , German Ambassador to India Philipp Ackermann stated that receiving refined oil from India is " no problem " for Berlin . Months after India 's actions helped " stabilise " the world 's oil and gas markets , External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said he was " waiting for a thank you " from Europe . <h> Why Modi Is Important For Russia <p> Putin , during a press conference on the sidelines of the 22nd India-Russia Annual Summit , called Modi " a big friend " of Russia . Modi was further bestowed with Russia 's highest civilian honour , the " Order of Saint Andrew the Apostle , " in recognition of his efforts to enhance the Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership between the two nations . <p> The warm welcome in Russia underscored the importance of India , its support , its people , and its market for Moscow -- a relationship so " unique " that Washington believes can end the three-year-long war . Noting the growth in commerce , Putin and Modi agreed to a $100 billion bilateral trade goal by 2030 . In fiscal year 2023 -- 2024 , the total value of bilateral goods trade was $65.7 billion . In the most recent fiscal year , India 's imports from Russia totalled $61.4 billion , or 93% of its overall commerce , while its exports to Russia totalled $4.3 billion . <p> Similarly , India skilfully crafted a crucial agreement that had something for everyone during the G-20 meeting it held last year , allowing it to pass with ease . India successfully brought together the member countries ' disparate and competing interests , resulting in agreement and collaboration . <p> However , India has not been a one-sided supporter of Russia . Russia remains an essential partner for India , even as its relations with the U.S. are growing . It is doubtful that India-Russian ties will lose their strategic and economic importance . Russia does not criticise India 's strategy like Washington , which promotes a symbiotic relationship between the two . 
@@118374258 <h> Share : <p> Occupied Palestine ( Quds News Network ) - Former Israeli Defense Minister and military chief Moshe Ya'alon has asserted that Israeli forces are committing " ethnic cleansing " and " war crimes " in northern Gaza , adding they could face lawsuits at the International Criminal Court in The Hague . <p> In an interview with Kan News , Ya'alon was asked if he was retracting his remarks that " Israel is committing ethnic cleansing in the Gaza Strip . " <p> " I stand by this statement , " Ya'alon responded . <p> " The problem is not with the IDF soldiers . I am speaking on behalf of commanders serving in Gaza . They are being put in danger , and they will be exposed to lawsuits at the International Criminal Court . " <p> " I am compelled to warn about what is happening there . War crimes are being committed . Never has a democratic state faced trial at the International Criminal Court in The Hague for such actions , " he added . <p> " What I said reflects the calls to reduce Gaza 's population and the push for the return of settlements to that area , " referring to statements and calls made by Israeli Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich and National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir . <p> On Saturday , Ya'alon told Democrat TV , " The path we are being dragged down is occupation , annexation and ethnic cleansing in the Gaza Strip , " <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> " Transfer , call it what you want , and Jewish settlements , " he said . <p> Visibly surprised , journalist Lucy Aharish asked , " You just used a phrase I never thought I 'd hear from you -- ethnic cleansing in Gaza . Is that really what you think ? That we 're heading in that direction ? " <p> Ya'alon responded , " Why on the way ? What is happening there ? What is happening there ? There is no Beit Lahiya , there is no Beit Hanoun , they are currently operating in Jabalia and are essentially cleaning the area of ? ? Arabs . " <p> The arrest warrants by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant are a diplomatic disaster for Israel , reported The Economist , ... <p> The International Criminal Court ( ICC ) has issued arrest warrants for child- , mother- and women-killing Jewish Israeli monsters Benjamin Netanyahu and Yoav Gallant over their key roles in the ongoing Gaza ... 
@@118374259 <h> Share : <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - Maisara Salah , a journalist with Quds News Network , has been killed by Israeli forces in northern Gaza . Salah worked in the network 's editing and design department . <p> He was shot in the head and abdomen near Harithani School a few days ago , where he was covering the Israeli assault . The school had become a shelter for displaced families under dire humanitarian conditions . <p> After the attack , Salah was rushed to Kamal Adwan Hospital . Doctors determined he needed urgent surgeries . However , Israeli forces delayed his transfer to Al-Ahli Baptist Hospital for eight hours . The delay caused his condition to worsen . Salah died in an ambulance before reaching Al-Shifa Hospital . <p> Quds News Network mourned Salah in a statement . It condemned his killing as a direct result of Israeli aggression . " The occupation is fully responsible for his death , " the network said . " He was killed twice : first by their bullets , then by their denial of his right to treatment . " <p> The network called on international organizations to protect Palestinian journalists . It urged action to stop crimes targeting media workers in conflict zones . <p> The Palestinian Media Forum also issued a statement . It condemned Israel 's attacks on journalists , noting Salah 's death adds to a rising toll . Since October 7 , 2023 , Israel has killed 192 journalists in Gaza . <p> The forum criticized the global silence on these violations . It called for urgent international intervention to protect journalists and ensure their right to report safely . <p> Salah 's death highlights the dangers faced by Palestinian journalists . Despite the risks , they continue their work to reveal the truth about the ongoing genocide . <p> Full text of the statement by Quds News Network <p> th deep sorrow and grief , Quds News Network mourns the loss of its colleague , journalist Maisara Salah , who was murdered after being critically wounded by Israeli gunfire in northern Gaza . Salah was targeted during the ongoing Gaza war , where the occupation army continues to destroy infrastructure and take lives in countless brutal ways . <p> Salah was injured near Awni Al-Harthani School in northern Gaza after heavy Israeli shelling targeted the school , which was sheltering hundreds of displaced people . These civilians have been trapped for over two months under conditions of starvation and insecurity caused by the continuous military aggression . <p> Despite relentless efforts by medical teams at Kamal Adwan Hospital to save his life , the occupation state of Israel refused to allow his transfer to hospitals in Gaza City for essential treatment . On Saturday , November 30 , 2024 , after desperate attempts to move him to Al-Ahli Baptist Hospital or Al-Shifa Hospital , Israeli forces obstructed his ambulance for eight hours . Salah passed away due to delayed treatment , and his transfer was only permitted after his death . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Quds News Network holds the Israeli occupation army fully responsible for the death of journalist Maisara Salah , who was killed twice : once by direct injury and again by being denied timely medical care . <p> The network calls on human rights and international organizations to launch an immediate and thorough investigation into the ongoing war crimes committed by the occupation state of Israel against Palestinian journalists . These crimes have , to date , claimed the lives of more than 190 journalists in blatant violation of all international laws and norms . <p> The arrest warrants by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant are a diplomatic disaster for Israel , reported The Economist , ... <p> The International Criminal Court ( ICC ) has issued arrest warrants for child- , mother- and women-killing Jewish Israeli monsters Benjamin Netanyahu and Yoav Gallant over their key roles in the ongoing Gaza ... 
@@118374262 <h> Why Establishment Democrats Keep Getting Tulsi Gabbard Wrong <h> Share : <p> One of the most-used libelous labels of establishment Democrats is " Russian asset " , a term used to disparage those on the right and on the left opposed to continuing U.S. support for the war in Ukraine . Like many liberal conspiracy theories , such as the now-debunked Russiagate theory , which posited that Russia successfully interfered in the 2016 U.S. presidential election to help Donald Trump win , the " Russian asset " trope was , unsurprisingly , the brainchild of one Hillary Clinton . First used to attack Jill Stein following her 2016 campaign for President on the Green Party ticket , Clinton reused the same tired diatribe to attack Tulsi Gabbard , who sought the Democratic nomination for President 2020 . Now , after Donald Trump 's announcement that he has selected Gabbard to serve as his Director of National Intelligence , this same attack has captured the headlines of corporate media once again . <p> Fundamentally , liberals have failed in their attempt to disparage Tulsi Gabbard . Instead of banishing Tulsi Gabbard from the national stage through their fallacious attacks , Clinton and her ilk have crowned Tulsi Gabbard as a fighter against an elite political class whom most Americans , regardless of political affiliation , despise . It seems that , even after losing the 2024 election , Democrats have not learned that parading around Liz Cheney instead of reaching out to working class Americans is a recipe for failure . To be criticized by unpopular members of the " swamp " like Hillary Clinton and Neoconservatives like John Bolton is seen as a populist rite-of-passage . Liberals have failed to make any of their criticisms of Tulsi Gabbard stick because they simply can not understand that their criticisms are amplifying the most popular political opinions of an otherwise unpopular politician . <p> Democrats have for years adopted a strategy of " running to the right " when it comes to electoral politics in the hope that they can reach the elusive " center " of American politics . Unfortunately for the Democrats , they have sacrificed pursuing popular policies in favor of attempting to appeal to the " large , unspoken center " which , frankly , does not exist . This strategy is what ultimately led to Donald Trump " winning " in the eyes of the American people on the issue of foreign policy . In a poll conducted in September of 2024 by the Cato Institute , it became clear that most Americans in the swing states of Pennsylvania , Michigan , and Wisconsin believe that the United States is " too involved " in the affairs of other countries and is rapidly approaching World War Three . Similarly , Gabbard stated that one of the reasons why she left the Democratic Party was because she believed that the Democrats were leading America towards nuclear annihilation . When Gabbard announced that she was joining the Republican Party at a Trump rally in October , she stated that she was " joining the party of the people ... led by a president , who has the courage and strength to fight for peace " . <p> The Democrats failed to turn the American people away from Tulsi Gabbard because they have positioned themselves as the party of war . While Bill Clinton was lecturing Muslims in Michigan and imploring them to " vote blue no matter who " , Donald Trump was making the case for why he would be more likely to end the war in Gaza . If Democrats truly want to make the case for why the American people should reject Tulsi Gabbard , they must first become the party of peace . This is because Tulsi Gabbard is not truly anti-war or " America First " . While Tulsi Gabbard has led a crusade against continuing the war in Ukraine , she has remained loyal to the state of Israel even if she occasionally expresses minor disagreements with Netanyahu 's extremist government . Gabbard has even criticized Joe Biden and Kamala Harris for not being pro-Israel enough and has opposed a ceasefire . <p> The best argument against Tulsi Gabbard is that she is incapable of applying her " America First " critique of U.S. support for Ukraine to Israel . Gabbard is nearly identical to her new Neoconservative colleagues , who she supposedly despises , such as " little " Marco Rubio , Elise Stefanik and Pete Hegseth . Nevertheless , Democrats have conceded this argument through their embrace of deeply unpopular RINOs who endorsed Harris by the hundreds and their snubbing of the antiwar progressive movement . In truth , Democrats have aligned themselves with the Bush-Cheney faction of the Republican Party in order to stop Donald Trump , who they lampoon as a " fascist " . However , it was not Donald Trump who spied on American people via the Patriot Act or led the nation into a war in the Middle East under false pretenses ; that was Bush . Democratic hypocrisy when it comes to embracing the war hawk leftovers of previous Republican presidential campaigns and administrations has created the perfect political conditions for a Democratic defector like Tulsi Gabbard to gain prominence . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> If Democrats truly want to throw Tulsi Gabbard onto the garbage heap of history , the party must evolve quickly . If people like Hillary Clinton are allowed to dictate the direction of the party , it will be the Democratic Party itself thrown onto the garbage heap of history . To all liberals : if you want Tulsi Gabbard to be elected President in 2028 , keep doing what you are doing . But if you want to lead America forward , start by listening to its people . The choice is yours , and the clock is ticking . <p> J.D. Hester is an independent writer born and raised in Arizona . He has previously written for Antiwar.com , Front Porch Republic , and CounterCurrents.org . You can find him on his Substack , Hester Unfiltered . You can send him an email at email protected . Follow him on X. 
@@118378351 <h> Employee Terminations Under Government Scrutiny , Says Farooq Abdullah <p> SRINAGAR : National Conference ( NC ) President Farooq Abdullah on Monday stated that the government is closely monitoring the reasons behind the LG administration 's recent termination of two government employees . He emphasised that such actions will be thoroughly reviewed by the elected government to ensure fairness and avoid arbitrary decisions . <p> The Jammu and Kashmir government last week terminated two employees , including a schoolteacher , for alleged involvement in anti-national activities . <p> " The elected government is keeping a close eye on such developments and will thoroughly examine the reasons provided for these terminations . These actions can not be arbitrary , " Abdullah said . <p> Speaking to reporters after returning from Umrah , Abdullah expressed his hopes for an end to the hatred being spread among religions . <p> When asked about the ongoing surveys of mosques and shrines across the country , Abdullah termed it a " real problem . " He said , " I prayed to God as much as I could , asking for mercy to free us from these difficulties . For those working to increase hatred , I prayed that God blocks their paths . I urge the Indian government to stop divisive actions . Muslims , who are 240 million in number , can not simply be cast aside . Equal treatment for Muslims is essential , as our Constitution guarantees equality irrespective of religion or language . Any violation of the Constitution raises questions about India itself . " <p> Regarding demands from some Kashmiri Pandit organizations for separate colonies , Abdullah said Kashmiri Pandits are welcome to return home . " When I was Chief Minister , Article 370 was still in place , and we made every effort for their welfare . The difficult circumstances of that time were beyond anyone 's control . Now , no one stops the Kashmiri Pandits from returning . All political parties have welcomed them back . It is their decision when to return ; our hearts remain open to them . " <p> Abdullah also welcomed the ceasefire by Israel but called for an immediate halt to attacks on Syria and Iran . " The ceasefire in Israel is a positive step , and there has also been a ceasefire in Lebanon . However , what is urgently needed is a ceasefire in Gaza , where the situation remains dire . The actions by the U.S. and Israel in Syria and Iran are dangerous , and they , too , must move toward a ceasefire . If the UN Security Council has any purpose , Israel should act on its directions , allow humanitarian aid to enter the affected areas , and work towards peace , " he said . <p> On the issue of reservations , Abdullah refrained from detailed comments but noted , " The issue of reservations should be reviewed and provided to deserving groups , especially those from underprivileged backgrounds . Reservations were introduced to bring equality , and this goal must be upheld . " ( KNO ) 
@@118381126 <p> Omer Neutra , a Long Island native and IDF soldier , has been confirmed dead following Hamas ' attack on the Nova Music Festival in Israel on October 7 , 2023 . His family is grieving the loss after initially believing he was held hostage in Gaza . <p> Omer Neutra , a Long Island native , is being mourned by his family after he was killed during Hamas ' attack on the Nova Music Festival in Israel on October 7 , 2023 . <p> Israeli authorities confirmed that IDF soldier Omer Neutra was killed in the October 7 massacre , according to local media reports . <h> IDF says Neutra was killed in combat with terrorists <p> Originally from Plainview , Long Island , Neutra held dual Israeli and U.S. citizenship . His body is currently being held in Gaza . The 24-year-old 's family had recently observed what they believed to be his second birthday in captivity . Neutra , who had been kidnapped during attacks the previous year , was initially thought to be alive and held hostage . However , new intelligence from the IDF revealed he was killed in combat with terrorists . His remains were reportedly taken from the Gaza border . <p> Neutra 's parents have been vocal advocates for the release of hostages in Gaza , including their son . They recently participated in a rally held in Central Park and expressed frustration that the ceasefire in Lebanon was not accompanied by hostage releases . <h> Omer Neutra served as the commander of a tank <p> Neutra 's father , Ronen , emphasized the importance of prioritizing the hostage crisis , stating , " We feel it 's a missed opportunity , but now , after the election , the focus is back here in the United States and should continue to be the crisis in the Middle East . The hostages are the key to reducing the tension . " <p> On October 7 , 2023 , Neutra was serving as the commander of a tank stationed near the southern community of Nahal Oz , along the Gaza border . His crew included Sgt. Shaked Dahan , the driver ; Sgt. Nimrod Cohen , the gunner ; and Sgt. Oz Daniel , the loader . During Hamas ' assault on southern Israel , their tank was attacked with RPGs and explosive devices , after which all four soldiers were abducted to Gaza . <h> Netanyahu condoles killing of Omer Neutra <p> The Military Rabbinate , citing intelligence and forensic findings , confirmed Neutra 's death . In a statement , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu extended condolences to the Neutra family and pledged to recover his body for burial . " Omer was a man of values , blessed with talents and a Zionist in every sense of the word , " Netanyahu said . <p> Neutra spent his childhood in Long Island , where he was an avid Knicks fan and excelled in sports , serving as captain of his high school basketball , volleyball , and soccer teams . Inspired by a gap year spent in Israel in 2020 , he decided to defer attending Binghamton University to join the Israeli army . <h> Last spoke with family on October 6 <p> The Neutra family last spoke with Omer on October 6 , the day before the attack . When news of the violence broke , Ronen Neutra urgently tried to reach his son . <p> According to reports , 97 of the 251 hostages abducted by Hamas on October 7 remain in Gaza . Among these are the bodies of at least 35 confirmed dead by the IDF . Hamas released 105 civilians during a weeklong truce in late November , and eight hostages have been rescued alive by troops . Additionally , the remains of 37 hostages have been recovered , three of whom were mistakenly killed by the military during escape attempts . <p> Hamas also retains the bodies of two IDF soldiers killed in 2014 and holds two Israeli civilians believed to be alive after entering Gaza voluntarily in 2014 and 2015. 
@@118386802 <h> ICC lashes out at US , Russia over threats , accusations <p> The Hague , Dec 2 : The president of the International Criminal Court lashed out at the United States and Russia for interfering with its investigations , calling threats and attacks on the court " appalling " . " The court is being threatened with draconian economic sanctions by another permanent member of the Security Council as if it was a terrorist organisation , " Judge Tomoko Akane , in her address to the institution 's annual meeting , which opened on Monday . Akane was referring to remarks made by US Sen. Lindsey Graham , whose Republican party will control both branches of Congress in January , and who called the court a " dangerous joke " and urged Congress to sanction its prosecutor . " To any ally , Canada , Britain , Germany , France , if you try to help the ICC , we 're going to sanction you , " Graham said on Fox News . This marks the first time the global court of justice calls out a sitting leader of a major Western all . Graham was angered by an announcement last month that judges had granted a request from the court 's chief prosecutor Karim Khan to issue arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , his former defence minister and Hamas ' military chief for crimes against humanity in connection with the nearly 14-month war in Gaza . The decision has been denounced by critics of the court and given only milquetoast approval by many of its supporters , a stark contrast to the robust backing of an arrest warrant for Russian President Vladimir Putin last year over war crimes in Ukraine . Graham 's threat is n't seen as just empty words . President-elect Donald Trump sanctioned the court 's previous prosecutor , Fatou Bensouda , with a travel ban and asset freeze for investigating American troops and intelligence officials in Afghanistan . Akane on Monday also had harsh words for Russia . " Several elected officials are being subjected to arrest warrants from a permanent member of the Security Council , " she said . Moscow issued warrants for Khan and others in response to the investigation into Putin . The Assembly of States Parties , which represents the ICC 's 124 member countries , will convene its 23rd conference to elect committee members and approve the court 's budget against a backdrop of unfavourable headlines . The ICC was established in 2002 as the world 's permanent court of last resort to prosecute individuals responsible for the most heinous atrocities -- war crimes , crimes against humanity , genocide and the crime of aggression . The court only becomes involved when nations are unable or unwilling to prosecute those crimes on their territory . To date , 124 countries have signed on to the Rome Statute , which created the institution . Those who have not include Israel , Russia and China . The ICC has no police force and relies on member states to execute arrest warrants . US President Joe Biden called the warrants for Netanyahu and the former defence minister " outrageous " and vowed to stand with Israel . A year ago , Biden called the warrant for Putin " justified " and said the Russian president had committed war crimes . The US is not an ICC member country . France said it would " respect its obligations " but would need to consider Netanyahu 's possible immunities . When the warrant for Putin was announced , France said it would " lend its support to the essential work " of the court . Another member country , Austria , begrudgingly acknowledged it would arrest Netanyahu but called the warrants " utterly incomprehensible . " Italy called them " wrong " but said it would be obliged to arrest him . Germany said it would study the decision . Member Hungary has said it would stand with Israel instead of the court . Global security expert Janina Dill worried that such responses could undermine global justice efforts . " It really has the potential to damage not just the court , but international law , " she told The Associated Press . Milena Sterio , an expert in international law at Cleveland State University , told the AP that sanctions against the court could affect a number of people who contribute to the court 's work , such as international human rights lawyer Amal Clooney . Clooney advised the current prosecutor on his request for the warrants for Netanyahu and others . " Sanctions are a huge burden , " Sterio said . Also hanging heavy over the meeting in the Hague , are the internal pressures that Khan faces . In October , the AP reported the 54-year-old British lawyer is facing allegations he tried to coerce a female aide into a sexual relationship and groped her . Two co-workers in whom the woman confided reported the alleged misconduct in May to the court 's independent watchdog , which says it interviewed the woman and ended its inquiry after five days when she opted against filing a formal complaint . Khan was never questioned . He has denied the claims . ( PTI ) <h> Follow us <h> About Us <p> The Shillong Times first appeared as a tabloid weekly on 10th August 1945 under the editorship of Late Sudhindra Bhusan Chaudhuri . In 1958 it was converted to a Daily . Owing to financial constraints , within six months it reverted back to a weekly . 
@@118388725 <h> Story highlights <p> The 21-year-old lone soldier from New York served as a tank platoon commander in the 7th Armoured Brigades 77th Battalion . <p> The missing US-Israeli soldier Omer Maxim Neutra was killed in the Hamas 's attack on southern Israel on October 7 last year , and his body is being held hostage in the Gaza Strip , the Israeli Defence Forces ( IDF ) confirmed on Monday . <p> The 21-year-old lone soldier from New York served as a tank platoon commander in the 7th Armored Brigade 's 77th Battalion . <p> He was called a " lone soldier " because his parents were not in Israel . <p> Until the IDF confirmed his killing , it was believed that Neutra was alive and being held hostage by Hamas . <p> On the day of the attack last year , October 7 , he was stationed in a tank on the Gaza border near the southern community of Nahal Oz . <p> During the attack , their tank was attacked by the Hamas group with RPG fire and explosive devices . Then , the four people , including Neutra , Sgt. Shaked Dahan , the driver , Sgt. Nimrod Cohen , the gunner , and Sgt. Oz Daniel , the loader , were abducted to Gaza . <p> Dahan 's death was confirmed in November , while Daniel 's death was confirmed in February . <p> Now , after 14 months of the deadly attack , Neutra 's death has been confirmed by the Israeli military . <p> However , nothing has been confirmed about Cohen . His father on Monday told Ynet news , " We have received indications that Nimrod is alive . I am sure my son is alive , and I am fighting . " <p> Neutra 's death was declared by the Military Rabbinate based on findings and new intelligence information , according to the IDF . <p> His family spoke with him last on October 6 . Later , when his parents , Ronen and Orna , heard what was happening on October 7 , Neutra 's father tried contacting his son . <p> The mother of Neutra , Ronen , told CBS News that her son was interested in peace-building and had looked forward to returning to Long Island and college . <p> " They said that he 's been taken captive , " said Orna Neutra . " So many have died that it 's just insane that you feel relief to think that your son is not dead , you know ? " Orna said . <p> Reportedly , 97 of the 251 hostages taken by Hamas on October 7 , are still in Gaza , including the bodies of at least 35 confirmed dead by the Israeli military . <p> Disclaimer : WION takes the utmost care to accurately and responsibly report conflicts in West Asia involving Israel , Iran , Syria , Iraq , and non-state actors like the Islamic State , among others . In this context , claims and counterclaims are being made online and offline . WION can not independently verify the authenticity of all statements , social media posts , photos , and videos . 
@@118388729 <h> Story highlights <p> He further directed the police to confiscate the loudspeaker equipment found to be used in the mosques , according to the report . <p> Israeli National Security Minister Itamar Ben Gvir has instructed police to ban mosques from broadcasting the Adhan , or Islamic call to prayer over loudspeakers , confirmed a Channel 12 report . <p> He further directed the police to confiscate the loudspeaker equipment found to be used in the mosques , according to the report . <p> The mosques found to be using the loudspeakers to call for prayer would also be fined . <p> Ben Gvir in a post on X , said that he is " proud " to introduce the policy , which according to him , will put an end to the " unreasonable noise from mosques , which has become a hazard for the residents of Israel . " <p> " In our debates , it arose that most Western countries , and even some Arab countries , limit the noise and have many laws on the matter . It 's only neglected in Israel , " Ben Gvir 's office said in a statement . <h> Policy condemned by opposition <p> However , the members of Israel 's opposition have condemned the policy , including Labor MK Gilad Kariv , who posted on X , saying that Ben Gvir " endangers the State of Israel " and warns that he " wo n't stop until in the end , a match sets the barrel on fire . " <p> Moreover , the leader of the United Arab List condemned the decision and accused Ben Gvir of fuelling divisions and targeting mosques after failing to provoke violence at Jerusalem 's Al-Aqsa Mosque . <p> " Ben Gvir is constantly trying to sabotage coexistence , " Abbas wrote on X. <h> ' War on Islam and Christianity ' <p> The Council on American-Islamic Relations ( CAIR ) also condemned the ban and called for Muslim-majority nations to take concrete action to end the Israeli government 's genocide . <p> " A war on Islam and Christianity has always been a major component of the far-right Israeli government 's genocide targeting the Palestinian people . Attacks on mosques , churches , cultural sites , and religious texts are all part of the decades-long Israeli campaign to erase Palestinian culture , " CAIR National Executive Director Nihad Awad said . <p> " We repeat our call on Muslim-majority nations to use their collective power and take concrete actions to end this genocide , " Awad added . <p> He further said that the Biden administration must speak out strongly to condemn the videotaped burning of copies of the Quran and destruction of mosques by Israeli soldiers in Gaza , adding that the US should end sending weapons to the Israeli government to force an end to the genocide . <p> Disclaimer : WION takes the utmost care to accurately and responsibly report conflicts in West Asia involving Israel , Iran , Syria , Iraq , and non-state actors like the Islamic State , among others . In this context , claims and counterclaims are being made online and offline . WION can not independently verify the authenticity of all statements , social media posts , photos , and videos . <p> ( With inputs from agencies ) <h> Mansi Arora <p> Ardent geopolitical news writer with a keen eye for global affairs . With passion for illuminating the complexities of global dynamics , Mansi explores her interests b 
@@118388747 <p> Yaalon had served as the defence minister under Prime Minister Netanyahu from 2013 to 2016 . He was also the former chief of army staff . <p> Speaking to Israeli broadcaster Kan , Yaalon said on Sunday that hardliners in Netanyahu 's cabinet were looking to chase Palestinians from northern Gaza and wanted to re-establish Jewish settlements there . <h> ' ... war crimes are being committed ' <p> Yaalon told Ken , " I am compelled to warn about what is happening there and is being concealed from us . " <p> " At the end of the day , war crimes are being committed , " the former defence minister added . <p> In a separate interview with Democrat TV , Yaalon warned on Saturday ( November 30 ) that Israel was at a crossroads with the government looking " to conquer , to annexe , to carry out ethnic cleansing . " <p> " What is going on there ? There is no Beit Lahiya , no Beit Hanoun , they are operating now in Jabaliya and basically cleaning the area of Arabs , " he said , referring to the Palestinian neighbourhoods north of Gaza City . <p> He added that hardliners wanted to establish Jewish settlement there , 19 years after Israel withdrew from the territory -- a disengagement Yaalon had opposed at the time . <h> Israeli govt criticises Yaalon 's remarks <p> Yaalon 's remarks were criticised by the Netanyahu government . <p> Addressing a press conference , Foreign Minister Gideon Saar said , " Everything Israel does is in accordance with international law and it is a pity that former minister Yaalon does not realise the damage that he has done and retract his remarks . " 
@@118400914 <h> Iran and proxies responsible for IMEEC delay , says Israel minister <p> Israel 's economy minister Nir Barkat highlighted the challenge posed by Iran and its proxies in West Asia . He emphasized Israel 's goals in Gaza to eliminate Hamas and secure hostages , while supporting stronger economic ties with India . Barkat also reaffirmed Israel 's willingness to normalize relations with Saudi Arabia and praised India 's support for Israel . <p> Amid concerns in India and elsewhere about the future of the India-Middle-East-Europe Economic Corridor , Israel 's visiting minister of economy and senior leader of the ruling Likud party , Nir Barkat , hit out at Iran and its " jihadi proxies " for working to destroy businesses in the West Asia region and said Israel wo n't stop in Gaza till it achieves its twin goals -- release of hostages and end of Hamas . Barkat spoke to TOI 's Sachin Parashar about the West Asia situation and related issues . Excerpts : <p> How confident are you that the ceasefire with Lebanon will hold , given that both sides are already accusing each other of violating it ? Hezbollah joined the war unfortunately and fired 25,000 rockets at Israel since October 8 last year . This was unacceptable to Israel . It became important to dismantle their terrorist infrastructure . We will react with a lot of force if they violate the ceasefire . I think this is also an opportunity for the Lebanese people to free themselves from Hezbollah , the proxy of Iran . Beirut could become the Paris of the Middle-East . Unfortunately , the Lebanese people have so far not fulfilled that vision.US and others are working for a ceasefire in Gaza too . Can we hope to see a similar truce in Gaza ? Can India play a role in facilitating peace ? <p> Lebanon is different from Gaza . The goal of the war from the Israeli side in Lebanon was to eliminate the Hezbollah threat and enable the 60,000 evicted Israeli citizens ( from northern Israel ) to return home . We are in the process of doing that . In Gaza , there are 2 major goals of the war . The first is to make sure Hamas does n't survive either militarily or in civil form . The second is to get the hostages back . We need to fulfil the goals of the war . There 's still work to do . If and when it 's possible to have a deal to get the hostages back , I 'm sure the Israeli government will consider it . India is a great partner for Israel . Let 's do more business . Let 's improve the economy and let 's create more win-win deals . We are very well aligned on political issues and on the economic side we have some work to do . We are very optimistic we can take that relationship between the governments and the people forward . <p> What about the delay in work on IMEEC that was seen even by Israel as an initiative that could change the face of the Middle-East ? The war may have delayed it but it was the goal of Iran and its jihadi proxies to destroy Israel and disrupt businesses in the region and all of West Asia . Our goal is exactly the opposite . We want to collaborate . Iran tried to derail the peace process and relationship developing with Saudi Arabia . We would like to see Saudi Arabia join the Abraham Accords and expand peace . Our goal is exactly the goal of India . To create more partnerships and have collaboration . People trying to delay it are the jihadi alliance of Iran and its proxies.Are you ready to restart talks with Saudi Arabia for normalization of ties ? Most certainly , yes . I think it 's very clear that it 's in the best interests of both countries . We hear it again and again . Our friends in the US are saying so . Even here , our friends are talking about it . We have to finish the war and in parallel develop relationships with modern Arab states . It 's a classic win-win for West Asia.Is the US indictment of Adani , whose company is working on the Haifa port , a concern for Israel ? This is not an issue for us . We welcome Adani and other players to invest in Israel.What does the return of Trump mean for West Asia ? It 's going to be meaningful . Trump is aligning his economic power with his geopolitical strategy . I think that distinction is very clear and that 's how the Israeli government also sees it . We have to align our interests against Iran which is the biggest destabilizer in West Asia and expand relations with friends like India . I think it 's very smart and prudent if you can align economic issues , like tariffs and other things that he 's trying to do , with geopolitical challenges . It will be good for countries like India and Israel.PM Netanyahu was expected to visit India last year before October 7 happened . Is the visit still on the cards ? My recommendation to him would be that this should be one of the first important trips he should undertake . India is a good friend of Israel . The fact that Modi on October 7 supported Israel is very meaningful for us . It will be a good opportunity to thank Modi and the people of India for their support . We do n't take it for granted . 
@@118400915 <p> Netumbo Nandi-Ndaitwah of Namibia 's ruling party SWAPO has been elected president and will be the country 's first female leader , results released by the Electoral Commission of Namibia showed on Tuesday . <p> French President Emmanuel Macron announced on Tuesday that he and Saudi Arabia 's de facto ruler , Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman , would co-chair a conference on the establishment of a Palestinian state in June . " We have decided to co-chair a conference for the two states in June next year , " Macron said , referring to Israel and a potential Palestinian state . <p> " In the coming months , together we will multiply and combine our diplomatic initiatives to bring everyone along this path , " he added . <p> Responding to a question on whether France would recognise a Palestinian state , the French president said he would do so " at the right moment " and at a time " when it triggers reciprocal movements of recognition " . <p> " We want to involve several other partners and allies , both European and non-European , who are ready to move in this direction but who are waiting for France " he added . <p> Macron explained there was a simultaneous aim to " trigger a movement of recognition in favour of Israel , " which he said could " provide answers in terms of security for Israel and convince people that the two-state solution is a solution that is relevant for Israel " . <p> Saudi Arabia had appeared close to a deal to normalise relations with Israel prior to Hamas 's October 7 , 2023 , which has sparked nearly 14 months of war in Gaza . <p> 00:15 ( IST ) Dec 04 <p> Delhi breathes easier as AQI in ' poor ' category for third consecutive day <p> Delhi residents received a respite from toxic pollution levels for the third consecutive day as the city 's AQI remained in the " poor " category on Tuesday . The 24-hour average Air Quality Index ( AQI ) of the city was recorded at 268 at 4 pm , registering a slight improvement from 280 on Monday.Meanwhile , the Decision Support System ( DSS ) , the primary tool used to assess and estimate the sources of pollution in Delhi , has not been updated since Friday . <p> The latest data available on the DSS website covers November 26 to November 29 , with updates for the past four days missing . <p> A Commission for Air Quality Management ( CAQM ) official stated that the DSS is still undergoing development and has not yet been fully operationalized . <p> 00:14 ( IST ) Dec 04 <p> India news : Over 24 injured as bus overturns in Chourai area of Chhindwara district of Madhya Pradesh <p> 00:10 ( IST ) Dec 04 <p> India news : Amassing of troops by China in eastern Ladakh in April-May 2020 resulted in face-offs at number of points : S Jaishankar in LS <p> 00:10 ( IST ) Dec 04 <p> India news : Jharkhand cabinet to be expanded on December 5 , 2024 <p> The date of cabinet expansion in Jharkhand has been fixed . The cabinet will be expanded on Wednesday ( 5 December ) . 
@@118401007 <h> Ohio woman who inspired Trump 's ' eating the ... ' remark jailed for a year for eating cat <p> Allexis T Ferrell , a 27-year-old woman from Ohio , was sentenced to a year in jail for killing and eating a cat . The incident was falsely attributed to a Haitian immigrant and was cited by Donald Trump in the presidential debate as Haitian immigrants eating pet cats and dogs became a major issue ahead of the election . Ferrell pleaded guilty to cruelty to animals . <p> &lt;p&gt;Allexis T Ferrell has been sent to jail for a year for killing and then eating a cat . **39;540;TOOLONG **33443;581; Members of civil defence remove bodies of people killed during hostilities between Israel and Hezbollah from a temporary cemetery after a ceasefire between the two , in Tyre , southern Lebanon December 2 . ( Photo : Reuters ) <p> It has been less than a week since a ceasefire deal between Israel and Hezbollah , and violations are already being reported . Lebanon 's health ministry on Monday ( December 2 ) said one person was killed in an Israeli airstrike on Marjayoun , near the Israel border . <p> What long-term effects can the deal have for the region ? <p> The important thing to note here is the scale of destruction Israeli aggression has caused in Lebanon so far . Not just southern Lebanon , which has been the centre of the most fierce attacks by Israel , but also other parts like the eastern Beqa Valley and capital Beirut have seen brutal killings and devastating damage to infrastructure . <p> Advertisement <p> Nearly 4,000 people in Lebanon have been killed , almost 16,000 injured , the total internally displaced persons is almost 1.5 million , including Syrian refugees hosted by Lebanon , nearly 40 towns and villages decimated , and approximately 100,000 housing units either fully or partially destroyed . <p> Given such devastation , any sort of peace deal will have an immediate and significant impact . Already , there are reports of the displaced returning home , even when they might not have a home to return to . <p> The deal 's basic contours are -- in 60 days , both Israel and Hezbollah are to remove armed presence from southern Lebanon , retreating on either side of the UN-monitored blue line that is the unofficial border between Israel and Lebanon ; and the US and France are to join the Tripartite Mechanism , which includes the Israeli and Lebanese armies and UNIFIL , to monitor the region and ensure the ceasefire terms are adhered to . <p> While we 'll have to see how the ceasefire agreement plays out on the ground , even if the ceasefire seems to be tenuous and fragile , it is a positive development . It has been received with widespread relief by the Lebanese people and I would envisage that the same would be the case with the people of Israel , especially in northern areas of Israel . <p> Advertisement <p> If this peace holds , it would enable Lebanon to focus on its internal challenges , especially economic , and bring the country back on the path of stability and growth . <p> Peace and stability in Lebanon are very much in Israel 's interests too . <p> Lebanon and Israel have a shared maritime boundary that has substantial reservoirs of oil and gas . The United States for many years has been trying to mediate a maritime boundary agreement to open the way to exploit these resources , which was finally reached in October 2022 , but never took off . <p> If the ceasefire holds , this extremely valuable resource can be harnessed for the prosperity of both countries and of the region . <p> Advertisement <p> Violations of the ceasefire will plunge the region into more turmoil and destruction . <p> Developments in the region , for example , in Syria , post this ceasefire need to be analysed carefully . <h> After the ceasefire , Hezbollah has claimed ' victory ' . Is this a victory for either side ? <p> Well , given the widespread destruction , neither side is a victor . <p> The ceasefire deal seems to be a well thought-out , calibrated , tactical move . On part of Israel , this is a bid to get some breathing space and further intensify its ongoing onslaught on Gaza . <p> Advertisement <p> The battered Hezbollah , too , gets time for reconsolidation , although that would be against the provisions of the deal , which calls for the Lebanese army , and not Hezbollah , to be in full control of southern Lebanon . <p> After the 2006 war with Israel too , Hezbollah had claimed victory , and its profile did rise post that war . <p> This time , Hezbollah has suffered significant setbacks , especially the killing of several members of its top leadership , although it has demonstrated it is capable of continuing the fight , and remains a force to reckon with . <p> What does the US presence in the region post the deal mean ? <p> Advertisement <p> The inclusion of France and the US in the Tripartite Mechanism is a novel feature of the deal , with a greater role assigned to the US than France . <p> The US has made it clear that it will not contribute troops on the ground , but it has been given a very prominent role in monitoring . <p> The Middle East has always been an extremely important region for the US , in terms of geopolitics , security , commercial interests of oil and gas , the sea lanes of communication , etc . With this deal , its role in ensuring peace in Lebanon becomes more direct . <p> There will be some scrutiny on the actions of the US , and it is to be hoped that the function of monitoring and intervening is performed transparently , impartially , and effectively . <p> Advertisement <p> When we talk about the US presence or the US role , we have to really look at it from the standpoint of the incoming Trump presidency . The Biden administration 's Middle East policy has been disastrous in its inability to halt or even stem Israel 's horrific attacks on Gaza . Under Trump , there is likely to be greater efforts towards a peace deal . <h> What is the role of France in the ceasefire deal ? <p> It is pertinent to remember the strong historic connection between France and Lebanon . After the defeat of the Ottoman empire in World War I , its erstwhile domains were divided among the Allies , with Syria and Lebanon coming under France . After Lebanon gained independence from France , the two countries have maintained a multifaceted cooperation . Thus , in the run-up to the current deal , France played an active role . <p> It was France who took the initiative of hosting an international conference in support of Lebanon 's people and sovereignty in Paris on October 24 . The French government has been in active discussion with the governments of the United States , Lebanon , and Israel . <p> Now , along with the US , France has the responsibility of ensuring the implementation of this very important ceasefire deal . Both countries have to act in good faith , in total transparency , with the utmost objectivity and even-handedness . <p> Advertisement <p> In general , the Lebanese people seem to repose greater confidence in France than in the US . <p> What will the deal mean for Gaza ? <p> As stated earlier , the ceasefire with Lebanon seems to be a tactical move on part of Israel to reconsolidate . So , to hope that the deal is a step towards peace in Gaza would be naive . <p> In the short term , if peace has to return to Gaza , Israel 's powerful allies need to take concerted action to prevail upon it to end its horrific onslaught . A long-lasting , durable peace can only be achieved with the two-State solution , with both Palestine and Israel living as independent sovereign nation-states with clear and mutually acceptable boundaries . <p> Sanjiv Arora , IFS ( retd ) , is a former secretary of MEA . He has been India 's Ambassador to Lebanon from 2016 to 2019 , and to Qatar from 2012 to 2016 . Since May 2024 , he has been a member of the Indian National Congress . He spoke to Yashee in a personal capacity . 
@@118401257 <h> About 250 hostages were captured by the Hamas militants from Israel during their surprise attack on the country on October 7 , 2023 , and around 100 of them still remain in captivity in Gaza . <p> US President-elect Donald Trump has demanded that the hostages captured by the Gaza based militant group Hamas in its attack on Israel last year be returned before his inauguration in January , or there will be " hell to pay " in the Middle East for those responsible . ( File Photo ) <p> US President-elect Donald Trump has demanded that the hostages captured by the Gaza based militant group Hamas in its attack on Israel last year be returned before his inauguration in January , or there will be " hell to pay " in the Middle East for those responsible . <p> Reiterating his support for Israel and without naming any militant group , Trump in a post on Truth Social said that " If the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity . " <p> About 250 hostages were captured by the Hamas militants from Israel during their surprise attack on the country on October 7 , 2023 , and around 100 of them still remain in captivity in Gaza . According to Israeli authorities , a third of the hostages are believed to be dead . <p> Advertisement <p> Israel 's president Isaac Herzog reacted to Trump 's post and said , " Thank you and bless you Mr. President-elect . We all pray for the moment we see our sisters and brothers back home ! " <p> President Joe Biden 's administration , which was able to broker a ceasefire agreement between Israel and Lebanon based Hezbollah militant group , has been working since last year with Israel and other mediators , including Qatar and Egypt for a truce deal with Hamas , which will include the release of all hostages . <p> Trump , in his post further added that " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " <p> In November last year , there appeared to be a brief pause in the hostilities between Israel and Hamas when 105 hostages were released by the militant group and about 240 Palestinians were released from Israel . 
@@118401445 <h> The ICC issued arrest warrants for Benjamin Netanyahu and former defense minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes in Gaza , involving deprivation of essential resources and violence against civilians . Despite international backlash and support from allies like the US , Netanyahu faces potential arrest in ICC-member countries . <p> No , not yet <h> Ateesh Tankha <p> The writer is founder-CEO , ALSOWISE Content Solutions <p> After much hesitation , deliberation and circumspection , the charges were written . On November 21 , International Criminal Court ( ICC ) issued arrest warrants for Benjamin Netanyahu and former Israeli defence minister Yoav Gallant for ' war crimes ' that ' intentionally and knowingly deprived the civilian population in Gaza of objects indispensable to their survival ' , including food , water , medicine , fuel and electricity , between October 8 , 2023 , and May 20 , 2024 . ICC also found that each bore ' criminal responsibility as civilian superiors for the war crime of intentionally directing an attack against the civilian population ' resulting in torture , violence , murder and rape by Israel 's occupation forces . <p> Israel 's immediate response was to decry the anti-semite bogey that constantly bears false witness of wrongdoing despite the nation 's professions of innocence . Netanyahu 's office then preposterously compared his fate to that of Alfred Dreyfus , the Alsatian-Jewish artillery officer wrongfully accused of espionage by France in 1894 . America 's response was a study in unwavering support . Joe Biden called ICC 's warrant ' outrageous ' , stating there was ' no equivalence between Hamas and Israel ' . In this , he is right . <p> Hamas is a Palestinian nationalist organisation that has governed the Gaza Strip since 2007 . It has a militant wing , but does not command an army that can enter into formal combat . Israel , however , is a nation with a well- appointed military force , which can both go to war , and operate as an army of occupation . <p> Any unprovoked violence that Hamas undertakes , therefore , can only be counted as an act of insurgency , the perpetrators of which should be dealt with appropriately . But punitive action ca n't take the form of waging total and indiscriminate war against a people whose right to exist as an independent nation is denied and obstructed by Israel . <p> And , yet , after Hamas killed 1,189 people , and took 251 others hostage , on Oct 7 , 2023 - an unconscionable act of terror born of decades of suppression - Israel , instead of initiating a targeted assault against the culprits , unleashed an orgy of violence against Gaza , an enclave under blockade . Citing the right to defend itself , Israel 's belligerence has resulted in the death of tens of thousands of civilians , displacement of lakhs more , Dresden-style destruction of urban infrastructure , and uninterrupted misery to the hapless survivors who continue to suffer every form of tribulation and privation , including forced starvation . <p> In Exterminate All the Brutes : Gaza 2009 , Noam Chomsky correctly opined that while ' a state has the right to defend itself against criminal attacks ... it does not follow that it has a right to defend itself by force ' . Such a doctrine would have allowed Germany ' to justify Kristallnacht on the basis of Herschel Grynszpan 's assassination of a German embassy official in Paris ' , or excused British incursions into Ireland in response to IRA hostility in Belfast . German atrocities were condemned . Britain , fearing world censure , despite engaging in ruthless conflict , managed uneasily to maintain some sense of proportionality . <p> By contrast , Netanyahu and Gallant have outdone many earlier political psychopaths . Slobodan MiloSevic , former Yugoslav president , and his co-defendants , indicted in 1999 for displacing 7.4 lakh Kosovo Albanians and murdering 340 others , ca n't hold a candle to them . Protected from adverse global criticism by American veto and sanction power , the pair advertised their intention early on to undertake ' a complete siege of Gaza ' where they were ' fighting human animals ' , whose grisly fate was sealed . In the last 8 decades , men have been sent to the gallows or to lifetime imprisonment for less . <p> As things stand , Netanyahu can be arrested upon arrival in any of the 124 countries that are part of the ICC-founding Rome Statute . But scepticism prevails because some powerful countries like the US , Russia , China and India have not signed and ratified the court 's authority . And even as France cops out by stating that Netanyahu ca n't be arrested on French soil since Israel is not an ICC signatory . <p> But this should not deter the rest . By continuing to deny Netanyahu entry , on penalty of being apprehended and tried for war crimes , these countries can firm up his position as a pariah . <p> Feeling the heat of international pressure , Netanyahu has made a great show of striking a compromise by accepting a ceasefire - which , according to France , he has violated 52 times already - with Hezbollah . This does not diminish his culpability . Hopefully , when expediency and decency are cynically aligned in UNSC at some point , the Israeli PM will be brought to justice . <p> ( Disclaimer : The opinions expressed in this column are that of the writer . The facts and opinions expressed here do not reflect the views of www.economictimes.com. ) 
@@118401502 <h> The projectiles were apparently the first time that Hezbollah took aim at Israeli forces after the 60-day ceasefire went into effect last Wednesday . The increasingly fragile truce aimed to end more than a year of war between Hezbollah and Israel - part of a wider regional conflict sparked by the devastating Israel-Hamas war in Gaza . <p> AgenciesAn Israeli soldier atop a tank near Lebanon border <p> JERUSALEM : Israel unleashed its largest wave of airstrikes across Lebanon since agreeing to a ceasefire with Hezbollah last week , killing at least 11 people on Monday after the Lebanese militant group fired a volley of projectiles as a warning over what it said were Israeli truce violations . <p> The projectiles were apparently the first time that Hezbollah took aim at Israeli forces after the 60-day ceasefire went into effect last Wednesday . The increasingly fragile truce aimed to end more than a year of war between Hezbollah and Israel - part of a wider regional conflict sparked by the devastating Israel-Hamas war in Gaza . <p> Lebanon 's Health Ministry said an Israeli airstrike on the southern village of Haris killed five people and wounded two while another airstrike on the village of Tallousa killed four and also wounded two . <p> Israel 's military carried out a string of airstrikes late Monday against what it said were Hezbollah fighters , infrastructure and rocket launchers across Lebanon , in response to Hezbollah firing two projectiles toward Mount Dov - a disputed Israeli-held territory known as Shebaa Farms in Lebanon where the borders of Lebanon , Syria , and Israel meet . Israel said the projectiles fell in open areas and no injuries were reported . <p> Hezbollah said in a statement that it fired on an Israeli military position in the area as a " defensive and warning response " after what it called " repeated violations " of the ceasefire deal by Israel . It said complaints to mediators tasked with monitoring the ceasefire " were futile in stopping these violations . " 
@@118402490 <p> Indulge in the taste of Italy in India at the top Italian restaurants . Enjoy wood-fired pizzas , fresh pastas , coastal-inspired dishes , and authentic Tuscan cuisine . Must-try dishes include hand-stretched garlic bread at ViVi in Mumbai and handmade pasta at La Gioia in Bangalore . For a true Tuscan experience , visit San Gimignano in New Delhi or Oliveto in Goa . <p> The Union Railways Minister reported 29 train accidents causing 17 deaths and 71 injuries this fiscal year , with reasons including equipment failure , environmental conditions , human errors , and sabotage . The government has invested more in safety measures and implemented initiatives to decrease accidents and increase passenger confidence , resulting in a decrease in accidents over time . <p> The Centre is not expected to raise its capital expenditure target for the next fiscal year , as the current year 's target of Rs 11.11 lakh crore is likely to be missed due to the pandemic . The government plans to maintain a good capex to GDP ratio and boost economic growth , while also reducing the fiscal deficit . A final decision will be made in February during the Union Budget . <p> AAI issues show cause notice to DIAL after structural weaknesses are found at Delhi 's IGIA Terminal 1 following a roof collapse incident in June 2023 . The report recommends strengthening the structure before reopening , while alternative arrangements have been made at other terminals . DIAL is preparing a response , and operations remain unaffected . <p> The Bharatiya Vayuyan Vidheyak , 2024 , aims to modernize aviation regulations and replace the outdated Aircraft Act in India . Introduced by Union Aviation Minister Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu , the bill includes provisions for aircraft design and manufacturing , an appeals mechanism , and legal support for regulations . <p> SEBI has cancelled the public listing of SME Trafiksol ITS Technologies and ordered a full refund to its investors within a week due to concerns about the use of IPO proceeds . The company was found to have poor credentials of a third-party vendor and suspected involvement in covering up fraud . The regulator has also proposed stricter norms for SME listings . <p> Experts suggest that increasing GST rates on some items and adding a special levy on " sin goods " like cigarettes could offset the loss of revenue from removing GST on insurance premiums . The GoM predicts this could bring in an extra Rs 22,000 crore annually for the Centre and states . However , reaching a revenue neutral rate through rate rationalisation may not be immediate . <p> India 's semiconductor industry is poised for growth as the country aims to reduce its reliance on imports and become a key player in the global supply chain . With investments in manufacturing units and initiatives to promote innovation and attract talent , the government is pushing for a self-sufficient and sustainable industry . <p> The Central Government , in coordination with the Goa government , is working to enhance Goa 's maritime connectivity and position it as a major cargo and cruise destination . The development includes the construction of new terminals , jetties , and subsidies to promote coastal shipping . <p> Raymond group , led by chairman and managing director Gautam Singhania , is expecting continued strong sales in the upcoming months . Singhania is optimistic about the real estate market and the company 's prospects , especially with the upcoming wedding season . Despite a decline in profits for Raymond Lifestyle in Q2 , Singhania believes sales will remain strong in the next few years . <p> South Africa 's Tourism Minister , Patricia de Lille , is engaging with Indian airlines to establish direct flights between the two nations , aiming to boost tourism and strengthen bilateral ties . The country is also focusing on various market segments , including young people , MICE , and adventure and sports tourism . <p> India 's petroleum product exports saw a 12% decline in November , mainly due to reduced supply to Europe . However , exports to Asia saw a 28% increase . The UAE , Singapore , US , South Korea , and Australia were the top destinations . Domestic consumption also rose , driven by diesel , aviation fuel , and LPG demand . <p> Union Minister Nitin Gadkari expressed concern over Delhi 's pollution levels and the health risks it poses , making him hesitant to visit . He urged for a focus on reducing fossil fuel consumption to decrease pollution . On a positive note , Delhi 's air quality improved on Tuesday . Gadkari also emphasized the need for balancing economic growth with social equality in India . <p> SEBI has cancelled the stalled Trafiksol IPO and directed the company to refund the money raised and accrued interest to investors . A fresh issue may be considered after current proceedings . Refunds to be completed within a week , with shares to be transferred to a separate demat account . <p> The SC has asked the ECI to explain their decision to increase the number of voters per polling booth from 1,200 to 1,500 . The court is concerned about voter inconvenience and has asked for an affidavit from the ECI . The ECI claims the decision was made after consulting political parties and is within the capacity of EVMs . The PIL argues that longer queues may discourage underprivileged voters . <p> India 's ITEC network is teaming up with the National Forensic Sciences University to provide advanced forensic training to Guyanese officials . This collaboration , solidified during Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's visit , will improve Guyana 's forensic and cybersecurity abilities . The training will cover key areas such as behavioural forensics and the use of AI in cybercrime investigations . <p> Hero MotoCorp is set to launch a scrambler version of the Mavrick 440 with design changes and upgraded cycling parts . The bike will feature a taller handlebar , telescopic forks with gaiters , and a small windshield . Other differences include a new alloy wheel design , side panels , and a flatter seat . The bike will be powered by a 440cc engine . <p> The highly anticipated OnePlus 13 is set to launch in India in January 2025 , featuring the same color variants as the Chinese model . It will run on OxygenOS 15 , with AI-powered features and a powerful Snapdragon 8 Gen Elite chipset . The device boasts a 6000mAh battery , triple-camera system co-developed with Hasselblad , and a 6.82-inch LTPO AMOLED display . <p> IATA reported a 9.8% increase in global air cargo demand for October 2024 , marking the 15th consecutive month of growth . International cargo operations led the way with a 10.3% rise , while capacity grew by 5.9% . Despite the success , IATA 's Director General warned of potential challenges in 2025 , including proposed tariffs by the incoming Trump administration . <p> India Bike Week ( IBW ) is the biggest motorcycle festival in India , started by Martin de Costa 10 years ago . The 11th edition will be held in Goa on 6 and 7 December 2024 , featuring high-adrenaline races , product launches , music concerts , and more . This year , IBW will have two FMSCI-affiliated races , exhibitions of new and custom products from top brands , music performances , and delicious cuisines . <p> ChatGPT , an AI-powered chatbot platform , is experiencing glitches when asked about the name " David Mayer . " This has happened before with other names , leading to speculation about special rules for certain names . OpenAI , the company behind ChatGPT , has not addressed the issue . <p> Vivo is set to launch its X200 and X200 Pro smartphones in India on December 12 , joining the premium X-lineup known for its advanced features and design . The X200 Pro , with its sleek grey finish , is expected to be the highlight . Pricing and availability details will be announced next week , along with a detailed review for potential buyers . <p> Hindustan Shipyard Limited and Kongsberg Maritime have joined forces to boost the Indian Navy 's operational capabilities through advanced replenishment-at-sea technology . This collaboration is part of the ongoing development of the Indian Navy 's Fleet Support Ships program , which aims to improve logistical support and extend operational range . <p> The global consumer healthcare market is growing rapidly , driven by the demand for wellness products and personal health control . A report predicts the market to reach $543.27 billion by 2031 , with online distribution as the fastest-growing segment . Companies like Abbott Laboratories and Nestle S.A. are fueling this growth . <p> Aprilia has announced a price hike for the RS457 , effective January 1 , 2025 , making it Rs 10,000 costlier at Rs 4.20 lakh ex-showroom . The company stated that the increase is due to the high demand and quality of the sports bike . The RS457 features a full fairing , electronic aids , and a powerful 457cc engine , making it the most powerful in its class . <p> Bollywood actor Vikrant Massey addresses confusion over his social media post , clarifying that he is not retiring from acting but taking a break to focus on his health and family . He explains that acting is his passion but the demands of the industry have taken a toll on his mental and physical health . Fans support his decision and eagerly await his return to the screen . <p> Global development institution International Finance Corporation , a member of the World Bank Group , is considering equity investment of up to $20 million in India 's Epimoney Private Limited , the parent company of MSME-focused digital lending non-banking financial company ( NBFC ) FlexiLoans . <p> Adolescents are spending 8-10 hours a day on sedentary activities , with social media being a major contributor . The study emphasizes the need for interventions to promote balanced screen use and active lifestyles , calling for holistic policies to reduce sedentary time and improve overall health . It also suggests creating healthy digital habits and improving community infrastructure . <p> Swiggy , a food delivery company , reported a loss of Rs 625.53 crore in the second quarter , with a revenue of Rs 3601.45 crore , a growth of 30.33% . This is the company 's first earnings report since going public on November 13 . The IPO was subscribed 3.59 times , with QIBs subscribing 6.02 times . The company 's EBITDA loss was Rs 555 crore , down from Rs 624 <p> Vodafone Idea ( Vi ) has launched an AI-powered solution to detect spam SMS messages , following in the footsteps of Airtel . The system uses AI and ML technologies to identify potential threats , such as phishing attempts and identity theft , and has already flagged over 24 million spam messages . This new feature aims to minimize unwanted messages and protect users from fraud . <p> Mahindra has trademarked a new electric SUV , the XEV 7e , which will have a traditional SUV design and similar features to the XEV 9e . It will have a blanked-out front grille , LED DRLs , flush door handles , and vertically stacked headlights . The battery specifications are yet to be revealed , but it is expected to have a 59kWh or 79kWh battery pack . <p> Pushpa 2 : The Rule , sequel to the successful Pushpa : The Rise , broke records with its advance booking opening on December 1 , 2024 . Within 12 hours , it collected over Rs 10 crore , surpassing top Indian blockbusters . Experts predict it will easily cross 1 million tickets and possibly beat Baahubali 2 's record , thanks to its widespread appeal . <p> InterGlobe Aviation Limited , parent company of Indigo Airlines , has sued Mahindra &amp; Mahindra for using the ' 6e ' moniker in its electric SUV called BE 6e . IndiGo has registered the trademark " 6E Link " for various services , while Mahindra applied for the trademark " BE 6e " under class 12 . If the petition is accepted , Mahindra could face a long legal battle with IndiGo . <p> Suraksha Diagnostics IPO fully subscribed on day 3 with help from institutional investors . The grey market suggests the stock may debut at the issue price . Allotment expected on Dec 4 , listing on Dec 6 . The minimum investment for retail buyers is one lot , while small and big NIIs have different requirements . Priced at a high P/E ratio , according to Bajaj Broking . BRLMs and registrar announced . <p> Markets gained nearly 1% last week , with energy , metals , and banking leading the charge . Nifty and Sensex closed at 24,131.1 and 79,802.79 , respectively . The upcoming week brings key data releases and events , including the RBI MPC 's monetary policy review . On the technical front , Nifty faces resistance near 24,350 , and consolidation within the 23,550-24,350 range is expected . <p> The ongoing conflicts in Gaza and Ukraine have resulted in a rise in profits for top arms companies , especially in the US , Israel , and Russia . SIPRI 's report shows a significant increase in revenue for these companies , as well as for those in Turkey , South Korea , Japan , and India . The demand for military equipment in these conflicts has led to the surge in profits . <p> Gland Pharma Limited has received USFDA approval for Latanoprost Ophthalmic Solution , a bioequivalent and therapeutically equivalent product to Xalatan . It is used for treating high eye pressure in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension . The company plans to launch it in FY25 with expected sales of USD 111.6 million . <p> Indian domestic air traffic is predicted to increase by 7-10% in the current fiscal year , reaching 164-170 million passengers . However , the aviation industry is still expected to suffer losses of Rs 2,000-3,000 crore . International passenger traffic for Indian carriers saw a significant rise of 16.2% , while domestic growth was affected by disruptions . <p> iQOO has launched the highly anticipated iQOO 13 in India , featuring top-of-the-line specs and a sleek design . The flagship phone is powered by the latest Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Elite chip and boasts a world-first 2K 144Hz LTPO AMOLED Ultra Eyecare Display . It also comes with a 6000mAh battery and 120W fast charging . The iQOO 13 is available in two variants , with price starting at Rs 54,999 . <p> MAHA-METRO has requested approval from PMC to construct an additional Metro station at Balaji Nagar on the Swargate-Katraj underground route . The project , with a total cost of Rs 2,954.53 crore , includes three underground stations and has received requests from elected representatives and the public . The addition of a fourth station at Balaji Nagar is deemed feasible . <p> Cybersecurity firm Bitdefender warns about a new Netflix scam targeting users in 23 countries . Scammers use phishing messages with Netflix branding to trick users into clicking on a payment link and stealing sensitive data . This can lead to financial fraud and identity theft . To stay safe , avoid clicking on unsolicited links and be cautious of urgent demands . <p> Ola Electric has launched the S1 Z range of affordable electric scooters for urban commuters . The Z and Z Plus variants are priced at Rs 59,999 and Rs 64,999 respectively , making them the most affordable options in the Ola Electric portfolio . They offer a swappable battery , 1.5 kWh battery pack , 4 bhp motor , and top speed of 70 kmph . The design and features differ for personal and commercial use . <p> Reddit , a widely used social media platform , has a devoted following due to its diverse discussions . But if it crashes , it can be aggravating . To monitor for problems , visit Redditstatus.com or use Down Detector . Common issues include the platform being down , outdated , or facing bans . To resolve these , restart or update the app , or reach out to moderators . If on a different network , try switching . <p> iQOO , a new smartphone brand in India , stands out by prioritising performance over camera features . CEO Nipun Marya reveals the brand 's vision and plans to revolutionise the Indian smartphone market . Despite tough competition and saturation , iQOO has established a strong brand identity and is ready to shake things up with its latest release , the iQOO 13 . <p> Royal Enfield has launched the Interceptor Bear in India , priced at Rs 3.39 lakh . This off-road version of the Interceptor boasts improved suspension , a stronger chassis , USD forks at the front , and dual shocks at the rear . The engine has a higher torque output of 57Nm and competes with the Interceptor . <p> The market showed a buy-on-dips strategy last week , resulting in a broad market recovery . A majority of NSE 500 stocks closed above their 10-day SMA and bounced from Friday 's lows , indicating overall strength . Nifty is expected to reach 24700 and Bank Nifty may see strong gains if dips stay above 51400 . Pharma and Oil &amp; Gas sectors are predicted to see growth . 
@@118402539 <h> Israel halts UN relief shipments amid looting crisis in Gaza <h> UNRWA , the primary agency providing essential services and supplies to Palestinians , has been using the Kerem Shalom crossing as its main route for delivering aid into Gaza . However , the route , which lies at the border between Israel and Gaza , has become increasingly dangerous . <p> UNRWA has pointed to Israel 's policies as a contributing factor to the growing lawlessness in the area . ( Reuters ) <p> The ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas has significantly disrupted humanitarian efforts in the Gaza Strip , with the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) suspending its aid shipments due to widespread looting of supplies . The looting , primarily carried out by armed gangs , has targeted convoys of relief material meant for Palestinian civilians , exacerbating an already severe humanitarian crisis in the region . <p> UNRWA , the primary agency providing essential services and supplies to Palestinians , has been using the Kerem Shalom crossing as its main route for delivering aid into Gaza . However , the route , which lies at the border between Israel and Gaza , has become increasingly dangerous . Armed gangs have been intercepting and looting UN shipments , with reports indicating that over 100 trucks carrying vital supplies were looted in mid-November . In a recent statement , UNRWA 's head , Philippe Lazzarini , expressed concerns about the deteriorating security conditions at the crossing , noting that these acts of theft are hindering the agency 's ability to provide critical aid to those in need . <p> Kerem Shalom is the only functional crossing between Israel and Gaza that is designated for transporting goods . Following the closure of the Rafah border crossing with Egypt in May , it has become the primary lifeline for humanitarian aid . Yet , the combination of ongoing military actions on the Israeli side and the growing presence of armed robbers on the Gaza side has made the passage increasingly treacherous . Despite this , Gaza 's population remains highly dependent on international relief , making the current halt in aid supplies a grave setback . <p> UNRWA has pointed to Israel 's policies as a contributing factor to the growing lawlessness in the area . The agency has blamed Israel 's military operations and restrictions on the movement of goods for destabilizing the region , which has allowed armed groups to operate with relative impunity . While these actions have impeded the delivery of humanitarian aid , Lazzarini also underscored the need for a more secure environment to ensure that life-saving supplies reach their intended recipients . <p> Israel , however , has strongly contested UNRWA 's operations . The Israeli government has accused the agency of collaborating with Hamas , claiming that some of its employees have links to the militant group . In response to these allegations , Israel passed a resolution in late October banning UNRWA 's operations in Gaza , accusing the agency of contributing to regional instability . The Israeli parliament also moved to sever diplomatic ties with the organization , and it has pressured international donors , including the United States , to reduce funding to UNRWA . <p> Despite these tensions , UNRWA continues to maintain that its work remains strictly humanitarian , with no political motives , and that its staff members are committed to serving the civilian population in Gaza . The impasse between the Israeli government and UNRWA underscores the broader challenges faced by humanitarian organizations in conflict zones , where political and military dynamics often hinder relief efforts . <p> As the conflict rages on , the humanitarian situation in Gaza grows more dire , with the suspension of UN relief shipments further exacerbating the suffering of those caught in the crossfire . The international community remains under pressure to find solutions that ensure aid can reach those in need , despite the ongoing security and political challenges . 
@@118402543 <h> American and Israeli Arms Companies Profiting from Ongoing Conflicts <h> In SIPRI 's 2023 analysis , the data reveals that the revenue of arms companies operating in active war zones has grown exponentially . <p> The ongoing conflicts in Gaza and Ukraine have brought a significant financial boost to arms manufacturing companies . ( Image : IE ) <p> The ongoing conflicts in Gaza and Ukraine have brought a significant financial boost to arms manufacturing companies , particularly in the US and Israel . According to the latest report by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute ( SIPRI ) , the world 's top 100 arms companies have seen a surge in profits , largely due to the war-driven demand for weapons and military equipment . <p> In SIPRI 's 2023 analysis , the data reveals that the revenue of arms companies operating in active war zones has grown exponentially . Russian arms manufacturers have experienced a 40 percent increase in profits , driven by the heightened demand for fighter jets , tanks , missiles , and ammunition in the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict . Similarly , Israeli arms companies , benefiting from the Gaza war , have seen their collective revenue skyrocket to US$19.6 billion ( roughly Rs 1.66 lakh crore ) , reflecting an 18 percent rise in their profits . <p> World 's top arms producers see revenues rise on the back of wars and regional tensions . The arms revenues of the SIPRI Top 100 companies totalled $632 billion in 2023 , +4.2% from 2022 . New #SIPRI data on the #ArmsIndustry is available now : https : //t.co/vihumTQooI#SIPRI ... **26;3002;TOOLONG <p> The United States continues to dominate the global arms market , with 41 American companies making up a substantial portion of SIPRI 's top 100 list . In 2023 , US arms manufacturers generated a combined revenue of US$317 billion , a 2.5 percent increase from the previous year . Notably , while companies like Lockheed Martin and Raytheon Technologies ( RTX ) faced a slight dip , the majority of US arms companies reported gains . This growth is primarily attributed to the high demand for weapons from Ukraine , as well as other international buyers in the Middle East and Asia . <p> Israeli arms companies , which have historically benefited from their close involvement in Middle Eastern conflicts , are seeing significant windfalls as well . SIPRI 's report indicates that six Israeli arms companies have collectively boosted their revenues , capitalizing on the escalation of violence in Gaza . This surge highlights the broader trend of profits aligning with the escalation of regional wars , where countries like Israel often act as key suppliers of advanced military technologies such as drones , surveillance systems , and precision-guided munitions . <p> In addition to US and Israeli companies , arms manufacturers in other regions have also enjoyed increased profits . For instance , Turkey 's Baykar company , known for its advanced drones , has seen a 24 percent rise in revenue , fuelled by the widespread use of Turkish drones in the Ukraine conflict . Companies from South Korea and Japan have also reported a sharp increase in profits , likely driven by security concerns arising from the Russia-Ukraine war and North Korea 's provocative actions . <p> Interestingly , despite the ongoing war in Ukraine , European arms companies have not seen as substantial an increase in revenue compared to their American or Israeli counterparts . The reasons for this are varied but could include lower production rates or fewer direct sales to conflict zones compared to their US and Israeli peers . <p> SIPRI 's report also highlights the growing role of Indian arms manufacturers . Three Indian companies -- Hindustan Aeronautics Limited ( HAL ) , Bharat Electronics Limited ( BEL ) , and Mazgaon Dockyard Limited -- were included in the top 100 list , collectively earning US$6.7 billion , an increase of 5.8 percent from the previous year . While still a smaller player on the global stage , India 's arms industry is beginning to make its presence felt in the global arms market . <p> The global arms industry , particularly in the US and Israel , has profited immensely from the ongoing conflicts in Gaza and Ukraine . These companies have benefited from the escalating demand for military technologies , while geopolitical tensions continue to drive the profitability of arms manufacturers worldwide . 
@@118403107 <h> Treat Muslims equally : Farooq <p> Excelsior Correspondent SRINAGAR , Dec 2 : National Conference president Dr Farooq Abdullah today said the Centre should stop actions that could create communal tension and treat Muslims equally . Abdullah said while speaking to reporters here that the Government should stop actions against Muslims . " I would like to tell the Government to stop such actions . You ca n't throw Muslims into the sea ; where would you throw 24 crore Muslims ? They should treat Muslims equally-that is what our Constitution stands for . There is no difference on the basis of religion or language ; everyone is equal . If the Government breaks the law , how will India survive ? " , he asked . The NC president said that the Government should review the reservation policy . " We will tell the Government to review it . Reservation is for the underprivileged sections so that they can come up as equals , " he said . <p> Follow the Daily Excelsior channel on WhatsApp The Government has formed a Cabinet sub-committee to look into the demands for rationalisation of reservations , which have gone up to 70 per cent in the Union Territory . On termination of two Government employees , Abdullah said , " I have heard about it ; the Government will investigate . Why was the person removed ? What was the reason ? No one can be removed arbitrarily . God willing , this will be addressed . " The NC president said that no one was against the return of Kashmiri Pandits to the Valley . " Who is stopping Kashmiri Pandits from coming back ? Every political party has said they should return . It is their decision when they want to return . Our hearts are open for them . Even when I was the Chief Minister , when the situation was bad , we tried to bring them back , " he added . Abdullah also welcomed the Israel-Lebanon ' ceasefire ' , but called for an end to attacks on Gaza , Syria and Iran as well . " It ( ceasefire ) is a very good step , but it is necessary to stop attacks jointly being carried out by Israel and America -- in Gaza , Syria and Iran , which are continuing even today . This is dangerous . They should immediately resort to ceasefire . You must have watched the debates in the ( UN ) Security Council . If there is a purpose for ( the existence of ) Security Council , it should work on the directions given to Israel . They should enforce a ceasefire and allow humanitarian aid , " he added . On his recent religious pilgrimage , Abdullah said he not only prayed for Kashmir , but for the entire Muslim world . " The problems we are facing today , may Allah deliver us from these . May Allah guide us to the right path . I prayed that we stay away from evil and for the end of religious hatred that has spread in our country . I prayed for unity and harmony , " he said . On regional political parties criticizing NC over the dominance of LG , Farooq said that criticising for self-promotion is wrong . " I have prayed for them too , that God guides them to the right path . Our problems are shared , and they should help address them . Criticism alone wo n't solve anything . Criticizing for the sake of self-promotion is wrong " . 
@@118403216 <p> December 3 News Wrap : Today 's top developments include row over new government in Maharashtra , latest developments in West Asia and EAM S Jaishankar 's comment on India-China border row amongst many others . <p> Hello readers ! Through this news wrap , we present the most important updates of the day . Today 's rundown includes EAM S Jaishankar 's latest remarks on India-China border dispute alongside latest updates on West Asia tensions . <p> The suspense on who will be the next chief minister of Maharashtra is expected to end tomorrow . Amid speculation about the much-awaited CM post , BJP functionary told the media that the consensus has been reached and the Mahayuti alliance will announce the name on December 4 . <p> The suspense on who will be the next chief minister of Maharashtra is expected to end tomorrow . Amid speculation about the much-awaited CM post , BJP functionary told the media that the consensus has been reached and the Mahayuti alliance will announce the name on December 4 , a day before the swearing-in ceremony . Despite Shinde publicly announcing his support for the BJP 's decision , the leadership issue remains a source of tension within the alliance , As the final decision is yet to be made . <p> Nearly two months after India and China announced the major border breakthrough to resume patrolling along the LAC following military disengagement , External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday said that bilateral ties between the two neighbours were on the course of ' some improvement ' <p> " Our ( India-China ) ties have been abnormal since 2020 when peace and tranquillity in the border areas were disturbed as a result of Chinese actions . Recent developments that reflect our continuous diplomatic engagement since then have set our ties in the direction of some improvement , " he said while briefing the Lok Sabha on India-China ties . <p> After making landfall between Puducherry and neighbouring Tamil Nadu on November 30 , Cyclone Fengal weakened by Sunday . However , torrential downpours under its influence continued , resulting in extremely heavy rainfall in the coastal regions of north Tamil Nadu and Puducherry . <p> According to the Weather Channel , Cyclone Fengal has claimed 19 lives in India and Sri Lanka so far , with widespread flooding , road blockages , and power outages disrupting daily life . In Chennai , three people died from electrocution due to rain-related incidents . <p> Tensions continue to escalate in West Asia as ceasefire violations in Lebanon , escalating fighting in Syria , and the ongoing war on Gaza intensify . The Israeli military has issued new forced displacement orders for Palestinians in parts of southern Khan Younis , following strikes that killed at least nine people in central and northern Gaza . <p> In another latest development , US President-elect Donald Trump , in a stern message on social media , sought immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza.He added if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be ' Hell To Pay . ' <p> As India and Australia gear up for the second Test of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy 2024-25 , the hype around the pink ball is getting high . The second Test in Adelaide is set to be a Day-Night affair for which pink balls are used . ( Full Coverage More Cricket News ) <p> Australian middle order batters Steve Smith and Travis Head admitted that facing the pink ball is challenging , especially if the pitch is difficult to bat . 
@@118403218 <p> Tensions continue to escalate in West Asia as ceasefire violations in Lebanon , escalating fighting in Syria , and the ongoing war on Gaza intensify . The Israeli military has issued new forced displacement orders for Palestinians in parts of southern Khan Younis , following strikes that killed at least nine people in central and northern Gaza . <p> In another latest development , US President-elect Donald Trump , in a stern message on social media , sought immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza.He added if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be ' Hell To Pay . ' <p> In Lebanon , the ceasefire that took effect last week is under threat , with Israel 's military and Hezbollah exchanging fire . Both sides have accused each other of violations . Heavy Israeli attacks in southern Lebanon have killed at least 11 people . <p> Meanwhile , in Syria , Syrian and Russian forces have intensified air attacks on Idlib city and positions in Aleppo as President Bashar al-Assad 's government tries to slow the advance of opposition fighters . The Syrian government under Assad is politically and militarily supported by Iran and Russia . This surge in fighting has raised the prospect of another violent front emerging in the already war-torn West Asia . <p> Here are the latest updates from West Asia : <p> Israel Kills 11 People In Lebanon <p> Since the ceasefire with Hezbollah came into effect last week , Israel has continued its assaults on Lebanon , killing 11 people in separate attacks . <p> The truce was pushed to the brink on Monday when Israeli airstrikes killed two people . In retaliation , Hezbollah launched an attack on an Israeli military position . Israel then responded with a series of air raids , which killed at least nine people , according to the Lebanese Health Ministry . <p> The ceasefire had brought an end to a devastating war that killed nearly 4,000 people in Lebanon , where Hezbollah launched daily rocket attacks on Israel . <p> Hamas Says 33 Captives Killed In Gaza <p> Hamas has reported the deaths of 33 Israeli captives held in Gaza since the start of Israel 's nearly 14-month-old war in the besieged enclave . <p> In a video released on Monday , the group blamed the deaths on " the stubbornness of the war criminal " Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and " his ongoing aggression . " <p> The video listed incidents and dates of the killings , with Israeli airstrikes cited as the primary cause . This comes as Egypt , Qatar , and the United States lead renewed mediation efforts for a ceasefire that would include the release of captives . <p> Trump Warns Of ' Hell To Pay ' If Hostages Not Released <p> United States President-elect Donald Trump has issued a stern warning , saying " there will be hell to pay " if captives in Gaza are not released by the time he assumes office on January 20 , 2025 . <p> In a post on Truth Social , Trump decried " all talk , and no action " about the captives , in an apparent jibe at US President Joe Biden and his administration 's inability to broker a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas during more than a year of war . <p> " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " he said . <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " he wrote . <p> Syrian and Russian forces have intensified air attacks on Idlib city and positions in Aleppo as President Bashar al-Assad 's government tries to slow the advance of opposition fighters . This follows days after insurgents launched a lightning offensive and nearly captured all of Syria 's largest city , Aleppo . <p> The big gains by the opposition over the past few days have greatly shifted the front line in Syria 's long-running war between Assad 's forces and the opposition fighters . The Syrian government under Assad is politically and militarily supported by Iran and Russia . <p> To counter the rebels ' momentum , dozens of Iran-backed militias from Iraq also crossed into Syria overnight to beef up the Syrian military 's defences , according to Associated Press Report . <p> Turkey Calls For Reconciliation <p> The Turkish foreign minister , Hakan Fidan , said on Monday that the rapid advance of opposition fighters in Syria indicates that President Bashar al-Assad must reconcile with his own people and initiate dialogue with the opposition . Turkey , which has supported many opposition factions , and Iran , which backs Assad , have agreed to resume diplomatic efforts along with Russia to restore calm . <p> Turkey has been seeking to normalise ties with Syria , partly to address security threats from Kurdish militant groups along its southern border and ensure the safe return of more than 3 million Syrian refugees . However , Assad has demanded that Turkey withdraw its forces from northern Syria as a precondition for any normalisation between the two countries . <p> Death Toll Across The Region <p> In Gaza , since October 7 , 2023 , Israel has killed at least 44,466 Palestinians and wounded 105,358 . On the same day , Hamas-led attacks killed at least 1,139 people in Israel , and more than 200 were taken captive . <p> In Lebanon , Israeli attacks have killed at least 3,961 people and wounded 16,520 since the war on Gaza began . <p> In Syria , from November 26 to December 1 , at least 44 civilians , including 12 children and seven women , were killed in northwest Syria , according to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( OCHA ) . 
@@118403274 <p> The Syrian civil war , a conflict that has lasted for 13 years and claimed the lives of an estimated half-million people , has once again captured global attention . A recent and unexpected offensive by rebel forces , spearheaded by the group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , has led to the capture of Aleppo , one of Syria 's most significant cities . This surprise development marks the first major attack on Aleppo since 2016 and signals a potential turning point in a war that has already left deep scars on the Middle East and beyond . <h> Aleppo : A Symbol of Syrian Conflict <p> Aleppo , a city steeped in history and once a vibrant hub of trade and culture , has been central to Syria 's civil war . Before the conflict , it was home to 2.3 million people . In 2012 , rebel forces captured the eastern part of the city , making it a stronghold of opposition against Syrian President Bashar Assad 's regime . However , in 2016 , government forces -- backed by intense Russian airstrikes -- recaptured Aleppo after a devastating siege . The fall of Aleppo symbolized a significant turning point in the war , solidifying Assad 's grip on power . <p> The current rebel assault on Aleppo , led by HTS , is the first since the city 's recapture and represents a significant challenge to Assad 's authority . The offensive extends into the surrounding countryside of Idlib and Hama provinces , with Syrian government forces scrambling to launch airstrikes and deploy reinforcements to halt the insurgents ' advance . <h> Why This Offensive Matters <p> The resurgence of fighting in Aleppo comes at a precarious time for the region . The war in Syria had seen little change in territorial control in recent years , but this attack has the potential to reshape the battlefield . Charles Lister , a Middle East analyst , suggests this offensive could have " game-changing " consequences if the Syrian military fails to defend its positions effectively . <p> The situation is further complicated by the involvement of multiple foreign powers . Russia , a key backer of Assad , is preoccupied with its ongoing war in Ukraine , potentially limiting its ability to provide immediate support . At the same time , Turkey maintains forces in Syria and holds sway over the opposition coalition that includes HTS . The possibility of heightened tensions between Russia and Turkey looms large , as both nations have strategic interests in Syria . <p> The implications extend beyond Syria 's borders . The conflict could become a destabilizing factor across the Middle East , especially as other regional tensions persist . The ongoing Israeli-Hamas conflict in Gaza and Hezbollah 's involvement in Lebanon create an already volatile backdrop . The resurgence of fighting in Syria risks adding another layer of complexity to an already fraught geopolitical landscape . <h> Who is Leading the Rebel Offensive ? <p> HTS , the group spearheading the attack , has a complex and controversial history . Originally an offshoot of al-Qaida , HTS has been designated as a terrorist organization by the U.S. and the United Nations . Its leader , Abu Mohammed al-Golani , first emerged during the early days of the Syrian conflict in 2011 . The group initially engaged in violent extremist activities , including bombings , religious policing , and property confiscation from minorities . <p> In recent years , HTS has attempted to distance itself from its extremist roots . The group officially severed ties with al-Qaida in 2016 and has worked to present itself as a more moderate force in opposition-controlled territories . It has focused on civilian governance and cracked down on extremist factions within its ranks . For example , last year , HTS permitted the first Christian Mass in Idlib in years . However , critics argue that HTS continues to harbor and cooperate with armed groups that operate against U.S. and allied forces . <h> The Role of Foreign Powers <p> The involvement of foreign powers has been a defining feature of Syria 's civil war . Russian airstrikes and Iranian-backed militias have been instrumental in helping Assad maintain control over 70% of the country . Meanwhile , the U.S. has about 900 troops stationed in northeast Syria , primarily to prevent the resurgence of the Islamic State ( IS ) . Turkey also plays a significant role , both militarily and diplomatically , in supporting opposition forces . <p> The renewed fighting in Aleppo raises questions about how these foreign powers will respond . Russia 's focus on Ukraine and Turkey 's support for Syrian rebels could lead to increased friction . Additionally , Israel 's recent strikes in Aleppo targeting Hezbollah and Syrian military assets add another layer of complexity . Such actions underscore the fragility of the situation and the potential for broader regional escalation . <h> Potential Consequences <p> The offensive has highlighted the ever-present threat of IS sleeper cells , which could exploit the chaos to regain a foothold in Syria . Although IS no longer controls territory , it remains a lethal force , capable of carrying out attacks in both Syria and Iraq . <p> Furthermore , the offensive could exacerbate Syria 's already dire humanitarian crisis . Over 6.8 million Syrians have fled the country , and millions more are internally displaced . A resurgence in fighting could displace even more people , adding to the strain on neighbouring countries and fuelling anti-immigrant sentiment in Europe , where Syrian refugees have been a contentious issue . <p> The unexpected rebel advances in Aleppo highlight the persistent instability of Syria 's civil war . This escalation not only poses a formidable threat to Assad 's regime but also threatens to drag the region into even greater chaos . Major global powers , including Russia , Turkey , and the U.S. , must navigate this crisis cautiously to prevent worsening the already fragile situation . <p> As the battle for Aleppo unfolds , its outcome will likely have far-reaching implications -- not just for Syria but for the broader Middle East . Whether this offensive marks a turning point in the conflict or a temporary surge in violence remains to be seen . As the fighting intensifies , it serves as a poignant reminder of the immense human suffering and geopolitical complexities that have defined Syria 's 13-year war . 
@@118403551 <h> On October 7 , Hamas launched a terror attack on Israel , killing over 1,200 people and taking more than 250 hostages . Around 100 of them are still in captivity , and many are feared dead . <p> US President-elect Donald Trump has issued a stern warning to Hamas regarding the ongoing hostage crisis in the Middle East , stating there will be " ALL HELL TO PAY " in the region if the hostages are not released before January 20 , 2025 , prior to the date he will assume office in the White House . <p> " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump said , taking to the social media platform Truth Social . Trump lashed out at previous negotiations on the matter , claiming there had been " all talks " but " no actions " regarding the locations where the hostages were being held , describing the situation as violent and inhumane . <p> " Everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire World , in the Middle East -- But it 's all talk , and no action ! " he added . Trump vowed that those responsible for the hostage-taking would be " hit harder " than any previous actions taken against foreign entities by the US . " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " the post further read . On October 7 , Hamas launched a terror attack on Israel , killing over 1,200 people and taking more than 250 hostages . Around 100 of them are still in captivity , and many are feared dead . <p> In response , Israel launched a strong counteroffensive targeting Hamas units in Gaza . The Israeli operation has , however , resulted in the deaths of over 45,000 Palestinians in Gaza . 
@@118403583 <h> Ceasefire in Lebanon <p> After protracted negotiations involving the US and France , Israel and Hezbollah have accepted a ceasefire . The ceasefire comes after over a year of fighting resulting in the loss of thousands of lives , mostly innocents . <p> HARSHA KAKAR New Delhi December 3 , 2024 8:13 am <p> Representation image ( REUTERS/Amr Abdallah Dalsh ) <p> After protracted negotiations involving the US and France , Israel and Hezbollah have accepted a ceasefire . The ceasefire comes after over a year of fighting resulting in the loss of thousands of lives , mostly innocents . Presidents Joe Biden and Emmanuel Macron said in a joint statement that the agreement " will cease the fighting in Lebanon , and secure Israel from the threat of Hezbollah and other terrorist organizations operating from Lebanon , " adding that it " will create conditions to restore lasting calm and allow residents in both countries to return safely to their homes . " <p> Benjamin Netanyahu , the Israeli PM , said , " We will enforce the agreement and respond forcefully to any violation . " According to the agreement there would initially be a sixtyday ceasefire . The world welcomed the agreement as it ended one part of the conflict in West Asia . The conflict in Lebanon has thus far displaced over 1.2 million Lebanese as also 60,000 Israelis . According to Lebanon there have been over 3,700 deaths , while Israel has accepted the loss of 75 soldiers and 45 civilians . UNSC resolution 1701 which ended the 2006 Israel-Hezbollah conflict was the basis for the current agreement . Similar to 2006 , only Lebanese armed forces and UN peacekeepers would operate south of Lebanon 's Litani River . This will imply that Hezbollah forces would retreat about 40 km from the border while Israeli forces would vacate Lebanon . <p> Over the years , the 2006 truce was breached by both sides , with Hezbollah constructing underground structures and Israeli aircraft overflying Lebanon regularly . Yet the truce held , till Hamas launched its raids on Israel on 7 October last year . It should be noted that both the ceasefires ( 2006 and current ) are between Israel and Hezbollah , not Lebanon , implying that the world has accepted Hezbollah as a global entity , despite it being designated as a terrorist group . The current ceasefire is a win-win for all sides involved in the conflict and hence there is hope that it will hold . <p> Advertisement <p> For Biden , this is some achievement , though in the final stages of his presidency . Had this ceasefire been announced prior to the US elections , it is possible that it could have benefitted Kamala Harris . The US was being stretched to its limits , providing Israel and Ukraine with weapons and ammunition while also maintaining its own reserves for any future operations . Its defence-industrial complex was unable to meet rising demands . Netanyahu officially announced three reasons for accepting the ceasefire . Firstly , it enables Israel to focus on Iran , its major adversary ; secondly , the ceasefire comes as a ' breather ' as it also allows Israeli forces to ' replenish their stocks ' and finally separates Hamas and Hezbollah operations . But there are multiple other reasons . Israeli defence forces are exhausted . There are reports of reservists not reporting for duty . A CNN report mentions that Israeli forces " issued 1,126 arrest warrants for ultra-Orthodox conscripts who have not responded to drafting orders . " <p> The Israel Supreme Court had determined that ultraOrthodox Jews can not be exempt from military service . An Israeli military spokesperson mentioned while commenting on drafting orders to ultra-Orthodox Jews , " The IDF ( Israeli Defence Force ) is in need of soldiers . We touched on the figure of 10,000 , but this is n't a stable figure because we have casualties unfortunately . " The ceasefire with Hezbollah will reduce demands for recruitment . Further , there are disagreements within the Israeli government on its conduct of the conflict as also the end state desired by Netanyahu . <p> Israel has never been able to make Hezbollah redundant . In 2006 , prior to the ceasefire , both sides had suffered casualties , hence they welcomed the ceasefire . It enabled them to live to fight another day . Israel learnt its lessons and attempted to implement them in this campaign . Hezbollah had also brought about changes and despite suffering a series of setbacks , managed to force another ceasefire . In the present war , Israel eliminated members of Hezbollah 's senior leadership by target bombing and its unique ' pager bombs ' took out middle level leaders . Simultaneously , its air force bombed Hezbollah 's rocket storage depots as also production facilities . <p> However , these did little to stop the launch of rockets . Hezbollah had also learnt from 2006 . In fact , days before the ceasefire , it fired a barrage of over 250 rockets into Israel . Incursions into Lebanon have never been very successful for Israeli forces , either in 2006 or even now . Despite heavy casualties , the Hezbollah have always bounced back . Casualties for Israel are difficult to replace , especially when it continues to battle Hamas in Gaza . Lebanese civilian casualties in targeted airstrikes only benefit Hezbollah as terrorist groups gain supporters with innocent deaths . Simultaneously , it impacts Israel 's global standing . Israel can now concentrate on Hamas , anti-Israel groups in Syria as also in Yemen . <p> Israel is aware that the truce would enable Hezbollah to rebuild its structure as also its military power . It would ultimately have to engage with it sometime in the future . That may not be immediate , but will have to happen . It is a matter of time but has brought relief to citizens in both countries . For Iran , the main backer of Hamas and Hezbollah , it is essential that at least one of its proxies remains secure for the future . It has no choice but to sacrifice Hamas while saving Hezbollah . For Iran , Hamas , Houthis and Hezbollah are buffers between it and Israel , its sworn enemy . It can not let all of them be destroyed . Simultaneously , Iran has opened negotiations with the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) , hoping to obtain sanction relief . <p> This ceasefire would benefit it alongside its rapprochement with its neighbours . Hence , it gave its sanction for the ceasefire to the Hezbollah chief , Naim Qaseem . Hezbollah also needs to recoup . Its enmity with Israel continues . For it the ceasefire is a pause as it rebuilds its capabilities , manpower , structures and stockpiles of munitions . While it has suffered casualties , it is aware that it has not lost the war , maybe the battle , and is preparing for the next phase . In the ultimate analysis , both Israel and Hezbollah know that this is not a permanent peace agreement . How long it would continue is anybody 's guess . Currently , forces on both sides as also the population are weary of war . It is this weariness which may compel both sides to maintain peace at least for the near term . <p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday said India 's strategic convergences with the United States have grown deeper with time and created an environment in which the two countries can explore more collaborative possibilities . 
@@118403593 <h> Egypt hosts ministerial conference to garner support for Gaza <p> A ministerial conference kicked off on Monday in Cairo to garner regional and international support for the besieged Gaza and alleviate the sufferings of the Palestinian people . <p> IANS New Delhi December 3 , 2024 12:22 pm <p> Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi file photo <p> A ministerial conference kicked off on Monday in Cairo to garner regional and international support for the besieged Gaza and alleviate the sufferings of the Palestinian people . <p> The meeting is being held under the auspices of the Egyptian President with the participation of 103 delegations of various countries , international organisations , and financial institutions , according to the Egyptian Foreign Ministry . <p> Commissioner-General of the UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) Philippe Lazzarini told the conference that " UNRWA has preserved the Palestinian identity since its establishment and works in accordance with international law and to protect the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people . " <p> Advertisement <p> He added that safe and effective conditions must be ensured for the continuation of humanitarian operations in the Gaza Strip , urging an emergency response and a political solution to end the catastrophic situation in Gaza , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> Palestinian Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Mohammad Mustafa said , Egypt , since the first day of the Israeli aggression , has backed the Palestinian side and exerted sincere efforts to reach a ceasefire in the Gaza Strip . " <p> For his part , Egyptian Foreign Minister Badr Abdelatty said , " Egypt fully condemns the illegal ban of the work of UNRWA , which reflects an unacceptable disregard for the international community and its institutions . " <p> The Israeli parliament in October passed a law prohibiting UNRWA from operating within its territory . 
@@118404035 <h> Trump issues ultimatum to Hamas to release Gaza hostages before he takes charge as President <p> Washington , December 3 ( IANS ) US President-elect Donald Trump has issued an ultimatum to terrorist group Hamas that the hostages taken by it be released from Gaza before his inauguration in January , or there will be " hell to pay " in the Middle East for those responsible . <p> Writing on Truth Social , and without naming any militant group , Trump said on Monday in his post : " If the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity . Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " <p> About 250 hostages were captured in the Hamas-led attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 , and about 100 of them remain in Gaza , with about a third believed to be dead , according to the Israeli authorities . <p> The Biden administration has been working since last year with Israel and international mediators , including Qatar and Egypt , on a cease-fire deal that would include the release of the hostages . <p> It was not clear what tactic Trump might take that has not already been taken already by Israel , which has killed many of Hamas 's leaders and thousands of its fighters while leveling much of Gaza . <p> It was not clear what tactic Mr. Trump might take that has not already been taken already by Israel , which has killed many of Hamas 's leaders and thousands of its fighters , while leveling much of Gaza . <p> Trump said in his post on Monday , " It 's all talk and no action " when it comes to the hostages , and his statement suggesting that he could use the power of his office to punish those who took the captives is the first sign of how aggressively Trump might handle Middle East policy when he resumes office . <p> There was one brief pause in the fighting , more than a year ago , that led to the release of about 105 hostages . And efforts to broker a cease-fire deal appeared to stall last month after mediators met in Egypt . <p> Some hostages have also been rescued in Israeli military operations . But there have been protests and widespread frustration in Israel over the lack of a deal to secure their freedom , with critics of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel saying that he has failed to prioritise their release over his political survival . <p> This is not the first time that Trump has addressed the conflict in Gaza and the fate of the remaining hostages . <p> He has told Netanyahu that he wants the war in the enclave to end before he returns to the White House . And at the Republican National Convention in July , he said that he wanted the hostages returned and that captors " will be paying a very big price " . <p> His latest warning came after Hamas released a propaganda video showing the American-Israeli hostage Edan Alexander , 20 , pleading with Trump to secure his release . <h> Connect with us <h> Intro footer <p> The Morung Express <p> The Morung Express is a people-oriented alternative newspaper based in Nagaland that was conceived from the Naga people 's historical realities and is guided by their voices and experiences . It emerged from the well-recognized concept that the core of a free press is based on " qualitative and investigative " journalism . Ensuring this is essential for contributing to an informed Naga public that makes sound decisions on issues that affect all spheres of life . 
@@118418755 <p> In an early signal of U.S. President-elect Donald Trump 's foreign policy plans for when he returns to office next month , the Republican said Monday " there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East " if Hamas does not release hostages taken from Israel , the occupying military force in both the West Bank and Gaza Strip . <p> Trump demanded hostages seized during the October 7 attack of last year be released or his promised retribution would follow . Nearly 45,000 Palestinians have already been killed -- mostly civilian men , women , and children -- since Israel launched a full-scale invasion of Gaza in the wake of the Hamas-led operation . <p> Of the 251 people taken captive last year , 63 are believed to be still alive in Gaza , according toThe Washington Post 's tracker , which was updated last week . So far , 117 others have been freed or rescued and 71 have been confirmed killed . <p> After dining with Sara Netanyahu , the wife of Israel 's prime minister , at the Trump International Golf Club in Florida Sunday night , the U.S. president-elect made his threat about the hostages on his Truth Social platform Monday afternoon . <p> " Everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire World , in the Middle East , " Trump wrote . " But it 's all talk , and no action ! Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity . " <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America , " Trump added . " RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " <p> Stephen Pollard , editor-at-large The Jewish Chronicle , responded that " this is the message the president of the USA should have sent on October 8 , 2023 . " <p> Noting Pollard 's comments , Rohan Talbot , director of advocacy and campaigns at the U.K.-based Medical Aid for Palestinians , said : " Genuinely interested to know what Stephen thinks the U.S. could have supported Israel to do in Gaza beyond what it currently has . Nukes ? " <p> " This statement is unhinged -- ' there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , ' " Talbot added . <p> Andreas Krieg , a senior lecturer in the School of Security Studies at King 's College London , said , " Someone tell Trump that Israel already unleashed hell on Gaza , and hostages were not released . " <p> Drop Site Newshighlighted that " Trump 's statement -- which follows a video released over the weekend by Hamas ' armed wing featuring U.S.-Israeli captive Edan Alexander and explicitly addressing Trump -- does not acknowledge that Netanyahu has repeatedly sabotaged cease-fire deals that could have freed Israeli hostages . It also appears timed to position himself to claim credit for any progress in cease-fire talks , as negotiations between Hamas and Egyptian mediators are already underway . " <p> The White House is attempting a final push to get ... a deal done . President Joe Biden said last week that the cease-fire between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon had created an opportunity to reignite stalled negotiations for a similar deal in Gaza . " We will use every day we have in office to try to generate as much progress towards that end as possible , " Jake Sullivan , Biden 's national security adviser , said Sunday morning on ABC 's " This Week . " <p> Given the failed efforts in the past , the families of the American hostages are hoping Trump could leverage his popularity in Israel and his relationship with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to take immediate action during the transition period . " Trump must not wait until he is inaugurated to help reach a deal that secures the freedom for Edan , six other Americans , and the rest of the hostages , " Adi and Yael Alexander , the parents of Edan , said on Saturday . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Despite an abundance of evidence showing how Israel is using U.S. weapons to slaughter civilians in Gaza and severely restricting the flow of humanitarian aid while claiming to target Hamas , Biden and Congress have refused to cut off arms to Netanyahu 's government . In fact , just hours after the cease-fire between the Israeli government and Hezbollah took effect -- a deal that Israel has since violated approximately 100 times -- the Financial Times reported last week that " Biden has provisionally approved a $680 million weapons sale to Israel . " <p> Jessica Corbett is a senior editor and staff writer for Common Dreams . <p> ( The Hague ) -- Member countries of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) should support the court against efforts to undermine its global mandate , Human Rights Watch said today . The annual session of the ICC 's ... <p> Palestinian Territory - Nearly 70,000 Palestinians have been trapped for two months without access to food or medicine , as Israeli occupation forces continue to pursue them throughout the northern Gaza ... 
@@118418756 <h> Major Demonstration of Solidarity with Palestine in Delhi <h> Share : <p> New Delhi : On Saturday evening , a huge demonstration in solidarity with the oppressed people of Palestine and Gaza was held at the Rajendra Bhavan Auditorium in Delhi . This was one of the largest show of support and sympathy ever witnessed in India for the victims of the 14-month-long genocide in Gaza . The conference was organized by the All India Muslim Majlis-e Mushawarat ( AIMMM ) and was addressed by prominent human rights activists from across the country . Nepal 's former Deputy Prime Minister , Upendra Yadav , presided over the conference , while renowned journalist Suhail Anjum moderated the event . <p> In his opening remarks , Dr. Zafarul-Islam Khan , President of the AIMMM and the former head of the Delhi Minorities Commission , said , " Today , we have gathered here not just on humanitarian grounds to support the oppressed Palestinians , but also because of India 's historic ties with Palestine , which date back to the 13th century when Baba Farid meditated and stayed in Jerusalem for several years . Later , in the 15th century , Baba Guru Nanak also spent time there in meditation . To commemorate this bond , the Indian Hospice still exists in Jerusalem , supported by Indian endowments in Jerusalem and Gaza . " <p> Dr. Khan further highlighted India 's strong historical support for the Palestinian cause , recalling how , in the early 20th century , Indians backed the Palestinian struggle so significantly that Palestinian leaders gave the honour of burying Maulana Mohammad Ali Jauhar in Al-Aqsa Mosque compound after his death in London in January 1931 . Dr Khan noted that India had refused to officially recognize Israel until 1992 and that during Indira Gandhi 's tenure , India recognized the Palestine Liberation Organization and allowed it to open an office in the country . After the Oslo Accords in 1992 , India formally recognized Palestine and permitted it to establish an embassy in India . <p> Dr. Khan acknowledged that while official Indian support for Palestine has waned over the past decade , public and particularly Muslim support in India remains strong . " We continue to stand with Palestine and its oppressed people and against Israeli aggression , " he said . <p> Dr. Khan briefly shed light on the history of Palestine and explained how Britain facilitated the settlement of Jews from around the world in Palestine . They were allowed to establish private armies , and ultimately , the United Nations granted them 56% of the Palestinian territory . During the 1948 civil war , Jews captured 78% of Palestine , and in 1967 , they seized even the remaining 22% . <p> Under the Oslo Accords , Palestinians agreed to establish their government on only 22% of the land of Palestine , but Israel was not willing to implement even this agreement . This led to ongoing resistance against the occupation in Palestine , culminating in Hamas 's attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 . This attack is rooted in a long history of Israeli oppression and brutal occupation . Palestinian resistance is backed by international law , which grants occupied people the right to resist while prohibiting occupying forces from committing atrocities . <p> Despite this , Israel has crossed all limits of oppression , turning Gaza into rubble , killing and injuring over 150,000 people -- 70% of whom are women and children . It has destroyed 800 mosques , dozens of churches , all hospitals , hundreds of schools , and all the 11 universities in Gaza . Israel has also blocked food , water , electricity , and medical supplies from reaching Gaza , artificially creating conditions of famine and the spread of various diseases . <p> As a result , most countries and nations around the world stand against Israel today . Dozens of nations have severed diplomatic ties or recalled their ambassadors from Israel , and many countries have recognized Palestine as an independent state . More than a dozen nations have filed genocide cases against Israel in the International Court . Furthermore , international arrest warrants have been issued against Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu and his former Defence Minister Gallant . However , due to the blind support of the United States and several Western countries , Israel continues its war crimes . <p> Despite this , the majority of the world today stands in solidarity with Palestine and Gaza . In India , we too stand with the oppressed and strongly condemn Israel 's actions , said Dr Khan . <p> Professor Achin Vanaik , an expert in political science and international relations , stated that Israel holds the unique distinction of being involved in the longest illegal military occupation in modern history . He pointed out that while Israel claims to be a democratic country , its democracy is exclusively for Jews . He further noted that Israel is the only country in the world that has not yet submitted its map to the United Nations . A while ago , Netanyahu presented a map of Israel at the United Nations General Assembly that included a large part of the Middle East . <p> Israel has constructed the world 's largest wall after the Great Wall of China . This 700-kilometer-long wall separates Israel from the occupied West Bank . While most countries have armies , Israel is a country of the army , with all Israeli men and women spending time in military service . The Israeli military is capable of defeating the armies of all Arab countries combined , yet it portrays itself as a victim . <p> Professor Vanaik further elaborated that Israel is the only country in the world that does not belong to its citizens but to Jews worldwide . At the same time , Arab citizens living within Israel are deprived of their basic rights . He explained that history reflects three models of colonialism . The first , seen in places like the United States and Australia , involved the complete annihilation of the indigenous population . The second , like in South Africa , saw a foreign minority lording over a majority for an extended period , ultimately leading to the downfall of such regimes and allowing the majority to govern . The third model is Israel 's , which seeks to maintain perpetual dominance over non-Jews within the country without granting them rights . <p> In Gaza , over the past 14 months , so many Palestinians have been killed and injured that , proportionally , it would equate to 70 million people dying or being wounded in India . He emphasized that under international law , an occupying power has no rights , while the occupied people have the right to resist in order to achieve their freedom . Israel aims to replicate in the West Bank what it has done in Gaza , primarily to exploit the oil and natural gas reserves in Gaza 's coastal areas . <p> He noted that today the world stands in solidarity with Palestine and Gaza , while support for Israel is dwindling . Palestinians are a brave nation but have lacked competent leadership . By signing the Oslo Accords , the Fateh organization essentially became a subcontractor for Israel . He said that the resolution to the Palestinian issue would either involve the emergence of a single state where all citizens will have equal rights or two fully sovereign states living side by side . Drawing a parallel , he remarked that just as Hindutva is a problem in India , Zionism is a problem in Israel . <p> Professor Vanaik expressed regret that despite the atrocities in Gaza , oil-rich Arab countries did not even threaten to cut off oil supplies or terminate the Abraham Accords . In his closing remarks , he stressed the need to delegitimize Israel 's existence as a legitimate state . <p> The Spokesperson of the Muslim Personal Law Board , Dr. Qasim Rasool Ilyas , addressing the conference , said that no one in the history of the world has violated human rights more than Israel . With the support and conspiracies of Western countries , Israel has today confined Palestinians in two open-air prisons , with no connection between them . People condemn Palestinians alongside Israel , but they forget the events that have been taking place in Palestine since 1948 . If October 7 had not happened , Saudi Arabia would have already recognized Israel . The Oslo Accords have now been forgotten . This is a one-sided war , with one party continuously bombing the other . <p> During this war , India has not only sent workers but also weapons to Israel . Our Prime Minister is deeply concerned about a ceasefire in Ukraine but he says nothing about Palestine . Protests against Israeli oppression are happening in different countries , but in India , protests are not allowed . This is the first conference in India where we are openly discussing this issue . Despite all the oppression in Gaza and the West Bank , Israel has not yet managed to free its hostages , and Hamas has not admitted defeat . There is no nation in the world as courageous as the Palestinians . People are dying , homes are being destroyed , but the Palestinian people are not giving up . We salute them , said Dr Ilyas . <p> Not only in Gaza , but Israel has also assassinated Hamas leaders even in Iran . Meanwhile , the Arabs have done nothing except lip service . If today the Arab countries and the United States wanted , this war could be stopped . Israel , in reality , wants to devour the entire region . Due to the arms race , human lives have no value in the eyes of powerful nations . Our country , which has always spoken of non-violence , should take a clear stance on this issue . <p> Socialist leader Professor Sandeep Pandey said that if any other country were in Israel 's place today , the whole world would have stood against it . He demanded that Israel 's United Nations membership be revoked . He recalled visiting Gaza with a delegation in 2010-2011 , where they met Ismail Haniyeh . He remarked that they never saw braver people than those in Gaza . At that time , Israel 's siege of Gaza was ongoing , yet no one complained . He noted the unique slogans written on the walls of Gaza and observed how close relatives of leaders had been martyred , with photos of the martyrs displayed in their homes . <p> He suggested that Israel likely did not anticipate this war would last so long . He also highlighted that in 1960 , Jawaharlal Nehru visited refugee camps in Gaza , and this is why people still remember him fondly . Hamas leader Khaled Mishaal told the Indian delegation visiting Gaza that taking up arms was a compulsion for them and he credited Gandhi for teaching them how to endure oppression . <p> Professor Pandey added that Hamas won the 2006 elections . Organizations that win elections and form governments are not labeled as terrorists . Both Hamas and Hezbollah participate in elections . He pointed out the disparity in concerns : while Israel raises issues about its hostages , there are seven thousand Palestinians in Israeli prisons compared to a few hundred Israelis in Hamas 's custody . <p> He further stated that in 1947 , England made two significant mistakes : the partition of India and creating conditions leading to the partition of Palestine . The consequences of these errors are still being endured by the people of India , Pakistan , Palestine , and Israel . He suggested that , just as Israel and South Africa were previously boycotted , a similar approach should now be adopted towards Israel to dismantle the Zionist system . He questioned , " Why should Palestinians pay the price for Nazi Germany 's crimes ? " <p> General Secretary of the Samajwadi Party and farmer leader Dr. Sunilam said that his organization , " India Palestine Solidarity Forum , " has organized events in support of Palestine across the country and even in Nepal . A larger programme was held in Nepal than in India . He mentioned that one of the leaders of their organization is currently participating in a conference in Venezuela in support of Palestine . He emphasized that Venezuela is not a Muslim country , nor is South Africa , highlighting that it is incorrect to perceive Palestine as a Muslim issue . It is a concern for all of humanity . <p> He stated that Netanyahu is an even greater oppressor than Hitler . The way he is selectively killing people and attacking hospitals and schools is unprecedented , even beyond what Hitler did . He mentioned that an international warrant has now been issued against Netanyahu , and millions of people around the world are protesting against this oppression . Dr Sunilam remarked that its agreement with Hezbollah signifies a major defeat for Israel , indicating that Israel lacks the strength to fight . Currently , 146 member countries of the United Nations are supporting Palestine . He further shared that a large protest is going on in Bangalore in south India , where people are demonstrating against a factory producing weapons for Israel . <p> Renowned human rights activist Harsh Mander stated that just as people once stood for Vietnam , today we are standing for Palestine . Governments may side with Israel , but the people of the world today stand with Palestine . The atrocities committed by Hitler against Jews were not only the actions of a government but also involved ordinary citizens . After those events , the world declared , " Never Again . " However , the truth is that the same kind of actions are being carried out by Israel against Palestinians today . The question arises : Was that declaration only for certain people , or did it mean to ensure that no human would ever face such treatment again ? Then why is it happening today ? We are not against the people of Israel but against its government . <p> Mander said , a judge at the International Court remarked : " Israel first occupied others ' land , then it became a racist power , and now it has turned into a genocidal force . " While voices against Israeli genocide are being raised worldwide , there is hardly any significant outcry in India . Instead , some people are even supporting Israel . Today , we must once again say : " Never Again " -- this will not happen again , and this decision must be for everyone . <p> Nepalese politician and former Deputy Prime Minister Upendra Yadav , in his presidential address , stated that what is happening in Palestine today surpasses even the atrocities committed by Hitler during World War II . He acknowledged that Hitler carried out a genocide against the Jews , which the world condemned then and continues to remember . Despite his oppression , Hitler did not succeed and ultimately committed suicide . <p> Yadav drew parallels to Vietnam , a small country that defeated the overwhelming military aggression of the United States . He recounted a journalist 's question to President Nixon : " Why could n't a powerful America defeat a weaker Vietnam ? " Nixon replied , " It was n't a war between the American and Vietnamese armies ; it was a war between the American military and the Vietnamese people . " Yadav emphasized that this determination led to Vietnam 's victory . <p> He asserted that Palestine is weaker than Israel , and even the Arab nations collectively are no match for Israel . However , what Israel is doing amounts to genocide . Despite this , Palestinians continue to resist . Yadav remarked that the suffering Palestinians endure today is far greater than what Jews faced under Hitler . Newborns are being killed , injured individuals lack medical care , and access to water , food , medicine , and electricity has been cut off . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Yadav highlighted that people across many countries are standing against this genocide . While Nepal was the first Asian country to host an Israeli embassy , he noted that the Nepalese people are now overwhelmingly opposed to Israel 's actions . He acknowledged that some governments might support this genocide , but the general public is against it . Palestinians are fighting for their future and will not accept defeat . They will fight until the last person , but their rights must ultimately be recognized . Only after acknowledging these rights can progress be made . He called for an immediate end to this oppression and the recognition of the Palestinian rights . Yadav urged the United Nations to take more active steps and called on the world to unite against this injustice . <p> At the end of the conference , participants waved the Palestinian flag and pledged to continue the struggle for Palestine 's freedom and the end of Zionism . <p> ( The Hague ) -- Member countries of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) should support the court against efforts to undermine its global mandate , Human Rights Watch said today . The annual session of the ICC 's ... <p> Palestinian Territory - Nearly 70,000 Palestinians have been trapped for two months without access to food or medicine , as Israeli occupation forces continue to pursue them throughout the northern Gaza ... 
@@118418759 <h> Gaza Has Most Child Amputees Per Capita Globally:UN Secretary-General <h> Share : <p> Little Hoor Nusseir sits on a bed at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital , looking around . She is the sole survivor rescued from beneath the rubble of her family 's home . Abdelhakim Abu Riash/Al Jazeera <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - The United Nations said Gaza now has the highest number of child amputees per capita in the world after more than a year of Israel 's genocidal war on the enclave . <p> " Gaza now has the highest number of children amputees per capita anywhere in the world -- - many losing limbs and undergoing surgeries without even anaesthesia , " UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said on Monday in remarks read out by his deputy at a Cairo conference aimed to accelerate humanitarian aid to the Gaza Strip . <p> Calling the situation in war-torn Gaza " appalling and apocalyptic " , the UN chief warned that conditions faced by Palestinians in the territory may amount to the " gravest international crimes " . <p> Guterres highlighted the devastating toll of the Israeli assault and the urgent need for international action . " Malnutrition is rampant ... Famine is imminent . Meanwhile , the health system has collapsed , " he said . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The secretary-general also criticised the severe restrictions on aid delivery , calling the current levels " grossly insufficient " . <p> According to UNRWA 's count , only 65 aid trucks per day had been able to enter Gaza this past month , compared to a pre-war average of 500 . <p> ( The Hague ) -- Member countries of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) should support the court against efforts to undermine its global mandate , Human Rights Watch said today . The annual session of the ICC 's ... <p> Palestinian Territory - Nearly 70,000 Palestinians have been trapped for two months without access to food or medicine , as Israeli occupation forces continue to pursue them throughout the northern Gaza ... 
@@118418763 <h> ICC : Member States Should Act to Protect Justice <h> Share : <p> Member countries of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) should support the court against efforts to undermine its global mandate . <p> The court has been under extreme pressure since ICC judges issued arrest warrants for senior Israeli leaders as well as a Hamas official in the Palestine investigation . <p> Member countries should make a commitment during their annual meeting to fulfill their obligation to execute the court 's arrest warrants , regardless of whom they target . <p> ( The Hague ) -- Member countries of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) should support the court against efforts to undermine its global mandate , Human Rights Watch said today . The annual session of the ICC 's Assembly of States Parties will take place in The Hague , Netherlands , from December 2 to 7 , 2024 . <p> Human Rights Watch issued a 24-page report providing recommendations to member countries aimed at ensuring the court has the political backing , resources , and cooperation it needs to advance investigations and cases across its docket . The court has been under extreme pressure since ICC judges in the Palestine investigation issued arrest warrants on November 21 , for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , as well as Mohammed Diab Ibrahim al-Masri ( Mohammed Deif ) , commander-in-chief of Hamas ' military wing , the Qassam Brigades . US lawmakers renewedtheirthreats to impose sanctions on ICC officials and those cooperating with the court . <p> " ICC warrants , whether against Vladimir Putin or Benjamin Netanyahu , send a critical message that no one is above the law , " said Liz Evenson , international justice director at Human Rights Watch . " ICC member countries should make a commitment during their annual meeting to take all necessary steps to ensure that the ICC 's crucial work for justice can continue without obstruction . " <p> Following the November 21 warrant decisions , US Senator Lindsey Graham called for the US Senate and President Joe Biden to enact a bill passed by the House of Representatives on June 4 , aimed at imposing sanctions against the court , its officials , and those supporting its work . The bill is modeled on a sanctions program put in place by then-US President Donald Trump in 2020 . <p> Any US sanctions would have wide-reaching consequences for global justice that go beyond the individuals targeted , Human Rights Watch said . Sanctions may create apprehension and legal uncertainty for service providers , nongovernmental organizations , consultants , and lawyers who work with the ICC . Sanctions are a tool to be used against those responsible for the most serious crimes , not against those promoting justice , Human Rights Watch said . <p> In a principled show of support , ICC member countries from every region affirmed their backing for the court 's independence and their commitment to abide by the court 's decisions , and called on others to do the same . However , some member countries appeared to avoid explicitly committing to enforcing the warrants flowing from the Palestine investigation , while a few openlycriticized the judges ' decision to issue them . Hungarian President Victor Orban said he would invite Netanyahu to visit Hungary , though all ICC members , including Hungary , have an obligation to arrest anyone wanted by the court . <p> At the Assembly session , ICC member countries should publicly make a commitment to enforce the ICC warrants , regardless of whom they target , and condemn threats and attacks against the court , its officials , and its supporters including civil society organizations and human rights defenders . <p> Member countries should also commit during the session to take concrete steps to protect the court from all coercive measures . This includes adopting and implementing national and regional laws to minimize or eliminate the effects of sanctions . The European Union should be ready to swiftly activate its " blocking statute " if the US puts sanctions in place , Human Rights Watch said . This law aims to shield European operators from the effects of extraterritorial sanctions and ensure that the court can continue its work unaffected . <p> ICC member countries will also set the court 's budget for 2025 . The court is currently operating in 16 countries across the globe . An ongoing mismatch between the court 's workload and the resources available to it has severely hampered its ability to effectively deliver on its mandate . Member countries should be mindful of how the court 's chronic underfunding affects victims ' access to justice , and adopt an annual budget that will allow the ICC to do its job consistently and effectively across all situations on its docket , Human Rights Watch said . <p> At the Assembly session , member countries will also determine the future of the review of the court 's performance by independent experts , which produced nearly 400 recommendations for change , in 2020 . As they decide on next steps , member countries should ensure continued monitoring of how the experts ' recommendations are being implemented and reflect on the role of member countries in providing the court with the support it needs , Human Rights Watch said . <p> The expert report included troubling findings about workplace culture at the court . Among other issues , the experts identified gaps in the current system to address allegations of misconduct by elected court officials and made a number of recommendations to strengthen internal grievance procedures , but most of these have not been implemented . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> On November 11 , the Assembly President P ? ivi Kaukoranta of Finland , announced that she is seeking an external investigation into allegations of sexual harassment against the ICC prosecutor , after an initial inquiry by the court 's Independent Oversight Mechanism was closed . The external investigation should have the authority to put in place necessary safeguards to protect its integrity , including considering whether the prosecutor should temporarily step away from his duties while the investigation is ongoing , Human Rights Watch said . <p> " The ICC needs the support of its member countries to fulfill its ambitious global mandate of delivering justice for the most serious crimes , " Evenson said . " Member country support needs to be consistent over time and across situations to avoid double standards and uphold the court 's legitimacy for victims and affected communities . " <p> Palestinian Territory - Nearly 70,000 Palestinians have been trapped for two months without access to food or medicine , as Israeli occupation forces continue to pursue them throughout the northern Gaza ... 
@@118418780 <h> 70 thousand Palestinians trapped in northern Gaza face starvation , extermination in one of the largest genocidal campaigns in modern history <h> Share : <p> Palestinian Territory -- Nearly 70,000 Palestinians have been trapped for two months without access to food or medicine , as Israeli occupation forces continue to pursue them throughout the northern Gaza Strip . This ongoing situation has resulted in numerous deaths and forced displacements in what many consider one of the most horrific campaigns of genocide in modern history . <p> Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor has received alarming reports about the dire situation facing the nearly 70,000 Palestinians who are trapped in the northern Strip . This follows the displacement of more than 150,000 people by the Israeli army since the onset of its most recent military operation in the north on 5 October 2024 . Euro-Med Monitor notes that those who remain besieged are experiencing severe famine , as they have run out of all types of food and lack access to clean water . Many have gone days without eating or drinking anything . Meanwhile , Israeli bombings and other military operations continue , targeting shelters as well as what remains of previously destroyed homes . <p> The Israeli army has deliberately bombed homes where civilians sought refuge . The most recent incident occurred on Sunday , when the occupation army targeted the Labad family home in Beit Lahia , resulting in the killings of 25 family members . Just two days earlier , Israeli forces also bombed three residential buildings in Jabalia and Beit Lahia , which belonged to the Baba , Al-Araj , and Ahmad families . This attack killed more than 120 residents , leaving an unknown number of victims still trapped under the rubble . <p> No one can rescue those stuck under the rubble due to the Israeli bombings , as Israel has been blocking civil defense teams in the northern section of the Strip from operating for 41 days now . Consequently , the injured are slowly dying without medical assistance , as they can not be transported to hospitals , which are unable to function properly under such dire conditions and are frequently subjected to bombings . Furthermore , those who manage to survive their injuries and reach partially operational hospitals face the risk of being targeted by Israeli drones . Even if they do make it to a hospital , they may still die due to a lack of adequate treatment and insufficient medical personnel . <p> Numerous incidents have occurred in which Israel has used drones , including quadcopters , to target Palestinian civilians who were compelled to leave their homes or shelters in search of food or water . <p> The Israeli occupation army is committing severe crimes against civilians . Its attempts to completely eliminate the residents of the Jabalia refugee camp have included destroying homes using robots and booby-trapped barrels , in addition to dropping powerful American bombs . Despite Israeli forces ' awareness of the presence of residents in many of the homes and residential blocks , these sites are still being targeted . <p> The Israeli army has turned Jabalia Camp , the city of Jabalia , Beit Hanoun , and Beit Lahia into piles of rubble , devastation , and total destruction , by wrecking , demolishing , and burning homes and shelters , and targeting all aspects of Palestinian life . As a result , even if the Israeli army withdraws from these areas , it will be nearly impossible for Palestinian civilians to return and live there safely . <p> The world witnesses these horrific crimes , yet no serious action has been taken to stop what is now considered to be one of the largest genocidal campaigns and humanitarian tragedies in modern times . <p> This international disregard for the victims constitutes an indelible stain on the forehead of the international community , which continues to exclude Palestinians from the protection of international law and its executive mechanisms . These mechanisms have failed to be applied effectively , due to political biases and international pressure . This situation reflects a global hypocrisy regarding the principles that the international legal system is built upon , demonstrating shameful double standards and a blatant violation of justice and humanity . <p> The international community 's hesitation to take decisive action in response to Israel 's violations in the Gaza Strip , particularly in the Strip 's northern regions , makes it complicit in these crimes . This inaction serves as a tacit approval for Israel 's actions , allowing it to continue escalating its campaign of genocide , and demonstrates a shocking disregard for the lives and dignity of Palestinians . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> It is imperative that the United Nations and the international community intervene immediately to protect 10s of thousands of residents of northern Gaza who are in imminent danger , plus stop the ongoing genocide being perpetrated by Israel across the entire Gaza Strip for the second consecutive year . Actions should include imposing sanctions on Israel , implementing a comprehensive arms embargo , holding the country accountable for its actions , and taking all necessary measures to safeguard Palestinian civilians . Additionally , the enforcement of the arrest warrants issued by the International Criminal Court against the Israeli Prime Minister and Minister of Defense must be prompt , ensuring their surrender to international justice . <p> Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor is a Geneva-based independent organization with regional offices across the MENA region and Europe <h> Related Posts <p> ( The Hague ) -- Member countries of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) should support the court against efforts to undermine its global mandate , Human Rights Watch said today . The annual session of the ICC 's ... <p> The arrest warrants by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant are a diplomatic disaster for Israel , reported The Economist , ... 
@@118418781 <p> In my abovementioned book , which I wrote in the wake of the 2014 Gaza war , also known as " Operation Protective Edge " , I posited that : <p> The end of the Cold War had the effect of making two major international realities more evident : the consecration of the position of the United States of America as the dominant world power , due to its military , political , economic and technological weight ; and the shift of the global economic and commercial center of gravity from the Old Continent to the Pacific region as a result , in particular , of the prodigious development achieved by the Chinese dragon . And despite its relative decline caused by the economic and financial crisis of 2007/2008 , the United States , being precisely a nation that is both Atlantic and Indo-Pacific , will continue to play a leading role during the 21st century ; <p> The vicissitudes of the " Arab Spring " , the politico-military maneuvers in the East and South China Sea , and the developments of the Ukrainian crisis , far from constituting epiphenomena of turbulent current affairs , are in fact the most telling manifestations of a geostrategic upheaval , in a globalized world entering a phase of accelerated reconfiguration . Obviously , this development , which is gradually taking the form of a multipolar world , is not to the taste of those in favor of the perpetuation of Western domination of the world , more than ever symbolized by the power of the American leader ; <p> The history of the 21st century , particularly its first half , seems to revolve around two contradictory struggles . The first will consist of attempts by secondary powers to form coalitions to try to contain the hegemonism of the United States . The second will encompass preventive actions on the part of this country aimed at preventing the formation of such coalitions that could endanger its strategic interests in the world ; <p> Regardless of the real sponsors of September 11 attacks and their true motives , this historic event provided the United States with the opportunity to implement its strategy of domination over a Muslim world considered -- despite its present state of asthenia -- as a potential adversary that must be continually weakened , while exploiting its significant natural resources , especially energy . Since the invasions of Afghanistan in 2001 and Iraq in 2003 , a new " Sykes-Picot " seems to be taking shape in the region . But while the secret Franco-British agreements of 1916 aimed to " facilitate the creation of a State or a Confederation of Arab States " , the current process aims to dismantle existing States . This strategy of " mass disintegration " would allow the United States to achieve a triple objective : guaranteeing the preservation of its strategic interests in the region ; strengthening the position of its Israeli ally , thereby ensuring its survival as a Jewish state ; and redirecting most of U.S. efforts and resources toward the most important region of the world : the Pacific region . " <p> Since then , and fundamentally , the U.S. geostrategic vision has not changed one iota , as clearly evidenced by the October 2022 Biden-Harris Administration 's National Security Strategy. 3 Indeed , the document states that " The Strategy is rooted in our national interests : to protect the security of the American people , to expand economic opportunity , and to realize and defend the democratic values at the heart of the American way of life . In pursuit of these objectives , we will : Invest in the underlying sources and tools of American power and influence ; build the strongest possible coalition of nations to enhance our collective influence to shape the global strategic environment and to solve shared challenges ; and modernize and strengthen our military so it is equipped for the era of strategic competition . " It also stresses that " The most pressing strategic challenges we face as we pursue a free , open , prosperous , and secure world are from powers that layer authoritarian governance with a revisionist foreign policy . We will effectively compete with the People 's Republic of China , which is the only competitor with both the intent and , increasingly , the capability to reshape the international order , while constraining a dangerous Russia . " With regard to the Middle East region , the U.S. envisions " A more integrated Middle East that empowers our allies and partners " and advance " regional peace and prosperity , while reducing the resource demands the region makes on the United States over the long term . " <p> What has crucially changed , however , is the very world the U.S. has relentlessly strived to dominate since the end of WWII , and even more so after the collapse of the Soviet Union , which , as history will record , was only a temporary " freezing " of the Cold War . <p> The outbreak of the Ukraine War in 2022 and , to a greater degree , the ongoing round of the War on Gaza have brought Israel , Ukraine , and the West closer to each other4 , and by the same token have further distanced them from the rest of the world , all the while accelerating the transition to a multipolar global order . <p> At this point , it is both appropriate and warranted to emphasize , with John Ikenberry once again , that " the world 's most powerful state has begun to sabotage the order it created . A hostile and revisionist power has indeed arrived on the scene , but it sits in the Oval Office , the beating heart of the Free world . " <p> The French Academy dictionary defines order as " an arrangement , a regular layout of things in relation to one another ; a necessary relationship which regulates the organization of a whole into its parts " . In reality , the notions of order and disorder are part of a practical , ethical , political , even mythical and religious discourse . From a philosophical point of view , according to Professor Bertrand Piettre5 , these two notions seem to be more normative than descriptive and have more value than reality . Thus , the term " order " is understood at least in two contradictory senses : either the order is thought of as finalized , as carrying out a purpose , pursuing a direction , thence making sense ; disorder is then defined by the absence of an intelligent design . Or , the order is thought of as a stable or recurring structure and , thereby , recognizable and locatable , as a constant and necessary arrangement ; but as such , it can appear totally devoid of finality and purpose . Disorder , then , is not thought of as what is devoid of a finality , but as what appears to be devoid of necessity . These two meanings , he further explains , refer to two philosophically different visions of the world : finalist or mechanist , and their combination , in a play of contingency and necessity , produces the diversity of the material and living world that we know . <p> In the realm of international relations , order is commonly understood to mean the set of rules and institutions that govern relations between the key players in the international environment . Such an order is distinguished from chaos , or random relationships , by a certain degree of stability in terms of structure and organization . <p> Perhaps , one of the best studies ever done on this topic is the one published by the Rand Corporation in 2016 under the title " Understanding the Current International Order . " 6 The main aim of this study was to understand the workings of the existing international order , assess current challenges and threats to the order , and accordingly , recommend future policies deemed sound to U.S. decisionmakers . <p> The report says that in the modern era the foundation of the international order was built on the bedrock principles of the Westphalian system , which reflected fairly conservative conceptions of order while relying on pure balance-of-power politics in order to uphold the sovereign equality and territorial inviolability of States . <p> This Westphalian system led to the development of the territorial integrity norm , considered to this day as a cardinal norm against outright aggression toward neighbors with the aim of seizing their lands , resources or citizens , which was once a common practice in world politics . Thus defined in its main elements , this system has continued to prevail , especially since the Concert of Europe , also known as the Vienna Congress system , which from 1815 to 1914 established a whole series of principles , rules and practices having greatly contributed , after the Napoleonic wars , to maintaining a balance between European powers and shielding the Old Continent from a new all-out conflict . It stood fast until the outbreak of World War I. <p> At the close of the horrific hostilities of the Great War , U.S. President Woodrow Wilson spent several months of 1919 in Europe , working closely with British Prime Minister David Lloyd George , French Prime Minister Georges Clemenceau , and other leaders to build a more peaceful postwar order . Together , they brought to life the League of Nations . Unfortunately , the League was dealt an early and deadly blow when the U.S. Senate rejected U.S. membership in it , refusing to participate in an international legal system that it deemed would encroach on the country 's sovereignty . The League 's failure to provide an effective response to the nationalism and militarism in Europe and Asia during the 1930s further damaged its credibility and precipitated its demise . Yet , this innovative burst of order-building left an important imprint on global affairs and was akin to a general dress rehearsal for the international architecture , later decided by world plenipotentiaries gathered in San Francisco in 1945 , in the shape of the United Nations Organization . <p> In sum , even if it took different forms in practice , the Westphalian order continued to be a permanent feature of the relations between the great world powers during all the aforementioned periods , thus allowing , to the greatest possible extent , the prevalence of structured relations designed to forswear territorial conquest and curtail any global disorder susceptible of generating wars or large-scale violence in their midst . <p> The RAND report indicates that since 1945 , the United States , which was the greatest beneficiary of the restored peace , has pursued its global interests through the creation and maintenance of international economic institutions , bilateral and regional security organizations , and liberal political norms and standards . These ordering mechanisms are often collectively referred to as the " international order " . However , in recent years , rising powers have begun to challenge the sustainability and legitimacy of some aspects of this order , which is clearly seen by the U.S. as a major challenge to its global leadership and vital strategic interests . Three broad categories of potential risks and threats likely to jeopardize this order have thus been identified by the writers of the report : <p> some leading states consider that many components of the existing order are designed to restrict their power and perpetuate American hegemony ; <p> volatility due to failed states or economic crises ; <p> shifting domestic politics at a time of slow growth and growing inequality . <p> Two years before the publication of this study , Henry Kissinger , the veteran of American diplomacy credited with having officially introduced " Realpolitik " ( realistic foreign policy based on the calculation of forces and the national interest ) in the White House while serving as Secretary of State under Richard Nixon 's administration , had further explored the theme of world order in a landmark book. 7 <p> From the outset , Mr. Kissinger asserts that no truly global " world order " has ever existed . The order as defined by our times was devised in Western Europe four centuries ago , on the occasion of a peace conference held in Westphalia " without the involvement or even the awareness of most other continents or civilizations " . This conference , it should be remembered , followed a century of sectarian conflict and political upheavals across Central Europe , which ended up provoking the " Thirty Years ' War " ( 1618-1648 ) , an appalling and pointless " total war " where a quarter of the population of Central Europe died from combat , disease , and starvation . <p> Nevertheless , the negotiators of this peace of Westphalia did not think of laying the foundations of a system applicable to the whole world . How could they have thought so when then , as always before , every other civilization or geographic region , seeing itself as the center of the world and viewing its principles and values ? ? as universally relevant , defined its own conception of order ? In the absence of possibilities for prolonged interaction and of any framework for measuring the respective power of the different regions , Henry Kissinger rightly observed , each of these regions viewed its own order as unique and defined the others as " barbarians " which were " governed in a manner incomprehensible to the established system , and irrelevant to its designs except as a threat " . <p> Subsequently , thanks to Western colonial expansion , the Westphalian system spread around the world and imposed the structure of a state-based international order , while failing , of course , to apply the concepts of sovereignty to colonies and colonized peoples . It is these same principles and other Westphalian ideas that were put forward when the colonized peoples began to demand their independence . Sovereign state , national independence , national interest , noninterference in domestic affairs and respect for international law and human rights have thus asserted themselves as effective arguments against the colonizers during armed or political struggles , both to regain independence and , afterwards , to protect the newly formed states in the 1950s and 1960s in particular . <p> At the end of his reflection combining historical analysis and geopolitical prospective , Kissinger draws important conclusions about the current international order and asks essential questions about its future . The universal relevance of the Westphalian system , he said , derived from its procedural nature , that is value-neutral , which made its rules accessible to any country . Its weakness had been the flip side of its strength : designed by states exhausted from the bloodletting they inflicted on each other , it offered no sense of direction ; it proposed methods of allocating and preserving power , without indicating how to generate legitimacy . <p> More fundamentally , Kissinger argued that in building a world order , a key question inevitably concerns the substance of its unifying principles , which represents a cardinal distinction between Western and non-Western approaches to order . Quite aptly , he pointed out that since the Renaissance , the West has widely adopted the idea that the real world is external to the observer , that knowledge consists in recording and classifying data with the greatest possible precision , and that the success of a foreign policy depends on the assessment of existing realities and trends . Therefore , the " Peace of Westphalia " embodied a judgment of reality and more particularly of realities of power and territory -- in the form of a concept of secular order supplanting the demands of religion . <p> In contrast , other great contemporary civilizations conceived of reality as internal to the observer and defined by psychological , philosophical or religious convictions . Consequently , Kissinger was of the opinion that sooner or later , any international order must face the consequences of two trends that compromise its cohesion : either a redefinition of legitimacy or a significant shift in the balance of power . In such circumstances , upheavals could emerge , the essence of which being that " while they are usually underpinned by force , their overriding thrust is psychological . Those under assault are challenged to defend not only their territory , but the basic assumptions of their way of life , their moral right to exist and to act in a manner that until the challenge , had been treated as beyond question " . <p> Like many other thinkers , political scientists and strategists , especially Westerners , the American statesman considered that the multifaceted developments underway in the world are fraught with threats and risks that could lead to a sharp rise in tensions , and chaos threatens " side by side with unprecedented interdependence : in the spread of weapons of mass destruction , the disintegration of states , the impact of environmental depredations , the persistence of genocidal practices , and the spread of new technologies threatening to drive conflict beyond human control or comprehension . " <p> This is the main reason why he thought that our age is insistently engaged in an obstinate search , sometimes almost desperately , of a concept of world order , not without expressing his concern , which takes on the appearance of a warning . In our time , he said , " a reconstruction of the international system is the ultimate challenge to government . And in the event of failure , the penalty will be not so much a major war between States ( though in some regions this is not foreclosed ) as an evolution into spheres of influence identified with particular domestic structures and forms of governance , for example the Westphalian model as against the radical Islamist version " with the risk that " at its edges each sphere would be tempted to test its strength against other entities of order deemed illegitimate . " <p> The major conclusion of this scholarly book which concerns us in the context of our theme is this : " The mystery to be overcome is one all peoples share : how divergent historical experiences and values can be shaped into a common order " . <p> 2Worldviews and World Orders : The " Individual and Secular " Vs. the " Collective and Sacred " <p> All civilizations try to balance themselves between the individual and the collective , between the temporal and the spiritual , and between this-worldliness and otherworldliness . Shifts between the relative importance given to the one at the expense of the others is what gives the different civilizations their distinctive identity and coloring ; and critical disjunctions in human history occur when the individual paradigm is overturned or tilted toward the collective , or vice versa . <p> In modern Western societies , especially within the Anglosphere , it is an indisputable fact that since the Renaissance , which was at the origin of the Enlightenment movement and thought , there has been a gradual and probably decisive and irreversible shift away from the collective and the sacred toward the individual and the secular . <p> This being the case , in the self-image of Western or Westernized societies , the individual is ennobled and endowed with the power and tools to determine , alone , the course of his personal development and fulfillment as well as those of society , through the idiom -- which is then erected into absolute dogma -- of rights and the practice of a democracy based on laws and rules . The primacy of the individual over collective rights thus gradually paved the way for the dismantling of the post-war welfare state , making the dividing line between the public and private domains increasingly blurred , and providing wide-open avenues to an unbridled individualism . <p> In the following paragraphs , I shall attempt to explain why and how the 500-year long global dominance of the " Western civilization " is coming to an end -- a fate first and most significantly epitomized and signaled by the West 's self-immolation during the bloodbath of the two Western civil wars , also known as the two World Wars it ignited in a span of only 30 years and led to the loss of 100 million lives . One good way of doing so is by surveying the writings of seven authors who have had a profound influence on Western Man 's thinking , and seven other authors who have predicted and warned against an impending twilight of this Western predominance . Indeed , what we take to be the ethical , social , economic , and ideological bedrock of Western thought has , far and away , been laid down in seven landmark references put forward since the beginning of the European Renaissance and the Age of the Enlightenment . <p> Thus , in his 1513 book " The Prince " , Italian Niccol ? Machiavelli described methods -- including through deliberate deceit , hypocrisy and perjury -- that an aspiring prince can use to acquire the throne , or an existing prince can resort to in order to maintain his reign . English Pastor Thomas Robert Malthus claimed in his 1798 " Essay on the Principle of Population " that population tends to grow faster than the food supply . He also posited that the planet would be unable to support more than one billion inhabitants , and advocated therefore for a limitation on the number of poor people as a better controlling device . English Charles Darwin 's 1859 seminal book " The Origins of Species " promoted a theory of evolution by natural selection through the notion of " survival of the fittest " , thus so profoundly challenging Victorian-era ideas about the role of humans in the universe . English philosopher/sociologist Herbert Spencer 's 1864 " Principles of Biology " transferred Darwin 's theory from the realm of nature to society . He believed that the strongest or fittest would and should dominate the poor and the weak who should ultimately disappear . This meant that certain races -- in particular European Protestants -- individuals and nations were entitled to dominate others because of their " superiority " in the natural order . German Karl Marx 's 1867 " Capital " is the foundational theoretical text in materialist philosophy , economics and politics . Belief in some of its teachings led to communism and caused millions of deaths in the hope ( or utopia ) of bringing about an egalitarian society . In his most celebrated book " Thus Spoke Zarathustra " ( 1883-1885 ) German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche elaborates on ideas like eternal recurrence of the same , death of God , and the prophecy of the " ? bermensch " ( Overman ) , that is the ideal superior man of the future who could rise above conventional Christian morality to create and impose his own values . Finally , Austrian Sigmund Freud 's theories , although subject to a lot of criticism , were enormously influential . His best-known 1930 book " Civilization and Its Discontents " , analyzes what he sees as the fundamental tensions between civilization and the individual . The primary friction , he asserts , stems from the fact that the immutable individual 's quest for instinctive freedom ( notably desires for sex ) are at odds with what is best for society ( civilization ) as a whole , which is why laws are created to prohibit killing , rape , and adultery , and implement severe punishments if they are broken . The result is an ongoing feeling of discontent among the citizens of that civilization . <p> Beyond shadow of a doubt , Western Man 's mindset , worldview , and behavior have been considerably influenced by the presuppositions of the " seven deadly sins ' embodied in this literature . This led to such calamities for the world as materialism , individualism , scientism , unbridled pursuit of profit , nationalism , racial supremacy , excessive will to power , wars , colonization , imperialism , and eventually , nihilism8 , civilizational decadence and decline of the Western world . <p> As a result of this irreversible process , especially following the moral wreckage and colossal human and material cost of the Great War , prominent thinkers and philosophers started to voice their concern about the coming demise of the West . Chiefly among those are seven authors whose books argue that while it is true that the West is in decline , there 's still time to mitigate it or even to reverse it and preserve it for posterity . Those books are : Oswald Spengler 's " The Decline of the West " ( 1926 ) ; Arnold Toynbee 's " Civilization on Trial " ( 1958 ) ; Eric Voegelin 's " Order and History " ( 1956-1987 ) ; Francis Fukuyama 's " The End of History and the Last Man " ( 1992 ) ; Samuel Huntington 's " The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order " ( 1996 ) ; Niall Ferguson 's " Civilization : The West and the Rest " ( 2012 ) ; and Michel Onfray 's " D ? cadence : Vie et mort du jud ? o-christianisme " . 9 Emmanuel Todd 's recently published book " La D ? faite de l'Occident " 10 also deserves just as much to be added to this selective collection . <p> Another stated or implied common feature of these books is the belief that the " Western Christian civilization " has to be defended anew both from internal decay and threats arising externally , mainly Islam , or even worse , an alliance of " Islamic " and " Sinic ( Chinese ) " civilizations . This fear of Islam is by no means new ; it 's deep-rooted in the Western psyche . Today , however , it is being exacerbated to such an unprecedented extent that the debate on the resurgence of Islam has become , more often than not , inextricably intertwined with the talk about the decline of the Western civilization . <p> Back in 1940 already , when there was no question yet of the so-called Islamist or Islamic threat , and even less so of a " clash of civilizations " that are plaguing our current world , then French Colonel Charles de Gaulle -- although on full combat against Nazi Germany 's Wehrmacht -- gave the following response to his chaplain who questioned him about the situation on the battlefield and rumors of an armistice : " Mr. Chaplain , this war is only one episode in a clash of peoples and civilizations . It will be long . And when the clash with China , this very great people , arises ( ... ) what will we be and what will we do ? But I have confidence . The last word will be given to the highest and most disinterested civilization , ours , the Christian civilization ( ... ) But the greatest and most immediate danger can come from the Muslim transversal , which ranges from Tangier to the Indies . If it were to come under Russian communist obedience , or what would be worse , Chinese , we are doomed . And believe me , Mr. Chaplain , there will no longer be a possible Battle of Poitiers. " 11 <p> The same refrain was famously repeated by none other than Samuel Huntington in his no less celebrated book12 , written in response to his former student Francis Fukuyama 's 1992 highly controversial best-seller13 in which , following the collapse of communism leading to a metamorphosis of world politics , Fukuyama addressed a question that has for time immemorial engaged the minds of great philosophers and thinkers : Is there a direction to the history of mankind ? And if it is directional , to what end is it moving ? <p> Fukuyama argues that a remarkable consensus concerning the legitimacy of " liberal democracy " as a system of government has emerged throughout the world . Thus , liberal democracy may constitute the " end point of mankind 's ideological evolution " , and the " final form of government " ; and as such constituted the " end of history " . The other great question that follows then becomes : Can political and economic liberty and equality characterizing the state of affairs at the presumed " end of history " bring about a stable society in which man may be said to be , at last , completely satisfied ? Or will the spiritual condition of this " last man " in history , " deprived of outlets for his striving for mastery " , inevitably lead him to plunge himself and the world into the chaos and bloodshed of history ? <p> With regard to Huntington , it is important , first of all , to clarify with Professor of History at the prestigious Columbia University Richard Bulliet14 that the phrase " Clash of Civilizations " was not invented by Huntington ; it was most probably coined , for the first time , by Basil Mathews in his 1926 book titled " Young Islam on Trek : A Study in the Clash of Civilizations " . 15 Yet , by wielding the " clash of civilizations " phraseology at a propitious moment , the Harvard professor significantly , shrewdly but maliciously shifted the discourse of Middle East confrontation that had until then been dominated by nationalist and Cold War rhetoric since the days of Gamal Abdel Nasser in the 1950s and 1960s . Bulliet rightly observed that this new formulation " took on almost cosmic proportions : the Islamic religion , or more precisely the world Muslim community that professes that religion , versus contemporary Western culture , with its Christian , Jewish , and secular humanist shadings. " 16 <p> Huntington also wrote that : " Islam and China embody great cultural traditions very different from and in their eyes infinitely superior to that of the West . The power and assertiveness of both in relation to the West are increasing , and the conflicts between their values and interests and those of the West are multiplying and becoming more intense ( ... ) Underlying the differences on specific issues is the fundamental question of the role these civilizations will play relative to the West in shaping the future of the world . Will the global institutions , the distribution of power , and the politics and economies of nations in the twenty-first century primarily reflect Western values and interests or will they be shaped primarily by those of Islam and China ? ( ... ) Islamic and Sinic societies which see the West as their antagonist thus have reason to cooperate with each other against the West ( ... ) This cooperation occurs on a variety of issues , including human rights , economics , and most notably the efforts by societies in both civilizations to develop their military capabilities , particularly weapons of mass destruction and the missiles for delivering them , so as to counter the conventional military superiority of the West . " <p> More recently , in his latest book17 , French historian and Sinologist Emmanuel Lincot retraces the geopolitical stakes of Sino-Muslim relations . He believes that , at the dawn of the new century , China and the Muslim world intend to put an end to a world dominated by the West through the ghastly prospect of a multifaceted alliance between them . Such an alliance obviously encompasses the revitalization of the mythical and once greatest trade route in history -- the Silk Road -- that linked and mutually enriched the two civilizations for centuries , before it was eclipsed by the Western-dominated maritime trade . The Chinese " Belt and Road Initiative " , which aims to develop both land and maritime corridors , is the main means to achieve such a strategic objective . <p> On closer inspection , we may argue that throughout the Western colonial period , the Cold War and until after " Les Trente Glorieuses " ( The Glorious Thirty ) 18 , the West was somewhat indifferent if not condescending to Islam as a religion . The overwrought fear of Islam has followed the demise of social democracy in the West , especially since the events of " May 68 " , and the decay of progressive and socially-centered movements in the Third World . The Iranian revolution of 1979 , itself begotten by this historical development , and the attacks of 11 September 2001 radically changed the geostrategic situation in the eyes of Western countries . Islam is increasingly at the center of their concerns today and a rampant Islamophobia has naturally , and dangerously , ensued . <p> As Mr. Allawi so rightly put it in his insightful book19 , Islam 's religion , cultures , civilization , nations and peoples have become the subject of meticulous scrutiny by a wide array of analysts , " from the most thoughtful to the most incendiary , from the most illustrious to the most obscure , from the most sympathetic to the most bigoted " . <p> If truth be said , for centuries the civilization of Islam has often been shaken by powerful opposing currents . The crusades , the Mongol invasion , Western colonization and imperialism , and today , the intense movement of globalization have been the most striking ones . It has just as often bent under their blows , but has never broken . Far from it ; its contribution to universal civilization and to the construction of the " old " and " new " worlds is undeniable . <p> The chronicle of this role , especially during the period of the Ottoman Empire , has been the subject of a remarkable book written by Professor of history and Chair of the Department of History at American Yale University , Alan Mikhail. 20 In the introduction to his narrative presenting a new and holistic picture of the last five centuries and demonstrating Islam 's constituent role in the forming of some of the most fundamental aspects of the history of Europe , the Americas , and the United States , he declares that : " If we do not place Islam at the center of our grasp of world history , we will never understand why the Moor-slayers ( Matamoros ) 21 are memorialized on the Texas-Mexico border or , more generally , why we have blindly , and repeatedly , narrated histories that miss major features of our shared past . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Richard Bulliet , before Mikhail , made a similar observation , saying : " The past and future of the West can not be fully comprehended without appreciation of the twinned relationship it has had with Islam over some fourteen centuries . The same is true of the Islamic world . " He went as far as to speak of an " Islamo-Christian Civilization " , a term never used before he did so , and went on to make another fundamental remark : " The question confronting the United States is whether the tragedy of September 11 should be an occasion for indulging in the Islamophobia embodied in slogans like " Clash of Civilizations " or an occasion for affirming the principle of inclusion that represents the best in the American tradition " ( ... ) " Clash of Civilizations " must be retired from public discourse before the people who like to use it actually begin to believe it " . <p> 2Publius Vergilius Maro , usually called Virgil or Vergil in English , was an ancient Roman poet of the Augustan period . He composed three of the most famous poems in Latin literature : the Eclogues ( or Bucolics ) , the Georgics , and the epic Aeneid . The 12-book Latin poem tells the story of Aeneas , son of the goddess Venus , a royal refugee from war-torn Troy , and a legendary ancestor of the emperor , as he is driven by fate to Italy , where he is to settle and where , centuries later , his descendant Romulus is to build Rome . The epigraph , where Jupiter addresses the Romans , is from the first book : Aeneid I , 278-9. of the poem . <p> 4 Ukraine 's President Volodymyr Zelensky has spoken strongly in favor of Israel after the surprise assault by Hamas on 7 October 2023 . He called on world leaders to show solidarity and unity in supporting Israel and condemning the " terrorist attack " . Zelensky , who is also Jewish , said that Israel had an unquestionable right to defend itself from attacks by Hamas and controversially compared it to Russia 's invasion and occupation of Ukraine , saying Hamas and Moscow were " the same evil , and the only difference is that there is a terrorist organization that attacked Israel , and here is a terrorist state that attacked Ukraine " . Israeli reports also said that Zelensky wanted to make a solidarity visit to Israel but was told " now is not the time " . <p> 6RAND Corporation , " Understanding the Current International Order " , 2016 . This study was sponsored by the Office of the United States Secretary of Defense 's Office of Net Assessment , and conducted within the International Security and Defense Policy Center of the RAND National Defense Research Institute . <p> 11 Quoted in Marc Ferro 's book titled " De Gaulle expliqu ? aujourd'hui " ( De Gaulle Explained Today ) , ? ditions du Seuil , Paris , 2010 . The Battle of Poitiers , also called the Battle of Tours , occurred in France on 10 October 732 . It resulted in victory of the Frankish and Aquitainian forces led by Charles Martel over the Umayyad forces led by the governor of al-Andalus ( Muslim-ruled Spain and Portugal ) Abd al-Rahman al-Ghafiqi . The issue of the battle was a decisive factor in curtailing the spread of Islam in Western Europe . <p> 12 Samuel P. Huntington , " The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order " , 1996 . <p> 15 Basil Mathews , " Young Islam on Trek : A Study in the Clash of Civilizations " , Friendship Press , New York , 1926 . Mathews was an American Protestant missionary . He worked as a secretary in the World 's Alliance of YMCA 's . <p> 18 The Glorious Thirty is a term coined by French Jean Fourasti ? in his 1979 book " Les Trente Glorieuses , ou la r ? volution invisible de 1946 a 1975 " ( The Glorious Thirty , or the Invisible Revolution from 1946 to 1975 ) to characterize a thirty-year period of great economic growth in France ( as well as in the West in general ) following the end of WWII . This same period was also marked by a " Baby boom " in most of the world , particularly the United States and Canada in North America and France and Austria in Europe . <p> 21 " Matamoros " is the name of a city located in the northeastern Mexican state of Tamaulipas across the border from Brownsville , Texas , in the United States . It was coined by Catholic Spaniards for whom it was the duty of every Christian soldier to be a Moor-slayer . <h> Related Posts <p> ( The Hague ) -- Member countries of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) should support the court against efforts to undermine its global mandate , Human Rights Watch said today . The annual session of the ICC 's ... <p> Palestinian Territory - Nearly 70,000 Palestinians have been trapped for two months without access to food or medicine , as Israeli occupation forces continue to pursue them throughout the northern Gaza ... <p> The arrest warrants by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant are a diplomatic disaster for Israel , reported The Economist , ... 
@@118419789 <p> US President-elect Donald Trump has issued a stern warning to Hamas regarding the ongoing hostage crisis in the Middle East , stating there will be " ALL HELL TO PAY " in the region if the hostages are not released before January 20 , 2025 , prior to the date he will assume office in the White House . <p> " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump said , taking to the social media platform Truth Social . <p> Trump lashed out at previous negotiations on the matter , claiming there had been " all talks " but " no actions " regarding the locations where the hostages were being held , describing the situation as violent and inhumane . <p> " Everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire World , in the Middle East - But it 's all talk , and no action ! " he added . <p> Trump vowed that those responsible for the hostage-taking would be " hit harder " than any previous actions taken against foreign entities by the US . <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " the post further read . <p> On October 7 , Hamas launched a terror attack on Israel , killing over 1,200 people and taking more than 250 hostages . Around 100 of them are still in captivity , and many are feared dead . <p> In response , Israel launched a strong counteroffensive targeting Hamas units in Gaza . The Israeli operation has , however , resulted in the deaths of over 45,000 Palestinians in Gaza . <p> ( Except for the headline , this story has not been edited by DNA staff and is published from ANI ) 
@@118422285 <h> All hell to pay , Trump demands immediate release of Hamas-held hostages in Gaza <p> US President-elect Donald Trump on Monday warned that those responsible for holding the hostages will face massive repercussions if captives are not released by the time he assumes office . <p> " Everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire World , in the Middle East - But it 's all talk , and no action ! Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity . Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " Trump said in his post on Truth Social . <p> During the October 7 attack on Israel , Hamas members had taken 251 members as hostage . <p> Several of the hostages have been released since then but Hamas members are still holding a large number of people in captivity . <p> Meanwhile , describing the situation in Gaza as " appalling and apocalyptic " the UN Deputy Secretary-General on Monday called on world leaders to act decisively to alleviate suffering and prevent the further devastation of the enclave . <p> Speaking at a ministerial conference on humanitarian aid for Gaza , convened in Cairo by Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi , UN deputy chief Amina Mohammed emphasised the urgent need for lifesaving assistance and a plan for the enclave 's long-term recovery . <p> " We are here to help secure an immediate surge in lifesaving aid for the Palestinian people , ensure preparedness for a potential ceasefire , and begin laying the groundwork for recovery and reconstruction -- this can not happen soon enough , " she said , speaking on behalf of the UN Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres . <p> Organized looting forces UNRWA to pause aid <p> Deliveries of desperately needed food and other supplies into Gaza have had to be halted through the enclave 's Kerem Shalom crossing because of looting by armed gangs , the UN agency assisting Palestine refugees , UNRWA , has announced . <p> The agency took the decision on Sunday after it said that lorries carrying food were " all taken " after crossing into Gaza through what is the main aid corridor . <p> Explaining the move , UNRWA Commissioner-General Philippe Lazzarini said that the route had not been safe " for months " . On 16 November , a large convoy of aid trucks which also crossed through Kerem Shalom was stolen by armed gangs . <p> UNRWA Senior Emergencies Officer , Louise Wateridge , speaking from one of the UN agency 's schools in Deir Al-Balah where 6,000 people are sheltering on Monday , described families sleeping on cold , wet floors and witnessing one young child " crying and screaming in the corner , just screaming for a piece of bread . She was just crying for a piece of bread . " <p> Mohammed outlined the devastating toll of the conflict : with over 44,000 Palestinian lives reportedly lost , according to the authorities in Gaza , widespread displacement and the collapse of essential services . <p> Children have been the worst impacted , with nearly 19,000 hospitalised in the past four months alone due to acute malnutrition . Gaza now has the highest number of child amputees per capita globally , with many surgeries conducted without anaesthesia . <p> " What we are seeing may well amount to the gravest international crimes , " she said . <h> Support Our Journalism <p> IBNS is not driven by any ism- not wokeism , not racism , not skewed secularism , not hyper right-wing or left liberal ideals , nor by any hardline religious beliefs or hyper nationalism . We want to serve you good old objective news , as they are . We do not judge or preach . We let people decide for themselves . We only try to present factual and well-sourced news . 
@@118422286 <p> Describing the situation in Gaza as " appalling and apocalyptic " the UN Deputy Secretary-General on Monday called on world leaders to act decisively to alleviate suffering and prevent the further devastation of the enclave . <p> Speaking at a ministerial conference on humanitarian aid for Gaza , convened in Cairo by Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi , UN deputy chief Amina Mohammed emphasised the urgent need for lifesaving assistance and a plan for the enclave 's long-term recovery . <p> " We are here to help secure an immediate surge in lifesaving aid for the Palestinian people , ensure preparedness for a potential ceasefire , and begin laying the groundwork for recovery and reconstruction -- this can not happen soon enough , " she said , speaking on behalf of the UN Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres . <p> Organized looting forces UNRWA to pause aid <p> Deliveries of desperately needed food and other supplies into Gaza have had to be halted through the enclave 's Kerem Shalom crossing because of looting by armed gangs , the UN agency assisting Palestine refugees , UNRWA , has announced . <p> The agency took the decision on Sunday after it said that lorries carrying food were " all taken " after crossing into Gaza through what is the main aid corridor . <p> Explaining the move , UNRWA Commissioner-General Philippe Lazzarini said that the route had not been safe " for months " . On 16 November , a large convoy of aid trucks which also crossed through Kerem Shalom was stolen by armed gangs . <p> UNRWA Senior Emergencies Officer , Louise Wateridge , speaking from one of the UN agency 's schools in Deir Al-Balah where 6,000 people are sheltering on Monday , described families sleeping on cold , wet floors and witnessing one young child " crying and screaming in the corner , just screaming for a piece of bread . She was just crying for a piece of bread . " <p> Children worst hit <p> In Cairo , Mohammed outlined the devastating toll of the conflict : with over 44,000 Palestinian lives reportedly lost , according to the authorities in Gaza , widespread displacement and the collapse of essential services . <p> Children have been the worst impacted , with nearly 19,000 hospitalised in the past four months alone due to acute malnutrition . Gaza now has the highest number of child amputees per capita globally , with many surgeries conducted without anaesthesia . <p> " What we are seeing may well amount to the gravest international crimes , " she said . <p> Aid ' outrageously ' blocked <p> Mohammed expressed deep concern over the severe restrictions on humanitarian aid to Gaza , describing the flow of supplies as " outrageously " insufficient and unpredictable <p> " Aid by exception is neither humane nor effective , " she said , citing challenges such as looting , unexploded ordnance , and destroyed roads . <p> Last month , a large convoy of aid was stolen on the road out of Kerem Shalom : " Humanitarian staff and operations must be guaranteed security . Access must be granted to all those in need , wherever they are . United Nations premises must remain inviolable at all times , " she stressed . <p> Robust support needed <p> Mohammed called for robust support for the entire humanitarian aid system in Gaza , particularly UNRWA , describing it as an irreplaceable lifeline for Palestinians . <p> " If UNRWA is forced to close , the responsibility of replacing its vital services -- and meeting the core needs of Palestinians in Gaza -- would rest with Israel as the occupying Power , " she said , adding that there is no alternative to the UNRWA . <p> " Not the United Nations . Not the international community . But Israel -- and Israel alone . " <p> Reiterating the need for a political solution , Mohammed urged an immediate ceasefire and the unconditional release of hostages . <p> She also emphasised the urgency of a two-State solution , in line with international law and relevant UN resolutions , with Israel and Palestine living side-by-side in peace and security , with Jerusalem as the capital of both States . <p> " The catastrophe in Gaza is nothing short of a complete breakdown of our common humanity , " she concluded . " The nightmare must stop . " <p> Recovery and mental health <p> Sigrid Kaag , Senior Humanitarian and Reconstruction Coordinator for Gaza , painted a grim picture of the destruction and trauma she witnessed during her visits . <p> " Nothing prepares you as a fellow human being to the toll , the trauma , the suffering , the loss and the sense of abandonment Palestinian civilians feel , " she told delegates in Cairo . <p> " The scars of war are not only physical , " she noted , calling for investments in psychosocial programmes alongside immediate aid and recovery efforts . <p> Build a future <p> Kaag also urged stakeholders to prioritise early recovery initiatives , which include restoring basic services , rehabilitating infrastructure and fostering economic stability , in partnership with the Palestinian Authority . <p> " Early recovery , after all , is also an investment in future stability , in prospects of peace of a Palestine of Gaza of which Gaza is an extricable link and entity of a future Palestinian State , " she said . <p> " Statehood is not only about bricks and mortar , " she added , " Recovery is about restoring lives , dignity , and hope . " <h> Support Our Journalism <p> IBNS is not driven by any ism- not wokeism , not racism , not skewed secularism , not hyper right-wing or left liberal ideals , nor by any hardline religious beliefs or hyper nationalism . We want to serve you good old objective news , as they are . We do not judge or preach . We let people decide for themselves . We only try to present factual and well-sourced news . 
@@118426718 <h> France In Knots <p> France , one of the founding states of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) , has dealt a harsh blow to the ICC by issuing a cryptic statement that it would grant immunity to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu if he visits France . This announcement could be interpreted by Israel as a kind of carte blanche to continue the war in Gaza . The ICC recently issued an arrest warrant against Netanyahu for war crimes and crimes against humanity in the context of the war in Gaza . <p> The announcement of the French Foreign Ministry undermines both the authority of the international judicial body and the arrest warrant itself . France clarified its position on the arrest warrant only after several confusing comments first stating it " will comply with its international obligations " and then insisting that one of the ICC rules allows immunity to such actions to non-member States . The French Foreign Ministry stated Israel enjoys such immunity as it is not an ICC member . The French position could be considered of being double standard in relation to ICC since it has not accorded such immunity to Russian President Vladimir Putin against whom the ICC had also issued an arrest warrant months back . By France 's logic , Putin should also be given immunity and not arrested if he sets his foot on French soil as Russia too is not an ICC member . The convoluted arguments of France have already evoked sharp reactions from both the European Union and Amnesty International . The EU 's foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said the arrest warrant is " binding " and should be implemented . Amnesty International termed France 's position as " deeply problematic " and urged it to state that anyone subject to an ICC warrant will be arrested and surrendered to the Court if they find themselves in French jurisdiction . A cornerstone principle of the ICC Statute , it emphasised , is that no one is above the law , including heads of state sought for arrest . Similarly , Andrew Stroehlein , European media director at Human Rights Watch , said on X that it was " shocking nonsense from France . " No one , he wrote , gets immunity from an ICC arrest warrant because they are in office -- " not Netanyahu , not Putin . " Now , the question is why France has adopted such a controversial stance by interpreting provisions in the ICC Statute to suit its interests . <h> Also Read <p> The answer is President Emmanuel Macron does not want to throw away the advantage of getting a measure of international prestige by being one of the key players of the hard-fought ceasefire agreement between Israel and Lebanon he and US President Joe Biden announced a few days back . France 's announcement of granting immunity to Netanyahu is being interpreted by experts in the backdrop of recurring tensions between the French and Israeli governments , following weeks of negotiations to secure the ceasefire in Lebanon . When the final stretch of these talks was being held in the last week of November , the ICC 's announcement of the arrest warrant was made . This strained the often acrimonious exchanges between Macron and Netanyahu so much that the latter reportedly asked the French President over the phone to deride the international court 's decision . Highly placed sources disclosed to the media that Netanyahu iterated a threat he had made in recent months to challenge France 's mediation efforts in Lebanon and exclude it from the committee overseeing a potential ceasefire . <p> Of course , both Beirut and Washington disapproved of Netanyahu 's purported threat and insisted , instead , on keeping Paris on board . This was apparently because the US and Lebanon calculated the presence of France in the ceasefire negotiations would accord respectability and acceptance of the process in the eye of the international community . However , by trying to do a balancing act , France has shown itself in a poor light . This is particularly sad when it has all the wherewithal needed to participate in the ceasefire process . 
@@118433511 <h> Story highlights <p> In a statement , Biden said he was devastated and outraged to hear that Hamas has apparently been holding Israeli tank commander Captain Omer Maxim Neutras body since they killed him during their brutal terrorist attack on October 7 <p> US President Joe Biden expressed deep sorrow and anger on Monday ( Dec 2 ) following Israel 's confirmation that the body of a soldier killed during Hamas 's October 7 attack last year -- an American citizen -- was held by Hamas in Gaza . <h> Devastated and outraged <p> In a statement , Biden said he was " devastated and outraged " to hear that Hamas has " apparently been holding " Israeli tank commander Captain Omer Maxim Neutra 's body " since they killed him during their brutal terrorist attack on October 7 " . <p> The Hostages and Missing Families Forum , an advocacy group for the relatives of those taken hostage during the attack , said Neutra was born in the United States before immigrating to Israel , where he joined the military . <p> " This morning , his family was informed of his death on October 7th , " it said in a statement , as quoted by AFP . <h> Netanyahu vows ' we will not rest ' <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu paid tribute to Neutra , calling him " a hero of the armoured corps " and vowed , " we will not rest " until his body is brought back for burial in Israel . <p> The conflict in Gaza began on October 7 , 2023 , with an unprecedented attack by Hamas on Israel . The assault resulted in the deaths of 1,208 people , primarily civilians . The militants also seized 251 hostages during the operation , some of whom were already deceased . The Israeli military reports that 97 individuals remain in captivity , including 35 it says are dead . <p> Disclaimer : WION takes utmost care to accurately and responsibly report ongoing developments on the Israel-Palestine conflict after the Hamas attacks . However , we can not independently verify the authenticity of all statements , photos and videos . 
@@118445432 <p> The Ukraine conflict has been a defining moment for the arms industry . ( AI image for representation only . ) <p> The arms industry , driven by geopolitical tensions and conflicts , has become a major economic force , with US-based companies taking the lion 's share of revenues . The Stockholm International Peace Research Institute ( SIPRI ) revealed in its 2024 report that global arms revenues reached $632 billion in 2023 , a 4.2% increase from the previous year . Among these , US firms contributed $317 billion , or half of the global total , underscoring their central role in the international arms market.The SIPRI factsheet reveals that the total arms revenues of the Top 100 arms-producing and military services companies worldwide increased by 4.2% in 2023 , hitting $632 billion . This surge is primarily driven by heightened global demand for weapons , fueled by conflicts such as the war in Ukraine and tensions in regions like the Middle East . " Spurred by increased global demand for weapons , arms revenues grew in all of the geographical areas covered by the ranking , " said the SIPRI report . Notably , the US firms have capitalized on this demand , with 30 of the 41 American companies recording year-on-year increases in arms revenues , reflective of the US 's growing emphasis on military strength.Key US companies listed in the Top 10 include Lockheed Martin , RTX ( formerly Raytheon Technologies ) , Northrop Grumman , Boeing , and General Dynamics . Despite challenges in production scaling due to supply chain issues , these companies have seen considerable benefits from the ongoing global security situation : <p> Lockheed Martin , despite a slight decrease of 1.6% in arms revenues , maintained its position as the world 's largest arms producer with $60.8 billion in arms revenue . The company faced challenges in scaling production but reported substantial growth in order backlogs , particularly in its Aeronautics , Missiles and Fire Control Systems , and Rotary and Mission Systems segments . <p> RTX also saw a decrease of 1.3% in arms revenues to $40.7 billion but was impacted by supply chain disruptions , especially in missile and aerospace exports . <p> Northrop Grumman , conversely , reported a robust increase of 5.8% in arms revenues to $35.6 billion , driven by increased demand for ammunition for Ukraine and US initiatives in missile defense and nuclear modernization . <p> Wars and regional tensions as economic catalystsThe Ukraine conflict has been a defining moment for the arms industry . The war not only amplified demand for weapons but also shifted procurement priorities globally . US defense companies have played a central role in supplying arms to Ukraine and replenishing the stockpiles of allied nations . For instance , Northrop Grumman ramped up production of ammunition , while Raytheon ( RTX ) and Lockheed Martin worked to address backlogs for advanced missile systems . <p> Meanwhile , tensions in the Indo-Pacific region have prompted countries like Japan , South Korea , and Taiwan to boost their military budgets , creating new markets for US arms exports . Japan 's unprecedented military buildup , including a 360% increase in orders to its largest arms producer , Mitsubishi Heavy Industries , underscores the cascading effects of regional instability . <p> Regional trends in the arms industryWhile US firms dominate the market , other regions have also seen significant growth , driven by local conflicts and shifting defense priorities.Europe European defense firms recorded modest growth of 0.2% , with total revenues reaching $133 billion . The UK emerged as the strongest performer in Europe , driven by companies like BAE Systems , which reported a 2.3% increase in revenues to $29.8 billion . The Atomic Weapons Establishment saw the highest growth among British firms , with a 16% rise in revenues due to increased investment in nuclear infrastructure.However , not all European firms fared well . France 's Dassault Aviation , for example , experienced a 41% revenue drop due to declining export sales of its Rafale combat aircraft.Asia-Pacific The Asia-Pacific region demonstrated robust growth , with revenues rising by 5.7% to $136 billion . South Korean companies like Hanwha Group ( +53% ) and Hyundai Rotem ( +44% ) benefited from increased exports to allies such as Poland and Australia . Japan , amid its largest post-WWII military buildup , saw Mitsubishi Heavy Industries ' arms revenues increase by 24% to $3.9 billion.China , the second-largest arms-producing country , recorded the slowest growth ( +0.7% ) among major producers due to its slowing economy . Nonetheless , Chinese firms like AVIC and CSSC continued to expand their dominance in military aircraft and shipbuilding.Middle East The Middle East saw an 18% surge in arms revenues , driven by the war in Gaza and ongoing conflicts in the region . Israeli companies , including Elbit Systems ( +14% ) and Rafael ( +16% ) , reported record revenues as they supplied advanced missile and defense systems to the Israeli military . <p> India : Building self-reliance in defense productionIndia 's arms industry showed steady growth in 2023 , with the three Indian companies in SIPRI 's Top 100 reporting a combined 5.8% increase in revenues to $6.7 billion . Hindustan Aeronautics Limited ( HAL ) , the largest arms producer in India , saw its arms revenues rise by 6.9% to $3.7 billion , driven by the nation 's push for self-reliance in defense manufacturing . Other notable Indian companies like Bharat Electronics and Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders have also contributed to this growth , with revenues reflecting a heightened demand for indigenous defense solutions.This growth is part of India 's broader initiative to reduce dependency on foreign arms suppliers , encapsulated in policies like ' Make in India ' , which encourage domestic production and innovation.As part of its strategy , India has been focusing on producing indigenously designed light combat aircraft and helicopters . This aligns with the government 's larger vision of reducing dependency on foreign suppliers , particularly in light of growing regional tensions . With substantial investments in domestic production and modernization of its armed forces , India is positioning itself as a rising player in the global arms market . <h> About the Author <p> At TOI World Desk , our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock . With an unwavering commitment to accuracy , depth , and timeliness , we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world , delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers . Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world . 
@@118445671 <h> At 38 , Kaur was the youngest nominee for this year 's award that includes a cash prize of ? 25,000 . This year marks the 40th anniversary of the prize . The other shortlisted artists included Pio Abad , Claudette Johnson and Delaine Le Bas . <p> Indian-origin Scottish artist Jasleen Kaur has won the prestigious Turner Prize 2024 for her exhibition , " Alter Altar " , that reflects on plurality , personal and political themes . <p> The jury -- chaired by Alex Farquharson , Director , Tate Britain -- praised " the considered way in which Kaur weaves together the personal , political and spiritual ... choreographing a visual and aural experience that suggests both solidarity and joy " . It also highlighted Kaur 's " ability to gather different voices through unexpected and playful combinations of material " . <p> At 38 , Kaur was the youngest nominee for this year 's award that includes a cash prize of ? 25,000 . This year marks the 40th anniversary of the prize . The other shortlisted artists included Pio Abad , Claudette Johnson and Delaine Le Bas . <p> Advertisement <p> Born in Glasgow , Kaur 's great-grandfather reportedly moved from Punjab in 1950 , three years after Partition ; her father owns a hardware store in Scotland . Her prize-winning exhibition " Alter Altar " , first shown in Glasgow last year , also reflects on her own family history as migrants to Scotland and her upbringing . <p> It featured , among others , a vintage red Ford Escort covered with a huge crocheted doily , a reference to her father 's migrant aspirations , worship bells , Irn-Bru orange resin , an Axminster carpet , and family photographs . Also playing were soundtracks that were part of Kaur 's growing up years , from Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan to Bob Marley . <p> In several interviews , Kaur has often discussed her multicultural upbringing and influences . If her 2021 series , " Gut Feelings Meri Jaan " , explored ideas around inheritance and belonging , history and archive , in the 2018 " I Keep Telling Them These Stories " , she used archival footage and recordings gathered from India and Scotland to explore culture as praxis , family , identity and origins . Her 2019 publication , " Be Like Teflon " , commissioned by Panel for Glasgow Women 's Library , comprises conversations between Kaur and women of Indian heritage living in the UK . <p> Explained <h> The Turner Prize <p> since it was established in 1984 , the Turner Prize has emerged as one of the most prestigious art awards . Recognising the work of a British artist , it endeavours to highlight recent developments in contemporary British art . Indian-origin British artist Anish Kapoor won the prize in 1991 . <p> Her website describes her as : " An artist making with the slurry of life . Raised amidst betrayal , secrecy and banished outsiders , her work is to make sense of what is out of view or withheld . She is called towards plurality , declassifications , polyphony , the blur . She is practising singing in the sediment till she is intoxicated . " <p> Advertisement <p> In an interview on the Tate website , Kaur states : " There 's this particular theory that I grew up with from the Sikh tradition which talks about Miri Piri , which is this balance of the political and the spiritual . I 'm really interested in that duality and I 've become quite obsessed with this particular point in my lineage where devotional practices were done across religious lines . That was happening for hundreds of years . But through the violence of borders , the violence of colonialism , the violence of empire , so much of this stuff , it has been impacted . And I 'm obsessed with it because it tells me that there 's a different way to live together . " <p> In her acceptance speech for the award on Tuesday , the Royal College of Art alumnus called for a ceasefire in Gaza , an end to institutional complicity in Israel 's genocide , and an arms embargo . She is also one of the signatories to a letter demanding that Tate sever ties with organisations that are deeply complicit with the Israeli regime . " It 's not a radical demand ... This should not risk an artist 's career or safety , " she said in her speech . 
@@118445746 <h> Expert Explains : The new phase of war in Syria <h> For all practical purposes , the Syrian civil war had never ended . But an unusual confluence of global conflicts has helped create room for the armed insurgency to mount a renewed offensive against Bashar al-Assad . <p> On November 27 , Syria 's " Military Opposition Command " launched a fresh offensive against the forces of President Bashar al-Assad . Following fighting in the Idlib , Aleppo , and Hama governorates , the rebels seized the country 's second largest city of Aleppo by Monday . As Middle Eastern leaders engaged in a flurry of diplomacy , Assad 's allies Iran and Russia pledged support to his regime , and Syrian and Russian war jets have begun striking targets in rebel-held territory in northwestern Syria . <p> For all practical purposes though , the Syrian civil war had never ended . <p> Advertisement <p> In 2020 , almost five years ago , following the last major counter-offensive of the Russian- and Iranian-backed Syrian Arab Army ( SAA ) , the rebel groups were pushed to the far north of the country , and a negotiated ceasefire came into force . An acceptable stalemate had prevailed ever since -- even though frequent clashes continued among the actors in the war . <h> So , who are the rebels who have now taken Aleppo and are advancing beyond ? <p> The mix of actors in Syria is so diverse that the term " rebels " is often used for analytical convenience . Among the actors leading the current offensive , three are most important . <p> * First is the Hayat Tahrir al-Shaam ( HTS ) , a group that occupies the liminal space between jihadist terrorism and separatist militancy . The HTS , which is led by Abu Mohammad al-Jolani , was founded as Jabhat al-Nusra , the al-Qaeda 's branch in Syria , but which broke from the parent organisation in 2016 to form the Jabhat Fateh al-Shaam ( JFS ) . The change in name was both symbolic and substantial , as it now stood for liberation of Shaam , or the Levant . Jolani at the time sought to reduce the distance from the separatist Syrian opposition groups . <p> By 2017 , after merging with a number of other groups , the JFS became the HTS , which had a localized operational focus distinct from al-Qaeda 's global jihadist outlook . Illustrative of the evolving position of the HTS is the fact that while the United States State Department designated it as a terror group in 2018 , the US stopped targeting Jolani himself by August that year , as the former American Ambassador to Iraq , James Jeffrey , noted in 2021 . <p> Advertisement <p> * Second are the Kurdish militias organised as the Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) , the most powerful armed force in Syria after the SAA . <p> The SDF is the military arm of the Kurdish coalition that has autonomously governed a large part of northeastern Syria ( across the Euphrates river ) in Deir ez-Zor , Raqqa , and Aleppo since 2012 when the SAA withdrew . The SDF 's uneasy coexistence with Assad 's forces has often resulted in armed skirmishes , but its principal enemy over the last decade has been ISIS and its affiliated jihadist groups . <p> In the ongoing war , the Kurds , while fending off the Syrian Army , are also having to guard against the Turkey-backed militias and the HTS , despite the latter 's assurances on not attacking the Kurdish forces . The SDF enjoyed significant US backing during the civil war , until Washington abruptly withdrew most of its material and personnel support under the first Trump administration . <p> * Third is the Syrian National Army ( SNA ) , which grew out of the Free Syrian Army formed by defecting Syrian soldiers in 2011 , a Turkish-backed force that is fiercely opposed to both Assadist Syria as well as the Kurdish SDF . <p> Advertisement <p> The SNA has long been Ankara 's preferred ally for its own operations in Syria . The HTS and SNA are jointly carrying out the current offensive against the Syrian Army through their semi-unified " Military Operations Command " that was formed in 2019 . <h> And who are the external actors backing the rebels ? <p> The external actors in Syria are hardly ' external ' . For instance , Turkey is not merely a third state fighting in Syria through its proxies -- over the last five years , the Turkish occupation of northern Syria has been quasi-normalised , which makes Turkey a uniquely resident power that governs territory in Damascus 's stead . <p> Turkey 's encouragement of the rebels is a function in equal parts of its interests against the ( US backed ) Kurds , and the regime in Damascus . In 2016 ( and then in 2018 , 2019 ) , as Assad 's forces pushed back against ISIS with help from Russia and the Lebanese Hezbollah , Turkey exploited the opportunity to militarily force a buffer between itself and Kurdish controlled northern Syria . Ankara perceives a powerful threat from Kurdish militias , and considers most of them terror groups . <p> Turkey 's enabling of the resurgence of the civil war has been helped by the fact that the US has ( largely ) stood by . Washington has limited incentive to check a Turkish-backed offensive against Assad , who is backed by Moscow and Tehran . The common anti-ISIS objective that had resulted in peculiar instances of American , Russian , Syrian , and Iranian forces fighting the same enemy in the past , has now withered away . <p> Advertisement <h> But why has the civil war restarted at this moment ? <p> The renewed war in Syria amidst the raging conflict in the Middle East is more than just a broken windows effect . An unusual confluence of global conflicts has helped create room for the armed insurgency to mount its offensive against Assad . Two new wars in Europe and Lebanon/ Gaza have helped resurrect the older one in Syria . <p> Over the last three years , the invasion of Ukraine has strained Russia 's military positions and resources in Syria . As it was Moscow 's entry in 2016 that helped Assad turn the tables in the war , so a strain on Russia has come as an opportunity for the Syrian armed opposition . <p> On the other hand , the Iran-backed ground proxies that have fought alongside Assad 's forces in Syria -- especially Hezbollah -- have been significantly weakened due to Israel 's air and ground campaign in Lebanon , and the decimation of Hezbollah 's senior leadership . Hezbollah is perhaps the most conspicuous absence in the renewed war in Syria , vindicating , at least for now , the rebels ' timing of the offensive . <p> Note that Hezbollah 's involvement in the earlier phase of Syria 's civil war helped Damascus substantially against both ISIS as well as the rebels , especially in Aleppo ( which they have now re-seized ) . <p> Advertisement <h> And what does this new phase of the war mean for Assad himself ? <p> By mid-2012 , with 100,000 killed in the war and the armed opposition closing in on Damascus , the former UN observer mission chief in Syria had declared that Assad 's days were numbered . Eleven years later , Assad was welcomed back with some pomp into the Arab League as the decisive winner of the war . <p> But while this spotlights the risks of writing Assad 's political obituary , it is to be noted that his victory was never complete -- northern Syria remained under Turkish control , and the SNA/HTS continued to be a threat to him . This is one of the major reasons why Assad himself has remained restrained in his anti-Israel commitment during the wars in Gaza and Lebanon . <p> Despite Assad 's inextricable relationship with Tehran , Syria 's Arab neighbours Saudi Arabia and the UAE have an interest in checking renewed instability in Syria . This is not least due to their unease with Recep Tayyip Erdogan 's Turkey . While capitals like Riyadh and Abu Dhabi look for regional stability as they seek to diversify economically , Ankara -- which has been kept out of cross-regional grand projects like the India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor ( IMEC ) -- has enough reason to assert its regional heft as a geopolitical maverick . <p> India has long stood by Assad in Syria , and has historically supported Russia 's military involvement . The 6th Round of India-Syria Foreign Office Consultations took place in New Delhi on November 29 , two days after the civil war resurged . While several factors influence India 's position , it principally stems from New Delhi 's preference for stable political actors in the region . <p> Advertisement <p> ( The author is a Research Associate at the Council for Strategic and Defense Research , New Delhi ) 
@@118446430 <p> ? Israeli forces recovered Svirsky 's body from the Gaza Strip , 14 months after his kidnapping and nearly a year after he was murdered in Hamas captivity . Earlier this year , the IDF reported that Itay Svirsky had been murdered in captivity by Hamas terrorists , approximately four months after being taken hostage on October 7 , 2024 . <p> The body of killed hostage Itay Svirsky has been recovered from Gaza , the IDF announced on Wednesday evening . " In an operation by the Shin Bet with the assistance of the IDF , the body of the hostage Itay Svirsky was brought from the Gaza Strip for burial in Israel , " a joint statement said , Ynet News reported . <p> Israeli forces recovered Svirsky 's body from the Gaza Strip , 14 months after his kidnapping and nearly a year after he was murdered in Hamas captivity . Earlier this year , the IDF reported that Itay Svirsky had been murdered in captivity by Hamas terrorists , approximately four months after being taken hostage on October 7 , 2024 . <p> Itay Svirsky , a 38-year-old resident of Tel Aviv , was visiting his family at Kibbutz Be'eri on October 7 when Hamas attacked the kibbutz , killing his parents , Orit and Rafi Svirsky , in the massacre . <p> A statement from the Hostages ' Families Forum , which represents families of those being held by Hamas , said that returning " Itay 's body for proper burial in Israel provides crucial closure for his family " . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's office said Svirsky 's body had been retrieved in a special operation and he thanked Israeli security forces . <p> " Our hearts are torn over the heavy loss of the Svirsky family , " Netanyahu said , as per Reuters . <p> Following the recovery of Svirsky 's body , Times Of Israel reported that 96 of the 251 hostages abducted by Hamas on October 7 , 2023 , remain in Gaza , including the bodies of at least 34 confirmed dead by the IDF. 
@@118447298 <h> Tensions Escalate : Israeli Airstrikes on Gaza Tent Camps <h> Israeli airstrikes hit a tent camp for displaced Palestinians in southern Gaza , killing at least 21 people . The Israeli military justified the strikes by targeting Hamas militants . The ongoing conflict , initiated after Hamas ' attack in October 2023 , has displaced most of Gaza 's population and sparked widespread humanitarian concerns . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> In a devastating escalation of conflict , Israeli airstrikes on Wednesday targeted a tent camp for displaced Palestinians in southern Gaza , resulting in the deaths of at least 21 individuals , according to local hospital sources . This assault forms part of a continuing series of attacks on a site designated by Israel as a humanitarian safe zone . <p> The Israeli military stated it was targeting senior Hamas militants engaged in terrorist activities in the region , asserting efforts were made to minimize civilian harm . This incident was one of several aerial attacks on the Gaza Strip that same day , exacerbating the already grim situation for the region 's population . <p> The war , now stretching over 14 months since Hamas ' significant attack in October 2023 , shows little sign of resolution . Displacement and dependency on international aid remain prevalent among Gazans as diplomatic efforts by the Biden administration aim for a ceasefire . However , rising tensions persist amid ongoing military offensives and humanitarian challenges . 
@@118447608 <h> India votes in favour of UNGA resolution on Palestine calling for end to Israeli occupation <h> Share <h> India votes in favour of UNGA resolution on Palestine calling for end to Israeli occupation <p> Wednesday , 04 December 2024 PTI United Nations <p> India voted in favour of a UN General Assembly resolution that called for the withdrawal of Israel from the Palestinian territory occupied since 1967 , including East Jerusalem , and reiterated the call for achieving a comprehensive , just and lasting peace in West Asia . <p> The draft resolution ' Peaceful settlement of the question of Palestine ' tabled by Senegal was overwhelmingly adopted in the 193-member General Assembly on Tuesday . <p> India was among the 157 nations that voted in favour , while eight Member States - Argentina , Hungary , Israel , Micronesia , Nauru , Palau , Papua New Guinea and the United States voted against it . <p> The resolution , adopted as orally revised , reiterated its call for the " achievement , without delay , of a comprehensive , just and lasting peace in the Middle East ( West Asia ) " on the basis of the relevant United Nations resolutions and an end to the Israeli occupation that began in 1967 , including of East Jerusalem . <p> The resolution called for the " withdrawal of Israel from the Palestinian territory occupied since 1967 , including East Jerusalem " and for the realisation of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people , primarily the right to self-determination and the right to their independent State . <p> Through the resolution , the General Assembly reaffirmed its unwavering support , in accordance with international law , for the two-state solution of Israel and Palestine , living side by side in peace and security within recognised borders , based on the pre-1967 borders . <p> It also demanded that Israel , " the occupying Power , comply strictly with its obligations under international law , including as reflected in the advisory opinion of the International Court of 19 July 2024 , including to bring an end to its unlawful presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , as rapidly as possible , to cease immediately all new settlement activities and to evacuate all settlers from the Occupied Palestinian Territory , and to put an end to its unlawful acts , including by repealing all legislation and measures creating or maintaining the unlawful situation . " <p> It rejected any attempt at demographic or territorial change in the Gaza Strip , including any actions that reduce the territory of Gaza . <p> The resolution further stressed that the Gaza Strip constitutes an integral part of the Palestinian territory occupied in 1967 , and " reaffirms the vision of the two-state solution , with the Gaza Strip as part of the Palestinian State . " <p> The resolution further stressed the need for an immediate and complete cessation of all acts of violence , including military attacks , destruction and acts of terror , as well as all acts of provocation and incitement . <p> India also voted in favour of a resolution in the General Assembly that demanded that Israel withdraw from all the occupied Syrian Golan to the line of June 1967 in the implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions . <p> The resolution was adopted with 97 votes in favour , 64 abstentions and eight votes against , including by Australia , Canada , Israel , the United Kingdom and the United States . <p> The resolution expressed deep concern that Israel has not withdrawn from the Syrian Golan , which has been under occupation since 1967 , contrary to the relevant Security Council and General Assembly resolutions . <p> It stressed the illegality of the Israeli settlement construction and other activities in the occupied Syrian Golan since 1967 . <p> It declared that the Israeli decision of December 1981 to impose its laws , jurisdiction and administration on the occupied Syrian Golan is " null and void " and has no validity whatsoever and called upon Israel to rescind it . 
@@118447902 <p> An Israeli airstrike has killed at least five people outside a food distribution centre in Gaza . The dead include four children . <p> The victims were gathered outside shelters in the densely packed Nuseirat refugee camp , which is located in the central Gaza Strip . <p> According to Associated Press , the bodies were rushed to the Awda Hospital confirmed where the death of the civilians was confirmed . The hospital said 15 others -- mostly children , also suffered injuries in the said attack . <p> There was no immediate comment from the Israeli forces , who have faced severe criticism over the mounting civilian casualities . The recent war which followed the Hamas-led attacks on southern Israel on October 7 , 2023 , in which 1200 people were killed , has resulted in immense destruction in the region , reported PTI . <p> It has led to a reported 44,500 deaths of Palestinians . Majority of those who lost their lives are women and children . The number of civilian casualties , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , continues to climb as Israeli forces pursue their military objectives . <p> Hamas had taken around 250 Isreali hostages . It is believed that at least a third of the hostages may have died , ABC News reported . The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) say that they have killed over 17,000 militants in Gaza . But they have not provided concrete evidence to support their claim . Palestinian authorities on the other hand insist the majority of the dead are civilians . <p> Crisis in West Asia <p> Meanwhile , the situation in Lebanon remains tense . Despite a ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon , reports suggest that several Israeli drone and artillery strikes took place in the region on Tuesday . <p> These strikes killed a shepherd in southern Lebanon . It highlights the continuing volatility of the area . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed to continue striking Hezbollah with an " iron fist " in response to what Israel perceives as violations of the ceasefire , reported by ABC News.U.S. and International Reactions . <p> The United States has been a staunch supporter of Israel , particularly during this latest escalation . President-elect Donald Trump recently commented on the unfolding situation . He voiced strong support for Israel 's military operations and condemned actions from groups like Hamas and Hezbollah , as per report . <p> Trump 's remarks also extended to the broader Middle Eastern tensions , where he characterised Iran 's involvement as a major destabilising factor . He reaffirmed his stance on the need for robust action to dismantle " terrorist " groups that threaten Israeli and U.S. interests in the region . <p> He warned on Monday that there would be " hell to pay " in the Middle East if hostages held in the Gaza Strip were not released before his inauguration on January 20 . <p> " ( If ) the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " he has been quoted by different reports as saying . <p> According to media reports , " Trump emphasised that a strong response was necessary not only to counter Hamas but also to deal with Hezbollah . He argued that the U.S. will continue to support Israel 's right to defend itself . Trump alluded to the possibility of increased American military involvement if the situation escalates further . " <p> Amid the military campaigns , the humanitarian situation in Gaza continues to deteriorate . The war has displaced more than 90% of Gaza 's population . It has left millions without access to basic necessities like food , water and medical care . <p> The international community , including the United Nations , has called for greater efforts to deliver aid and mediate ceasefires to alleviate civilian suffering . 
@@118448351 <h> Merchants Of Death Reap It In From Gaza And Ukraine <h> Weapon Sales Bring $ 632 Bllion to arms manufaturers <p> If and when the devastating military conflicts in Ukraine and Gaza come to an end , the ultimate winners will not be the Russians , the Americans or the Israelis but the world 's arms manufacturers -- contemptuously described as " merchants of death " . <p> And so will be the winners in a rash of conflicts and civil wars in Syria , Myanmar , Lebanon , Yemen , Sudan and Afghanistan . <p> The latest report from the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute ( SIPRI ) points out revenues from sales of arms and military services by the 100 largest companies in the industry reached $632 billion in 2023 , a real-terms increase of 4.2 per cent compared with 2022 . <p> The new data , released December 2 , says arms revenue increases were seen in all regions , with particularly sharp rises among companies based in Russia and the Middle East . <p> Overall , smaller producers were more efficient at responding to new demand linked to the wars in Gaza and Ukraine , growing tensions in East Asia and rearmament programmes elsewhere . <p> In 2023 , according to SIPRI , many arms producers ramped up their production in response to surging demand . The total arms revenues of the Top 100 bounced back after a dip in 2022 . <p> Almost three quarters of companies increased their arms revenues year-on-year . Notably , most of the companies that increased their revenues were in the lower half of the Top 100 . <p> " There was a marked rise in arms revenues in 2023 , and this is likely to continue in 2024 , " predicted Lorenzo Scarazzato , a Researcher with the SIPRI Military Expenditure and Arms Production Programme . <p> " The arms revenues of the Top 100 arms producers still did not fully reflect the scale of demand , and many companies have launched recruitment drives , suggesting they are optimistic about future sales , " he said . <p> Dr. Simon Adams , President and CEO , the Center for Victims of Torture , told IPS the number of people in the world displaced by persecution , conflict and atrocities has more than tripled in the past decade to over 120 million . <p> The people who have gained the most from this expansion in human misery , he said , are the war criminals , torturers and human rights violators of the world . <p> " But they ca n't survive without the weapons manufacturers who arm and enable them . And it is the arms manufacturers who have directly profited the most " . <p> " Wherever we see civilian suffering , bombed buildings , death and destruction in the world , there is some arms trader who sees a fresh business opportunity and increased profit margins . " <p> This is an industry whose economic livelihood is bloodshed , " declared Dr Adams . <p> In an article titled " War Profiteering " in the July issue of The Nation , David Vine and Theresa Arriola single out the five biggest US companies thriving off the war industry : Lockheed Martin , Northrop Grumman , Raytheon , Boeing and General Dynamics . <p> And it was US President Dwight Eisenhower , who in 1961 , warned Americans about the might of the " military industrial complex " ( MIC ) in the US . <p> According to Brown University 's Costs of War project , cited in the article , " the MIC has sowed incomprehensible destruction globally , keeping the United States locked in endless wars that , since 2001 , have killed an estimated 4.5 million people , injured many millions more , and displaced at least 38 million . " <p> Dr M.V. Ramana , Professor and Simons Chair in Disarmament , Global and Human Security , School of Public Policy and Global Affairs , and Graduate Program Director , at the University of British Columbia , Vancouver , told IPS the latest statistics published by SIPRI shows how military industries and investors in these producers of the means of killing and maiming people are thriving economically even as their role in perpetuating slaughter of civilian populations and the violation of the human rights among peoples in multiple countries becomes clearer by the day . <p> " Leading this ignominious list is the United States , which sells roughly half of all the weapons sold ; the top five arms merchants are U.S. companies , which together account for around a third of all sales . " <p> This state of affairs , he argued , is tragic , not only because of the human toll extracted by these weapons in places around the world , ranging from Gaza and Lebanon to Ukraine , but also because this money could be used to meet pressing human needs around the world . <p> To offer but one example , the United Nations World Food Program , he said , estimates that it would cost $40 billion every year " to feed all of the world 's hungry people and end global hunger by 2030 " . <p> That 's less than 40 percent of the revenues of the top two corporations involved in the arms business . In all , the data meticulously produced year after year by SIPRI is a really sad commentary on the priorities of governments and powerful institutions that control decisions on spending , Dr Ramana declared . <p> According to SIPRI , the 41 companies in the Top 100 based in the United States recorded arms revenues of $317 billion , half the total arms revenues of the Top 100 and 2.5 per cent more than in 2022 . Since 2018 , the top five companies in the Top 100 have all been based in the USA . <p> Of the 41 US companies , 30 increased their arms revenues in 2023 . However , Lockheed Martin and RTX , the world 's two largest arms producers , were among those registering a drop . <p> ' Larger companies like Lockheed Martin and RTX , manufacturing a wide range of arms products , often depend on complex , multi-tiered supply chains , which made them vulnerable to lingering supply chain challenges in 2023 , ' said Dr Nan Tian , Director of SIPRI 's Military Expenditure and Arms Production Programme . ' This was particularly the case in the aeronautics and missile sectors . ' <p> Meanwhile , the combined arms revenues of the 27 Top 100 companies based in Europe ( excluding Russia ) totalled $133 billion in 2023 . This was only 0.2 per cent more than in 2022 , the smallest increase in any world region . <p> However , behind the low growth figure the picture is more nuanced . European arms companies producing complex weapon systems were mostly working on older contracts during 2023 and their revenues for the year consequently do not reflect the influx of orders . <p> ' Complex weapon systems have longer lead times , ' said Scarazzato . ' Companies that produce them are thus inherently slower in reacting to changes in demand . That explains why their arms revenues were relatively low in 2023 , despite a surge in new orders . ' <p> At the same time , a number of other European producers saw their arms revenues grow substantially , driven by demand linked to the war in Ukraine , particularly for ammunition , artillery and air defence and land systems . <p> Notably , companies in Germany , Sweden , Ukraine , Poland , Norway and Czechia were able to tap into this demand . For instance , Germany 's Rheinmetall increased production capacity of 155-mm ammunition and its revenues were boosted by deliveries of its Leopard tanks and new orders , including through war-related ' ring-exchange ' programmes ( under which countries supply military goods to Ukraine and receive replacements from allies ) . <p> The SIPRI Arms Industry Database , which presents a more detailed data set for the years 2002 -- 23 , is available on SIPRI 's website . <p> Thalif Deen is a former Director , Foreign Military Markets at Defense Marketing Services ; Senior Defense Analyst at Forecast International ; and military editor Middle East/Africa at Jane 's Information Group . He is author of the 2021 book on the United Nations titled " No Comment -- and Do n't Quote me on That " available on Amazon . IPS UN Bureau Report . 
@@118448507 <h> Families left their homes and headed westwards towards the designated safe area of Al-Mawasi as the Israeli military issued evacuation orders . <p> A Palestinian man walks at the site of an Israeli strike on a house , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , in Deir Al-Balah in the central Gaza Strip on 4 December , 2024 Reuters/ Ramadan Abed <p> Follow Us : <p> Text Size : <p> Cairo : Israeli tanks pushed into northern parts of the Khan Younis area in the south of the Gaza Strip on Wednesday and Palestinian medics said Israeli airstrikes had killed at least 20 people across the enclave . <p> Residents said tanks advanced one day after the Israeli military issued new evacuation orders , saying there had been rocket launches from the area . <p> With shells falling near residential areas , families left leave their homes and headed westwards towards the humanitarian-designated area of Al-Mawasi nearby . <p> Medics said 11 people were killed in three airstrikes on areas in central Gaza , including six children and one medic . Five of the dead had been queuing outside a bakery , they said . <p> A further nine Palestinians were killed by tank fire in Rafah , near the border with Egypt , medics said . <p> Israel 's military did not immediately comment on the medics ' reports . <p> Israeli forces fired on the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya in northern Gaza for the fifth successive day , hospital director Hussam Abu Safiya said , adding that three of his medical staff had been wounded , one critically , on Tuesday night . <p> " Drones are dropping bombs filled with shrapnel that injure and anyone that dares to move , " said Abu Safiya . " This situation is extremely urgent . " <p> Residents in three towns -- Jabalia , Beit Lahiya and Beit Hanoun -- said Israeli forces had blown up dozens of houses . <p> Palestinians say Israel 's army is trying to drive people out of the northern edge of Gaza with forced evacuations and bombardments to create a buffer zone . The Israeli army denies this and says it has returned to prevent Hamas fighters from regrouping in an area where it had previously cleared them out . <p> Israel launched its campaign in the densely populated enclave after Hamas-led fighters attacked Israeli communities across the border on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing 1,200 people and taking over 250 hostages , according to Israeli tallies . <p> Israel 's military campaign has since killed more than 44,400 Palestinians , injured many others , and reduced much of the enclave to rubble . <p> Israel agreed to a ceasefire with the Lebanese armed group Hezbollah last week that halted fighting in a conflict that has unfolded in Lebanon in parallel with the Gaza war . <p> But the Gaza war itself has ground on with only a single ceasefire more than a year ago lasting for a week . <p> ( Reporting and writing by Nidal al-Mughrabi , Editing by Timothy Heritage ) <h> 2 COMMENTS <p> this shows all the global bodies are a sham and nothing worthwhile is happening to save innocent lives . Such is the travesty of the globalised world order . Or should I say disorder ! Common people are dying like fodder and nobody cares . Not just Gaza , it is happening at several other places and not one incident has been brought under control by the " grown ups " in international bodies . <h> COMMENTS <p> this shows all the global bodies are a sham and nothing worthwhile is happening to save innocent lives . Such is the travesty of the globalised world order . Or should I say disorder ! Common people are dying like fodder and nobody cares . Not just Gaza , it is happening at several other places and not one incident has been brought under control by the " grown ups " in international bodies . 
@@118448659 <p> Jerusalem , December 4 ( IANS ) Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has thanked US President-elect Donald Trump after the latter called for the hostages held in Gaza to be released by Hamas the day he takes charge as the President . <p> In a post on X , Netanyahu on Tuesday expressed his gratitude , stating , " I want to thank President Trump for his strong statement yesterday about the need for Hamas to release the hostages , the responsibility of Hamas , and this adds another force to our continued effort to release all the hostages . Thank you , President Trump . " <p> Trump 's statement followed the release of a video by Hamas showing American-Israeli hostage Edan Alexander pleading for his release . <p> In response , Trump posted a warning on Truth Social , saying , " Everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire World , in the Middle East - But it 's all talk , and no action ! " <p> He added that if the hostages were not released by January 20 , 2025 , when he would assume office , the US would take drastic measures . <p> " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity . " <p> Trump made it clear that those responsible for the hostage situation would face severe consequences , stating , " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " <p> The warning , coming days after the release of the hostage video , has added pressure on those holding hostages in the Middle East . <p> Netanyahu 's public endorsement of Trump 's statement highlights the growing international resolve to secure the release of those held captive . <p> Israel 's Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich said Trump 's statement had made clear to everyone who was in the right , and who was wrong . <p> " This is the way to bring back the hostages : by increasing the pressure and the costs for Hamas and its supporters , and defeating them , rather than giving in to their absurd demands . " <p> Families of the missing hostages also expressed their gratitude . " It is now evident to all : the time has come . We must bring them home NOW , " the families forum said . <h> Connect with us <h> Intro footer <p> The Morung Express <p> The Morung Express is a people-oriented alternative newspaper based in Nagaland that was conceived from the Naga people 's historical realities and is guided by their voices and experiences . It emerged from the well-recognized concept that the core of a free press is based on " qualitative and investigative " journalism . Ensuring this is essential for contributing to an informed Naga public that makes sound decisions on issues that affect all spheres of life . 
@@118463771 <h> Netanyahu 's Diabolical Undeclared War Objectives in Gaza <h> Share : <p> A demonstrator is seen wearing a placard that calls for the arrest of Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu during the rally . Pro-Palestine demonstrators joined the 21st demonstration organised by the Palestine Solidarity Campaign ( PSC ) since October 2023 . ( Photo by David Tramontan/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images ) <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has declared that Israel 's war on Gaza will continue until achieving what he terms " total victory . " Instead of critically examining Netanyahu 's vague and open-ended objectives , much of the Western media and many governments frame the onslaught as self-defense , and some even normalize the genocide as a " humane " attempt to " free " Israeli captives . <p> At the same time , the same pundits decontextualized the Palestinian right to self-defense by ignoring that the October 7 revolt was a direct response to over two decades of Israel 's imposed " starvation diet " blockade on Gaza . Exactly , as the West turns a blind eye , and continues to enable Israel 's theft of Palestinian-occupied land in the West Bank to benefit Jewish-only colonies . <p> Meanwhile , these media outlets downplay or dismiss Israel 's treacherous undeclared war objectives , even to the detriment of Israeli captives and the immense civilian suffering in Gaza . <p> For over a year , Netanyahu has prioritized an agenda to reoccupy and to ethnically cleanse northern Gaza rather than engage in negotiations for prisoner 's swap . Especially since the release of Israeli captives would undermine one of Netanyahu 's primary pretexts for pursuing his sinister objectives . <p> This is only possible in the wake of Western leaders embracing Netanyahu 's racist perspective , focusing only on the well-being of Israeli captives , while ignoring the over 10,000 Palestinian hostages held in Israeli jails , and the welfare of the 2.3 million Palestinians in Gaza . For instance , Joe Biden has expressed recently his concern over Netanyahu potentially delaying action to secure the release of Israeli captives until January 20 , 2025 , while expressing no sympathy for the suffering of Palestinians in 2024 and beyond . <p> With the conspicuous silence or impotence of world bodies , the Israeli captives became a convenient fig leaf under which Netanyahu saw as an opportunity to reoccupy Gaza . It is worth recalling that in 2005 , Netanyahu resigned from the Israeli government in protest against Prime Minister Ariel Sharon 's decision to " disengage " and remove the Jewish-only colonies from the Gaza strip . <p> Immediately following October 7 , Netanyahu launched a genocidal war , disregarding the Palestinian Resistance 's proposal for prisoner 's exchange . His decision to pursue war instead of negotiations was motivated by several factors : <p> a ) Deflect responsibility for the intelligence failure under his watch.b ) Evade scrutiny of his role in facilitating external funding to Hamas.c ) Execute a campaign of genocide and ethnic cleansing to reoccupy Gaza . <p> The strategy to ethnically cleanse Gaza was openly advocated by Israel 's racist Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich , who three months following October 7 called for Palestinians to leave Gaza . The scion of an Ukrainian immigrant repeated the century-old European Zionist myth of blooming the desert ? a narrative that not only ignores historical and geographical realities but also contradicts his own Old Testament that once described Canaan , the land of the Filastin ( Palestine ) , as the " land of milk and honey , " before the ancient Hebrews migrated from their original homes to Palestine . <p> Further , and on January 1 , 2024 , Smotrich 's fellow racist National Security Minister Itamar Ben Gvir declared in a Knesset speech that Israel should never withdraw from any territory it occupies and explained that the establishment of new Jewish-only colonies in Gaza as " an important thing . " The following day , on January 2 , Ben Gvir doubled down , stating that displacing " hundreds of thousands " of Palestinians from Gaza would help pave the way for the creation of the new Jewish-only colonies . <p> More recently , on Monday , November 25 , Smotrich declared to the Yesha Council , an umbrella group representing the Jewish-only colonies in the occupied West Bank , " We can and must conquer the Gaza Strip . " He claimed there is " a unique opportunity " with Donald Trump 's election to halve Gaza 's population -- a veiled euphemism for ethnic cleansing . Last Thursday , Israeli National Security Minister Itamar Ben Gvir echoed similar calls to " reoccupy the Gaza Strip . " <p> On the ground inside Gaza , the tools of occupation were more explicit in defining the meaning of Netanyahu 's ostensible mantra : " total victory . " Israeli soldiers posed before an orange banner that read , " Only ( Jewish-only ) settlement ( in Gaza ) would be considered victory ! " Notably , the orange color harkens back to the banners used by the settler movement in 2005 to protest Sharon 's decision to evacuate the Jewish-only colonies from Gaza . <p> On November 29 , Ajith Sunghay , head of the U.N . Human Rights Office for the Occupied Palestinian Territories , stated after visiting Gaza that the " U.N . had been unable to deliver any aid to northern Gaza " due to " repeated impediments or outright rejections of humanitarian convoys by the Israeli authorities . " <p> Regarding the genocide by terror , U.N . Human Rights Chief Volker T ? rk reported that residents of northern Gaza are subjected to " non-stop " bombing . Simultaneously , hundreds of thousands have been ordered to evacuate , likely to make way for new Jewish-only settlements . <p> As part of the forced depopulation of Gaza 's northern region -- the most fertile land in the strip -- Israel is constructing a topographic barrier to isolate this area from the rest of Gaza . Beginning in early October , Israel carried out extensive controlled explosions , demolishing multi-story buildings to clear a path for a 5.6-mile road cutting across the strip . This road divides Gaza City from the northern towns of Jabalia , Beit Hanoun , and Beit Lahia . Human Rights Watch ( HRW ) has characterized this widespread forced displacement as part of an official government policy amounting to " crimes against humanity . " <p> On November 30 , former Defense Minister and IDF Chief of Staff Moshe Ya'alon confirmed HRW findings , stating that Netanyahu and " far-right " ( racist ) elements are waging a war of " occupation , annexation , and ethnic cleansing . " He added , " There is no Beit Lahia , there is no Beit Hanoun . " <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The live-documented ethnic cleansing in Gaza , much like in 1948 , alongside the expansion of Jewish-only colonies in the West Bank , underscores the true undeclared objectives in Israel 's ostensible " total victory . " In this contest , Netanyahu 's deliberate undermining of U.S.-led negotiations for prisoner 's swap exemplifies his quintessential diabolical persona : exploiting the predicament of his own Israeli captives to further his cynical undeclared agenda of slaughtering the " Amalek , " and ethnically cleansing Gaza to pave the way for new Jewish-only colonies . <p> Jamal Kanj is the author of Children of Catastrophe : Journey from a Palestinian Refugee Camp to America , and other books . He writes frequently on Arab world issues for various national and international commentaries . <p> The International Criminal Court 's recent issuance of arrest warrants to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for crimes against humanity and war crimes in Gaza ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118463774 <p> When talking about the Israeli prime minister Netanyahu , we must not miss the point that in effect he is a politician , thus , he is both an ideologue and a pragmatist . He is an ideologue when he feels he can go all the way with brinkmanship and get away with it , and he is a pragmatist , when realizes that he should stop and talk . However , by and large that usually depends on the position of the USA primarily , and on the regional situation in the second degree . <p> He was a pragmatist , when he originally gave his implicit support to Hamas as a guardian of peace in Gaza , and the guarantor of border security with Israel , and he was an ideologue when he demanded that the PNA accepts that Israel is a Jewish state , and accept moreover , that any form of a Palestinian state ought to be demilitarized and just a guardian of the border with Israel . <p> ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ALEXANDER DUGIN : " Netanyahu is driven not by rational geopolitical analysis , but ' messianic ' fantasies of creating Greater Israel and rebuilding the Third Temple of Jerusalem . " **26;2206;TOOLONG <p> He was an ideologue when avenging the 7 October events and a pragmatist in letting the hostage crisis drag on . He chose to head a government in which he can present himself as the only one whom the world can talk to when compared to his extremist colleagues , through his masque of pragmatism , rather than go into a government with partners who will make him look as the only ideologue among pragmatists . <p> Again , this Netanyahu dualism , be that the ideologue who has the freedom to do as he sees fit , or the pragmatist who gets to know his boundaries one can not say is clear , at least for the moment . For all intents and purposes , the red apple of the so-called Abrahamic Accord , Saudi Arabia , remains illusive , as the Saudis have indicated in no uncertain terms , that any prospects of normalization are conditional on at least , reviving the two-state solution . But at the same time , Netanyahu still has working relationships with the UAE and Bahrain in the Gulf as well as Qatar . <p> As for the older cold war peace partners , Jordan and Egypt , Netanyahu is content that at least the situation is as stable as it could be . <p> Now , will Netanyahu be able to pull a rabbit out of the hat when it comes to Trump , or does he really feel that he can take Trump for granted ? The current thought in the Middle East fluctuates between those two guesses . But in reality with a paradigm shift , perhaps we can see things clearer . For a start , we are currently living in the age of separation of economics and business from the world of politics , also the separation of interests from principled positions . This age is not created by either Netanyahu or Trump but it certainly suits their relationship fine . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> One thing for certain , Netanyahu can rely on Trump 's support as an intransigent ideologue , for Israel is undoubtedly the advanced military post of the USA , but also as a pragmatist , he has to understand to what extent he can be a tool of US foreign interests especially that Trump is very much fond of the concept of proxies and does not like infringements on his business deals . <p> Dr Khairi Janbek is a Jordanian historian based in Paris and the above opinion is written for www.crossfirearabia.com . <h> Related Posts <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has declared that Israel 's war on Gaza will continue until achieving what he terms " total victory . " Instead of critically examining Netanyahu 's vague and open-ended objectives , much of ... <p> The International Criminal Court 's recent issuance of arrest warrants to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for crimes against humanity and war crimes in Gaza ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118463777 <h> Beit Lahya Is Being Wiped Out <h> Share : <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - Israeli forces have escalated their assault on Beit Lahya in northern Gaza , targeting the city 's 60,000 residents in a campaign that threatens to wipe out the population . <p> The bombardment has targeted residential areas , schools , and hospitals , turning what was once a haven for displaced families into a warzone . <p> Residents in Beit Lahya report that Israeli drones and helicopters have been relentlessly firing at homes . Barrel bombs have been planted in neighborhoods , causing widespread destruction and killing dozens of besieged civilians . <p> Via loudspeakers attached to quadcopter drones , the Israeli occupation army is ordering the remaining Palestinian population in Beit Lahiya , northern Gaza , to immediately leave their hometown , or they will be killed . <p> Israeli forces have also surrounded Abu Tammam school , the last remaining displacement shelter in the area . This schools is now under siege , with no access to food , water , or medical aid . Israeli forces also started burning parts of the school even as about 4000 civilians are trapped inside . <p> At Kamal Adwan Hospital , the situation is dire . Israeli drones have attacked the hospital multiple times , injuring three medical staff members , one of whom is in critical condition . Dr. Hussam Abu Safiyya , the hospital director , condemned the attacks , calling them " barbaric and unjustified . " He confirmed that drones dropped bombs filled with shrapnel , endangering patients and staff . " We are exhausted by this brutality , " he said . " Every day , we are systematically targeted . " <p> The Palestinian Civil Defense in Gaza described the situation in Beit Lahya as catastrophic . Speaking to Al Jazeera , the spokesperson stated that Israeli forces are committing ethnic cleansing in northern Gaza . " We can not provide medical or rescue services due to the relentless attacks , " he said . Many victims remain trapped under rubble , with no way for rescue teams to reach them . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> In the past 24 hours , two massacres have been reported in Gaza . Hospitals have received the bodies of 36 victims , along with 96 wounded , but the actual toll is likely higher . Civilians in northern Gaza have endured two months without proper food or clean water . Their homes are no longer livable , and the humanitarian crisis deepens by the hour . <p> Since October 7 , 2023 , Israeli attacks have killed 44,502 Palestinians and injured 105,454 , according to health officials . Beit Lahya , once a sanctuary for those displaced by earlier strikes , now faces complete obliteration . <h> Related Posts <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has declared that Israel 's war on Gaza will continue until achieving what he terms " total victory . " Instead of critically examining Netanyahu 's vague and open-ended objectives , much of ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118463779 <h> Resistance to the International Criminal Court By the World 's Most Powerful Nations <h> Share : <p> The International Criminal Court 's recent issuance of arrest warrants to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for crimes against humanity and war crimes in Gaza has stirred up a considerable backlash . Dismissing the charges as " absurd and false , " Netanyahu announced that Israel would " not recognize the validity " of the ICC 's action . U.S. President Joe Biden denounced the arrest warrants as " outrageous , " while the French government , after agreeing to support them , reversed its stance . <p> Thanks to a vigorous campaign by human rights organizations , the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) became operational in 2002 , with the mandate to prosecute individuals for genocide , war crimes , crimes against humanity and , after 2018 , the crime of aggression . Nations ratifying the Rome Statute , the ICC 's authorizing document , assumed responsibility for arresting these individuals and submitting them to the Court for trial . The ICC prosecutes cases only when countries are unwilling or unable to do so , for it was designed to complement , rather than replace , national criminal justice systems . <p> Operating with clearly delimited powers and limited funding , the ICC , headquartered at the Hague , has thus far usually taken modest but effective action to investigate , prosecute , and convict perpetrators of heinous atrocity crimes . <p> Although 124 nations have ratified the Rome Statute , Russia , China , the United States , India , Israel , and North Korea are not among them . Indeed , the world 's major military powers , accustomed to the privileged role in world affairs that their armed might usually affords them , have often been at odds with the ICC , for it has the potential to investigate , prosecute , and convict their own government officials . <p> The desire of the " great powers " to safeguard themselves from the enforcement of international law is exemplified by the record of the U.S. government . Although President Bill Clinton signed the Rome Statute in December 2000 , he warned about " significant flaws in the treaty , " among them the inability to " protect US officials . " Refusing to support U.S. Senate ratification , he recommended that his successor continue this policy " until our fundamental concerns are satisfied . " <p> U.S. President George W. Bush " unsigned " the treaty in 2002 , pressured other nations into bilateral agreements requiring them to refuse surrendering U.S. nationals to the Court , and signed the American Servicemembers Protection Act , authorizing the use of military force to liberate any Americans held for crimes by the ICC . <p> Although , subsequently , the Bush and Obama administrations warmed somewhat toward the Court , then engaged in prosecuting African warlords and Libyan dictator Muammar Gaddafi , President Donald Trump reverted to staunch opposition in 2018 , informing the UN General Assembly that the U.S. government would not support the ICC , which he claimed had " no jurisdiction , no legitimacy , and no authority . " In 2020 , the Trump administration imposed economic sanctions and visa restrictions on top ICC officials for any effort to investigate the actions of U.S. personnel in Afghanistan . <p> Having previously denied wrongdoing in Bucha , the Russian government reacted furiously to the kidnapping charge . " The very question itself is outrageous , " declared Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov , and the ICC 's decisions " are insignificant for the Russian Federation . " Dmitry Medvedev , deputy chair of the Russian Security Council and a former Russian president , publicly threatened a Russian hypersonic missile attack upon the ICC headquarters , remarking : " Judges of the court , look carefully at the sky . " Subsequently , Moscow issued arrest warrants for top ICC officials . <p> Meanwhile , the United States has continued its ambivalence toward the ICC . President Joe Biden scrapped the Trump sanctions against the Court and authorized the sharing of information and funding for it in its investigations of Russian atrocities in Ukraine . But he reaffirmed " our government 's longstanding objection to the Court 's efforts to assert jurisdiction " over U.S. and Israeli officials . <p> The incoming Trump administration seems likely to take a much harsher line . The Republican-led House of Representatives recently passed legislation to sanction the ICC , while Republican Senator Lindsay Graham , calling the Court a " dangerous joke , " urged Congress to sanction its prosecutor , and warned U.S. allies that , " if you try to help the ICC , we 're going to sanction you . " <p> Given the policies of the " great powers , " are the Court 's efforts to enforce international law futile ? <p> Leading advocates of human rights do n't think so . " This is a big day for the many victims of crimes committed by Russian forces in Ukraine , " declared Amnesty International upon learning of the Court 's arrest warrants for top Russian officials . " The ICC has made Putin a wanted man and taken its first step to end the impunity that has emboldened perpetrators in Russia 's war . " Similarly , Kenneth Roth , the former executive director of Human Rights Watch , stated that the ICC 's issuance of arrest warrants for top Israeli officials represented " an important step toward justice for the Palestinian people . . . . Israeli generals must now think twice about proceeding with the bombing and starving of Palestinian children . " <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> And , indeed , the ICC 's actions have started to bear fruit . Invited to South Africa to participate in a BRICS conference , Putin canceled his visit after his hosts explained that , in light of the arrest warrant , he was no longer welcome . Also , later that year , Russian officials returned hundreds of Ukrainian children to their parents . Although the results of the ICC 's action against Israeli officials are only starting to unfold , numerous countries have promised to honor the arrest warrants for Netanyahu and Gallant . <p> Even so , the ICC 's enforcement of international criminal justice would be considerably more effective if the major powers stopped obstructing its efforts . <p> ( The Hague ) -- Member countries of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) should support the court against efforts to undermine its global mandate , Human Rights Watch said today . The annual session of the ICC 's ... <p> The arrest warrants by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant are a diplomatic disaster for Israel , reported The Economist , ... <p> The International Criminal Court ( ICC ) has issued arrest warrants for child- , mother- and women-killing Jewish Israeli monsters Benjamin Netanyahu and Yoav Gallant over their key roles in the ongoing Gaza ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118463780 <h> Truce in Lebanon:Can Diplomacy Rise from the Ruins ? <h> Share : <p> Displaced residents celebrate as they return to their villages after a ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah went into effect on Nov. 27 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/ ) <p> On November 26th , Israel and Lebanon signed an agreement for a 60-day truce , during which Israel and Hezbollah are both supposed to withdraw from the area of Lebanon south of the Litani River . <p> The agreement is based on the terms of UN Security Council resolution 1701 , which ended the previous Israeli assault on Lebanon in 2006 . The truce will be enforced by 5,000 to 10,000 Lebanese troops and the UN 's 10,000-strong UNIFIL peacekeeping force , which has operated in that area since 1978 and includes troops from 46 countries . <p> The truce has broad international support , including from Iran and Hamas . Israel and Hezbollah were apparently glad to take a break from a war that had become counterproductive for them both . Effective resistance prevented Israeli forces from advancing far into Lebanon , and they were inflicting mostly senseless death and destruction on civilians , as in Gaza , but without the genocidal motivation of that campaign . <p> People all over Lebanon have welcomed the relief from Israeli bombing , the destruction of their towns and neighborhoods , and thousands of casualties . In Beirut , people have started returning to their homes . <p> In the south , the Israeli military has warned residents on both sides of the border not to return yet . It has declared a new buffer zone ( which was not part of the truce agreement ) that includes 60 villages north of the border , and has warned that it will attack Lebanese civilians who return to that area . Despite these warnings , thousands of displaced people have been returning to south Lebanon , often to find their homes and villages in ruins . <p> Many people returning to the south still proudly display the yellow flags of Hezbollah . A flag flying over the ruins of Tyre has the words " Made in the USA " written across it , a reminder that the Lebanese people know very well who made the bombs that have killed and maimed so many thousands of them . <p> There are already many reports of ceasefire violations . Israel shot and wounded two journalists soon after the truce went into effect , and then , two days after the ceasefire , Israel attacked five towns near the border with tanks , fired artillery across the border and conducted airstrikes on southern Lebanon . On December 2nd , Hezbollah finally retaliated with mortar fire in the disputed Shebaa Farms area , and Israel responded with heavier strikes on two villages , killing eleven people . <p> An addendum to the truce agreement granted Israel the right to strike at will whenever it believes Hezbollah is violating the truce , giving it what Netanyahu called " complete military freedom of action , " which makes this a precarious and one-sided peace at best . <p> The prospect for a full withdrawal of both Israeli and Hezbollah forces in 60 days seems slim , since Hezbollah has built large weapons stockpiles in the south that it will not want to abandon , and Netanyahu himself has warned that the truce " can be short . " <p> Then there is the danger of confrontation between Hezbollah and the Lebanese military , raising the specter of Lebanon 's bloody civil war , which killed an estimated 150,000 people between 1975 and 1990 . <p> So violence could flare up into full-scale war again at any time , making it unlikely that many Israelis will return to homes near the border with Lebanon , Israel 's original publicly stated purpose for the war . <p> The truce agreement was brokered by the United States and France , and signed by the European Union , Australia , Canada , Germany , Italy , Japan , Qatar , Saudi Arabia and the UAE . France was a colonial power in Lebanon and plays a leading role in UNIFIL , but Israel initially rejected France as a negotiating partner . It seems to have accepted France 's role only when the Macron government agreed not to enforce the ICC arrest warrant against Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu if he comes to France . <p> The U.K. also signed the original truce proposal on November 25th , but does n't appear to have signed the final truce agreement . The U.K. seems to have withdrawn from the negotiations under U.S. and Israeli pressure because , unlike France , its new Labour government has publicly stated that it will comply with the ICC arrest warrants against Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Gallant -- although it has not explicitly said it would arrest them . <p> Netanyahu justified the truce to his own people by saying that it will allow Israeli forces to focus on Gaza and Iran , and only die-hard " security " minister Ben-Gvir voted against the truce in the Israeli cabinet . <p> While there were hopes that the truce in Lebanon might set the stage for a ceasefire in Gaza , Israel 's actions on the ground tell a different story . Satellite images show Israel carrying out new mass demolitions of hundreds of buildings in northern Gaza to build a new road or boundary between Gaza City and North Gaza . This may be a new border to separate the northernmost 17% of Gaza from the rest of the Gaza Strip , so that Israel can expel its people and prevent them from returning , hand North Gaza over to Israeli settlers and squeeze the desperate , starving survivors in Gaza into an even smaller area than before . <p> And for all who had hopes that the ceasefire in Lebanon might lead to a regional de-escalation , those hopes were dashed in Syria , when , on the very day of the truce , the rebel group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) launched a surprise offensive . HTS was formerly the al-Qaeda-linked al-Nusra Front . It rebranded itself and severed its formal link to al-Qaeda in 2016 to avoid becoming a prime target in the U.S. war in Syria , but the U.S. still brands it as a terrorist group . <p> By December 1st , HTS managed to seize control of Syria 's second largest city , Aleppo , forcing the Syrian Arab Army and its Russian allies onto the defensive . With Russian and Syrian jets bombing rebel-held territory , the surge in fighting has raised the prospect of another violent , destabilizing front reopening in the Middle East . <p> This may also be a prelude to an escalation of attacks on Syria by Israel , which has already attacked Syria more than 220 times since October 2023 , with Israeli airstrikes and artillery bombardments killing at least 296 people . <p> The new HTS offensive most likely has covert U.S. support , and may impact Trump 's reported intention to withdraw the 900 U.S. troops still based in Syria . It may also impact his nomination of Tulsi Gabbard as Director of National Intelligence . Gabbard is a long-time critic of U.S. support for al-Qaeda-linked factions in Syria , so the new HTS offensive sets the stage for an explosive confirmation hearing , which may backfire on Syria hawks in Washington if Gabbard is allowed to make her case . <p> Elsewhere in the region , Israel 's genocide in Gaza and war on its neighbors have led to widespread anti-Israel and anti-U.S . resistance . <p> Where the United States was once able to buy off Arab rulers with weapons deals and military alliances , the Arab and Muslim world is coalescing around a position that sees Israel 's behavior as unacceptable and Iran as a threatened neighbor rather than an enemy . Unconditional U.S. support for Israel risks permanently downgrading U.S. relations with former allies , from Iraq , Jordan and Egypt to Saudi Arabia and Qatar . <p> Yemen 's Ansar Allah ( or Houthi ) government has maintained a blockade of the Red Sea , using missiles and drones against Israeli-linked ships heading for the Israeli port of Eilat or the Suez Canal . The Yemenis have defeated a U.S.-led naval task force sent to break the blockade and have reduced shipping through the Suez Canal by at least two-thirds , forcing shipping companies to reroute most ships all the way around Africa . The port of Eilat filed for bankruptcy in July , after only one ship docked there in several months . <p> Other resistance forces have conducted attacks on U.S. military bases in Iraq , Syria and Jordan , and U.S. forces have retaliated in a low-grade tit-for-tat war . The Iraqi government has strongly condemned U.S. and Israeli attacks in Iraq as violations of its sovereignty . Attacks on U.S. bases in Iraq and Syria have flared up again in recent months , while Iraqi resistance forces have also launched drone attacks on Israel . <p> An emergency meeting of the Arab League in Cairo on November 26th voted unanimously to support Iraq and condemn Israeli threats . U.S.-Iraqi talks in September drew up a plan for hundreds of U.S. troops to leave Iraq in 2025 and for all 2,500 to be gone within two years . The U.S. has outmaneuvered previous withdrawal plans , but the days of these very unwelcome U.S. bases must surely be numbered . <p> Recent meetings of Arab and Muslim states have forged a growing sense of unity around a rejection of U.S. proposals for normalization of relations with Israel and a new solidarity with Palestine and Iran . At a meeting of Islamic nations in Riyadh on November 11th , Saudi crown prince Mohammed Bin-Salman publicly called the Israeli massacre in Gaza a genocide for the first time . <p> Arab and Muslim countries know that Trump may act unpredictably and that they need a stable common position to avoid becoming pawns to Trump or Netanyahu . They recognize that previous divisions left them vulnerable to exploitation by the United States and Israel , which contributed to the current crisis in Palestine and the risk of a major regional war that now looms over them . <p> On November 29th , Saudi and Western officials told Reuters that Saudi Arabia has given up on a new military alliance with the U.S. , which would include normalizing relations with Israel , and is opting for a more limited U.S. weapons deal . <p> The Saudis had hoped for a treaty that included a U.S. commitment to defend them , like U.S. treaties with Japan and South Korea . That would require confirmation by the U.S. Senate , which would demand Saudi recognition of Israel in return . But the Saudis can no longer consider recognizing Israel without a viable plan for Palestinian statehood , which Israel rejects . <p> On the other hand , Saudi relations with Iran are steadily improving since they restored relations 18 months ago with diplomatic help from China and Iraq . At a meeting with new Iranian prime minister Pezeshkian in Qatar on October 3rd , Saudi Foreign Minister Faisal Bin Farhan declared , " We seek to close the page of differences between the two countries forever and work towards the resolution of our issues and expansion of our relations like two friendly and brotherly states . " <p> Prince Faisal highlighted the " very sensitive and critical " situation in the region due to Israel 's " aggressions " against Gaza and Lebanon and its attempts to expand the conflict . He said Saudi Arabia trusted Iran 's " wisdom and discernment " in managing the situation to restore calm and peace . <p> If Saudi Arabia and its neighbors can make peace with Iran , what will the consequences be for Israel 's illegal , genocidal occupation of Palestine , which has been enabled and encouraged by decades of unconditional U.S. military and diplomatic support ? <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> On December 2 , Trump wrote on Truth Social that if the hostages were not released by the time of his inauguration , there would be " ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East . " " Those responsible , " he warned , " will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . " <p> Trump and many of his acolytes exemplify the Western arrogance and lust for imperial power that lies at the root of this crisis . More threats and more destruction are not the answer . Trump has had good relations with the dictatorial rulers of the Gulf states , with whom he shares much in common . If he is willing to listen , he will realize , like they do , that there is no solution to this crisis without freedom , self-determination and sovereignty in their own land for the people of Palestine . That is the path to peace , if he will take it . <p> ( The Hague ) -- Member countries of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) should support the court against efforts to undermine its global mandate , Human Rights Watch said today . The annual session of the ICC 's ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118468145 <h> How The Lebanon Ceasefire Will Impact Hezbollah ? <p> The ceasefire in Lebanon apart from giving respite to the beleaguered Lebanese , will also be a litmus test for Hezbollah on whether it can continue to flourish <p> The devastation wrecked by the detonation of 2700 tons of Ammonium Nitrate in the port area of Beirut , the capital of Lebanon on August 5 , 2020 . More than 149 people were killed in the blast and primary losses were put at above five billion US dollars . <p> It would not be wrong to say that the whole of the world and the Middle East and in particular Lebanon took a cautious sigh of relief as the fragile ceasefire between Hezbollah and Israel , was announced last week . <p> The main concern , however , was whether this ceasefire could hold ? as claims and counterclaims by attacks and incursions by both parties were reported in the first 24 hours . But precariously so far , the ceasefire has been held by both parties . <p> While fighting may be over , or at least paused , attention now shifts to another challenge facing Lebanon and Hezbollah : internal reckoning . In addition , what ace does Iran have , as it ordered its proxy to agree to a ceasefire in Lebanon ? The larger question is whether Hezbollah will be able to survive this ceasefire as a political and militant group in Lebanon or not . <p> While some segments of the Lebanese population and Hezbollah 's supporters , see the ceasefire as a victory for the party , others have decried the bloodshed and destruction caused by a conflict they did not back . <p> Hezbollah opened a limited battlefront against Israel on October 8 , 2023 , in support of Hamas and Palestinians under attack in the Gaza Strip . The conflict started last year after Hezbollah began firing rockets into northern Israel following Hamas 's October 7 attack , before Israel launched a full-scale invasion in September . <p> Imad Salamey , a Middle Eastern politics expert at the Lebanese American University , told UK-based website Middle East Eye that " Hezbollah 's claim of victory holds little weight outside its core constituency . The war was not widely popular among the Lebanese people , many of whom are more focused on the devastating economic losses inflicted during the conflict . " <p> For more than a year , the conflict was mostly limited to clashes in the border areas between Lebanon and Israel . However , the picture changed in September , when Israel exploded thousands of pagers used by Hezbollah members before launching a widespread bombing campaign across the country followed by a ground invasion . More than 3,900 people in Lebanon were killed and over a million were displaced . <p> While Lebanese have largely acted in solidarity with those displaced and killed by Israel and stood by their compatriots in the face of Israeli forces , how the conflict has shifted domestic political dynamics may determine Lebanon 's fate for years to come . <p> The presence of Hezbollah and its militant arm has been a point of contention for decades in Lebanese politics . Salamey says that Hezbollah is " likely concerned about growing opposition within Lebanon , which could create two polarised camps , one supporting Hezbollah and the other pushing for disarmament " . <p> " To suppress dissent and maintain control , Hezbollah may feel compelled to take domestic actions , including using its influence to neutralise political opponents or deter their activities through various actions , " he added . <p> In contrast , Qassim Qassir , an analyst close to Hezbollah , told MEE that the group remains " reassured " about its internal political position in Lebanon . The group is currently reviewing its latest actions and will " define its future vision and is reassured that the results of the battle were in its favour " , according to Qassir . Qassir said that these people have so far " failed " to take advantage of the war and its consequences to score political points against Hezbollah . <p> The US-brokered ceasefire agreement is intended to erode Hezbollah 's ability to operate freely in its bastion of southern Lebanon , barring the group from having a military presence south of the Litani River . Those close to Hezbollah say it is unclear whether that means its fighters -- many of whom are residents of villages and towns in the south -- would be able to return . <p> Hezbollah 's ability to continue firing heavier projectile barrages deeper into Israel , including anti-tank missiles and drones , shows it still possesses potent military capabilities . People close to the group also point to its ability to prevent Israel from advancing deep into Lebanon , killing about 50 Israeli soldiers , as proof of its capability . <p> Unlike 2006 , when Hezbollah was able to ignore a similar deal that ended a war that year , the group will now have to show that it is actively complying with the terms of the ceasefire . The weak Lebanese state -- already worn out by a yearlong conflict and festering economic crisis -- could pay the price if it does not . <p> That may open the door to opponents demanding the dismantling of Hezbollah , which remains a powerful representative of the country 's Shias , one of its largest communities , with vast reach into the levers of the state . <p> Hezbollah 's victory narrative will be embraced for now by its constituency , many of whom will be relieved to be able to start going back home . But the message will be undermined without massive reconstruction , compensation , and resumption of social welfare in the face of widespread destruction and displacement . <p> The World Bank estimates the war has caused US $8.5 billion in damage and economic losses -- more than one-third of Lebanon 's GDP . Hezbollah insists that money for reconstruction will not be an issue , but given that its own main backer Iran has its own economic woes and Hezbollah 's unpopularity with other Middle Eastern governments , it is unclear who may contribute funds for reconstruction , and with what conditions . <p> As powerful a representative as Hezbollah remains for Lebanon 's Shia , its domestic political rivals are always looking for an opportunity to exploit claims that the group brings nothing but trouble to the country as a whole . <p> These rivals include Christian leaders who are keen to shift the levers of power in Lebanon 's sectarian power-sharing system in their favour . The danger as in Lebanon 's past that such challenges to power end up in sectarian violence is a spectre the country has long lived with . <p> Janna Kadri and Tala Alayli , in their piece on the website Al Mayadeen opine that Hezbollah 's steadfast ability to endure and confront one of the most technologically advanced militaries on the planet highlights its endurance power <p> Asad Mirza <p> David Pratt , Foreign Editor with The Herald on Sunday sums it up pithily opining that by steadfastly championing Palestinian rights and opposing external domination , Hezbollah amplified its influence far beyond Lebanon 's borders . It became a beacon of resistance against the forces of oppression , inspiring solidarity across diverse communities united in the pursuit of justice . <p> Sayyed Nasrallah 's role as a rallying figure cemented this legacy , while also galvanising a shared vision of dignity and sovereignty in defiance of foreign domination . Through its actions and narrative , Hezbollah solidified its position not just as a regional force but as an emblem of global resistance against colonialism and imperialism , Pratt wrote further . <p> Perhaps nowhere will the post-ceasefire political landscape be tested more than in the country 's south , much of which is inhabited by Lebanon 's Shia population and therefore Hezbollah heartlands . <p> ( Asad Mirza is a senior journalist based in New Delhi . In his career spanning more than 20 years , he was also associated with BBC Urdu Service and Khaleej Times of Dubai . Views are personal. ) 
@@118468152 <h> India Votes in Favour of UNGA Resolution on Palestine Calling for End to Israeli Occupation <p> UNITED NATIONS : India voted in favour of a UN General Assembly resolution that called for the withdrawal of Israel from the Palestinian territory occupied since 1967 , including East Jerusalem , and reiterated the call for achieving a comprehensive , just and lasting peace in West Asia . <p> The resolution , adopted as orally revised , reiterated its call for the " achievement , without delay , of a comprehensive , just and lasting peace in the Middle East ( West Asia ) " on the basis of the relevant United Nations resolutions and an end to the Israeli occupation that began in 1967 , including of East Jerusalem . <p> The resolution called for the " withdrawal of Israel from the Palestinian territory occupied since 1967 , including East Jerusalem " and for the realisation of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people , primarily the right to self-determination and the right to their independent State . <p> Through the resolution , the General Assembly reaffirmed its unwavering support , in accordance with international law , for the two-state solution of Israel and Palestine , living side by side in peace and security within recognised borders , based on the pre-1967 borders . <p> It also demanded that Israel , " the occupying Power , comply strictly with its obligations under international law , including as reflected in the advisory opinion of the International Court of 19 July 2024 , including to bring an end to its unlawful presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , as rapidly as possible , to cease immediately all new settlement activities and to evacuate all settlers from the Occupied Palestinian Territory , and to put an end to its unlawful acts , including by repealing all legislation and measures creating or maintaining the unlawful situation . " <p> It rejected any attempt at demographic or territorial change in the Gaza Strip , including any actions that reduce the territory of Gaza . <p> The resolution further stressed that the Gaza Strip constitutes an integral part of the Palestinian territory occupied in 1967 , and " reaffirms the vision of the two-state solution , with the Gaza Strip as part of the Palestinian State . " <p> The resolution further stressed the need for an immediate and complete cessation of all acts of violence , including military attacks , destruction and acts of terror , as well as all acts of provocation and incitement . <p> India also voted in favour of a resolution in the General Assembly that demanded that Israel withdraw from all the occupied Syrian Golan to the line of June 1967 in the implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions . <p> The resolution was adopted with 97 votes in favour , 64 abstentions and eight votes against , including by Australia , Canada , Israel , the United Kingdom and the United States . <p> The resolution expressed deep concern that Israel has not withdrawn from the Syrian Golan , which has been under occupation since 1967 , contrary to the relevant Security Council and General Assembly resolutions . <p> It stressed the illegality of the Israeli settlement construction and other activities in the occupied Syrian Golan since 1967 . <p> It declared that the Israeli decision of December 1981 to impose its laws , jurisdiction and administration on the occupied Syrian Golan is " null and void " and has no validity whatsoever and called upon Israel to rescind it . 
@@118470717 <h> What would Trump 2.0 mean for foreign students in American universities ? <p> Donald Trump has repeatedly said that former president Biden 's approach to pro-Palestine protesters in university campuses had been " weak " and vowed to deport them and make the " college campuses safe and patriotic again . " <p> ( L ) A student being detained during pro-Palestine protests at the University of Texas at Austin . ( R ) Donald Trump during an election campaign . ( Photo AP ) <p> Less than three weeks after Donald Trump was named the 47th president of the United States , several top American universities issued travel advisories for their students from foreign countries to return to the US ahead of the new president-elect 's swearing-in on January 20 . <p> Several international media outlets have reviewed and quoted communications sent by leading US universities to their students currently abroad . <p> " The safest way to avoid difficulty re-entering the country is to be physically present in the US on January 19th and the days thereafter of the spring semester , " read an email from the Wesleyan University 's Office of International Student Affairs . <p> " We are not able to speculate on what a travel ban will look like if enacted , nor can we speculate on what particular countries or regions of the world may or may not be affected , " the University of Massachusetts wrote in a post on Instagram advising its international students , scholars , faculty and staff under UMass immigration sponsorship to return to US ahead of Trump 's swearing-in . <p> " ... the Office of Global Affairs is making this advisory out of an abundance of caution to hopefully prevent any possible travel disruption to members of our international community , " the varsity said . <p> Meanwhile , the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ( MIT ) advised students not to make decisions based on rumours or speculation about what policies the new administration may pass -- but suggested that students should be aware that new immigration or travel policies could be enacted as early as January 20 . <p> The universities ' concerns stem out of widespread anticipation of travel bans and visa restrictions for international students and faculties like that were enacted during Trump 's first term . A week into his presidency in 2017 , Trump signed an executive order restricting the entry of citizens of seven Muslim-majority nations into the US for 90 days . Several green card holders ( permanent residents in the US ) were also prevented from entering the US . Following this was a series of restrictions and travel bans for several foreign nationals , especially from Muslim-dominated countries and others like Venezuela and North Korea . <p> Visa restrictions and bans were also imposed on Chinese nationals , while China remained the second top-sending country of international students to the US with 2,77,398 students in 2023-2024 , according to data from ' Open Doors 2024 Report on International Educational Exchange ' . India leads the list with 3,31,602 students . <p> Trump , in August 2018 , remarked that every Chinese student coming over to study in American universities is a " spy . " He later vowed to crack down on the " many thousands of SPIES working in the academia , media and even government . " <p> Pro-Palestine movement <p> The past year has shown American universities in a different light . Several top universities in America , starting with the prestigious Columbia University witnessed widespread protests demanding a divestment from Israel in the wake of its " genocidal " war on Gaza . Students , faculties and staff across the universities participated in the demonstrations including setting up encampments in the campuses , making clear demands and shifting the narrative surrounding Israel 's war on Gaza . <p> The protesters were met with violent crackdown by the police under Biden administration apart from threats from politicians , intimidation from university administration and being labelled as anti-semitics by the media . <p> However , Trump has repeatedly said that Biden 's approach to the protesters had been " weak " . He labelled the protesters as " pro-Hamas radicals " and vowed to deport them and make the " college campuses safe and patriotic again . " <p> " If any of us want to do the things that we want to do for our country , and for the people who live in it , we have to honestly and aggressively attack the universities in this country , " US vice-president elect JD Vance said before the elections . <p> " The universities have never been a threat to the US administration except for during the Vietnam war and other rare instances . Now the genocide on Palestine has woken up the university spaces once again ... But I think the universities are going to be under increasing regulation in the coming years , " said Muhammed Shan , a teaching fellow at Virginia Tech . <p> Some of these regulations are detailed in ' Agenda 47 ' , Trump 's manifesto for the recently concluded elections . <p> In a video dated November 1 , Trump announced a new alternative to American universities which is to be named the ' American Academy . ' Trump stated that the institute would be established using the " billions and billions of dollars that we will collect by taxing , fining , and suing excessively large private university endowments . " <p> He said that the aim of the institute is to provide " truly world-class education available to every American , free of charge , " and " without adding a single dime to the federal debt . " <p> " It will be strictly non-political , and there will be no wokeness or jihadism allowed -- none of that 's going to be allowed , " he stressed . <p> In an earlier video released in July last year , Trump vowed to reclaim America 's " once great educational institutions from the radical Left " by using the college accreditation system which he dubbed as his " secret weapon . " <p> " When I return to the White House , I will fire the radical Left accreditors that have allowed our colleges to become dominated by Marxist Maniacs and lunatics . We will then accept applications for new accreditors who will impose real standards on colleges once again and once and for all , " he said . <p> " These standards will include defending the American tradition and Western civilization , protecting free speech , eliminating wasteful administrative positions that drive up costs incredibly , removing all Marxist diversity , equity , and inclusion bureaucrats , " he explained . <p> The Guardian has in October reported that House majority leader Steve Scalise in a meeting with pro-Israel lobby group the American Israel Public Affairs Committee ( AIPAC ) , detailed plans to pull billions of dollars of federal funding and strip off accreditation from some of the top American universities " to punish them for allowing pro-Palestinian protests on their campuses . " <p> Trump has also vowed to dismantle the Department of Education and send " all education BACK TO THE STATES . " <p> " We are going to end education coming out of Washington DC , close it up , all the buildings and people that hate our children in many cases ... " he said . <p> " We want states to run the education of our children because they 'll do a much better job of it . You ca n't do worse , " he said claiming that despite spending three times more money on education than any other nation , " and yet we are absolutely at the bottom , we 're one of the worst . " <p> According to a Forbes report , closing down the Department of Education will cut crucial funding for schools and colleges , cripple special education efforts and hamper civil rights enforcement . <p> The plan has also been mentioned in the infamous ' Project 2025 , ' a series of policy proposals put together by right wing think tank Heritage Foundation . Though Trump has distanced himself from the initiative , most of the top officials inducted into his administration are hard core conservatives who have worked with the project . <p> However , Shan from Virginia Tech thinks it wont be a cakewalk for Trump and his allies . <p> ? " I do n't think he will be able to pass that bill abolishing Dept of Education as it requires democrats ' votes for congressional approval . It probably remains as a threat . But if he does it , it would affect the American students more than international students and therefore a strong domestic pushback is expected , " Shan said . <p> According to Shan , a looming threat over foreign students would be another project form the Heritage Foundation , which is more likely to be implemented by Trump . <p> " I think Trump will implement what 's called Project Esther created by Heritage Foundation . This project is designed to drive people deemed threatening to American values out of the country ; including university spaces . Palestinian movements in the US universities may face a potential threat in the form of this project in the coming days , " he said . <p> Shan however thinks that even though Trump 's approach towards immigrant students in disciplines like humanity , sociology etc .. could be potentially harmful , he might welcome a more " diverse student population to technical educational fields such as computer science , just as Biden did . " <p> Pointing to the violent crackdown and intimidation of pro-Palestine movements in universities during Biden administration , Shan remarked , " Trump 's return to power may not do worse to the foreign students compared to Biden in general . " 
@@118471847 <h> ICC 's arrest warrants against Israeli leaders <h> Published on Dec 04 , 2024 <p> Although the ICC 's arrest warrants for Israeli leaders are unlikely to end in arrests , their issuance confirms that the noose of international law on Israel is tightening <p> Image Source : Getty <p> Ending the impunity for perpetrating war crimes and crimes against humanity has always been a high priority for the international community . It is with this objective that the Nuremberg and the Tokyo trials were held to book those who had committed mass crimes during the Second World War . The International Criminal Tribunal for the erstwhile Yugoslavia and Rwanda was similarly created in the 1990s to prosecute criminals who committed war crimes during the armed conflicts . However , these judicial bodies were not permanent courts . They had a localised impact due to the restrictions of time and place . <p> The international community 's desire to establish a permanent international court to hold actors accountable for egregious crimes was accomplished in 1998 when 120 countries adopted the Rome Statute that created the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) . Although the ICC has a global remit , in the last two decades or so of its existence , it has acquired a reputation for only going after third-world leaders and citizens ( predominantly from Africa ) , or those who are antagonistic to the West . A few countries like Burundi have withdrawn from the Rome Statute and South Africa threatened to quit . <p> The International Criminal Tribunal for the erstwhile Yugoslavia and Rwanda was similarly created in the 1990s to prosecute criminals who committed war crimes during the armed conflicts . <p> This background is critical to appreciate the arrest warrants issued by the ICC 's Pre-Trial Chamber ( PTC ) against Benjamin Netanyahu , Israel 's Prime Minister , and Yoav Gallant , Israel 's former Defence minister for allegedly committing war crimes in Gaza . Rejecting Israel 's challenge to the arrest warrants , the PTC found that there are " reasonable grounds to believe " that Netanyahu and Gallant each bear criminal responsibility for the war crime of starvation as a means of warfare in Gaza , and the crimes against humanity of murder , persecution , and other inhumane acts committed from 8 October 2023 until 20 May 2024 . These arrest warrants were requested by ICC 's Prosecutor , Karim Khan , in May 2024 . <p> This is the first time in the ICC 's history that arrest warrants have been issued against leaders of a regime close to the West . Unsurprisingly , the United States ( US ) has rejected the ICC 's warrants . <h> Immunity and jurisdiction <p> Two preliminary questions need to be answered . First , how can the ICC prosecute heads of state who , under international law , enjoy immunity from criminal proceedings at foreign or international courts ? The answer lies in Article 27(1) of the Rome Statute , which provides that the " Statute shall apply equally to all persons without any distinction based on official capacity . " It further clarifies that " official capacity as a Head of State or Government , a member of a government or parliament , an elected representative or a government official shall in no case exempt a person from criminal responsibility . " Article 27(2) of the Rome Statute further asserts that immunities attached to a person due to official capacity , whether under international or municipal law , will not bar the ICC from having jurisdiction over such a person . This principle has been upheld by the ICC in the Jordal Referral re Al-Bashir Appealcase , which was decided in 2019 . <p> If a crime is committed on an ICC member country 's territory , the court can exercise jurisdiction on that crime , even though the perpetrator belongs to a non-ICC member country . <p> The next preliminary question is how can the ICC act against Israeli leaders when Israel is not a member of the ICC . The answer is given in Article 12(2) ( a ) of the Rome Statute , which accounts for territorial jurisdiction . According to this principle , if a crime is committed on an ICC member country 's territory , the court can exercise jurisdiction on that crime , even though the perpetrator belongs to a non-ICC member country . Since Palestine is an ICC member , the crimes committed by Israeli soldiers in Gaza fall under the court 's jurisdiction . Likewise , Hamas ' conduct in Israel falls within the court 's jurisdiction as well , which led the ICC to issue an arrest warrant against Hamas leader , Mohammed Diab Ibrahim Al-Masri for the war crimes committed on Israeli territory . <h> What happens now ? <p> Going by past precedent , it is highly unlikely that the Israeli leaders will be arrested and handed over to the ICC to face trial . For instance , the ICC issued an arrest warrant against Russian President Vladimir Putin in March 2023 . However , President Putin has still not been arrested , though his international travels in the last 18 months or so have been severely restricted . This is because once the ICC issues an arrest warrant against any individual , all the 123 ICC member countries ( which does not include India ) are under a legal obligation to arrest the person concerned whenever s/he is in their jurisdiction and have to hand them over to the ICC . Critical to note that President Putin did travel to Mongolia , which is an ICC member , in September 2024 , but was not arrested for political reasons . <p> The ICC issued an arrest warrant against Bashir for allegedly committing war crimes , crimes against humanity and genocide in Sudan since 2009 . <p> The same has been the fate of Sudan 's former President , Omar al-Bashir . The ICC issued an arrest warrant against Bashir for allegedly committing war crimes , crimes against humanity and genocide in Sudan since 2009 . After the issuance of arrest warrants , Bashir visited several ICC member countries like Chad , South Africa , and Jordan , but none of these countries arrested him . This reveals two things . First , the execution of ICC arrest warrants is at the mercy of the member states . The ICC does not have its own police force that it can deploy to arrest individuals . If states do not cooperate , there 's very little that the ICC can do . Second , states that fail to comply with the legal obligation of executing an arrest warrant often get away without having to pay a significant legal price . <p> Thus , the practical impact of the arrest warrant issued against the two Israeli leaders will be that it would severely cripple their international travel , at least to countries that are ICC members . Even if it is unfathomable that Netanyahu and Gallant would get arrested and handed over to the ICC to face trial , the issuance of arrest warrants is a remarkable development in international law . It is a major legal and diplomatic blow to Israel , especially in the backdrop of two major International Court of Justice rulings involving Israel in the last year . First , the ICJ , in July 2024 , in the Legal Consequences arising from the Policies and Practices of Israel in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , including the East Jerusalem case , held that Israel 's continued occupation of the Occupied Palestinian Territory ( OTP ) is a violation of international law and that Israel must withdraw from the OPT as rapidly as possible . Second , the ICJ , in a case brought forth by South Africa in January 2024 , ruled that it was plausiblethat Israel was committing genocide in Gaza . Whether that is , indeed , the case or not is yet to be judicially determined . In short , the issuance of arrest warrants against the two Israeli leaders confirms that the noose of international law on Israel is tightening . 
@@118474238 <p> Gaza : Hamas has announced that 33 Israeli hostages held in the Gaza Strip have been killed , with some others still missing , due to Israeli military operations . <p> A video posted on Monday by Hamas included footage of past Israeli attacks on areas in Gaza where Israeli hostages were held , resulting in their deaths , as well as messages from some hostages , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> Hamas warned that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's " obstinacy and continued aggression are increasing the death toll of enemy prisoners , " emphasising that if the " crazy war " continues , " you may lose your prisoners forever . Act before it 's too late . " <p> This video from Hamas came two days after the Al-Qassam Brigades , its military wing , released a video on Saturday showing an Israeli prisoner with US citizenship being held in Gaza . <p> Edan Alexander , who paused multiple times due to his emotional distress , said he had been held captive for more than 420 days and urged the Israeli government and US President-elect Donald Trump to secure the release of the remaining hostages in Gaza . <p> Separately , the Israeli army announced on Monday that an Israeli-American soldier , previously believed to be held hostage in Gaza , is now presumed dead . In a statement , the army identified the soldier as Captain Omer Maxim Neutra , 21 , and said he was killed during Hamas ' surprise attack on October 7 , 2023 . It added that his body is being held by Hamas in Gaza . <p> Born in New York , Neutra enlisted in the Israel Defense Forces and served as a tank platoon commander in the 77th Battalion , according to the army . <p> Israel has been conducting a large-scale offensive against Hamas in Gaza to retaliate against a Hamas rampage through the southern Israeli border on October 7 , 2023 , during which about 1,200 people were killed and around 250 taken hostage . ( IANS ) 
@@118475078 <h> Second coming of Donald Trump <p> December 4 , 2024 <p> He Promises to Make America Great Again . <p> Will Narendra Modi Make India Great Again ? <p> Today no country in the world matters much other than America ( US ) in international trade , commerce , war and peace . Donald Trump , its President , is like an elephant in US politics that knows its strength . Which is why , he seems unpredictable to some . <p> He could become a war-monger or a peace-maker . We have seen that there was no war when he was the President of America between 20 January 2017 and 20 January 2021 and he even met that belligerent North Korean President Kim Jong Un across the Korean border 's no-man 's land . <p> Yes , Trump could boast during the 2024 Presidential election campaign that he would Make America Great Again . He could also claim that there was no war anywhere in the world during his first Presidency -- 2017-2021 . But soon after , when Joe Biden took over , two wars broke out -- Ukraine and Gaza . Now even as he is biding his time to take Office on 20 January 2025 , he has already warned Hamas to release the Israeli hostages before he took office saying there will be " hell to pay . " Ukraine war may also see an end considering his cordial relation with Putin . <p> America is unlike any other country in the world . Those who have visited that country , studied its politics , economics and social milieu would know . No wonder even today America is the first choice for anyone to emigrate . <p> It is the world 's only superpower . With the disintegration of Soviet Russia in 1991 , the bipolar world became unipolar world with America as the only superpower . It is the land of affluence and opportunities that keeps beckoning to its shores thousands of persons ( ' tired and poor ' ) from all over the globe who seek an opportunity to make it good in life . No wonder , my Indian friend in America tells me that he left India for his own good and also for his country 's good ! Did you get me Steve ? <p> For India , Trump 's return to power should augur well . The world knows that Trump claims our Prime Minister Narendra Modi as his friend . History records the advantages of having a strong , powerful country 's King or President as a friend of a not-so-strong a country . We have seen this during our disastrous 1962 war with China that ended sooner than expected when America sent its Sixth Fleet Navy to Indian waters . <p> Modi has four more years in Office , so also Trump . So in the circumstances , our neighbours like Bangladesh , Pakistan and Maldives are sure to mend their inimical ways towards India and Hindu minorities in their respective countries . Trump would put that sinister America 's Deep State ( a clandestine network to destabilise foreign governments ) under check and who knows this might enable Sheikh Hasina to return to Dhaka like Julius Caesar 's triumphal return to Rome from Egypt or like Indira Gandhi 's return to power in 1980 . <p> Soon as Trump takes Office as President of America , we can expect the present anarchy in Bangladesh to end and the puppet President Muhammad Yunus replaced by Sheikh Hasina -- like it happened in India in 1980 . Who knows how the politics of a fanatical Islamic State will play out ? <p> As for India , Prime Minister Modi should remember 1971 Bangladesh war , where India under a strong leader like Indira Gandhi saved Bengali Muslims from invading Pakistan army . Likewise , Modi must now go to save Bangladesh Hindus who are persecuted under puppet President Muhammad Yunus . <p> As for India , Donald Trump becoming the President of America opens up opportunities to settle issues with its hostile neighbouring countries . Prime Minister Modi with four more years in Office , while Trump too will be there for that period , must finish the unfinished job with our neighbours once and for all -- Bangladesh and Kashmir . With Bangladesh , the issues are of illegal immigration and endemic persecution of Hindus . With Pakistan the issues are terrorism and PoK . <p> Consider this possible solution for the Bangladesh problem . Chittagong has 14% Hindu population and geographically contiguous to West Bengal and connected to Assam by rail . Many ask why did n't India annex the Chittagong and Cox 's Bazar territories during 1971 war . This is one more failure of Indira Gandhi , after Kashmir , in the Peace Treaty known as Shimla Agreement signed in 1972 between India and Pakistan . <p> Looking at the perpetual persecution of Hindus in Bangladesh , some political Pandits opine India should immediately rush to rescue Hindus in that country either by negotiation or by other means and settle all the Hindus and other persecuted minorities in Chittagong under Sovereign Exchange of population . So that there will be no Hindus in Bangladesh to suffer persecution . <p> It is also a good prognosis that Trump has inducted a few Indian-Americans to top jobs in his Cabinet . This shows some Indian immigrants are great achievers in their own given profession and enterprise . It is propitious for India that Trump in his wisdom picked them for such high offices in his government . All said and done , blood is thicker than water and these Trump honchos with Hindu blood coursing through their veins will have a soft-corner while dealing with India and tough while dealing with India 's enemies . <p> One of Trump 's important pick was Kashyap Patel ( Kash Patel ) born in America to Indian Gujarati parents as FBI Chief . Another is Vivek Ramaswamy , Department of Government Efficiency and an American Hindu Tulsi Gabbard , Director of National Intelligence . <p> In retrospect , one can say providence has now offset Narendra Modi 's diminished power in the Parliament by his success in the State elections in Haryana and in Maharashtra . Added to this is the success of his friend Trump as President of America which will empower Modi with Indradhanush . <p> As Osho Rajneesh says , sun is rising with all its glory and God has given you eyes . Modi must open his eyes , see the opportunity and seize it . <h> ABOUT <p> Mysuru 's favorite and largest circulated English evening daily has kept the citizens of Mysuru informed and entertained since 1978 . Over the past 45 years , Star of Mysore has been the newspaper that Mysureans reach for every evening to know about the happenings in Mysuru city . The newspaper has feature rich articles and dedicated pages targeted at readers across the demographic spectrum of Mysuru city . With a readership of over 2,50,000 Star of Mysore has been the best connection between it 's readers and their leaders ; between advertisers and customers ; between Mysuru and Mysureans. 
@@118476901 <h> Jewish settlers attack Palestinian towns , clash with Israeli troops <p> Jerusalem , Dec 4 : Jewish settlers mounted a string of attacks on Palestinian towns in the occupied West Bank overnight , burning homes and clashing with Israeli troops . There were no immediate reports of any Palestinian casualties . The Israeli military said Jewish settlers attacked the village of Beit Furik after troops arrived in the area to dismantle an unauthorised farming outpost they had built nearby . It said the settlers hurled stones , wounding two members of the paramilitary Border Police , and one group entered the village and burned property . The West Bank has seen a surge in settler violence since the start of the war . Israeli strike kills a person in Lebanon Israeli forces carried out several new drone and artillery strikes in Lebanon on Tuesday , including a deadly strike that the Health Ministry and state media said killed one person , further shaking a tenuous ceasefire meant to end more than a year of fighting with Hezbollah . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed keep striking " with an iron fist " against perceived Hezbollah violations of the truce . His defense minister warned that if the ceasefire collapses , Israel will target not just Hezbollah but the Lebanese state -- an expansion of Israel 's campaign . Israel also carried out an airstrike in Syria , saying it killed a senior member of Hezbollah responsible for coordinating with Syria 's army on rearming and resupplying the Lebanese militant group . Israel has repeatedly hit Hezbollah targets in Syria , but Tuesday 's attack was a rare public acknowledgement . . 4 children killed in Gaza strike Palestinian medics said an Israeli airstrike on the Gaza Strip killed at least five people , including four children , on Wednesday . The Awda Hospital , which received the bodies , said the five were gathered outside of shelters in the built-up Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza , which dates back to the 1948 war surrounding Israel 's creation . The hospital said another 15 people , mostly children , were wounded in the strike . There was no immediate comment from the Israeli military . ( AP ) <h> Follow us <h> About Us <p> The Shillong Times first appeared as a tabloid weekly on 10th August 1945 under the editorship of Late Sudhindra Bhusan Chaudhuri . In 1958 it was converted to a Daily . Owing to financial constraints , within six months it reverted back to a weekly . 
@@118478831 <h> Story highlights <p> According to the document dated November 22 , Hamas told its operatives not to consider any repercussions of following the instructions , adding that Israel was responsible for the fate of the hostages . <p> Palestinian militant group Hamas had threatened to " neutralise " or kill the captives if Israel carried out a hostage rescue operation , similar to the one it conducted in Gaza 's Nuseirat camp in June , according to an internal statement seen by Reuters on Wednesday ( Dec 4 ) . <p> According to the document dated November 22 , Hamas told its operatives not to consider any repercussions of following the instructions , adding that Israel was responsible for the fate of the hostages . <p> However , it did not mention anything about when the Israeli operation is expected to take place . <p> The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) , Shin Bet , and the Israeli police conducted a complex operation in the centre of the Gaza Strip . During the operation , Commander Arnon Zamora was killed and the operation was later renamed Operation Arnon . <p> Around three months after the rescue operation , six hostages were murdered in a tunnel in Rafah by Hamas militants . <p> Disclaimer : WION takes the utmost care to accurately and responsibly report conflicts in West Asia involving Israel , Iran , Syria , Iraq , and non-state actors like the Islamic State , among others . In this context , claims and counterclaims are being made online and offline . WION can not independently verify the authenticity of all statements , social media posts , photos , and videos . 
@@118491347 <h> The Catch Up : 5 December <p> The Catch Up : 5 December The headlines of the day from The Indian Express . <p> This is the Catchup on 3 Things by The Indian Express and I 'm Niharika Nanda . <p> Today is the 5th of December and here are the headlines . <p> BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis took oath as the chief minister of Maharashtra along with two deputy chief ministers , Shiv Sena 's Eknath Shinde and Nationalist Congress Party 's ( NCP 's ) Ajit Pawar , at a grand event held at Azad Maidan in Mumbai . The formation of the new government comes after two weeks of intense negotiations among the Mahayuti allies following the 23rd November poll results . The swearing-in ceremony took place in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi , Union Home Minister Amit Shah , Union ministers , and several chief ministers . <p> The Border Security Force has found two pistols and seven cartridges near the Indo-Pakistan border at Sri Ganganagar in Rajasthan , sparking suspicion of cross-border arms smuggling , security officials have said . According to BSF sources , the arms were found in an unclaimed packet near 11 FA village on 30th november . Authorities initially suspected it to be narcotics , smuggled in using drones . This comes at a time when cross-border narcotics smuggling using low-cost drones is already a cause for worry . <p> Chief Justice of India Sanjiv Khanna administered the oath of office to former Delhi High Court Chief Justice Manmohan as a judge of the Supreme Court . CJI Khanna administered the oath to Justice Manmohan at an event held in the Supreme Court . On November 28 , the Supreme Court Collegium recommended the elevation of Justice Manmohan as a judge of the apex court . Subsequently , the Centre cleared the elevation and notified his appointment on December 3 . <p> Amnesty International accused Israel of committing genocide in the Gaza Strip during its war with Hamas , saying it has sought to deliberately destroy Palestinians by mounting deadly attacks , demolishing vital infrastructure and preventing the delivery of food , medicine and other aid . Israel has adamantly rejected genocide allegations and is challenging such allegations at the International Court of Justice , and it has rejected the International Criminal Court 's accusations that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his former defense minister committed war crimes in Gaza . <p> France Prime Minister Michel Barnier 's government has collapsed amid a no-confidence vote in the National Assembly and he has been forced to resign after three months into his term , sending the country into a political crisis . Like the former Prime Minister Gabriel Attal was asked to continue as the caretaker government , when President Macron dissolved the National Assembly following his party 's crushing defeat in the EU elections , PM Michel Barnier will also remain in power as a caretaker administrator . 
@@118491368 <h> Opinion The Jaishankar-Modi doctrine : Can India balance its foreign relations in a Cold War 2.0 ? <h> The key test for India 's ' mult-alignment ' approach is whether it is using its newfound elbow room to pursue naked interest , or whether there is what the doctrine says there should be -- a moral stance as well as a rational one . When pressed , can Indian diplomats and other spokespersons present a narrative that reflects India 's values as much as it reflects India 's interests ? <p> It has now been a decade of Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's dispensation in New Delhi , and during this time almost no observers of international politics can have failed to notice a gradual , though accelerating shift in not only India 's international stature , but also in its posture . In foreign policy analysis , one must consider both what a nation does and what it 's diplomats say . It is always the great powers of the time that define the frameworks and narratives within which all actions and decisions end up being seen . Sometimes great powers explicitly publish their doctrines : The United States had a Monroe Doctrine in the 19th century , and a Wilson Doctrine during and after World War I. In many ways , Henry Kissinger and Ronald Reagan each brought their own doctrines to US foreign policy . On the other hand , we can recall Soviet Union 's Brezhnev Doctrine at the height of the Cold War , and our own " non-alignment " doctrine of the Nehruvian era . <p> India 's non-alignment was the product , post-Independence , of both our capacities as a nation , and our ideological idealism . We were an impoverished nation with little ability to actively pursue outcomes in geopolitical terms , and did n't have the sort of ideological clarity during the Cold War to commit to an alliance system . The result , labelled non-alignment , was designed more than anything else to minimise adverse effects of geopolitical events on our ability to go through the painstaking process of domestic socio-economic and political development . We wanted to keep out of trouble rather than achieve anything in particular . <p> Advertisement <p> Non-alignmenthas in many ways remained an implicit feature of Indian foreign policy even in the decades since the end of the Cold War . However , with our legacy of security cooperation with the Soviet Union being transferred to the new Russian Federation , while our diaspora and economic linkages with the West continued to strengthen , the logic of India 's relationships on two ends of the geopolitical spectrum has continued to be questioned . Never more so than since the invasion of Ukraine in 2022 . <p> While many have seen more continuity than change in this stance under PM Modi , some of India 's recent geopolitical engagements have displayed perhaps the creation of a new " Jaishankar-Modi Doctrine " . To quote our external affairs minister , " A multi-polar world requires a multi-vector strategy and multi-alignment by India ... " , " non-alignment " is being replaced by " multi-alignment " . Especially during his most recent visit to the US , Jaishankar seemed to explicitly lay out a new vision for our engagement with the world . When pressed during a long format interaction on how India could hope to be all things to all people , Jaishankar quipped that we intended to be ourselves to all people . What he meant was , we do n't merely have interests , we also have values , and both will matter in how we deal with countries and situations . <p> Perhaps the key distinction between non-alignment then and multi-alignment now is not about whether India is absolutely closer to or less close to any particular nation or group of nations , but instead about how India now interacts with all nations . As opposed to wanting to keep our heads down , hoping that no geopolitical event batters us , India now actively formulates a forward-looking view on global engagement , and pursues outcomes in the national interest . It is signalling a new intensity of effort and the availability of capacity to be leveraged to generate such outcomes . It is saying , we are here to play . <p> Advertisement <p> Take , for example , the case of the **31;1021;TOOLONG States-Canada equation . India has in the last few years simultaneously taken an anti-war stance in general , while condemning outright neither Russia nor Israel ; it has bought Russian crude at beneficial prices while also acquiring advanced US defence equipment ; it has been accused of an assassination programme in both Canada and and the US and deals with each entirely differently ; it has continued discussions on an Indian port in Iran , while supporting Israel 's right to respond in Gaza . Somehow , India is in a sufficiently favourable geopolitical position in terms of today 's calculus , that all sides seem to tacitly be accepting the practical expression of India 's approach . <p> The key test here is whether India is using its newfound elbow room to pursue naked interest , or whether there is what the doctrine says there should be -- a moral stance as well as a rational one . When pressed , can Indian diplomats and other spokespersons present a narrative that reflects India 's values as much as it reflects India 's interests ? <p> This test might end up being applied when push comes to shove , and the emergent multi-polarity collapses into a new form of bi-polarity , or a Cold War 2.0 . Given that the Jaishankar-Modi Doctrine seems to allow for deep partnerships with nations along either common interests , or common values , or both , yet seems to eschew explicit alliances , there may come a time when India 's hand is forced . The current approach may serve India well if Jaishankar 's key assumption of a multi-polar future proves correct . If not , then we have to remember that one can not have one 's cake and eat it too . <p> Shah is an alumnus of London School of Economics , Cambridge and Harvard , and lives and works in Mumbai 
@@118491892 <h> OPEC+ members are holding back 5.86 million bpd of output , or about 5.7 per cent of global demand , in a series of steps agreed since 2022 to support the market <p> OPEC+ delayed the oil output hike until April and extended cuts into 2026 , after which Brent crude futures and US WTI traded higher in the session . In Picture : The logo of the OPEC(REUTERS) <p> International crude oil prices traded higher on Thursday , December 5 , after the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies ( OPEC+ ) , in its virtual meeting , decided to delay its planned output increase by three months to April 2025 and extend the full unwind of production cuts by a year until the end of 2026 . <p> Brent crude futures last traded 38 cents , or 0.53 per barrel higher , to $72.69 a barrel , while US West Texas Intermediate ( WTI ) rose 36 cents , or 0.53 per cent , to $68.90 per barrel . Back home , crude oil futures last traded 0.24 per cent higher at ? 5,819 per barrel on the multi-commodity exchange ( MCX ) . <h> Brent nears $93/bbl : What 's driving crude oil prices ? <p> -OPEC+ had planned to start unwinding cuts in October 2024 , but slowing global demand and booming production outside the group forced it to postpone the plans several times . Analysts noted the challenging supply landscape that OPEC+ faces while trying to prop up the market . <p> -Despite the group 's supply cuts , global oil benchmark Brent crude futures have mostly stayed in a $70 to $80 per barrel range this year . On Thursday , the benchmark traded near $72 a barrel , having hit a 2024 low below $69 in September . <p> -According to Reuters calculations , the gradual unwinding of 2.2 million barrels per day ( bpd ) of cuts will start next April with monthly increases of 138,000 bpd and last 18 months until September 2026 . OPEC+ pumps around half the world 's oil . <p> -According to Ole Hansen , head of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank , this was the only option OPEC+ had available unless the oil cartel was prepared to suffer the consequences of lower prices . This means there is no upside to the oil price in the next couple of years . <p> -Meanwhile , Donald Trump 's Middle East envoy has travelled to Qatar and Israel to kick-start the US president-elect 's diplomatic push to help reach a Gaza ceasefire and hostage release deal before he takes office on January 20 . <p> -Eight OPEC countries will extend their " voluntary adjustments " of 2.2 million barrels per day until the end of March , the Vienna-based group said in a statement following a virtual meeting . After that , those cuts " will be gradually phased out " monthly until the end of September 2026 , " subject to market conditions " . <p> -Without a new agreement , the eight countries were set to begin increasing production in January to gradually return it to 2023 levels . Algeria , Iraq , Kazakhstan , Kuwait , Oman , Russia , Saudi Arabia , and the United Arab Emirates have already twice pushed back the production increases that were set to begin in October and then in December . <p> -A cooling US dollar was lending some support on Thursday . Expectations for the US Federal Reserve to cut interest rates this month will further ease the dollar 's strength and support the oil market . A stronger greenback makes dollar-denominated oil more expensive for investors holding other currencies , hurting demand . <p> -The International Energy Agency ( IEA ) said last month that even if the OPEC cuts remain in place , the global supply will exceed demand by more than one million barrels per day next year . This means global markets face a surplus of one million barrels a day in 2025 even if OPEC does not add a single barrel . <h> OPEC+ December policy verdict <p> OPEC+ members are holding back 5.86 million bpd of output , or about 5.7 per cent of global demand , in a series of steps agreed since 2022 to support the market . The steps include cuts of two million bpd by the whole group , 1.65 million bpd of the first stage of voluntary cuts by eight members , and another 2.2 million of the second stage of voluntary cuts by the same eight members . <p> On Thursday , OPEC+ agreed to extend the two million bpd and the 1.65 million bpd of cuts until the end of 2026 from the end of 2025 . The gradual unwinding of 2.2 million of cuts will start from April 2025 with monthly increases of 138,000 bpd , and lasting 18 months until September 2026 . <p> Previously , OPEC+ had planned to unwind the 2.2 million cut over 12 months through monthly output increases of 180,000 bpd . OPEC+ also agreed to allow the United Arab Emirates to gradually raise output by 300,000 bpd from April until the end of September 2026 instead of the earlier plan to start it in January 2025 . <p> This is a stark reversal from the last OPEC meeting in June when the alliance had been confident it could start restoring a significant chunk of the output it had previously idled in a bid to shore up prices . <p> But conditions in the oil market soon shifted . Demand contracted for six straight months in China 's top consumer , while US production hit new highs , and a wave of fresh supply came from Brazil , Canada , and Guyana . <h> Where are prices headed ? <p> Oil prices -- the economic lifeblood of OPEC members -- have plunged 18 per cent since early July to trade near $72 a barrel in London . Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. have predicted that crude will keep sliding into the $60s next year . <p> Crude oil inventories fell by 5.1 million barrels last week , significantly more than the expected 1.6 million barrel drop , providing some support to prices . After the inventory report , WTI briefly crossed $70 per barrel , though it could not hold these gains . Analysts said traders reduced their long positions before the OPEC+ meeting . <p> " We anticipate crude oil prices will remain volatile this week , influenced by fluctuations in the dollar index , the outcomes of the OPEC+ meetings , and ongoing geopolitical tensions . Crude oil is seeing support at $67.50-66.80 , with resistance at $68.85-69.40 . In INR terms , support is at ? 5,750-5,670 , with resistance at ? 5,890-5,960 , " said Rahul Kalantri , VP of Commodities , Mehta Equities Ltd. 
@@118492009 <p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar reiterated India 's support for a two-state solution to the Israel-Palestine conflict , stating the need for a " sovereign , independent , and viable Palestinian state " . Jaishankar made the comment while speaking in the Rajya Sabha during Question Hour . Addressing claims about India abstaining from all United Nations resolutions on Gaza , Jaishankar said , " Since the beginning of the Israel-Hamas conflict , 13 resolutions concerning Palestine were brought in UNGA out of which India voted in favour of 10 resolutions and abstained from three resolutions . " <h> India 's Continuing Aid To Gaza <p> Jaishankar also highlighted India 's significant humanitarian contributions to Palestine amid the ongoing crisis . He stated that approximately 70 metric tonnes of aid , including 16.5 metric tonnes of medicines and medical supplies , were delivered in two batches . Further , India disbursed $5 million to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees ( UNRWA ) in 2024 , matching the contribution made the previous year . <p> " India 's policy towards Palestine has been long-standing and we have always supported a negotiated two-State solution , towards the establishment of a sovereign , independent and viable State of Palestine within secure and recognised borders , living side by side in peace with Israel , " Jaishankar said . <p> Recent assistance in October and November 2024 included 65 tonnes of medical supplies sent to Palestinian health authorities and UNRWA . <h> Diplomacy For Peace <p> The Ministry of External Affairs noted that India has been actively engaging in diplomacy to promote peace in the region . Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Jaishankar have held discussions with leaders from Israel , Palestine , and other nations to push for a ceasefire . During the Summit of the Future in New York on September 22 , PM Modi met with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and reiterated calls for peace . <p> India has continued to voice its position on the Israel-Palestine conflict across key international platforms , including the United Nations , BRICS , the Non-Aligned Movement ( NAM ) , and the Voice of Global South . <p> ( With inputs from PTI ) <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from India and around the world . 
@@118492709 <h> Over 43,000 Palestinians have been killed , and more than 100,000 injured , with civilians -- especially women and children -- bearing the brunt of the suffering . Amidst this devastation , roughly 100 hostages remain in captivity . <p> In a powerful address during the 10th Emergency Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly on December 4 , 2024 , UNGA President Philemon Yang condemned the ongoing violence in Gaza and Israel , which has led to unprecedented levels of death , injury , and displacement . Over 43,000 Palestinians have been killed , and more than 100,000 injured , with civilians -- especially women and children -- bearing the brunt of the suffering . Amidst this devastation , roughly 100 hostages remain in captivity . <p> A Clear Call for Ceasefire and Humanitarian Access <p> Yang underscored the urgent demands of the international community : <p> * Immediate Ceasefire : An end to hostilities in Gaza to prevent further bloodshed . <p> * Hostage Release : The unconditional release of all remaining hostages . <p> * Respect for International Law : All parties to the conflict must fully comply with international and humanitarian law . <p> These demands reflect the broader global consensus , articulated in several UN resolutions and highlighted in a recent draft resolution at the Security Council , which , despite overwhelming support , was blocked by a veto from a permanent member . Yang expressed frustration with the paralysis in the Security Council , which has failed to act on its primary responsibility to maintain international peace and security , leaving the General Assembly to take a leadership role . <p> The Need for a Just and Lasting Peace <p> Yang emphasized that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict can not be resolved through perpetual war and occupation . The path to peace , he argued , lies in the establishment of two sovereign states -- Israel and Palestine -- living side by side in peace , security , and dignity . He called for an international resolution grounded in international law , the UN Charter , and relevant UN resolutions , asserting that a comprehensive , just , and lasting peace will only come through adherence to these principles . <p> The Perilous Future of UNRWA and the Humanitarian Crisis <p> A central concern raised by Yang was the future of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees ( UNRWA ) , which provides critical services such as shelter , food , water , and medical care to millions of Palestinians . Recent actions by the Israeli Parliament , including the adoption of two laws that could severely restrict the agency 's ability to operate in Gaza and the West Bank , were met with alarm by the UNGA President . He warned that the cessation of UNRWA 's operations would exacerbate the already catastrophic humanitarian situation in Gaza and leave Palestinian refugees without life-saving assistance . <p> Yang called on Israel to honor its international legal obligations and allow UNRWA to continue its work , emphasizing that this would be a step toward alleviating the suffering of Palestinians and ensuring that humanitarian aid reaches those in need . <p> A Call to Uphold the UN Charter and Human Dignity <p> In closing , Yang reminded the Assembly that the UN Charter 's fundamental principles -- justice , respect for international law , and the dignity of every human being -- are the foundation for peace and security . These principles , he argued , are critical not only for the people of Gaza and Israel but for the broader international community . To secure lasting peace , all nations must take concrete action to uphold these values and work towards a fair and just resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . 
@@118492863 <h> Amnesty International Accuses Israel of Genocide : A Controversial Allegation <h> Amnesty International has accused Israel of committing genocide against Palestinians in the ongoing Gaza conflict . The report claims that Israel 's actions meet the legal threshold for genocide , a claim Israeli leaders deny . This follows the war 's escalation after a Hamas attack in October 2023 . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> Amnesty International has accused the state of Israel of committing genocide against Palestinians amid the ongoing Gaza conflict , a charge Israel has firmly denied . The human rights group released a report asserting that Israel 's actions during the war meet the legal definition of genocide . <p> The allegations stem from a comprehensive analysis of events and statements attributed to Israeli officials . This marks Amnesty 's first time identifying genocide amid an active conflict , with its findings based on the 1948 Genocide Convention 's parameters . <p> Despite Israeli denials , Amnesty 's Secretary General , Agnes Callamard , emphasized the seriousness of their conclusions , urging the International Criminal Court to pursue investigations into the alleged genocide in Gaza . 
@@118492893 <h> International mediators are back at the negotiating table with Hamas and Israel to discuss a possible ceasefire in Gaza . Efforts had stalled but are now reactivated , with changes in global leadership potentially influencing outcomes . The goal is to reach a multiphased ceasefire and address key issues in the conflict . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> Country : <p> Turkey <p> SHARE <p> An official from Hamas announced on Thursday that international mediators have reinitiated ceasefire negotiations with the militant group and Israel . The previous talks were halted last month due to Qatar 's suspension , expressing disappointment over the lack of progress between the parties involved . <p> The negotiations , according to insiders , are focusing on a multiphased ceasefire proposal , addressing major issues like the withdrawal of Israeli forces and the future governance of Gaza . While Naim acknowledged the discussions ' complexity , he emphasized the potential for a deal if intentions align from both sides . 
@@118492923 <h> Trump 's Envoy Aims for Middle East Ceasefire Breakthrough <h> Steve Witkoff , Donald Trump 's Middle East envoy , held talks in Israel and Qatar to broker a ceasefire and address hostage situations in Gaza . Coordinating with Biden 's team , Witkoff 's efforts build on previous peace talks in the region . Success hinges on the release of hostages by Hamas . <p> In a crucial diplomatic mission , Steve Witkoff , appointed by President-elect Donald Trump as Middle East envoy , has engaged in high-level discussions in Israel and Qatar . The focus of the talks aims to resolve the ongoing conflict in Gaza , with hopes of brokering a ceasefire agreement and securing hostage releases . <p> The ongoing negotiations follow Trump 's recent demands for the release of hostages by Hamas before he assumes office . The conflict , which began in October 2023 following an attack by Hamas militants , remains a pressing issue as international mediators strive to end the violence . 
@@118493325 <p> In a grand ceremony at Mumbai 's Azad Maidan , Devendra Fadnavis took oath as Maharashtra 's Chief Minister . Alongside him , Eknath Shinde and Ajit Pawar were sworn in as Deputy CMs . The event was star-studded -- PM Modi , top cabinet ministers , business leaders , and Bollywood celebrities all made their presence felt . <p> In stock markets , the Sensex and Nifty ended higher for the fifth straight session today , even though there were some wild swings in late trade . However , midcaps could n't keep up and underperformed . In the currency market , the Indian rupee remains near its record low against the dollar . Meanwhile , the Reserve Bank 's Monetary Policy Committee ( MPC ) will announce its rate decision tomorrow . A CNBC-TV18 poll suggests most economists do n't expect a repo rate cut , despite the recent weaker-than-expected GDP growth . Interestingly , only 50% of those polled expect a cash reserve ratio cut . <p> From the global markets , its official -- Bitcoin has crossed the $100,000 mark , up a whopping 140% in 2024 . The rally picked up serious steam after Donald Trump 's victory and his announcement to appoint crypto-friendly Paul Atkins as the next SEC Chair . <p> Weak employee compensation is back in the spotlight . There are growing calls for India Inc to rethink hiring practices , ramp up capital spending , and embrace deregulation -- set to be a key theme in the upcoming Economic Survey . World Economic Forum President Borje Brende has dubbed India the " Startup Nation " of the world . In an exclusive chat , he highlighted that the Indian economy is expected to remain among the fastest-growing globally . <p> CDSL , BSE shares hit record highs -- Here is how other market-linked stocks are faring <p> Shares of Central Depository Services Ltd . ( CDSL ) surged as much as 10% on Thursday , December 5 . The stock hit a record high of ? 1,865.4 in today 's trading session . The stock has risen 19% so far over the last month . Shares are also the latest entrant in the Futures &amp; Options segment . <p> With today 's move , shares of CDSL have doubled in value in 2024 . In line with the move in CDSL , shares of the Bombay Stock Exchange ( BSE ) have also surged as much as 12% on Thursday to hit a record high of ? 5,168.9 . BSE has also entered the F&amp;O segment from the December series . <p> BSE shares have risen 9% so far in the last one month and have extended their gains for 2024 to 128% . <p> The sharp slowdown in growth has put the Reserve Bank of India ( RBI ) in a very uncomfortable position . There is a growing chorus for a rate cut , including from government officials at a time when high inflation , which has now breached RBI tolerance threshold , continues to be a spot of bother . <p> A CNBC-TV18 poll shows that seven out of ten economists believe the recent weaker-than-expected GDP growth is unlikely to prompt an early rate cut , with inflation concerns expected to take priority . <p> Jerome Powell , the Federal Reserve chair , while speaking at the Ney York Times DealBook Summit , said that Bitcoin is not comparable to currency . Rather it is a speculative asset like gold but in a virtual form . <p> Powell further explained that Bitcoin is n't by people as a form of payment . Moreover it is very volatile as well . <p> V Anantha Nageswaran , India 's Chief Economic Advisor ( CEA ) to the Finance Ministry , has elaborated on some of the priorities for India Inc. , states , and probably even the union government to push India 's growth levers . <p> The first among the priorities is for the private sector to increase employee compensation and arrest the shift in hiring from regular to contractual labour . The CEA says employee compensation has become " weaker and weaker , " with earnings growth vastly outpacing wages in the last four years . <p> BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis was sworn in as Maharashtra 's Chief Minister for the third time at a grand ceremony at Azad Maidan on Thursday , December 5 . NCP chief Ajit Pawar and Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde took oath as Deputy Chief Ministers . <p> Israel 's War In Gaza Amounts To Genocide : Amnesty International Israel-Gaza War <p> International human rights group Amnesty has accused Israel of committing genocide against Palestinians In Gaza . In a report , Amnesty has said Israel 's war on Gaza meets the legal threshold for genocide . <p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has reiterated India 's stance on the Israel-Hamas war . Answering a question in Rajya Sabha , minister Jaishankar said that India calls for a ceasefire in Gaza , however will not accept a peace resolution if it 's not a balanced one . <p> Hooded assailant who murdered UnitedHealthcare CEO with silenced gun still on the run <p> New York police were searching on Thursday for the man who shot dead UnitedHealth executive Brian Thompson in a brazen attack outside a Midtown Manhattan hotel and was last seen fleeing into Central Park . <p> Thompson , the CEO of UnitedHealth 's insurance unit , was shot from behind on Wednesday morning in what police described as a targeted attack by a masked assailant lying in wait . It came just before the company 's annual investor conference at the Hilton on Sixth Avenue . <p> Foreign airlines ramp up India operations as international traffic soars <p> India 's aviation market is booming , with daily passenger traffic reaching a record high of five lakh . A significant portion of these passengers are heading to international destinations , signalling strong growth in outbound travel . <p> India 's aviation market is booming , with daily passenger traffic reaching a record high of five lakh . A significant portion of these passengers are heading to international destinations , signalling strong growth in outbound travel . <p> Shares of food delivery and quick commerce aggregators Zomato Ltd. and Swiggy Ltd. hit new highs on Thursday , December 5 . <p> Zomato shares surged as much as 6.5% on Thursday to cross the mark of ? 300 , making a new high of ? 304.65 . The stock has now gained in seven out of the last nine trading sessions . The stock has gained 24% in the last one month . <p> Shares of Swiggy too are up for the fourth day running , extending their gains despite reporting a net loss during the quarter . The management gave timelines towards profitability , which the street appears to be appreciating . <p> The ISRO on Thursday successfully launched the PSLVC59 rocket with the European Space Agency 's Proba3 satellites from here , in a first of its kind initiative involving precision formation flying of two satellites . <p> In a social media post after the lift off , the Bengaluru-based space agency said , " Lift off achieved . PSLV-C59 has successfully soared into the skies , marking the commencement of a global mission led by NSIL , with ISRO 's technical expertise , to deploy ESA 's groundbreaking PROBA-3 satellites . A proud moment celebrating the synergy of international collaboration and India 's space achievements . " Proba-3 ( Project for Onboard Anatomy ) consists of two satellites in which two spacecraft would fly together as one , maintaining precise formation down to a single millimetre to study the Corona , the Sun 's outer atmosphere . 
@@118493343 <p> During the winter session of the Parliament , External Affairs Minister Dr. S Jaishankar reaffirmed India 's support for a two-state solution between Israel and Palestine . India 's support for the establishment of an independent Palestinian state comes as the situation in West Asia continues to escalate . <p> Addressing the ninth day of the Parliament winter session , the union minister reaffirms India 's support for the creation of " a sovereign , independent , and viable Palestinian state " alongside Israel . <p> " Since the beginning of the Israel- Hamas conflict , 13 resolutions concerning Palestine were brought in UNGA out of which India voted in favour of 10 resolutions and abstained from three resolutions , " said the EAM . <p> The external affairs minister further added that India 's policy towards Palestine has been one of " support for the two-state solution " . <p> Since the start of Israel 's war on Gaza , India has provided humanitarian assistance to Palestine and the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) . <h> Decoding India 's Stance On The Israel-Palestine Conflict <p> " India 's policy towards Palestine has been long-standing and we have always supported a negotiated two-State solution , towards the establishment of a sovereign , independent and viable State of Palestine within secure and recognised borders , living side by side in peace with Israel , " EAM Jaishankar told the Parliament . <p> Since the start of the Israel-Palestine conflict , India has expressed support for the creation of an independent Palestinian state . <p> As per the Ministry of External Affairs , India became the first Non-Arab nation in 1974 , to recognise the Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) as the sole and legitimate representative of the Palestinian people . <p> Furthermore , in 1988 , India became one of the first countries to recognise the Palestinian State . New Delhi also proceeded to establish diplomatic ties with Israel in 1992 after consulting with PLO leader Yasser Arafat . <p> With the outbreak of the war in Gaza in October 2023 , India was one of the first countries to condemn the terrorist attack but also call for a two-state solution between Israel and Palestine . <p> " India has strongly condemned the terror attacks on Israel on 7 October 2023 and also the loss of civilian lives in the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict . We remain concerned at the security situation and have called for a ceasefire , the release of all hostages and peaceful resolution of conflict through dialogue and diplomacy , " EAM Jaishankar added further . <p> Despite widespread calls for a two-state solution and a halt to the decades long conflict , Israel has stated it will not accept the creation of an independent Palestinian state due to various security concerns . <p> Following a strong stance of neutrality and maintaining a balancing act , India has established itself as a key partner for both Israel and Palestine and is also seen as a key player in the implementation of the two-state solution due to its close ties with Tel Aviv . 
@@118493403 <p> According to Bar and Bench , the two week bail has been granted on medical grounds for the treatment of a retinal detachment . <p> In December 2019 , Sengar was sentenced to life for raping a woman in 2017 . She was a minor when assaulted . Kuldeep Singh Sengar and his brother Jaideep Singh Sengar , were also sentenced to 10 years of imprisonment for the killing of the woman 's father in judicial custody in MArch 2020 . READ FULL STORY <p> A case has been registered against Sandhya Theatre in Hyderabad after a 35-year-old woman was killed in a stampede . The stampede occurred on Wednesday night during the premiere of Allu Arjun 's starrer Pushpa 2 . <p> As per reports , Hyderabad Police have filed a case against the theatre and its management for negligence and failure to ensure crowd safety . Along with this , a case has also been registered against Allu Arjun 's team for failure to notify the police about the actor 's arrival in advance . READ FULL STORY <p> Calling the comments linking Gandhi to a US-based billionaire ' ' highly inappropriate and disrespectful ' ' , Tagore in his letter condemned the ' ' slanderous language ' ' used by Patra during a media interaction on December 5 , 2024 . He urged the Speaker to take immediate action . READ FULL STORY <p> Supreme Court Orders Relaxation Of GRAP IV Regulations <p> Supreme Court has called on the Commission for Air Quality Management to relax GRAP IV restrictions across Delhi-NCR as the air quality improves . <p> With this decision , the top court has further ordered CAQM to not go below the second stage of the Graded Response Action Plan . READ FULL STORY <p> As political tensions continue to escalate in West Asia , Israel 's deadly airstrikes killed at least 21 people who were residing in a tent camp for displaced Palestinians in southern Gaza on Wednesday . The strike on the Muwasi tent camp is considered one of the deadliest assaults across the Gaza Strip . <p> Taking cognisance of the devastating developments in West Asia , Amnesty International accused Israel of committing genocide in the Gaza Strip during its war with Hamas . READ FULL STORY 
@@118494005 <h> If Muslims considered the destruction of temples bad , there should have been an elaborate and pervasive condemnation of it in their literary and oral traditions . <p> Could it be denied that a lot of temples were destroyed during the Muslim rule ? What explains the near total absence of big temples in north India ? The South , where the penetration of the Muslim rule had been relatively superficial , is dotted with monumental temples dating from the pre-Muslim era . The source books of medieval history -- the historical records written by the Muslim chroniclers -- are replete with boastful accounts of the destruction of temples . Some were just laid waste , while mosques were built over some . There is a general admission of this historical truth . <p> However , whenever it 's said that a particular mosque stands on the site of a demolished temple , there is a reflexive rebuttal to such a claim . We saw this with Babri Masjid in Ayodhya and are seeing it again in the case of Shahi Jama Masjid in Sambhal . This denial begs the question : Why would less important temples be destroyed while those on important sites , such as the birthplace of Lord Rama or where the Kalki avatar of Lord Vishnu is expected to appear , be spared ? <p> Are we saying that other places had big and eye-catching temples , but these more important sites did n't have any to attract the attention of the but-shikan ( idol breaker ) invaders ? Is it enough to say that since Baburnama does n't mention some instances , they did n't happen ? If so , what about the irrefutable literary and architectural evidence of so many other mosques standing on the foundations of razed temples ? What about the in-your-face evidence oftheexistence of a Hindu temple at the Gyanvapi mosque site in Varanasior the literary and architectural evidence of Mathura 's Shahi Idgah Masjid standing on the site of a demolished temple ? <p> If it 's all about -- as it should be -- clinching and incontrovertible evidence , what should be the just position on Kashi or Mathura ? <h> ' But-shikani ' <p> The stock Muslim position on undeniable cases of temple destruction -- and the construction of mosques over them -- has been : so what , was n't it a common practice in the ancient and medieval ages , and did n't Hindus destroy Buddhist temples ? Well , if for the argument 's sake , Hindus destroyed Buddhist temples and built their own on those sites , it 's for the Buddhists to take up the issue . Muslims ca n't use it for justifying their own historical wrongs . <p> By the way , if Buddhists were to raise these questions , Muslims would have a lot of answering to do . For , it was in the predominantly Buddhist areas -- Central Asia , Afghanistan , Pakistan , and Bangladesh -- that Islam completely replaced the existing religion . In the areas of Hindu predominance -- mainly present-day India -- Islam , despite its centuries-old rule , had a limited success . If the Buddhists were to ask for their lost places of worship in Central Asia , Afghanistan , Pakistan , and Bangladesh , or those in Indialike the Nalanda , Vikramshila , and Odantapuri ancient universities , what new whataboutery would the Muslims conjure ? <p> Their terminology for breaking the idol -- but-shikani -- has an interesting etymology . In the regions mentioned above -- from where Buddhism was eventually eradicated -- Muslim rulers encountered the idols of the Buddha . They pronounced Buddh as ' but ' ( ? ? ? ) , and hence , ' but-shikani ' meant the breaking of the Buddha . The cult of the but-shikan warrior that emerged in Central Asia , Afghanistan , and northwest India had its genesis in the jihad against Buddhism . <p> So , Muslims would do better to eschew interpreting their excesses against Hindus as a retribution for what the Hindus did to the Buddhists . It 's neither morally right nor factually correct , and the Bamiyan incident of 2001 is just too fresh in memory to lend it any credibility . <p> So , what should be the Muslim position on the destruction of temples ? Could it be any other than : " do n't do unto others what you do n't want done unto you " . They should denounce it in no uncertain terms , and dissociate from it . Neither should they identify with those rulers nor glory in their rule . They should also not justify the unjustifiable by citing mitigating circumstances of political contingency and economic exigency . They should n't take a recourse to the clever application of historical relativism to argue that the past ca n't be judged by the standards of the present . If they do so , they would be complicit in the crimes of the past , for an attack on other religions under some contrived political or economic compulsion is no less an abomination than that under religious motivation . <p> One may , however , wonder , if it 's ideologically possible for a Muslim to condemn the destruction of temples with any moral conviction ? It 's one thing to criticise a wrong for pragmatic reasons or political correctness , but quite another to be morally revolted and condemn it regardless of the consequences . If Muslims considered the destruction of temples bad , there should have been an elaborate and pervasive condemnation of it in their literary and oral traditions . We do n't find any . All we find is its extenuation , even justification , by disingenuous application of Marxian economic determinism or some such outlandish theorisation . Quite often , there is a brazen denial too . <h> Concealment and closure <p> Even though in the basic texts of Islam , the Quran and the Hadith , there is no sanction for the destruction of the places of worship of other religions , the overwhelming drift of the Islamic jurisprudence , the Muslim political theory , the historical practice , and the religious common sense have been geared to the subjugation and humiliation of non-Muslims . Thus , verbal and physical attack on other religions has been ideologically embedded in the theory and praxis of Islam . Such aggression is eulogised in literature and folklore . From Urdu poetry , one could quote scores of couplets glorifying the but-shikan . A glance at Allama Iqbal 's most famous poem , Shikwa , would reveal a lot about the concept of the ideal Muslim , and how he should treat other religions . <p> For Muslims to respect other religions , they have to learn to accept that non-Islamic religions are as true for their followers as Islam is for Muslims , and that it 's wrong to consider other religions as false and evil , or to try to convert their followers to Islam . It 's not possible until the Islamic theology is so reformed as to neutralise its proselytising and supremacist instinct . But then , religions do n't change , people do ; and so , the attitude of Muslims toward the past and the present could change only if they secularised . <p> Muslims find it difficult to face their history , and engage with it in a dispassionate manner . It 's because Islam and politics have been so intertwined that their entire history has become religious , and therefore , sacred . The history of Muslims is known as the Islamic history . A sacred history is for adoration and veneration , not for the verification and evaluation of the received truth . That 's why a critical attitude toward this history is regarded as the criticism of Islam itself -- a blasphemy . <p> The reluctance to face the past has been ingrained in the Islamic tradition . There is an ijma ( religious consensus ) on the concealment of the inconvenient facts of history lest it created fitna ( strife ) by affecting the people 's belief in the goodness of their religion , weakening their commitment to the sectarian position , and bringing the religious ancestors down in their estimation . Such concealment , however , leads to putrefaction , not peace . Example : the Shia-Sunni chasm . Not only the sides do n't have any understanding of each other 's point of view but they also do n't have any idea about the other side of the story . And so , while the sectarian wars in other religions are a thing of the past , the Shia-Sunni rift in Islam remains an active volcano . Concealment ca n't bring closure . <p> The same template has been applied to the history of Islam in India . Inconvenient truths are sought to be hidden allegedly for the " public good " . It 's feared that admitting the wrongs of the past would make Muslims vulnerable . Nothing could be farther from the truth . Half truth is never conducive to peace . It 's a universal truth that reconciliation is preceded by truth . <p> Therefore , let Muslims come out with their own list of temples that were destroyed during the Muslim rule , and also of the mosques that were built on their sites . Then , they should clearly state what Islam says about such mosques . I am surprised ( actually , I am not ) why no fatwa has ever been asked for such mosques . So , they should ask for fatwa from the most reputed Darul Ifta ( fatwa centres ) of the world , and see what they have to say regarding the validity of such mosques in Islam . And then , they should go to Hindus with the list . Given the civilisational temper of India , we know well what Hindus are going to say . But before that , for their own good , the Muslim side must admit the truth , and make a solemn declaration : What happened was wrong . It shall not happen again . We dissociate from that history , and we denounce the power theology that enabled it . We are not saying this because today we are not in the position to do that again , but because we sincerely believe it to be wrong . <p> Ibn Khaldun Bharati is a student of Islam , and looks at Islamic history from an Indian perspective . He tweets @IbnKhaldunIndic . Views are personal . <p> Editor 's note : We know the writer well and only allow pseudonyms when we do so . <h> 1 COMMENT <p> The author is 100% correct in his assessment . I had written a comment few days back about good old " paschataap " . Where is it to be seen in the Muslims ? On the contrary , you have people silently and some times very overtly glorifying the invaders in the Indian subcontinent in the name of Islam and at the same time shedding tears for Gaza all in the name of invasion and Islam ! What sort of a deranged and intellectually corrupt argument is this ? Everyone knows how Islam came to be in the subcontinent . It was on the back of loot , plunder , murder ! There are no two ways about it . And some " distorians " were busy painting the invaders as having merged into the Indian society and becoming one of us . Question is why did they need to force their cult upon the residents of Bharat who since millenia had been worshipping idols ? And why were plunderers coming back again and again to destroy the same temples if it had already been plundered once ? Distorians also try to portray this as robbery but the argument falls flat when you see Holy wars being documented in history to plunder and break temples . even today you can see sculptures with broken parts of deities and the Muslims of this land who shed so much tears for Gaza are conspicuosly silent on this . It is also not lost on anybody that the majority of them who voted to partition country on the bigoted religious lines stayed back in India . If this is not moral corruption pray what is ! Muslims in India need to be vocal about their feelings against invasion . If not , then be prepared to be exposed one generation after another . <h> COMMENTS <p> The author is 100% correct in his assessment . I had written a comment few days back about good old " paschataap " . Where is it to be seen in the Muslims ? On the contrary , you have people silently and some times very overtly glorifying the invaders in the Indian subcontinent in the name of Islam and at the same time shedding tears for Gaza all in the name of invasion and Islam ! What sort of a deranged and intellectually corrupt argument is this ? Everyone knows how Islam came to be in the subcontinent . It was on the back of loot , plunder , murder ! There are no two ways about it . And some " distorians " were busy painting the invaders as having merged into the Indian society and becoming one of us . Question is why did they need to force their cult upon the residents of Bharat who since millenia had been worshipping idols ? And why were plunderers coming back again and again to destroy the same temples if it had already been plundered once ? Distorians also try to portray this as robbery but the argument falls flat when you see Holy wars being documented in history to plunder and break temples . even today you can see sculptures with broken parts of deities and the Muslims of this land who shed so much tears for Gaza are conspicuosly silent on this . It is also not lost on anybody that the majority of them who voted to partition country on the bigoted religious lines stayed back in India . If this is not moral corruption pray what is ! Muslims in India need to be vocal about their feelings against invasion . If not , then be prepared to be exposed one generation after another . 
@@118494159 <h> Body of Israeli hostage recovered in Gaza <p> Jerusalem , December 5 ( IANS ) Israeli security forces announced that they had recovered the body of an Israeli hostage kidnapped to Gaza during Hamas ' attack on October 7 , 2023 , and took him back to Israel . <p> In a joint statement on Wednesday , the Shin Bet internal security agency and the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) confirmed that the body of Itai Svirsky was retrieved in a military operation , reports Xinhua news agency . <p> IDF spokesman Daniel Hagari said during a press briefing that Svirsky was abducted alive and later killed by his captors . <p> Svirsky , 38 , a resident of Tel Aviv , was abducted from Kibbutz Be'eri while visiting his parents , who were killed during the Hamas-led onslaught . According to a statement from Kibbutz Be'eri , Svirsky was presumed dead as of January 2024 . <p> Hagari also presented findings from a military investigation into the deaths of six Israeli hostages whose bodies were recovered in August from Khan Younis in southern Gaza . The investigation suggested that their deaths were likely linked to an Israeli airstrike targeting Hamas , 150-200 meters from their location of captivity . <p> Pathological examinations revealed indications of gunshots on the hostages ' bodies , but no gunshot wounds were found on the bodies of the militants guarding them . Hagari said the most plausible scenario was that the hostages were shot by their guards shortly before or during the airstrike . <p> " At the time of the strike , the military had no information that hostages were being held in the underground compound , " Hagari said . <p> To date , Israeli forces have recovered the bodies of 38 hostages , while 117 hostages have been released alive , most of them through negotiated deals . About 100 others are still held hostage in Gaza , and Israel estimates that about a third of the hostages are no longer alive . <h> Connect with us <h> Intro footer <p> The Morung Express <p> The Morung Express is a people-oriented alternative newspaper based in Nagaland that was conceived from the Naga people 's historical realities and is guided by their voices and experiences . It emerged from the well-recognized concept that the core of a free press is based on " qualitative and investigative " journalism . Ensuring this is essential for contributing to an informed Naga public that makes sound decisions on issues that affect all spheres of life . 
@@118509144 <h> Trump 's Mideast Utterings No More Than ' Hot Air ' <h> Share : <p> After the private dinner hosted by Donald Trump " in honor " of Mrs. Sara Netanyahu , the US President-elect immediately threatened to set the Middle East on fire if the Israeli prisoners in the Gaza Strip tunnels , guarded by the Qassam Brigades and the Al-Quds Brigades , were not released before his return to the White House on 20 January 2025 . <p> Trump went further when he threatened the Palestinian resistance factions with paying a heavy price if the hostages were not released , and directed his threats specifically at the leaders of the Hamas and Islamic Jihad movements . <p> In his first term as US President , he made many similar threats , such as destroying North Korea , subjugating China , forcing Mexico to pay the bill for the border wall to keep out immigrants , and turning Iran into another Hiroshima if it responded to the assassination of the martyrs , Qassem Soleimani and Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis . <p> Trump -- an " unruly " professional liar -- did not dare to carry out any of these threats , and perhaps the only threat he carried out was withdrawing from the nuclear agreement with Iran in 2017 , which backfired and came as a major gift to Iran it never dreamed of , which since developed , theoretically and practically , into an unofficially declared nuclear state . <p> We would like to tell Trump his threats will not move a hair on the head of the smallest hungry or injured Palestinian infant in the steadfast and heroic Gaza Strip . <p> If his partner Netanyahu in the extermination war and ethnic cleansing and who used all kinds of mass destruction weapons to bomb Gaza -- executed more than 45,000 martyrs , three-quarters of whom , children and women , and destroyed 95 percent of their homes -- did not succeed in releasing these Israeli prisoners , despite advanced US intelligence , what does Trump have that is stronger and more effective than that ? Hitting the Gaza Strip with a nuclear bomb , as his criminal friend Senator Lindsey Graham suggests ? ! <p> The heroic Al-Qassam Brigades and Al-Quds Brigades have not submitted to all this bloody Israeli pressure and did not release the prisoners throughout the past 14 months . All the pressure and rounds of negotiations sponsored by America failed , unfortunately with Arab collusion ; the USA wanted to trap Hamas and Jihad which firmly stuck to their conditions , and did not give up a single inch . <p> So what more can the reckless Trump do ? <p> We need to remind Trump and draw his attention to a set of points he must have forgotten about in the midst of his euphoria on his victory over his naive and foolish opponent Kamala Harris : <p> First , the resistance in Gaza is still strong , ongoing , and inflicting huge and humiliating losses on the Israeli enemy and its forces , and from zero-distance , which reflects the heroism and courage of its men . Not a single mujahid surrendered , all fought until martyrdom . <p> Second , there is not a single American aircraft carrier now in the Middle East and its seas , whether it is red , white or Arab , due to the blessed Yemeni missiles . It is enough to point out the attack with naval ballistic missiles that hit the carrier Abraham Lincoln a few days ago , which escaped with heavy casualties and damaged three destroyers and other ships . The day before yesterday , a Yemeni hypersonic missile struck a military base in the heart of occupied Jaffa . <p> Third , the brave and courageous Trump did not dare respond to the Iranian missile that shot down his largest drone in the Gulf , the " RQ-4 Global Hawk " in 2019 ( costing $300 million ) after it deviated from its course several meters inside Iranian territory . <p> Fourth , great America withdrew from Afghanistan , defeated and humiliated , a few months after Biden took power from you . We all witnessed , and the whole world at that , the great escape of American forces in a way that reflects the height of humiliation . <p> Trump no longer frightens anyone , and in his new version he did not dare utter a single word of criticism at Russian President Vladimir Putin , who defeated his country on the plains and coasts of Ukraine , and cut off and annexed more than 20 percent of its " territory " . <p> Trump did not dare utter the name of China , which was his number one enemy in his first term , and let us not forget in this haste to touch on North Korea and its leader Kim Jong-un , who humiliated and degraded him , and brought him to Hanoi and Singapore in two summit meetings , from which he returned to Washington with his head bowed . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Perhaps only some Arabs who were forced to accept the humiliating normalization and his " Deal of the Century " during his first term will be afraid of Trump and his threats . But times have changed , and there is now a major superpower called the " Axis of Resistance " with a mighty head and long , deadly arms . <p> Above all , there is the new , powerful BRICS organization , which will not end Trump 's second term in the White House ( four years ) until the US dollar exhales most of its last breath . The days lie ahead , Mr. Trump ! <p> This is a translated piece from Arabic by Mr Abdel Bari Atwan , chief editor of Al Raialyoum website and reprinted on www.crossfirearabia.com . <h> Related Posts <p> Amnesty International 's research has found sufficient basis to conclude that Israel has committed and is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip , the organization said in ... <p> The Biden administration 's failure to act decisively on international humanitarian crises has drawn sharp criticism from analysts and advocates alike . Despite its stated commitment to upholding humanitarian principles , the administration ... <p> Occupied Palestine ( Quds News Network ) - The Israeli Army admitted responsibility for the deaths of six Israeli prisoners in Gaza . The incident occurred in August during an airstrike targeting a tunnel ... <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has declared that Israel 's war on Gaza will continue until achieving what he terms " total victory . " Instead of critically examining Netanyahu 's vague and open-ended objectives , much of ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118509146 <h> Share : <p> The Biden administration 's failure to act decisively on international humanitarian crises has drawn sharp criticism from analysts and advocates alike . Despite its stated commitment to upholding humanitarian principles , the administration has repeatedly fallen short in leveraging its influence to enforce these standards . Nowhere is this more evident than in Gaza , where its inaction has allowed a dire humanitarian crisis to worsen . <p> A Pattern of Failure <p> The inability to pressure the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen to comply with international humanitarian law has been widely recognized as a failure of U.S. diplomacy . This precedent is now being mirrored in the administration 's approach to Gaza , where meaningful action has been similarly absent . Although the Biden administration 's rhetoric suggests concern for the plight of Palestinians , this has not translated into effective measures to address the unfolding catastrophe . <p> Gaza 's Deepening Crisis <p> In Gaza , the situation has reached a critical juncture . The northern region is teetering on the brink of famine , while the devastation elsewhere in the territory continues to intensify . Gazans are grappling with increasingly dire circumstances as access to food , water , medical supplies , and basic infrastructure deteriorates . The lack of sustained international aid , compounded by political gridlock , has left the population in an untenable position . <p> The humanitarian crisis in Gaza did not arise overnight , and Biden 's administration had opportunities to intervene meaningfully . By failing to act decisively , it missed a chance to ensure access to much-needed aid before the conditions worsened to their current state . <p> The Incoming Trump Administration <p> As the Trump administration prepares to take office , concerns are mounting that the situation in Gaza will deteriorate further . Trump 's policy approach is expected to provide Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu with even greater leeway , exacerbating an already fragile scenario . Critics worry that this shift will embolden actions that deepen the crisis , while further sidelining efforts to prioritize humanitarian assistance . <p> Unmatched Words and Actions <p> Biden 's inaction stands in stark contrast to the principles his administration has previously championed . Advocates argue that while the administration has repeatedly articulated the importance of humanitarian law , it has failed to match this rhetoric with tangible action . As a result , the suffering in Gaza has persisted unchecked . <p> Stronger leadership could have mitigated the crisis , particularly by ensuring that aid reached those in need . However , the lack of strategic engagement has highlighted a missed opportunity to prevent further devastation . <p> Moral and Strategic Implications <p> The ongoing crisis in Gaza represents not only a political and strategic failure but also a profound moral failing on the part of the Biden administration . Critics assert that the administration had both the tools and the influence to make a difference , but its hesitance to act decisively has left millions of Gazans in a precarious position . <p> This failure is now poised to leave an indelible stain on Biden 's legacy . The administration 's inability to prevent " unconscionable " suffering in Gaza stands as a stark reminder of the consequences of inaction in the face of humanitarian crises . <p> Parallels with Yemen <p> The situation in Gaza mirrors the administration 's earlier shortcomings in Yemen , where efforts to use military assistance as leverage to enforce international humanitarian law fell short . In both cases , opportunities to effect change were squandered , leaving vulnerable populations to bear the brunt of the consequences . <p> A Call for Accountability <p> As the international community watches Gaza 's humanitarian crisis deepen , calls for accountability are growing louder . Advocates stress the need for future administrations to learn from these failures and take proactive steps to address humanitarian challenges . The suffering in Gaza underscores the urgency of bridging the gap between rhetoric and action when it comes to upholding human rights . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Conclusion <p> The Biden administration 's handling of Gaza will undoubtedly be remembered as a critical juncture in its legacy . By failing to prioritize aid access and enforce humanitarian principles , it has allowed the crisis to worsen , leaving millions of Gazans in despair . With the incoming Trump administration signalling an even more hands-off approach , the stakes for Gaza 's future could not be higher . <p> As history reflects on these moments , the moral and political costs of inaction will serve as a sombre lesson on the consequences of failing to uphold the responsibilities of leadership in the face of profound human suffering . <p> Shariq Us Sabah is a published writer , and is interested in the Middle East Regional and its foreign policy . He can be contacted at email protected <p> Occupied Palestine ( Quds News Network ) - The Israeli Army admitted responsibility for the deaths of six Israeli prisoners in Gaza . The incident occurred in August during an airstrike targeting a tunnel ... <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has declared that Israel 's war on Gaza will continue until achieving what he terms " total victory . " Instead of critically examining Netanyahu 's vague and open-ended objectives , much of ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118509147 <h> French National Assembly brings down Barnier government <h> Share : <p> Yesterday , a 332-seat majority of the National Assembly 's 577 deputies voted to censure the Social Security budget ( PLFSS ) proposed by French Prime Minister Michel Barnier , bringing down his government . The vote was strictly along party lines : deputies of Marine Le Pen 's National Rally ( RN ) and the New Popular Front ( NFP ) coalition led by Jean-Luc M ? lenchon voted against Barnier . Macron announced last night that he would begin a rapid search for a new prime minister . <p> It is a shattering defeat for President Emmanuel Macron . He dissolved the Assembly and called the July 7 snap elections , but they produced a hung parliament . Refusing to form a government with the NFP , which had received the most votes , he nominated a minority government of his supporters , led by Barnier , and obtained a pledge from the RN to support its policies in the Assembly . But as Barnier 's budget came under criticism from financial markets and the press last week for not going far enough with austerity , the RN changed course . <p> The NFP had long threatened Barnier with censure motions , as he refused to include them in his government . However , the RN brought down Barnier by announcing last week that it would vote for the NFP 's censure motion yesterday . <p> Workers justifably despised the Barnier government , and the critical question facing workers is how to develop a political offensive after its collapse . It brought an unpopular budget imposing ? 60 billion in spending cuts , largely targeting social programs , while increasing military and police budgets as Paris threatens to send ground troops to Ukraine in defiance of popular opposition . Polls showed 52 percent of the French public want Barnier to fall , and 63 percent want Macron to resign . <p> A movement must be prepared and built in the working class to bring down Macron and halt his widely despised policies : plans for a NATO war escalation against Russia , austerity policies like his massive pension cuts , police violence and support for the Gaza genocide . This can not be left to the French capitalist establishment . The progressive way forward is building a movement from below , in the rank and file , basing itself on the class struggle . <p> As all the major NATO powers escalate war threats against Russia , and financial markets demand austerity not only in France but across Europe , it is clear workers face not a national but an international struggle . This takes the most naked expression in the election of the fascist Donald Trump as US president . Pledging a staggering $2 trillion in austerity measures , police round-ups of millions of immigrants , and escalation of war in the Middle East , he is set to massively expand class war on the workers . <p> Bourgeois politics internationally is being rapidly reshaped since Trump 's elections : First the German government and now the French government have fallen in Europe , and on Tuesday there was a failed attempt to impose martial law in South Korea . <p> After the fall of Barnier , the French bourgeoisie is more and more overtly bringing forward the neo-fascist RN . Indeed , the first politician to give a prime-time television interview was RN leader Marine Le Pen ; Macron and M ? lenchon are to appear tonight . Appearing on TF1 evening news , Le Pen postured as a defender of the French people , an opponent of pension cuts and increases in costs of medicine , and a friend of the little man . <p> The sharpest warnings must be made about the political posturing of Macron 's rivals in the ruling elite , including both the RN and the NFP . Le Pen 's politics are determined not by her populist demagogy but , like Trump , by the escalating global war and economic breakdown of the world capitalist system . Absent a struggle by the working class against austerity and war , the next government will divert funds to servicing France 's ? 3 trillion debt and escalating war against Russia in Ukraine and the Middle East , entailing massive austerity attacks on the workers . <p> Le Pen postured , however , as a friend of the people , stating : " I believe we had a choice to make , and the choice we made was to protect the French people . Mr. Barnier had made three promises : tax justice but he gave us a budget with ? 40 billion more in taxes ; controlling public spending , but his budget increased the deficit ; and building the budget with the opposition parties , but he ignored the opposition parties when he designed it . So this budget was toxic for the French people , and the only appropriate solution for those elected to protect them was to oppose this budget . " <p> Asked if she aimed to compel the president to present his resignation after Barnier 's collapse , she replied : " I do not demand Emmanuel Macron 's resignation . I say that if there arrives a time when he does not take the path of respect of political parties and elections , the pressure on the president will obviously be ever stronger . But it is his decision . " <p> In reality , it is clear that in ruling circles , there is mounting discussion of Macron 's removal , due to the economic crisis caused by the failure to adopt a budget . France 's borrowing costs have risen above those of Greece , as financial markets speculate on its sovereign debt . There are rising fears that , without a budget next year , financing of the healthcare system , of pensions , and of the public service may grind to a halt . <p> The budget negotiations will be explosive , as the Assembly is a hung parliament and legally can not be dissolved for a year after Macron dissolved it last June . The budget will have to be negotiated in the hung parliament , which may deadlock again on budget votes . <p> Asked by Le Monde about whether she would press Macron to resign in such a scenario , to break the deadlock , Le Pen replied : " We will follow the normal functioning of the institutions . But if there is one government that falls , then a second , and a third , we will have to ask the question . " <p> In the meantime , the RN is opening a press campaign calling for Macron 's head . Vice President S ? bastien Chenu said : " I think Emmanuel Macron would do his country a favor if he left his office and allowed for a reshaping of a political line to serve France . " <p> RN Europarliamentarian and Le Pen adviser Philippe Olivier commented , " Macron is a disgraced Republican monarch , advancing with his shirt open and a rope around his neck . ... We are not getting overexcited . We will discuss this once the demand for resignation , which is beginning to rise in our ranks and beyond , becomes massive . For the time being , Macron has to pick up the hot potato and deal with the problems . " <p> The working class must mobilize and take up its own fight against Macron . Opposition to Macron can not be left in the hands of the reactionaries in the RN or the NFP , whose program for the July 7 elections included reactionary calls to send ground troops to Ukraine and to increase funding for the police and intelligence services . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Neither NFP officials nor their affiliated union bureaucracies are calling to mobilize the working class in struggle against both Macron and the neofascists . Last night , the parliamentary fraction leader of M ? lenchon 's party , Mathilde Panot , briefly attacked Macron in vague populist terms after the NFP censure motion was adopted . " The only sovereign , in a Republic , is the people , " Panot said . Denouncing the government 's " dishonorable " attempt to cut deals with the RN , Panot said : " The government ultimately received both dishonor and censure . " <p> The working class can not however stop the policies of war , austerity and attacks on democratic rights that made Barnier and Macron so unpopular if its struggles are politically controlled by forces like Panot and M ? lenchon . The critical question is the construction , in the working class in France and internationally , of a socialist movement against imperialist war and far-right reaction . <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118509167 <h> Israeli Army Admits Responsibility for Death of 6 Israeli Prisoners in Gaza <h> Share : <p> Occupied Palestine ( Quds News Network ) - The Israeli Army admitted responsibility for the deaths of six Israeli prisoners in Gaza . The incident occurred in August during an airstrike targeting a tunnel near Khan Younis . Channel 12 reported that the families of the prisoners were informed of the findings . <p> Israeli media sources , citing families of prisoners in Gaza , reported that the Israeli army admitted responsibility for the killing of 6 prisoners in Khan Yunis last August . <p> The Israeli occupation army announced in an investigation that on August 20 , they recovered the bodies of ... **26;3104;TOOLONG <p> According to the Israeli Army 's investigation , six prisoners and six resistance fighters were found dead in the tunnel on August 20 . The report claimed that prisoners ' bodies had gunshot wounds , hinting that they were killed by the resistance . The army stated that if they had known prisoners were present , the airstrike would not have been carried out . <p> Channel 12 highlighted the growing calls from families of prisoners held in Gaza . They emphasized the urgent need to bring back all Israeli prisoners through an exchange agreement . The granddaughter of one of the six prisoners told Yedioth Ahronoth : " This investigation proves the army is responsible for their deaths . " She also revealed that the army apologized to the families for what it described as a " grave mistake . " <p> The Israeli Army Radio quoted the so-called " Hostages ' Families Forum " , which criticized the military strategy . They argued that the findings show military pressure often leads to the deaths of Israeli prisoners . <p> The army investigation raised the theory that resistance fighters may have killed the prisoners during the airstrike . However , no conclusive evidence supports this scenario . <p> This revelation has intensified the debate over the safety of Israeli prisoners in Gaza as Isral continues to savagely attack the strip . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Last month , a Scandal shook the occupation state , when revelations emerged that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's office orchestrated a covert operation to block the release of Israeli prisoners held in Gaza . <p> The scandal centers on a team reportedly working from within Netanyahu 's office , accused of disseminating manipulated intelligence and faking documents to undermine prisoner exchange efforts and maintain a hardline stance . <h> Related Posts <p> Amnesty International 's research has found sufficient basis to conclude that Israel has committed and is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip , the organization said in ... <p> The Biden administration 's failure to act decisively on international humanitarian crises has drawn sharp criticism from analysts and advocates alike . Despite its stated commitment to upholding humanitarian principles , the administration ... <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has declared that Israel 's war on Gaza will continue until achieving what he terms " total victory . " Instead of critically examining Netanyahu 's vague and open-ended objectives , much of ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118510053 <p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday , reiterated India 's support for a two-state solution in the long-standing Israel-Palestine conflict , while also asserting that issues of terrorism and hostage-taking can not be underplayed or ignored . <p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday , reiterated India 's support for a two-state solution in the long-standing Israel-Palestine conflict , while also asserting that issues of terrorism and hostage-taking can not be underplayed or ignored . <p> Speaking in the Rajya Sabha today , Jaishankar explained India 's decision to abstain from voting in some of the resolutions regarding the Gaza conflict in the United Nations General Assembly . <p> In response to TMC MP Saket Gokhale 's question on India 's stance on a two-state solution to Palestine , Jaishankar said , " We support the two-state solution and we have been public and unambiguous about that . So , there should be no cause for confusion regarding the two-state solution . " <p> Jaishankar was asked about the International Criminal Court 's arrest warrant against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , former defence chief Yoav Gallant and Hamas leader Mohammad Deif , to which the Foreign Minister pointed out that India is a not a member of ICC . <p> In response to the query , he said , " The honourable member would be aware that India is not a member of International Criminal Court . When the International Criminal Court was constituted , the question of our membership was considered . For very good reason after great deal of deliberation , India considered to not become a member . So , with regard to any decision passed by the ICC , it is not binding on us . So , it is not a matter on which we have taken formal position . " <p> Elaborating on the details regarding India 's assistance for Palestine , Jaishankar said that India gives an annual contribution of USD 5 million to The United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) , which he called the " main assistance-providing agency . " <p> " India has given assistance to the people of Palestine at this particular time . I would like sir through you to bring to the notice of the house that we make an annual contribution of five million dollars to UNRWA , which is a main assistance-providing agency , " he said . <p> " This amount traditionally used to be a million dollar . So , during the time under the decision taken by this government , it was raised from one million dollars to five million dollars . In recent times , in terms of conflict , we have provided 70 metric tons of aid , of which 16.5 was of medicine in 2023 . We have 65 metric tons of medicine to the Palestinian authority and UNRWA in 2024 . We have provided 33 metric tons of medicine to Lebanon , " the Foreign Minister added . <p> Being asked how India will be able to support Palestine after Israel banned UNRWA , he said , " Regarding our support and contribution to UNRWA , this is a decision which we took as a government , we continue to stand by that decision . We have just infact released the latest tranche of support to UNRWA . " <p> Regarding India 's abstentions from some UN resolutions regarding Gaza , Jaishankar said the resolutions which " do not reflect the entire reality " of the situation by downplaying the October 7 terror attack by Hamas , ca n't be supported by India , which is itself a ' victim of terrorism . ' <p> In response to a query raised by DMK MP Tiruchi Siva on India abstaining from voting in a resolution on Gaza in UNGA , Jaishankar said , " With regard to the particular resolution , which the honourable member referred to , we abstained , in fact , during this period , there have been in the General Assembly a number of resolutions , we have voted in favour of many , we have abstained on some . " <p> " Generally , when we abstained . the reasons are the resolution is not very balanced , the resolution is more divisive , the resolution can set a precedence which has consequences for us . The resolution has larger implications . In this particular case , we felt that the resolution was not well-drafted , it was not well-considered . We had reservations on the language . Our concerns were not accommodated and that is why abstained , " he added . <p> He noted that the wordings of the resolution is important and India chose not to support those resolutions , as they had no mentions of hostage-taking or terrorism , adding that India takes a very mature view of the resolution . <p> Jaishankar said , " Resolutions have implications as you noted , their wording is important . For example , the resolution which the previous member had referred to , there was no reference to terrorism , there was no reference to hostage taking . So , in our mind , a resolution which does not reflect the entirity of the situation is not a balanced resolution and a country like India , which is itself a victim of terrorism , if we countenance the fact that terrorism is underplayed and ignored , it is not in our interests that we do so . " <p> " So , when we look at any resolution , we look at the wording and we take a very very mature view about it and I want to say as a matter of principle , we condemn terrorism , we condemn hostage-taking . We do believe that countries have a right to respond to these situations but countries should be mindful of civilian casualties . They must observe humanitarian law and we would like a ceasefire and an early end to the violence . Our position has been very very clear but we would like this duly reflected in well-worded resolution which are balanced , " he added . <p> The conflict in Gaza reignited after Hamas attacked Israel on October 7 , 2023 . Following the October 7 attack , Israel launched a counter-offensive against Hamas , vowing to eliminate the entire terror group.Notably , Prime Minister Narendra Modi was one of the first world leaders to condemn Hamas ' attack on Israel on October 7 last year . <p> However , India has also called for a ceasefire and the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages . India has also put its weight behind the ' two-state solution ' to the long-running Israel-Palestine conflict . <p> Except for the headline , the story has not been edited by DNA staff and is published from ANI . 
@@118516045 <p> The Amnesty International report adds to a March report by the UN special rapporteur for Palestine that concluded " there are reasonable grounds to believe " Israel was committing genocide against Palestinians . <p> A column of Israeli army military armoured vehicles moves near the Gaza border in southern Israel in this file photo . ( AFP ) <p> " Amnesty International 's report demonstrates that Israel has carried out acts prohibited under the Genocide Convention , with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza , " said Agnes Callamard , Secretary General of Amnesty International . <p> " These acts include killings , causing serious bodily or mental harm and deliberately inflicting on Palestinians in Gaza conditions of life calculated to bring about their physical destruction , " she said . <p> Callamard stated that as Israel 's genocide progressed in Gaza , it has continuously treated Palestinians as a " subhuman group unworthy of human rights and dignity , demonstrating its intent to physically destroy them . " <p> " It continued to do so in defiance of countless warnings about the catastrophic humanitarian situation and of legally binding decisions from the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) ordering Israel to take immediate measures to enable the provision of humanitarian assistance to civilians in Gaza , " she noted . <p> " Our damning findings must serve as a wake-up call to the international community : this is genocide . It must stop now , " Callamard stressed . <p> She pointed out that countries like US , which continue to supply arms to Israel are " risking " being complicit in the genocide . <p> " States that continue to transfer arms to Israel at this time must know they are violating their obligation to prevent genocide and are at risk of becoming complicit in genocide . All states with influence over Israel , particularly key arms suppliers like the USA and Germany , but also other EU member states , the UK and others , must act now to bring Israel 's atrocities against Palestinians in Gaza to an immediate end , " she said . <p> The 296-page report , released on Thursday noted that Israel can not justify or legalise its genocide in Gaza using its military goal to eradicate Hamas . It noted that genocidal intent can " co-exist alongside military goals and does not need to be the sole intent . " <p> It further added that Hamas attack on Israel and hostage-taking " can never justify " its genocide against Palestinians in Gaza . <p> " Taking into account ? the pre-existing context of dispossession , apartheid and unlawful military occupation in which these acts have been committed , we could find only one reasonable conclusion : Israel 's intent is the physical destruction of Palestinians in Gaza , whether in parallel with , or as a means to achieve , its military goal of destroying Hamas , " said Agnes Callamard . <p> The Amnesty International report adds to a March report by the UN special rapporteur for Palestine that concluded " there are reasonable grounds to believe " Israel was committing genocide against Palestinians . <p> Important findings <p> 1 . Unprecedented scale and magnitude <p> The report noted that Israel 's genocidal attacks on Gaza have " caused unprecedented destruction , which experts say occurred at a level and speed not seen in any other conflict in the 21st century , levelling entire cities and destroying critical infrastructure , agricultural land and cultural and religious sites , " thereby making " large swaths of Gaza uninhabitable . " <p> Throwing light on Israel 's blockade of humanitarian aid and essential services into Gaza , the report noted that it created a " deadly mixture of malnutrition , hunger and diseases , and exposed Palestinians to a slow , calculated death . " <p> The report also mentioned the illegal detentions and torture of Palestinians in Israeli custody . <p> Amnesty International observed that when viewed in isolation Israel 's actions in Gaza amount to serious violations of international laws and human rights laws but when the " cumulative impact " of its policies and acts are considered " genocidal intent is the only reasonable conclusion . " <p> 2 . Intent to destroy <p> The report noted that the genocidal intent of Israel can be observed in the statements made by its government and military officials and others between 7 October 2023 and 30 June 2024 which " dehumanized Palestinians , called for or justified genocidal acts or other crimes against them . " <p> " Of these , Amnesty International identified 22 statements made by senior officials in charge of managing the offensive that appeared to call for , or justify , genocidal acts , providing direct evidence of genocidal intent , " the report noted adding that it has found evidence which show the language being replicated by Israeli soldiers on ground . <p> The report further stated that Israel 's justifications for the overwhelming number of civilian casualties and the denial of humanitarian aid to Gaza by accusing Hamas of using civilians as " human shields " and diverting aid are not credible . <p> " The presence of Hamas fighters near or within a densely populated area does not absolve Israel from its obligations to take all feasible precautions to spare civilians and avoid indiscriminate or disproportionate attacks , " the report said . <p> 3 . Killing and causing serious bodily or mental harm <p> The report investigated 15 Israeli airstrikes on Gaza 's civilian populated areas which killed hundreds of Palestinian civilians , mostly women and children . It found no evidence that any of these strikes were directed at a military objective . <p> Acknowledging that the case study represents just a fraction of " Israel 's aerial attacks , " Amnesty International noted that " they are indicative of a broader pattern of repeated direct attacks on civilians and civilian objects or deliberately indiscriminate attacks . " <p> " The attacks were also conducted in ways designed to cause a very high number of fatalities and injuries among the civilian population , " the report said . <p> 4 . Inflicting conditions of life calculated to bring about physical destruction <p> Amnesty International observed that Israel has , since the beginning of its war on Gaza , made life difficult for Palestinians by attacking hospitals , preventing the supply of humanitarian aid and life-saving essentials and the mass " evacuation " orders that forcibly displaced almost all of Gaza 's population . <p> " In the nine months reviewed for this report , Israel maintained a suffocating , unlawful blockade , tightly controlled access to energy sources , failed to facilitate meaningful humanitarian access within Gaza , and obstructed the import and delivery of life-saving goods and humanitarian aid , particularly to areas north of Wadi Gaza , " the report said . <p> The report noted that these conditions , along with the widespread attacks on hospitals , homes , agricultural land , water and sanitation facilities caused " catastrophic levels of hunger and led to the spread of diseases at alarming rates . " <p> It observed that the impact of this was " especially harsh " on young children and pregnant or breastfeeding women , with " anticipated long-term consequences for their health . " <p> The report further said that despite having the chance to improve these conditions , Israel " deliberately " refused to take steps that would have protected the civilian population in Gaza . <p> " They refused to allow those displaced to return to their homes in northern Gaza or relocate temporarily to other parts of the Occupied Palestinian Territory or Israel , continuing to deny many Palestinians their right to return under international law to areas they were displaced from in 1948 . They did so knowing that there was nowhere safe for Palestinians in Gaza to flee to , " the report said . <p> The report slammed the international community 's failure to stop the genocide and stated that it will remain a " stain on our collective conscience . ' <p> " Governments must stop pretending they are powerless to end this genocide , which was enabled by decades of impunity for Israel 's violations of international law . States need to move beyond mere expressions of regret or dismay and take strong and sustained international action , however uncomfortable a finding of genocide may be for some of Israel 's allies , " the report stressed calling on the Office of the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) to " urgently consider adding genocide to the list of crimes it is investigating and for all states to use every legal avenue to bring perpetrators to justice . " 
@@118536068 <h> Australia police search for two suspects in arson attack on Melbourne synagogue <h> Prime Minister Anthony Albanese condemned the attack and said there was no place for antisemitism in Australia . <p> Firefighters work at the scene of a fire at the Adass Israel Synagogue in Ripponlea , Melbourne , Australia , December 6 , 2024 . AAP Image/Con Chronis via REUTERS <p> Australian police said on Friday they were looking for two people suspected of deliberately starting a fire at a Melbourne synagogue that injured one and caused widespread damage . <p> The fire at the Adass Israel synagogue began early on Friday and police said the suspects were wearing masks . <p> Prime Minister Anthony Albanese condemned the attack and said there was no place for antisemitism in Australia . <p> Advertisement <p> " This violence and intimidation and destruction at a place of worship is an outrage . This attack has risked lives and is clearly aimed at creating fear in the community , " he said in a statement . <p> Counter-terrorism police will liaise with Victoria state police on the investigation , Albanese said . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu bemoaned a " despicable anti-Semitic event " , and accused Albanese 's government of encouraging such crimes by pursuing what he said were anti-Israeli policies , including supporting a recent UN motion in favour of a Palestinian state . <p> " Unfortunately , this criminal act can not be separated from the anti-Israel spirit blowing from the Labor government in Australia , " Netanyahu wrote on X. " Anti-Israelism is anti-Semitism , " he said . <p> Advertisement <h> MELBOURNE SYNAGOGUE BUILT BY HOLOCAUST SURVIVORS <p> Victoria state police said a worshipper at the synagogue for morning prayers had seen two people who appeared to be spreading accelerant inside the building before setting it on fire . <p> " We believe it was deliberate . We believe it has been targeted . What we do n't know is why and we 'll get to the why , " Detective Inspector Chris Murray told reporters . <p> Dozens of firefighters and trucks doused the fire at the synagogue , built in the 1960s by Holocaust survivors in the suburb of Ripponlea . <p> " There was some banging on a door with some liquid thrown inside and was lit alight , the few people inside the synagogue ran outside the back door , one of them got burnt , " Adass Israel Synagogue board member Benjamin Klein told the Australian Broadcasting Corp . <p> " The whole place took alight pretty quickly . " <p> Advertisement <p> Television footage showed firefighters at the scene and black soot on the walls , as congregants took Torah scrolls and prayer shawls that had escaped the fire to a car . <p> The Australian Jewish Association said it was " outraged but not at all surprised " by the attack and that the Jewish community had felt abandoned under the incumbent government . <p> Albanese 's office did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the association 's statement . <p> Australia has seen a rise in antisemitic incidents since Israel retaliated against an attack by militant Palestinian group Hamas on Oct. 7 , 2023 with an assault on Gaza that has left tens of thousands of people dead . <p> Advertisement <p> Major Australian cities have seen dozens of pro-Palestine protests over the last year and the Jewish community says the government has not done enough to tackle the rise of antisemitism . <p> Dozens of pro-Palestinian protesters gathered on Wednesday outside Sydney 's Great Synagogue when some members of the Jewish community were inside , Australian media reported . 
@@118536455 <h> President Herzog had made a call to Musk , who has been appointed by US President-elect Donald Trump to oversee the newly created Department of Government Efficiency ( Doge ) , at the request of hostage family members <p> Israel President Isaac Herzog has reportedly called Tech billionaire Elon Musk earlier this week to discuss the revival of talks to secure the release of Israeli hostages held by Hamas militants in Gaza . <p> President Herzog had made a call to Musk , who has been appointed by US President-elect Donald Trump to oversee the newly created Department of Government Efficiency ( Doge ) , at the request of hostage family members , CNN reported citing source close to Herzog. <h> related stories <p> The conversation was part of Herzog 's " wide and fairly extensive efforts to apply pressure on all parties " to secure a truce deal , the source said . <p> The latest conversation between Musk and Herzog was of a " general nature , and from a policy to put pressure wherever pressure can be placed to keep the issue " front and centre , the source further said . <p> The unconventional outreach to Musk signifies the Tesla CEO 's outsize role during the transition period and the lengths to which the desperate families of hostages must resort to inject urgency into the issue . <p> Earlier it was claimed that the tech billionaire had met Iran 's ambassador to the United Nations in a bid to defuse tensions between Tehran and Washington . Iran 's ambassador reportedly urged Musk in the meeting to seek US sanctions exemptions and conduct business in Tehran . <p> However , neither the Trump transition team nor Iran 's mission to the United Nations confirmed the reports of the meeting , while Iranian mission denied to comment on any development . <p> The development comes days after United States President-elect Donald Trump had warned that that there would be " ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East " if the hostages being held in Gaza are n't released before he is sworn in as President on January 20 , 2025 . <p> As per the reports , about 100 hostages ( dead and alive ) , 96 of whom were taken during Hamas ' October 7 attack on Israel last year , are still held in the besieged enclave . <p> In November 2023 , Musk had travelled to Israel to meet leaders and the relatives of hostages . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is under intense pressure from the families of those captured to secure their release . <h> top videos <p> Trump has blamed outgoing US President Joe Biden for failing to secure the release of the hostages , and is banking on a renewed set of negotiations to succeed . <p> Hamas took 250 people hostages in the last year 's attack on Israel , which killed 1,200 people . While dozens were released in a brief Israeli hostage-for-Palestinian prisoner swap in November last year , the rest have remained captive despite many failed rounds of indirect negotiations between the US and Israel with mediators Egypt and Qatar . 
@@118537977 <p> Trump 's envoy has been working closely with President Biden 's foreign policy team for an urgent ceasefire and hostage deal . Meanwhile in Gaza , Israel has continued its bombardment and attacked more hospitals across the war-torn region . <p> The ceasefire talks for Gaza are back on and this time , Donald Trump 's Middle East envoy Steve Witkoff was part of the delegation from the United States . As per reports , Trump 's envoy has been working closely with President Biden 's foreign policy team for an urgent ceasefire and hostage deal . <p> Meanwhile in Gaza , Israel has continued its bombardment and attacked more hospitals across the war-torn region . <h> West Asia Conflict Latest Developments <p> Donald Trump Sends Middle East Envoy For Ceasefire Talks <p> US President-elect Donald Trump reportedly sent his Middle East envoy Steve Witkoff for the latest round of ceasefire talks in Gaza . <p> Qatar , one of the key mediators between Israel an Hamas has resumed its role as a mediator as ceasefire talks resume . As per Bassem Naim , a member of Hamas ' political wing , international negotiators have resumed talks for a ceasefire in Gaza . <p> Israel and Hamas agreed to a ceasefire in November last year . This ceasefire lasted for a week and saw the release of around 100 hostages . However , since then , both parties have failed to reach a consensus for a ceasefire and potential end to the 14-month war . <p> Israel Continues Bombardment Of Gaza <p> As the war rages on , Israel has continued its strikes in the Gaza Strip , reports suggest another hospital in Gaza - Kamal Adwan Hospital - was hit by Israeli air strikes . <p> Taking note of the attack on healthcare facilities , the World Health Organisation has stated that the attacks on healthcare institutions have become a " worrying trend " . <p> Over the past three years we have seen an increase in the frequency , scale and impact of attacks on healthcare , " said WHO chief Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , referring to wars and conflicts in Gaza , Lebanon , Ukraine , Myanmar , Haiti and Sudan . 
@@118538621 <h> In his latest address , likely held in Pakistan 's Bahawalpur , the UN-designated terrorist promised renewed terrorist attacks against India and Israel . <p> New Delhi : India has demanded that Pakistan take strict action against Masood Azhar , after the UN-designated terrorist addressed the cadre of the Jaish-e-Mohammed after almost two decades last month . <p> " He is a UN-designated terrorist . We demand that strong action be taken against him , that he is brought to justice . There has been denial that he is not there in Pakistan . If the reports ( of his location ) are correct then it exposes the duplicity of Pakistan , " Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal said at a press briefing Friday . <p> " Masood Azhar is involved in cross-border terror attacks against India and we want that strong action be taken against him , " he added . <p> Azhar has promised renewed terrorist attacks against India and Israel with the aim of creating a new Islamic world order . As reported by ThePrint earlier , the speech was likely made last month and can be proven as new given its references to the ongoing conflict in Gaza . <p> In his latest address , Azhar called Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi a " weakling " and promised to send armed individuals to reclaim Kashmir , and even raised the issue of the Babri Masjid . The speech had a number of explicit calls to violence focused on India and Israel . <p> Azhar has been restricted from making public appearances since 2003 , following an attack on General Pervez Musharraf , the former military ruler of Pakistan , by a breakaway faction of the Jaish . <p> In 2022 , then Pakistani foreign minister Bilawal Bhutto announced that Azhar had escaped to Afghanistan just before Islamabad was set to declare him a proclaimed offender . <p> As reported by ThePrint , Azhar 's address came just days after a closed-door India-Pakistan meeting between representatives of the foreign ministries of both two countries in Muscat . Party representatives from the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) and the Congress were also present at the meeting , along with observers from the US Department of State and China . <p> Azhar , the founder of Jaish-e-Mohammed , was in Indian prisons for almost five years , before being released and handed over to the hijackers of Indian Airlines Flight IC-814 , which was hijacked during its trip from Kathmandu to New Delhi . He is said to have masterminded a series of terrorist attacks including the 2001 Parliament attack , and the 2016 Pathankot attack . <p> On 1 May 2019 , Azhar was designated an international terrorist by the United Nations Security Council for his association with al-Qaeda. 
@@118538905 <h> Terrorist Nidal Al-Najar , leader of Hamas ' Aerial and Aerial Defense Units in Gaza City , eliminated in a targeted joint operation by the IDF and ISA . <h> Advertisement <p> Gaza : Terrorist Nidal Al-Najar , the Head of Hamas ' Aerial Unit and Aerial Defense Unit in Gaza City , was eliminated in a precise joint operation by the IDF and ISA , IDF said on X. <p> Al-Najar , a key mastermind behind the October 7th aerial infiltration into Israel , played a leading role in attacks on Israel and IDF troops in central Gaza , using explosive drones and UAVs . <p> This follows Hamas 's statement a day earlier , claiming it had information about Israel 's plans to launch a hostage rescue operation similar to the one in Gaza 's Nuseirat camp in June . Hamas threatened to " neutralize " the captives if such an operation occurred , according to reports . <p> " Al-Najar was one of the masterminds of the aerial infiltration into Israel on October 7 . Moreover , throughout the war , Al-Najar was one of the leaders of the attacks against the State of Israel and IDF troops operating in central Gaza , including by means of explosive drone and UAV attacks toward IDF troops , " the IDF Spokesperson 's Unit said in a statement . <p> The IDF stated that the operation , conducted on Tuesday , December 3 , was a joint effort with the Israel Security Agency ( Shin Bet ) . 
@@118538950 <h> Lebanon officials said the country is closing all land border crossings with Syria except for one that links Beirut with the Syrian capital Damascus . <h> Advertisement <p> Beirut : Lebanon 's General Security Directorate announced on Friday that the country is shutting down all land border crossings with Syria , except the main crossing linking Beirut to Damascus . This decision came shortly after an Israeli airstrike damaged the Arida border crossing in northern Lebanon , which had only recently been reopened . <p> In a separate development , Jordan 's Interior Minister , Al-Frayeh , confirmed that the Naseeb border crossing with Syria was also closed due to security concerns on the Syrian side . This followed reports from Syrian opposition activists claiming that insurgents had taken control of the vital crossing , forcing Syrian authorities to vacate the area . <p> Separately , Israel 's military said in a statement it planned to reinforce its forces stationed in the Golan Heights and near the border with Syria , where civil war has reignited between the government and rebel groups . The statement said it was " monitoring developments and is prepared for all scenarios , offensive and defensive alike . " Meanwhile , Syrian insurgents entered the central towns of Rastan and Talbiseh early Friday just north of the central city of Homs , bringing them closer to Syria 's third largest city , an opposition war monitor and pro-government media both reported . The break came a day after opposition gunmen captured the central city of Hama , Syria 's fourth largest . <p> In other developments , a Hamas official said international mediators have resumed negotiations with the militant group and Israel over a ceasefire in Gaza , and that he is hopeful a deal to end the 14-month war is within reach . <p> Israel 's war against Hamas has destroyed vast areas of Gaza and displaced 90 per cent of the population of 2.3 million , often multiple times . The war began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel in October 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking around 250 people hostage . <p> Israel 's blistering retaliatory offensive has killed at least 44,500 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , which does not say how many of the dead were combatants . Israel says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> Here 's the Latest : Many displaced Palestinians at Khan Younis aid kitchen leave with nothing KHAN YOUNIS , Gaza Strip -- Crowds of displaced Palestinians , some carrying cooking pots and crying children , gathered at an aid kitchen in the southern Gaza City of Khan Younis on Friday , but many left with nothing . <p> " The food ran out , " said Adel Mohammad , who was hoping to get his children a meal of rice -- the only food being served . " At night they wake up hungry . " After the kitchen shut down , children used their hands to scoop bits of rice left in large empty cooking pots . <p> The World Food Program has warned that the humanitarian response in Gaza is " nearing collapse as famine looms . " The UN agency says Israeli restrictions on aid deliveries , along with the breakdown of law and order in Gaza , has made it difficult for aid convoys to reach displaced Palestinians . <p> Concerns are growing with the onset of another winter of war . Hundreds of thousands of Palestinians , many displaced repeatedly by Israeli attacks , are living in tent camps , reliant on international aid . Experts have already warned of famine in northern Gaza , which Israeli forces have almost completely isolated since early October . <p> Lebanon closes all land border crossings with Syria BEIRUT -- Lebanon 's General Security Directorate said Friday the country is closing all land border crossings with Syria except for a main one that links Beirut with the Syrian capital Damascus . <p> The decision by the security agency in charge of border crossings came hours after an Israeli airstrike damaged the Arida border crossing with Syria in north Lebanon , days after it was reopened . <p> " Border crossings will be closed until further notice for the safety of travellers , " the agency said in a statement posted on X. <p> It said that the only border crossing that will be kept open is Masnaa in Lebanon 's eastern Bekaa Valley . <p> Lebanon 's state news agency said Friday the airstrike on the Arida crossing caused heavy material damage and cut the road . <p> The Israeli military said fighter jets attacked the border crossing between Lebanon and Syria , adding that they were used to transfer munitions for Lebanon 's Hezbollah group . <p> Shortly afterwards , Jordan 's Interior Minister al-Frayeh said the Naseeb border crossing with Syria had been closed because of the security situation on the Syrian side . <p> Opposition activists posted videos online showing people storming the border crossing with Jordan , which was in rebel hands until government forces regained control of it in 2018 . <p> Ahmad al-Masalmeh , an opposition activist based in France who covers events in southern Syria , told The Associated Press that local gunmen have captured the Naseeb crossing as well as several other areas in the southern province of Daraa where the uprising against President Bashar Assad began in March 2011 . Syrian troops have evacuated checkpoints in several areas including the villages of Inkhil , Nawa and Jassem , he added . <p> Israel reinforces troops in Golan Heights amid Syria tensions JERUSALEM -- Israel 's military said on Friday that it planned to reinforce its forces stationed in the Golan Heights and near the border with Syria , where civil war has reignited between the government and rebel groups . <p> The Israeli military said in a statement that it was " monitoring developments and is prepared for all scenarios , offensive and defensive alike . " After 13 years of civil war , Syrian insurgents are gaining ground , first taking cities in the country 's north and on Friday entering cities in central Syria . <p> It comes as rebel groups mount new challenges to Russia- and Iran-backed Syrian forces , including in Aleppo , the country 's largest city . Since Oct. 7 , 2023 , Israel has intermittently struck areas in Syria seen as strongholds of Hezbollah , the Lebanese militant group it is at war with within Lebanon . <p> The advances of the Syrian insurgents add new instability on Israel 's northern border , two months after it invaded neighbouring Lebanon . Israel 's defence minister and military chief of staff met to discuss the situation Thursday . <p> Israeli media reported there is concern in the country 's security establishment that the rebels would advance until they reached the Golan Heights , territory occupied by Israel , gaining control of Syrian weapons stockpiles along the way . <p> Writing in the Israeli daily Yedioth Ahoronoth on Friday , veteran military correspondent Ron Ben-Yishai wrote that Israel may " prefer " to destroy the weapons storehouses so they wo n't fall into the hands of the rebels . <p> Israel seized control of the Golan Heights from Syria in the 1967 Mideast war . Syria has constantly accused Israel of launching attacks against it from territory it occupies in the Golan Heights . Israel has frequently struck Syria over the years . <p> Attack near US base in eastern Syria may have wounded 3 service members , Pentagon says WASHINGTON -- Three US service members were being evaluated for potential traumatic brain injuries following an attack near a base in eastern Syria this week , Pentagon press secretary Maj. Gen. Pat Ryder said Thursday . <p> Ryder said US Central Command is still evaluating who was behind the attack near Mission Support Site Euphrates , which prompted the US to conduct counter-strikes on Tuesday . At the time , the Pentagon said rockets and mortars had landed in the vicinity of the base . <p> The US has about 900 troops in Syria to conduct missions to counter the Islamic State group . 
@@118553080 <h> Nothern Gaza 's Kamal Adwan Hospital Under Israeli Attacks Once Again <h> Share : <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - Israeli occupation forces stormed Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya , northern Gaza , once again on Friday morning . They forced patients and the wounded to leave , while also arresting several displaced people and medical staff . <p> ? ? The situation inside and around the hospital is catastrophic . There are a large number of martyrs and wounded , including four martyrs from the hospital 's medical staff , and there are no surgeons left . <p> ? ? The only medical team that was performing surgeries was the Indonesian medical delegation , and they were the first to be forced to leave for the checkpoint . <p> ? ? Medical supplies are nearly exhausted , and there are hundreds of victims . <p> ? ? Initially , there were a series of airstrikes on the northern and western sides of the hospital , accompanied by heavy and direct fire , which , fortunately , did not result in any injuries inside the hospital . <p> ? ? Then , we were surprised when two people entered the hospital carrying a loudspeaker and ordered me to evacuate all patients , displaced people , and medical staff , forcing everyone to the hospital courtyard and pushing them out to the checkpoint . After that , they returned and asked for one companion for each patient and displaced person to assist with the evacuation . <p> ? ? In the morning , we were shocked to see hundreds of wounded people and corpses in the streets surrounding the hospital . <p> ? ? The oxygen generators were targeted at night , and now there are only two inexperienced surgeons available to perform surgeries on the patients . They had to start the operations despite their lack of experience , as there were 20 wounded people needing urgent care . <p> ? ? Human rights organizations and international institutions must take action to save what can be saved from the repeated war crimes that have become a daily routine for the occupation . <p> What Happened ? <p> Local sources reported that in the early hours of the morning , the Israeli forces surrounded the hospital with tanks from all sides . They used two civilian prisoners as human shields by sending them to order the patients and those in the hospital to leave . <p> The Israeli occupation forces have arrested a number of young men and instructed others to head to west Gaza City via Salah al-Din Street . <p> Dr Hussam Abu Safiya , the director of Kamal Adwan , confirmed that the Israeli forces arrested a number of displaced people and medics while forcing other medics to leave the hospital and head towards the Indonesian Hospital . <p> The Indonesian delegation was also forced to leave the hospital and head towards the Indonesian Hospital , according to journalists . <p> Abu Safiya added that there is a large number of martyrs and critically injured people due to the Israeli attacks on the hospital and its vicinity , with the bodies of the martyrs still lying in the hospital courtyards . <p> Multiple Palestinians have been killed or injured after Israeli occupation forces bombarded several homes in the vicinity of Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza . **26;2789;TOOLONG <p> Just before the Israeli raid , it was quite violent and bloody in the vicinity of the Kamal Adwan Hospital and inside the health facility where the Israeli military was deploying quadcopters and attack drones to drop grenades on people , patients , the injured , and civilians inside the hospital , killing and injuring many . <p> A drone strike on Thursday killed a 16-year-old boy in a wheelchair and wounded at least 12 other people , including medical staff . <p> Shortly before the Israeli raid , Abu Safiya , the director of Kamal Adwan , described the horrific conditions inside the hospital and the gruesome injuries they were receiving inside the hospital that were caused by the attacks of the Israeli quadcopters and drones in the past hours . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The hospital was running out of any meaningful medical care , given the hardship and the fact the past 60-plus days have been very strict in terms of what can enter the northern part of Gaza as there is a complete siege , military siege , on the area with no humanitarian aid -- medical supplies , water , or life-sustaining resources -- available to people there because of the ongoing deliberate prevention by the Israeli military . <p> Amnesty International 's research has found sufficient basis to conclude that Israel has committed and is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip , the organization said in ... <p> The Biden administration 's failure to act decisively on international humanitarian crises has drawn sharp criticism from analysts and advocates alike . Despite its stated commitment to upholding humanitarian principles , the administration ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118553081 <h> Share : <p> After a recent widely-reported debate the celebrated Oxford Union of famed Oxford University overwhelmingly voted 278 to 59 for the proposition that " This house believes Israel is an apartheid state responsible for genocide " . Genocide is defined by the UN Genocide Convention as acts committed with intent to destroy a national , ethnic , racial or religious group , and it is expertly estimated that 273,000 Gazans were killed in the first year of the present Gaza Massacre and Gaza Genocide . <p> The fame of the Oxford Union is such that the Oxford Union debate on Apartheid Israel was widely reported , with TRT World reporting : " The Oxford Union , one of the world 's most prestigious debating societies , voted overwhelmingly on Thursday to declare Israel an " apartheid state responsible for genocide , " with 278 votes in favour and 59 against . The motion sparked a heated debate marked by passionate speeches , interruptions , and accusations from both sides . The debate , framed around the proposition " This house believes Israel is an apartheid state responsible for genocide , " featured prominent speakers , including Palestinian American writer Susan Abulhawa , Palestinian poet Mohammed el Kurd , and anti-Zionist Israeli writer Miko Peled . They argued in favour of the motion , while opposition speakers included UK Lawyers for Israel legal director Natasha Hausdorff , Arab-Israeli activist Yoseph Haddad , and Mosab Hassan Yousef , the son of a Hamas leader who provided information to Israel 's Shin Bet for 10 years before fleeing to the United States " 1 . <p> The Oxford Union debate centred on the terms " apartheid " and " genocide " . " Apartheid " is defined as follows by Article 2 of the International Convention for the Suppression and Prevention of the Crime of Apartheid ( 1976 ) : " For the purpose of the present Convention , the term " the crime of apartheid " , which shall include similar policies and practices of racial segregation and discrimination as practised in southern Africa , shall apply to the following inhuman acts committed for the purpose of establishing and maintaining domination by one racial group of persons over any other racial group of persons and systematically oppressing them : <p> ( a ) Denial to a member or members of a racial group or groups of the right to life and liberty of person : ( i ) By murder of members of a racial group or groups ; ( ii ) By the infliction upon the members of a racial group or groups of serious bodily or mental harm , by the infringement of their freedom or dignity , or by subjecting them to torture or to cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment ; ( iii ) By arbitrary arrest and illegal imprisonment of the members of a racial group or groups ; <p> ( b ) Deliberate imposition on a racial group or groups of living conditions calculated to cause its or their physical destruction in whole or in part ; <p> ( c ) Any legislative measures and other measures calculated to prevent a racial group or groups from participation in the political , social , economic and cultural life of the country and the deliberate creation of conditions preventing the full development of such a group or groups , in particular by denying to members of a racial group or groups basic human rights and freedoms , including the right to work , the right to form recognized trade unions , the right to education , the right to leave and to return to their country , the right to a nationality , the right to freedom of movement and residence , the right to freedom of opinion and expression , and the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association ; <p> ( d ) Any measures including legislative measures , designed to divide the population along racial lines by the creation of separate reserves and ghettos for the members of a racial group orgroups , the prohibition of mixed marriages among members of various racial groups , the expropriation of landed property belonging to a racial group or groups or to members thereof ; <p> ( e ) Exploitation of the labour of the members of a racial group or groups , in particular by submitting them to forced labour ; <p> ( f ) Persecution of organizations and persons , by depriving them of fundamental rights and freedoms , because they oppose apartheid " 2 . <p> The Apartheid Convention 2 is heavily informed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights ( UDHR ) 3 , the Fourth Geneva Convention ( the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War ) 4 and the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide 5 . <p> Article 3 of the UDHR states : " Everyone has the right to life , liberty and security of person " 3 , but this is grossly violated by the present mass killing , injuring and traumatizing of Apartheid Israel 's Indigenous Palestinian Subjects in the Gaza Concentration Camp . <p> Articles 55 and 56 of the Fourth Geneva Convention ( the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War ) demand that an Occupier is inescapably obliged to provide its conquered Subjects with life-sustaining food and medical services " to the fullest extent of the means available to it " 4 . However this was egregiously violated by 16 years of deadly Jewish Israeli blockade of the Gaza Concentration Camp ( Occupied Indigenous Palestinian infant mortality 3 times higher than for Occupier Israelis ) and the immediate imposition of a siege on Gaza on 7 October 2023 and substantial exclusion of Gazans from life-sustaining water , food , shelter , sanitation , clothing , electricity , fuel , medicine and medical care . <p> Article 2 of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide states : " In the present Convention , genocide means any of the following acts committed with intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group , as such : ( a ) Killing members of the group ; ( b ) Causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group ; ( c ) Deliberately inflicting on the group conditions of life calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part ; ( d ) Imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group ; ( e ) Forcibly transferring children of the group to another group " 5 . Genocidal Zionist " intent " is established by ( a ) over a century of horrific and explicit genocidal assertions by Zionists ( for a detailed compendium see 6 ) and ( b ) the sustained and worsening century-long Palestinian Genocide associated ( as of 2024 ) with 2.5 million Palestinian deaths from violence ( 0.1 million ) and imposed deprivation ( 2.4 million ) 7 . <p> Egregious apartheid is variously suffered by the 15 million mostly impoverished and subjugated Indigenous Palestinians that include 7 million Exiled Palestinians ( excluded on pain of death from the land continuously inhabited by their forebears for over 4,000 years ) , 5.6 million Occupied Palestinians ( highly abusively confined without human rights under a brutal , 57-year military occupation to ever-dwindling West Bank ghettos or " Bantustans " ( 3.3 million ) or to the bombed , blockaded and now devastated and murderously besieged Gaza Concentration Camp ( pre-war population 2.3 million ) and unable to vote for the government ruling them ) ; and 2.1 million Israeli Palestinians ( able to vote for approved candidates in elections for the government ruling them , albeit as Third Class citizens under 65 Nazi-style and race-based discriminatory laws ) 8 . Pre-7 October 2023 about 7.7 million Indigenous Palestinians were 51% of the Subjects of Apartheid Israel , but with 73% ( the Occupied Palestinians ) excluded from voting for the government ruling them ; however mass murder of 335,500 Gazans ( by the end of 2024 ) has reduced this to 50% . Neo-Nazi Apartheid Israel is a democracy by genocide and race-based exclusion . Pre-7 October 2023 the GDP per capita was $55,500 for Apartheid Israel , a deadly $3,500 for Occupied Palestinians , and an even deadlier $1,000 for Gaza 8 . What is the GDP in a Gaza reduced to rubble and people reduced in possessions to the clothes they are wearing ? Poverty and deprivation kill , and when deliberately applied to innocent children is evil child abuse . <p> Famed Palestinian writer Susan Abulhawa 9 participated in the Oxford Union Debate 1 and estimated 300,000 Palestinians killed in the first year of the Gaza Massacre : " If Palestinians had killed an estimated 300,000 Jews in one year , targeted their journalists , their thinkers , their healthcare workers , their athletes , their artists , bombed every Israeli hospital , university , library , museum , cultural center , synagogue , and simultaneously set up an observation platform where people came watch their slaughter as if a tourist attraction ; ... if the world were watching the live streamed systematic annihilation of Jews in real time , there would be no debating whether that constituted terrorism or genocide " 10 , 11 . <p> Susan Abulhawa attempted to estimate the number of people killed in Gaza using available UN and Palestinian information ( 27 June 2024 ) : " Based on these estimates , both conservative and data-driven , respectively , the actual figures are likely as follows : 377,280 buildings destroyed completely or partially ; 95,040-97,680 martyred ; 221,760 injured ; 24,750 dead or dying from starvation ; 42,000 missing ( presumed dead , kidnapped by Israel 's occupying forces or possibly trafficked ) . The following ranges represent conservative estimate or lower range of data-driven population estimates:17,050-94,049 with chronic illnesses dead from lack of medication ; 14,408-255,985 dead from epidemics resulting from Israel 's assault . This means the actual number of dead is closer to 194,768-511,824 people , with 221,760 injured . And counting " 12 . <p> Susan Abulhawa ( 18 October 2024 ) : " The near-total degradation of an entire high-functioning society in months is impossible to comprehend . The lack of adequate sustenance and sanitation , coupled with unceasing terror , the spread of disease ( from hepatitis and polio to mysterious and painful pediatric skin pustules ) , testing of new weaponry , and an AI-guided death industry has made Gaza the most macabre experiment of empire . I conducted a brief study to estimate the true death toll in Gaza because I knew the capacity to keep count had been decimated . My study , published by Electronic Intifada , found the true death toll to be between 190,000 and 500,000 . It includes martyrs from direct fire , as well as those with chronic illnesses who died from lack of access to medications ; the dead or dying from starvation and dehydration ; those missing ; and those dead from the spread of rampant communicable diseases borne of Israel 's destruction of sanitation and water treatment facilities . As is frequently the case when Palestinians speak , my article was met with scepticism and dismissal . But 10 days after its publication , The Lancet , a venerated peer-reviewed medical journal , published a " conservative " number of " up to 186,000 or even more deaths " killed , corroborating the lower end of my estimated range , which I believe is still a gross underestimation " 13 . <p> Rasha Khatib , Martin McKee and Salim Yusuf in The Lancet article alluded to by Susan Abulhawa 13 ( 10 July 2024 ) : " Applying a conservative estimate of four indirect deaths per one direct death to the 37,396 deaths reported , it is not implausible to estimate that up to 186,000 or even more deaths could be attributable to the current conflict in Gaza.Using the 2022 Gaza Strip population estimate of 2,375,259 , this would translate to 7*9% of the total population in the Gaza Strip " 14 . <p> Mainstream media and other sources report violent deaths and ignore huge avoidable deaths from imposed deprivation ( see my book " Body Count . Global avoidable mortality since 1950 " 15 ) . Western Mainstream media , and even well-intentioned and pro-Palestinian human rights sources and activists report only about 40,000 Palestinian deaths in Gaza and evidently ignore what must be huge avoidable deaths ( excess deaths ) from imposed deprivation . I have been researching avoidable deaths from deprivation for 3 decades with my findings reported in hundreds of articles 16-20 and 9 huge books ( this including massively updated revised editions ) 15 , 21-25 . In short , whether a child dies from bashing , bullets and bombs or dies from imposed deprivation the death is just a permanent and the perpetrator just as guilty . Avoidable deaths can be determined from UN demographic data as the difference between actual deaths in a country and deaths expected for a peaceful , decently run country with the same demographics ( population and age distribution ) . In impoverished countries under-5 infant mortality is about 70% of the total avoidable mortality , this permitting rapid assessment of avoidable mortality ( this otherwise involving a very laborious analysis of UN demographic data ( see 15 ) . Usefully , the 2007 and 2021 editions of " Body Count . Global avoidable mortality since 1950 " also contain succinct , avoidable mortality-related histories of every country 15 . <p> I used this methodology to estimate deaths from violence and imposed deprivation in the 2003-2011 Iraq War ( 2.7 million ) and in the 2001-2021 Afghan War ( 6.8 million ) . Violent deaths in Iraq ( 1.5 million ) were estimated from expert epidemiological surveys 26 and violent deaths in Afghanistan ( 1 million ) were assessed on the basis that the Afghan War was 4 times less violent than the Iraq War 27 , 28 . The estimated deaths from violence and imposed deprivation in the Iraq plus Afghan wars totalled 9.5 million , this being similar to the estimate of over 4.7 million deaths made by the team of 35 expert scholars of the Costs of War project of the Watson Institute for International &amp; Public Affairs at prestigiousBrown University 29 . However in stark contrast , Establishment-perverted Mainstream media typically under-estimate Iraq War deaths at about 300,000 30 . Indeed on the occasion of the withdrawal of most US forces from Iraq , the taxpayer-funded Australian Broadcasting Corporation ( the ABC , Australia 's equivalent of the Establishment-beholden UK BBC ) estimated " tens of thousands " of Iraq deaths 31 . Similarly one notes that there are now 5 million orphans in Iraq 32 -- this implies 10 million dead parents if 1 child per family and 2.5 million dead parents if 4 children per family , noting that most of the dead in modern wars are children 15 . <p> EuroMed Human Rights Monitor reported 29,000 Gaza deaths on 27 December 2023 ( i.e. after 2 months of killing ) 25 , whereas Amnesty International estimated 42,000 Palestinian deaths in Gaza by 7 October 2024 ( i.e. after 12 months of killing and a worsening humanitarian catastrophe of massive deadly deprivation , disease , and famine with substantial lack of water , food , shelter , sanitation , electricity , fuel , winter clothing , medicine and medical care ) : " By 7 October 2024 , the Gaza-based Ministry of Health had recorded 42,010 Palestinian fatalities in Gaza , the vast majority of which were of Palestinians killed during Israel 's offensive , and 97,590 other Palestinians injured since 7 October 2023 . The actual toll of those killed during the offensive may be higher and will only become apparent once the conflict is over , including when rescue teams are able to count the dead and retrieve missing bodies from under the rubble . The armed conflict in Gaza has seen some of the highest known death tolls among children ( 13,319 by 7 October 2024 ) , journalists , as well as health and humanitarian workers of any recent conflict in the world " 33 . The destruction of most of Gaza has evidently greatly impaired the ability to accurately assess the number of deaths . Zionazi Apartheid Israel in Gaza is a world leader on a per capita basis for annual killing of children , journalists , health workers and prisoners . <p> However a recent Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor report is useful for assessing the number of violent deaths in 1 year , including the proportion of deaths of children , women and men ( 6 October 2024 ) : " Since the start of the genocide in Gaza , more than 50,000 Palestinians have been killed by the Israeli army , including around 42,000 recorded by the Gaza Ministry of Health , the majority being women and children . In addition , approximately 100,000 have been injured , with thousands of bodies still lying under the rubble and in the streets , unreachable by rescue and medical teams . An estimated 10 per cent of Gaza 's population has been killed , injured , reported missing , or detained as a result of Israeli military assaults . Of the 50,292 Palestinians killed -- including those still buried under the debris -- 33 per cent were children 16,596 children , and 21 per cent were women 10,561 women and hence 23,134 or 46% men . Thousands more have been forcibly detained , with 3,600 still languishing in various Israeli prisons and detention centres " 34 . <p> Professor Devi Sridhar ( an eminent American public health researcher and chair of global public health at the University of Edinburgh 35 ) ( 5 September 2024 ) : " The Lancet medical journal recently published an estimate of deaths in Gaza from several respected scientists , who outline their process of estimation ( comparison with similar conflicts ) and final numbers . They estimate that about 186,000 total deaths could be attributable to the current conflict in Gaza , which is roughly 7.9% of its population , by mid-June 2024 . This high number is despite various ceasefire agreements over the past six months . If deaths continue at this rate -- about 23,000 a month -- there would be an additional 149,500 deaths by the end of the year , some six and half months from the initial mid-June estimate . Using the method , the total deaths since the conflict began would be estimated at about 335,500 in total i.e. by the end of 2024 and 14.75 months since 7 October 2023 " 36 . <p> We can assume that 50,292 Gazans were killed violently in the first year 34 , this yielding 272,949 -50,292 = 222 , 657 non-violent deaths from imposed deprivation . <p> Of the 222,657 non-violent deaths , 70% ( 155,860 ) were of under-5 year old infants 15 , with the remaining 66,797 being non-infant non-violent deaths . <p> We can assume the proportions of children , women and men deaths among the 66,797 non-infant non-violent deaths to be those set out in 34 i.e. 33% children ( 22,043 ) , 21% women ( 14,027 ) and 46% men ( 30,727 ( men ) . <p> We can assume ( in the absence of other data ) that the proportions of children , women and men deaths among the 50,292 violent deaths are those estimated in 34 i.e. 33% children ( 16,596 ) , 21% women ( 10,561 ) and 46% men ( 23,134 ) . <p> Violent and non-violent Gaza deaths in the first year then total 194,499 ( children ) , 24,588 ( women ) and 53,861 ( men ) for a total of 272,948 deaths in the first year . <p> Undercounting -- the " truth " is what Zionists and the US Establishment say it is . US Establishment-beholden , Zionist-subverted , and Zionist-perverted Western Mainstream journalist , editor , politician , academic and commentariat presstitutes continue to under-report about asserted 40,000 Gaza deaths . Even exemplary and pro-Palestinian human rights Amnesty International in its hard-hitting report " You feel like you are subhuman . Israel 's genocide against Palestinians in Gaza " ( December 2024 ) reported 42,000 Gaza deaths 33 . <p> Famed consumer advocate and activist Ralph Nader 37 has described what he calls the undercounting of Gaza deaths ( September 2024 ) : " Exposing the Gaza Death Undercount. 40,000 ? It 's more like 300,000 " 38-40 . In carefully researched articles 41-44 and Letters to Mainstream media ( unpublished by the mendacious MSM but collated as a public record of MSM mendacity 19 , 20 ) I have reported the estimates of hundreds of thousands of Gaza deaths made by health experts published in the prestigious medical journal The Lancet 14 and by eminent health expert Professor Devi Sridhar 36 . UN Special Rapporteur for the Occupied Palestinian Territory , Francesca Albanese , has cited Professor Devi Sridhar in stating ( 6 September 2024 ) : " Without a ceasefire the IDF could end up exterminating almost the entire population in Gaza over the next couple of years ... The range of presumable direct and indirect deaths could be between 15% and 20% of the population already by the end of this year ... Once the dust settles , I ca n't imagine how the world will go on after having allowed that . Again " 45-47 ( indeed , noting a pre-war Gaza population of 2.3 million , 335,500 x100/2,300,000 = 15% ) . <p> Genocide , ethnocide and cultural obliteration in Gaza and Palestine . Not content with genocide and ethnic cleansing of Indigenous Palestinians from 90% of Palestine , the genocidal Zionazis have been eradicating the physical evidence of the over 4,000 years of Palestinian history . <p> Gaza was formerly one of the oldest and most important cities of the Arab World and dates back over 4,000 years to the Semitic Fertile Crescent that brought the alphabet , literature , mathematics , astronomy , agronomy and philosophy to the World 15 , 48-52 . Indeed the first Egyptian record of Gaza was by Thutmose III in the 15th century BCE 50 , 51 whereas there is zero non-Biblical reference to the asserted " Exodus from Egypt " , " the empire of David and Solomon " or the " total Exile from Palestine under the Romans " 53 . The " perfumes of Arabia " of Shakespeare 's Lady Macbeth fame 54 were deposited in the port of Gaza by the famed Nabataeans for transhipment to the Roman Empire and its imperial successors . Thus the Metropolitan Museum of Art : " Frankincense and myrrh , highly prized in antiquity as fragrances , could only be obtained from trees growing in southern Arabia , Ethiopia , and Somalia . Arab merchants brought these goods to Roman markets by means of camel caravans along the Incense Route . The Incense Route originally commenced at Shabwah in Hadhramaut , the easternmost kingdom of South Arabia , and ended at Gaza , a port north of the Sinai Peninsula on the Mediterranean Sea . Both the camel caravan routes across the deserts of Arabia and the ports along the coast of South Arabia were part of a vast trade network covering most of the world then known to Greco-Roman geographers as Arabia Felix . South Arabian merchants utilized the Incense Route to transport not only frankincense and myrrh but also spices , gold , ivory , pearls , precious stones , and textiles -- all of which arrived at the local ports from Africa , India , and the Far East . The geographer Strabo compared the immense traffic along the desert routes to that of an army . The Incense Route ran along the western edge of Arabia 's central desert about 100 miles inland from the Red Sea coast ; Pliny the Elder stated that the journey consisted of sixty-five stages divided by halts for the camels . Both the Nabataeans and the South Arabians grew tremendously wealthy through the transport of goods destined for lands beyond the Arabian Peninsula " 55 . <p> As detailed by the brilliant William Dalrymple 52 , Gaza had a key role in the game-changing 11th -15th century transmission to Europe of Indian-Arab wisdom , especially and crucially in mathematics ( 2024 ) : " Gerard and Ghalib were the most prolific and productive stars of the new translation movement , but they were not alone , nor were they the first . Other translations from the Arabic at this period were being made in many other places where Arab rule had given way to that of Crusading Christians : south Italy , Sicily and the various Crusader states of the Outremer that by the late eleventh century were now lining the Mediterranean coast from Antioch ( now in south-east Turley ) to Gaza ( in Palestine ) . Together , these filled European libraries with a richness of learning impossible to even imagine a century earlier " ( pages 232 and 270 52 ) . <p> About 50% of about 900 archaeological sites in Gaza have been destroyed or damaged so far by Jewish Israeli bombing 56-58 . The northern third of Gaza is being turned into a completely bulldozed building site . <p> By way of example , Yousif Al-Daffaie ( 21 February 2024 ) : " A reflection of Palestine 's history where multiple religions coexisted , the Great Omari Mosque has undergone multiple transformations throughout history . Built on the site of a pagan temple , this fifth-century church became a mosque in AD635 . With a courtyard area of 1,190m ? , the mosque was the second-largest in Palestine and served as a daily destination for more than 3,000 worshippers . Situated near Palestine Square , it has played a crucial role in the everyday life of Gaza , as mosques in Middle Eastern cities foster social interactions , informal conversations and societal bonds . But this incubation of societal interactions came to an abrupt stop in December 2023 , when the mosque was reduced to rubble " 57 . <p> In the 1948 Nakba the Zionazis not only expelled 800,000 Indigenous Palestinians but in the process killed 15,000 Palestinians and destroyed 530 Palestinian villages and over 100 mosques . Thus , for example , the 1948 Tantura Massacre in which Zionist militia murdered about 200 Indigenous Palestinians in the seaside village of Tantura near Haifa -- the village was bulldozed over the dead and is now a car park for beach goers 59 . The Jewish National Fund ( which has a tax-deductible status in Zionazism-supporting , Zionist subverted , US lackey and racist White Australia ) has been involved in physically erasing Palestinian buildings from Palestine . <p> Final comments and conclusions . <p> Meanwhile the Jewish Israeli-imposed bombing , shooting , killing , injuring , starving and traumatizing continues with impunity in the Gaza Concentration Camp while the World looks on . In peaceful south Melbourne a major synagogue has just been fire-bombed in an appalling act of arson ( 6 December 2024 ) 60 . In response to this outrage I sent the following Letter under the Subject heading " The World must stop the Genocide and Occupation NOW " to major Australian Mainstream media ( it is very unlikely to be published but will be preserved for universal access here : 19 ) : <p> LETTER . " Everybody utterly deplores the burning of the Melbourne synagogue , recalling the 1938 Kristallnacht atrocity in Nazi Germany that unleashed pogroms against Jews and launched the WW2 Jewish Holocaust ( 5-6 million Jews killed by violence and imposed deprivation , including many of my Jewish Hungarian relatives ) . Back in 2001 the Brisbane mosque of my Muslim in-laws was burned down due to post-9/11 Islamophobic hysteria . According to the Brown University Cost of War project Muslim deaths from violence and deprivation in Occupied Iraq and Occupied Afghanistan totalled 4.7 million . Over 4 millennia culturally important Gaza was involved in the extraordinary advance of civilization in the Fertile Crescent , shipped the " perfumes of Arabia " to the Roman Empire , and played an important part in the transmission of Indian-Arabic learning to Europe in the 11th -- 15th centuries CE ( William Dalrymple ) . However 50% of Gaza 's archaeological sites have been damaged or destroyed including the Great Omari Mosque that dated to Roman times . In 1 year 273,000 Gazans have been killed ( Professor Devi Sridhar , Edinburgh ) , 15% of the pre-war population , and including 195,000 children . The World must stop the Genocide and Occupation NOW . Peace is the only way but silence kills and silence is complicity . END LETTER . <p> In 2024 I published a huge book entitled " Free Palestine . End Apartheid Israel , Human Rights Denial , Gaza Massacre , Child Killing , Occupation and Palestinian Genocide " 25 . The sub-title summarizes what must be urgently done to free Palestine . However the easiest thing to achieve immediately is the World demanding that the Indigenous Palestinians be immediately granted full human rights i.e. all the human rights as set out in the 30 articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 3 . However genocidally racist , egregiously mendacious , endlessly thieving and Zionazi-run Apartheid Israel will simply not agree to this demand that is utterly unexceptional for decent Humanity -- and as a result should be sanctioned as a racist and pariah apartheid state . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> In the face of obscene Zionazi human rights denial by Apartheid Israel , decent people throughout the World must unite to ( a ) inform everyone they can and ( b ) urge and apply rigorous Boycotts , Divestment and Sanctions ( BDS ) against Apartheid Israel and all people , parties and politicians , collectives , corporations and countries supporting this genocidally racist , egregiously lying , relentlessly thieving , child-killing and Zionazi Apartheid rogue state . <p> Amnesty International 's research has found sufficient basis to conclude that Israel has committed and is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip , the organization said in ... <p> The Biden administration 's failure to act decisively on international humanitarian crises has drawn sharp criticism from analysts and advocates alike . Despite its stated commitment to upholding humanitarian principles , the administration ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118553083 <p> Palestinian territory -- The Israeli occupation army burned displaced people alive in Mawasi Khan Yunis in the southern Gaza Strip after directly targeting their displacement tents , killing 22 Palestinians , half of whom were women and children . An additional 18 people suffered burn wounds during the attack . <p> At approximately 6:07 p.m. on Wednesday , Israeli aircraft and helicopters fired multiple missiles at the tents of displaced people in Mawasi Khan Yunis , an area Israel claims to be a safe humanitarian zone . The displaced people were burned alive in their ramshackle tents , resulting in the death of 22 Palestinians -- including eight children and three women , one of whom was a mother and her two daughters from the Shurab family -- while 18 others suffered burns and various other wounds . <p> Based on details collected by Euro-Med Monitor 's field team regarding the bombing operation , the Israeli army deliberately targeted civilians . The operation began with a request to evacuate part of the targeted area , during which an Israeli helicopter fired a missile at the displaced people as they were evacuating . The raids were subsequently repeated across a 700-meter area , directly striking the displaced people 's tents and setting them ablaze . <p> Later , the Israeli army declared that it had targeted a Hamas Movement leader who was actually a local Internal Security Service official . This suggests that Israel is still working to destroy the entire police and internal security apparatus to sow chaos and anarchy throughout the Gaza Strip . <p> The assassination of an internal security officer is a crime in and of itself , and it does not justify the use of excessive force or a lack of concern for civilian casualties . <p> In an area home to hundreds of thousands of displaced people , the Euro-Med field team reviewed harrowing accounts and evidence of children 's charred and dismembered remains being retrieved , reflecting an unprecedented level of Israeli brutality through the use of incendiary bombs and shells . <p> This was not an isolated incident ; rather , it was a manifestation of Israel 's systematic genocide against all Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , targeting and killing them wherever they may be , including in the " humanitarian zone " that Israel maintains is safe . <p> Israel used direct destructive firepower there , burning and killing a large number of people who had been forcibly displaced from their homes throughout the Gaza Strip , and then pushed them to this area so Israel could bomb them nonstop . <p> On 10 September , after midnight , Israeli aircraft dropped three American-made MK-84 bombs on a group of sleeping displaced people in the Mawasi neighbourhood of Khan Yunis . The bombs created three craters several meters deep and wide , burying roughly twenty tents with the families inside . Since there were no evacuation warnings prior to the bombing , the Israeli army 's intent to kill as many civilians as possible is evidenced by the use of American bombs , which have a wide destructive effect in an area crowded with tents and displaced people , leading to an initial death toll of over 60 , including the dead and wounded . <p> As part of the crime of genocide , Israeli planes carried out numerous raids on the tents of the displaced in the Al-Mawasi area , burning and killing scores of Palestinians while burying many more in the sand . <p> By stating that members of Palestinian factions are present in the region , Israel is attempting to justify its massacres , though these claims are typically unverified . According to field investigations , Israel deliberately carries out raids during Palestinian civilian gathering times , which are visible to surveillance cameras and footage recorded by its aircraft . This allows Israel to target individuals it claims are of interest in locations and situations that are far from civilians , or by using precise or at least proportionate weapons , yet it also intentionally kills civilians and causes the greatest number of casualties and injuries possible . <p> Israel is still required to uphold the principles of international law , including international humanitarian law , and to ensure that all of its rules pertaining to humanity , distinction , military necessity , proportionality , and appropriate precautions are applied . This is an unavoidable duty that Israel must uphold and guarantee throughout the preparation and execution of all its military operations , without exception , including the selection of techniques and weaponry designed to minimise civilian casualties and injuries . <p> Israel also has an obligation to refrain from military action if the number of civilian casualties and injuries exceeds the military benefit ; otherwise , it would be committing a serious crime , which in the case of the Gaza Strip would be considered genocide . <p> Such massacres , which systematically target civilians in a purely and repeatedly cruel manner , are met with a shameful state of silence and disregard , effectively giving Israel the green light to continue these atrocities in a blatant attempt to kill and exterminate Palestinians on a large scale . <p> The United States is complicit in this crime because it provides the Israeli army with weapons and incendiary and destructive bombs , even though it knows these weapons are used to kill hundreds of civilians each time . The decision-makers responsible must be held accountable for their complicity in these crimes . <p> The Israeli killing strategy reveals a clear policy to exterminate Palestinian civilians throughout the Gaza Strip , instill fear in them , deny them shelter or stability -- even for a brief period , force them to flee repeatedly , destroy them , and subject them to life-threatening conditions . <p> Bombing is also being carried out throughout the Strip , targeting areas designated as humanitarian zones , with a particular focus on shelters , including those set up in UNRWA-run schools . <p> All nations must fulfill their international obligations by preventing Israel from committing the crime of genocide and other serious crimes in the Gaza Strip , protecting civilians there , ensuring Israel abides by international law and the rulings of the International Court of Justice , enforcing effective sanctions against it , and halting all forms of military , financial , and political support and cooperation , including the immediate suspension of the sale , export , and transfer of weapons to Israel , including export licenses and military aid , and ensuring it is held accountable for its crimes against the Palestinian people . It is necessary to implement the arrest warrants issued by the International Criminal Court against the Israeli Prime Minister and Defence Minister . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The United States and other nations that provide Israel with any kind of support or assistance in connection with the commission of these crimes -- including aid and contractual relationships in military , intelligence , political , legal , financial , media , and other areas that contribute to the continuation of these crimes -- must be held accountable for their complicity and partnership with Israel in committing these crimes . <p> Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor is a Geneva-based independent organization with regional offices across the MENA region and Europe <p> Amnesty International 's research has found sufficient basis to conclude that Israel has committed and is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip , the organization said in ... <p> The Biden administration 's failure to act decisively on international humanitarian crises has drawn sharp criticism from analysts and advocates alike . Despite its stated commitment to upholding humanitarian principles , the administration ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118553084 <h> My final moments with Refaat Alareer <h> Share : <p> The author ( right ) with Refaat Alareer at the Gaza Municipality offices during a temporary ceasefire on 23 November 2023 . <p> At 3:15 pm precisely one year ago , on 6 December 2023 , I received a call from Refaat . It was during the most intensive strikes of the war and the ground invasion of Gaza City . On the other end of the line was Refaat 's voice , full of energy as usual . <p> " Where are you ? I 'm here at the garage , " he said , referring to the emergency operations center of the Gaza Municipality , where I work , located at the heavy machinery depot . Although our meeting had become a daily routine , it was always a delight . <p> After nearly 25 years , I had grown accustomed to Refaat 's sudden calls , spontaneous plans and impromptu adventures . That was his nature -- calling early in the morning to suggest breakfast at Al-Khazendar , a local hummus and falafel restaurant , picking figs and grapes in the orchards of Sheikh Ijleen south of Gaza City , or planning an afternoon outing to the borderlands . But this call was different . It would be our last one . <p> A sadness lingers in my heart knowing that I was the last known living person to see Refaat alive and to share his final hours that day . We parted moments before he was targeted and killed alongside six other members of his family . <p> Long walk to the internet <p> Our journey that day began in the garage , where we searched for an internet connection . At that time , with Israel having imposed a communications blackout in Gaza , the only way to connect was to find a suitable location to catch an eSIM signal , ideally at elevation in a high rise , though those were and remain utterly dangerous due to Israeli targeting . Refaat jokingly called it the " long walk to the internet , " alluding to Nelson Mandela 's autobiography Long Walk to Freedom . <p> We started from al-Wihda Street , near the public library , and walked west towards al-Amal Institute for Orphans to check on some of his family members sheltering there . Along the way , Refaat climbed a tree to try to catch an internet signal , jotted down an idea , took a photo , played with a child , fed a cat and assisted an elderly man with some cash . <p> In fleeting moments and brief encounters like these , Refaat made an impression wherever he went . <p> We could n't reach al-Amal Institute because an Israeli sniper was stationed on a building near Palestine Mosque Square overlooking al-Wihda Street , Omar al-Mukhtar Street and the surrounding areas . <p> With the sniper targeting anything that moved , we were forced to turn back . <p> We took a detour east amidst the sound of gunfire and walked through al-Shuhada Street near al-Saraya -- a landmark in Gaza that was once a prison and then became a park that everyone used to pass by or visit every day . Eventually , we reached Mustafa Hafez school in al-Rimal neighborhood , where the rest of Refaat 's family had sought refuge . Refaat checked on his wife and children at the school , ensuring they were safe . <p> We then worked through a maze of alleys and reached Yarmouk Stadium in the city center by sunset . Tanks were only about two kilometers away . We sat for a while at the stadium . Families newly displaced from their homes were sitting there , unsure of where to go , while their oblivious children played soccer -- their game accompanied by the roar of fighter jets and intermittent explosions rather than cheering crowds . <p> Unbeknownst to us at the time , the stadium would in a few days be converted into a mass detention facility . Refaat took photos while repeating , " Such resilient people ... such resilient people . Wallahi , those are such resilient people . " <p> Refaat spent the final weeks of his life displaced from his home , which was bombed in October , moving from one shelter to another after occupation forces invaded the Tal al-Hawa neighborhood where he lived . He endured great hardship juggling his family responsibilities with his commitment to telling the world what was happening in Gaza . <p> He did n't even know where he would sleep that night on what would be his last day . Eventually , he decided to check on his sister , who was also displaced , and spend the night where she was staying . Little did he know that it would be his final night and this his final displacement . <p> Refaat 's ideas for the future <p> At Yarmouk Stadium , we sat on the grass , which was greyish-green from all the soot in the air . Refaat spoke about his dream of dedicating himself entirely to storytelling . <p> " If I survive this war , I will collaborate with my talented students to collect stories , turn them into books and novels and eventually produce short and feature-length films based on them , " Refaat said in what was more of a monologue than a conversation between us . <p> Ever practical , he had drafted some ideas for these films on his phone -- some of which he shared with me . They were remarkable . Refaat frequently spoke fondly of his students , and they appreciated that . Despite the shell of toughness that he assumed as a teacher , his students knew he loved and cared for them deeply , much like a father cares for his children . <p> " I have two talents in life : one is shutting out of the classroom those who are late ; and the other is bringing the best out of those inside , " he once bragged , jokingly -- albeit it really was n't a joke . <p> Refaat Alareer and the author on 30 March 2018 , the first day of Gaza 's Great March of Return protests , shortly after inhaling tear gas fired by Israeli troops . <p> A few days after the war began , Refaat contacted me and came to Gaza Municipality to volunteer in the media team . In the short time that he worked with us , he managed the municipality 's account on X ; translated multiple statements into English ; helped shed some light on the people 's suffering due to water shortages and a lack of essential services in the early days of the war ; documented the conditions at the Gaza Zoo -- where the majority of animals died from starvation ; and helped get an opinion piece by the mayor of Gaza City published by The New York Times . <p> During the war , I saw Refaat help countless people : students , friends , colleagues and even strangers . His generosity and selflessness led him to offer help without waiting for someone to ask . <p> On one occasion , a few days before his murder , he came across one of his students on the street . After a brief conversation , he gave her money , insisting that she take it despite her refusal . Watching from afar , it was clear he was trying to assist her . He later told me the money was for a previous task she had done -- though it seemed to me that the story was a modest cover to hide his generous gesture . <p> Vulnerability <p> We walked east as we left the stadium , turning onto a street lined with tall trees . <p> Refaat spoke words I had never heard him say before : " I 'm tired . I 'm exhausted from running , from displacement and from carrying heavy water . " <p> It was strange to see the vulnerable Refaat . He had always been strong , fearless and unwavering . His last day felt like an entire lifetime packed into a few hours . He began it by carrying water upstairs ; then he wrote an article and checked on his family . He ended it by spending time with a lucky friend . <p> I am proud and grateful to have crossed paths with Refaat , first as his student , then as his friend , partner in various projects , colleague , close collaborator and -- finally -- as intimate as family . That pride is now accompanied by a deep loneliness . <p> In spite of this loneliness , I hold a profound conviction that rare and deeply impactful connections like the one we shared only grow stronger and deeper in grief , continuing to flourish even after a person 's passing . My faith gives me solace , knowing Refaat 's sacrifice was not in vain . His death was neither meaningless nor forgotten . His passing has transformed that life into a belief in itself , a testament to the enduring power of his life and legacy . <p> In his passing , Refaat fulfilled his lifelong goal of raising awareness about Palestine . He became a story himself , a symbol of freedom and an icon cherished not only by his friends and those who knew him , but also by countless supporters of the Palestinian cause worldwide . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Perhaps I was not fortunate to be the last person to see Refaat before his death , as this fact alone leaves my heart with an eternal ache . But sorrow will not stop me or Refaat 's friends and students from moving forward with carrying on his legacy . Our grief is fuel for achieving our hopes and Refaat 's dream of justice for Palestine . <p> Refaat and I had planned to meet again the next day at the same time and place . As always , both before and during the war , our goodbye was marked by a warm , long hug and three kisses , two on the right cheek , and one on the left . <p> Though sweet at the time , that loving parting will forever live as a painful one in my memory , as it was our final embrace . <p> To my beloved brother Refaat , until we meet again . <p> Photos courtesy of the author . <p> Asem Alnabih is an engineer and PhD researcher currently based in north Gaza . He serves as the spokesperson for the Gaza Municipality and has written for many platforms in both Arabic and English . <p> Amnesty International 's research has found sufficient basis to conclude that Israel has committed and is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip , the organization said in ... <p> The Biden administration 's failure to act decisively on international humanitarian crises has drawn sharp criticism from analysts and advocates alike . Despite its stated commitment to upholding humanitarian principles , the administration ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118576691 <p> The 60-day deal between Hezbollah and Israel , brokered by the US and supported by France , which came into effect on November 27 , seeks to enforce UN Resolution 1701 . The resolution was adopted in 2006 to end hostilities between the two sides , maintain a buffer zone and report violations . The buffer zone stretches between the Blue Line , a temporary line of withdrawal for Israeli forces set by the UN in 2000 and the Litani River in southern Lebanon . The current deal envisages Hezbollah moving its infrastructure , weapons and fighters to the north of the Litani River and Israeli forces moving south to the Blue Line over 60 days . <p> The UN 1701 mechanism -- the UN Interim Force in Lebanon ( UNIFIL ) and the Lebanese Armed Forces ( LAF ) retaining control of the buffer zone -- remains in principle , while the onus of implementing the deal and holding the 60-day ceasefire rests with the Lebanese and Israeli governments . Even though agreeing to the deal , both Hezbollah and Israel have warned they would act in " self-defence " should the other party violate the deal or ceasefire . Given the deep mutual suspicion and continuing war in Gaza , the deal 's success appears doubtful . <p> Advertisement <p> The deal is predicated on the assumption that the Lebanese government can make commitments on behalf of Hezbollah , a political and armed group that has , for decades , resided as a " state within a state " within Lebanon . Hezbollah and its allies have won more than 60 of the 128 parliamentary seats in the democratic elections . For years , Hezbollah 's presence in southern Lebanon has been viewed as a " security guarantee " against Israel , which has gone to war with Lebanon four times . <p> The agreement stipulates a temporary ceasefire and aims to create conditions leading to a permanent ceasefire between Hezbollah and Israel . The US has agreed to lead a monitoring mechanism . However , the agreement prohibits the US or any other country from bringing in troops to enforce the deal . In formal briefings , US officials have asserted that since Hezbollah has been weakened during the war with Israel , it is a great opportunity to build up the LAF as well as create collective political will in Lebanon to pass on security entirely to its army , diminishing Hezbollah 's role in the country . Counting on help from other countries , especially France , the US wishes to change the course of history in Lebanon , including the trajectory of the country 's relations with Israel and Iran . Achieving this goal in 60 days seems a tall order . It also remains to be seen as to what the state of affairs will be after 60 days , and whether the Trump administration would like to remain engaged , and if so , in what manner . <p> Within the Israeli government , the dominant far-right elements strongly advocate the continuous undermining of Hezbollah . There is also hope of aggressive US military support under the Trump administration , especially against Iran . However , the Israeli PM is known to have agreed to the deal because Israeli forces suffered significant losses since the ground offensive into southern Lebanon began on October 1 . The country 's media reported that within a month , over 35 soldiers were killed and over 900 were wounded in northern front operations . The reports further indicated that top army leadership had assessed that military objectives with respect to Hezbollah and Hamas had been achieved to enable the political process . However , the threat of Iranian retaliation to the October 26 Israeli aerial attacks on Iran continues to loom large . For the past few months , the Israeli media has been repeatedly pointing to the erosion of public support for the wars , especially because of the failure to bring back the hostages home in about 14 months . <p> Advertisement <p> Credible US media inputs suggest that the Trump team too had indicated during the elections that Israel should complete its operations before the President-elect assumed office . This was in line with Trump 's declared policy of " stopping wars " and not " starting wars " . Moreover , his policy of demanding that NATO allies pay their share for the European security shield would also be applicable to Israel which has recently benefited from the deployment of the super-expensive US THAAD aerial defence system and 100 US military personnel . <p> The US team has called for re-energising efforts for a Gaza ceasefire . However , there are sharp differences between the Palestinian view -- backed by key nations -- of embarking on a roadmap to a two-state solution as part of the ceasefire deal on Gaza and far-right elements within the Israeli government , who have been pushing for total control of security in Gaza . <p> With far-right elements taking an increasingly belligerent approach , the war in Gaza has expanded to multiple fronts for Israel as a result of which some in the country advocate the targeting of Iranian nuclear sites and effecting a regime change in Tehran . Though the Trump team has claimed success for the Lebanon deal as the " Trump effect " , it is quite likely that the Trump administration would use Russia-like sanctions rather than direct or indirect military means to secure US security interests in the region . <p> Lastly , the day the deal took effect , al-Qaeda linked jihadi groups of Syria , backed by regional actors , launched a massive attack on Syrian forces in northwestern parts taking over control of many pockets , including Aleppo city . The re-booting of the Syrian conflict by regional state and non-state actors , after years of lying low , is expected to unleash serious violence in the region , whereby no single actor would have means to re-establish security and stability in the years ahead . As a result , global security and commercial interests in the region too are likely to experience further distress . <p> The writer is a security analyst and former Director General of Police 
@@118576704 <h> Brush up your current affairs knowledge with this week 's top 15 questions and consolidate your UPSC-CSE preparation . Find answers along with explanations . <p> The Prime Minister shared a picture from his visit to Chaitya Bhoomi , the cremation place of Ambedkar in Mumbai , earlier this year . Find a question on B.R. Ambedkar in today 's quiz . ( Photo : @narendramodi/X ) <p> UPSC Weekly Quizis a current affairs-based quiz on relevant topics from the past week , curated for the aspirants of competitive examinations . Attempt the weekly quiz every Saturdayand find answers to the MCQs with explanations . <h> ? ? The Indian Express UPSC Essentials brings to you the November issue of its monthly magazine . Click Here to read . Share your views and suggestions in the comment box or at **34;1269;TOOLONG <h> QUESTION 1 <p> Consider the following statements about Adhai Din ka Jhonpra : <p> 1 . It is a 12th-century mosque commissioned by Qutbuddin Aibak <p> 2 . The iconic screen wall that forms the mosque 's facade , with its seven corbelled arches , was commissioned by Ibrahim Khan Lodi . <p> -- Qutbuddin Aibak , a slave-turned-general in the Ghurid army , commissioned the Ajmer mosque after establishing the Mamluk Dynasty in 1206 to inaugurate the Delhi Sultanate . Qutabuddin commissioned it following Muhammad of Ghor 's victory over Prithviraj III ( also known as Prithviraj Chauhan ) at the Second Battle of Tarain . Hence , statement 1 is correct . <p> -- The Afghan invasion moved on to attack the Chauhan dynasty 's capital , Ajmer ( then known as Ajaymeru ) . Ajmer-based jurist Har Bilas Sarda wrote in Ajmer : Historical And Descriptive ( 1911 ) that during his short stay in the city , Muhammad of Ghor " destroyed the pillars and foundations of the idol temples " and " dismantled " Visaldeva 's College , " a portion of it converted into a mosque " known today as Adhai Din Ka Jhonpra . Sarda 's book is the key historical source used by the petitioners in the Dargah Sharif survey petition . <p> Advertisement <p> -- The mosque 's central mihrab has an inscription indicating that it was completed in 1199 , while the roof of a second dome from the north shows a date of 1200 . This makes it Ajmer 's oldest surviving landmark and the second oldest constructed mosque in North India , trailing only Delhi 's Quwwat ul Islam mosque . Hence , statement 3 is not correct . <p> -- Iltutmish , Qutabuddin 's son-in-law and third Sultan of Delhi , commissioned and finished the distinctive screen wall that forms the mosque 's facade , with its seven corbelled arches , in 1213 . Hence , statement 2 is not correct . <p> Therefore , option ( b ) is the correct answer . <h> QUESTION 2 <p> The Polavaram multipurpose project was in the news recently . It is located in : <p> -- The project is an interstate project on the Godavari River that was conceived in 1980 in response to the Godavari Water Disputes Tribunal 's ( GWDT ) recommendations . On April 2 , 1980 , Andhra Pradesh , Madhya Pradesh , and Odisha signed an agreement to complete construction of the project , which has a full reservoir level of 150 feet and a spillway discharging capacity of 36 lakh cusecs . <p> -- The Andhra Pradesh State Reorganisation Act ( APRA ) of 2014 proclaimed the project a national project , requiring the Union government to execute it and secure all necessary permissions under environmental , forest , rehabilitation , and resettlement regulations . <p> -- In 2016 , it was determined that the Centre will cover 100% of the remaining cost of the project 's irrigation component exclusively for the period beginning April 1 , 2014 . <p> Therefore , option ( d ) is the correct answer . <h> QUESTION 3 <p> Consider the following pairs with reference to the categorisation of cyclones on wind speed : <p> Advertisement <p> Severe cyclonic storm <p> more than 222 kmph <p> Low pressure <p> less than 31 kmph <p> Deep depression <p> 31-49 kmph <p> How many of the pairs given above are correctly matched ? <p> ( a ) Only one pair <p> ( b ) Only two pair <p> ( c ) All three pairs <p> ( d ) None of the pairs <p> Explanation <p> -- Cyclone Fengal , which made landfall near Puducherry on November 30 , was a low-intensity storm as it maintained a wind speed of about 75-95 kmph . However , the cyclone left a trail of destruction in its wake . <p> -- The bill changes the Oilfields ( Regulation and Development ) Act of 1948 . It distinguishes between the law governing " minerals " mining , as defined in the Mines and Minerals ( Development and Regulation ) Act of 1957 , and the Oilfields Act . If ratified by Parliament , the Oilfields Act in its revised version would only govern petroleum and other " mineral oil " production . Hence , statement 2 is correct . <p> -- According to Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas Hardeep Singh Puri in the Statement of Objects and Reasons in Support of the Oilfields Bill , the Oilfields Act was formerly known as the Mines and Minerals ( Regulation and Development ) Act of 1948 . This sole statute governed and regulated oilfields , mines , and minerals until 1957 , when the current Mines and Minerals Act was enacted . <p> -- To clarify the scope of the two Acts , the 1948 legislation was renamed the Oilfields ( Regulation and Development ) Act , 1948 , and its text was changed to replace references to " minerals " with " mineral oils " . However , the Act does not define " mineral oil , " which is an omission that the current Oilfields Bill seeks to address . <p> Advertisement <p> -- The Bill defines mineral oils as " any naturally occurring hydrocarbon , whether in the form of natural gas or in a liquid , viscous , or solid form , or a mixture thereof " and provides a comprehensive list of resources that would come under this definition ( including crude oil , natural gas , and petroleum ) . Hence , statement 3 is correct . <p> -- However , it clarifies that the definition will not include " coal , lignite and helium occurring in association with petroleum or coal or shale " , likely because regulation of coal and lignite is governed by the Mines and Minerals Act . <p> Therefore , option ( c ) is the correct answer . <h> QUESTION 5 <p> With reference to the Production-Linked Incentive ( PLI ) schemes , consider the following statements : <p> 1 . PLI schemes are crucial for India to scale up the domestic manufacturing base and to create lakhs of direct and indirect jobs . <p> Advertisement <p> 2 . If employment generation is used as a metric , all the 14 Production-Linked Incentive ( PLI ) schemes are relatively in the slow lane . <p> -- The development of the PLI initiative , which includes 14 sectors , and the lessons learnt from each , has spurred discussions about tweaking the formats of some to maximise demonstrable achievements , renewing others , and increasing the outlay in others . The government sees PLI initiatives as critical for India on two fronts : first , to leverage public investment to scale up the domestic manufacturing base , therefore increasing India 's contribution to global supply chains ; and second , to create lakhs of direct and indirect jobs . Hence , statement 1 is correct . <p> -- MVD , sometimes known as the " bleeding eye virus , " is one of the worst diseases capable of infecting humans . Case mortality rates in previous outbreaks ranged from 24% to 88% , depending on the virus type and case care . The first incidence in Rwanda this year was recorded in September . Hence , statement 4 is correct . <p> -- Marburg is a filovirus , just like Ebola . Both infections are clinically identical and , while rare , can generate high-fatality epidemics . Hence , statement 1 is correct . <p> -- The first recognised MVD outbreak occurred in Marburg , Germany , in 1967 . Following that , successive outbreaks have largely been recorded throughout Africa , most recently in Tanzania , Ghana , and now Rwanda . Hence , statement 2 is not correct . <p> -- The World Health Organisation has listed MVD as one of the infections that pose the greatest hazard to public health and for which no suitable treatments or vaccinations exist . Hence , statement 3 is correct . <p> -- However , the World Health Organisation ( WHO ) reports that the virus spreads through human-to-human contact , both directly ( via contact with infected people 's blood and bodily fluids ) and indirectly ( via contaminated surfaces and materials such as bedding , clothing , and so on ) . <p> Therefore , option ( d ) is the correct answer . <h> QUESTION 7 <p> Which of the following forces are included in the Central Armed Police Forces ( CAPFs ) ? <p> -- Women account for 4.4% of the 9.48 lakh-strong CAPFs , which include the Assam Rifles . Rai told the Lok Sabha that the CISF , which guards public areas such as airports , the Delhi Metro , and significant government buildings such as the Parliament Complex , has the greatest female presence -- 7.02% of the entire force strength of approximately 1.51 lakh . <p> Therefore , option ( a ) is the correct answer . <h> QUESTION 8 <p> Consider the following statements : <p> Statement 1 : Land degradation is undermining Earth 's capacity to sustain humanity , and failure to reverse it will pose challenges for future generations . <p> Statement 2 : A million sq km of land is degraded yearly , with an estimated 15 million sq km already impacted . <p> Which one of the following is correct with respect to the above statements ? <p> ( a ) Both Statement I and Statement II are correct and Statement II is the correct explanation of Statement I <p> ( b ) Both Statement I and Statement II are correct and Statement II is not the correct explanation of Statement I <p> ( c ) Statement I is correct but Statement II is not correct . <p> ( d ) Statement I is incorrect but Statement II is incorrect . <p> Explanation <p> -- Land degradation is undermining Earth 's capacity to sustain humanity , and failure to reverse it will pose challenges for generations to come , a new United Nations report found . Hence , statement 1 is correct . <p> -- Every year , a million square kilometres of land are degraded , with an estimated 15 million square kilometres already affected -- more than the entire continent of Antarctica -- by land degradation , according to the report Stepping Back from the Precipice : Transforming Land Management to Stay Within Planetary Boundaries . Hence , statement 2 is correct . <p> -- The analysis was conducted by the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification ( UNCCD ) , a legally mandated framework for addressing desertification and drought effects , in partnership with Germany 's Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research . It was released on Monday , one day before the 16th session of the United Nations Convention on Climate Change ( COP16 ) opened in Riyadh , Saudi Arabia . <p> -- The UN Convention on Climate Change defines land degradation as " the reduction or loss of the biological or economic productivity and complexity of rainfed cropland , irrigated cropland , or range , pasture , forest and woodlands resulting from a combination of pressures , including land use and management practices " . <p> -- Land degradation has a negative impact on both humans and ecosystems worldwide . For example , it increases the risk of malnutrition by lowering the quality and quantity of food produced . It promotes the spread of water- and food-borne diseases caused by poor hygiene and a lack of clean water . Soil erosion can lead to respiratory disorders . <p> Both Statement I and Statement II are correct and Statement II is the correct explanation of Statement I <p> Therefore , option ( a ) is the correct answer . <h> QUESTION 9 <p> With reference to the cash reserve ratio ( CRR ) , consider the following statements : <p> 1 . It is the percentage of a bank 's total deposits that it is required to maintain in liquid cash with the RBI as a reserve . <p> -- CRR is the percentage of a bank 's total deposits that it is required to maintain in liquid cash with the RBI as a reserve . Hence , statement 1 is correct . <p> -- The decision to decrease the CRR by 50 basis points will free up Rs 1.16 lakh crore in the banking system , increasing banks ' lendable resources . <p> -- The liquidity in the banking system has tightened as a result of the RBI 's efforts to stabilise the currency . The RBI has sold a lot of dollars , which has impacted overall system liquidity . Liquidity would tighten further in December due to outflows connected to advance tax , goods and services tax ( GST ) , and credit demand at the end of the quarter . <p> Therefore , option ( c ) is the correct answer . <h> QUESTION 10 <p> With reference to B.R. Ambedkar , consider the following statements : <p> 1 . He is credited with awakening the Dalit consciousness which started with the Mahad Satyagraha of 1927 . <p> -- " On Mahaparinirvan Diwas , we bow to Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar , the architect of our Constitution and a beacon of social justice , " Modi told X. <p> -- Dr. Ambedkar returned to London in 1920 to complete his study , thanks to financial aid from Chatrapati Shahuji Maharaj of Kolhapur , a personal loan from a friend , and savings from his time in India . He was admitted to the bar in 1922 and began practicing as a barrister-at-law . He also obtained his M.S.c. and D.S.c . at the LSE . " The Problem of the Rupee " was his doctoral thesis , which was eventually published . Hence , statement 2 is correct . <p> -- But Babasaheb 's most crucial achievement was to galvanise the Dalit emancipation movement . He is credited for raising Dalit consciousness , which fuelled the community 's quest for political power . It all began with the Mahad Satyagraha of 1927 , the first big collective protest of the so-called " untouchables " headed by Ambedkar . Hence , statement 1 is correct . <p> -- In 1946 , he was elected to the Constituent Assembly of India . He took his oath as independent India 's first Law Minister on August 15 , 1947 . Hence , statement 3 is correct . <p> -- He wrote several publications , including Castes in India : Their Mechanism , Genesis and Development , Federation Versus Freedom , Janta ( monthly ) , The Problem of the Rupee : Its Origin and Solution , Pakistan or Partition of India , State and Minorities , and so on . Hence , statement 4 is correct . <p> Therefore , option ( d ) is the correct answer . <p> ( Other Source : main.sci.gov.in ) <h> QUESTION 11 <p> Aleppo , Hama , Homs and Daraa are places in the news . Where are they located ? <p> -- In the first offensive since 2020 , when rebel groups were pushed to the far north of the country , militants led by the group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) have taken control of Aleppo , Hama and Homs , destabilising the political landscape of Syria . <p> -- The surprise offensive has prompted concern from across borders , including Iran , which has started evacuating its citizens and officials from the war-torn region . <p> Therefore , option ( b ) is the correct answer . <h> QUESTION 12 <p> ' Turner Prize ' , recently seen in news is associated with which field : <p> ( a ) Social work <p> ( b ) Science and Technology <p> ( c ) Art <p> ( d ) Literature <p> Explanation <p> -- The Turner Prize , considered among the most prestigious awards in the art world , went to Indian-origin artist Jasleen Kaur on Wednesday ( December 4 ) , for an exhibit that pays tribute to her family history of migration to Scotland . <p> -- Kaur 's exhibit was praised by the jury for " ( weaving ) together the personal , political and spiritual " . In her acceptance speech , she called for a ceasefire in Gaza . <p> -- Associated with the UK 's Tate Gallery , the Turner Prize has a long history of controversy and is a huge affair in British culture , getting significant media attention every year . <p> What is the Turner Prize ? <p> -- The prize is named after English painter JMW Turner ( 1775-1851 ) , known for his paintings of sceneries , the ocean and dramatic depictions of light . Many of his works show red and yellow hues of sunsets in great detail . <p> -- Tate 's website notes , " Described as the ' father of modern art , ' Turner shocked with his unique brushwork and use of colour . His portrayals of the modern world were unlike any seen before . As one of the country 's greatest painters , he fittingly lends his name to the contemporary Turner Prize . " Tate also houses the largest collection of Turner 's works . <p> -- Vishing : Phone calls from fraudsters pretending to be officials , such as bank representatives , trick victims into revealing OTPs or account details . Hence , statement 3 is not correct . <p> -- " India 's massive and diverse internet user base makes the country a prime target for such scams , " said Dr Chiranjiv Roy , global head of data science , machine learning and applied generative AI at C5i.ai . He also said , " The increasing adoption of digital payment platforms only multiplies the risks . " <p> -- These complaints tend to almost double every year due to the increasing use of the internet and mobile phones and low awareness about cyber crimes , " said Lohit Matani , Deputy Commissioner of Police ( Cyber ) , Nagpur . <p> Therefore , option ( c ) is the correct answer . <h> QUESTION 14 <p> With reference to tiger conservation in India , consider the following statements : <p> 2 . It is the state government that identifies a suitable area for a tiger reserve based on the presence of a viable tiger population and suitable habitat . <p> 3 . As top predators in an ecosystem , tigers play an essential role in regulating and perpetuating ecological processes and therefore ensuring the conservation of this apex carnivore ensures the health of forest ecosystems , the biodiversity they represent , and the security of water and climate . <p> -- In the mid-20th century , India 's tiger population rapidly declined due to hunting , habitat loss , and other human activities . Following Indian independence in 1947 , this decline became even more pronounced . In the first attempt to ensure the big cats were not poached , the Indian Government banned the export of wild cat skins , including of tigers , in 1969 . <p> -- Extending further protection , the Indian Board for Wild Life ( IBWL ) formed an 11-member task force to devise a comprehensive conservation strategy , marking the inception of Project Tiger . The task force submitted its final report in August 1972 , recommending that eight tiger forests across India be included in the project . On April 1 , 1973 , Project Tiger was officially launched at the Corbett Tiger Reserve . <p> -- The state government identifies a suitable area for a tiger reserve based on the presence of a viable tiger population and suitable habitat . Hence , statement 2 is correct . <p> -- Ecological assessments , including studies on prey base , vegetation , and the area 's potential to support tigers , are then conducted . The state prepares a detailed proposal , including maps , ecological studies , and management plans . <p> -- Finally , a proposal is submitted to the NTCA , which studies and approves it and submits it to the Union Ministry of Environment , Forest and Climate Change for further consideration . <p> -- Following this , the state government issues a preliminary notification under the Wildlife ( Protection ) Act , 1972 , declaring the identified area as a tiger reserve . After addressing any objections or modifications , the state issues a final notification under Section 38V of the Wildlife ( Protection ) Act , formalising the reserve . <p> -- The reserve is brought under the Project Tiger initiative , entitling it to central funding and technical support for conservation activities . A detailed management plan is developed , focusing on habitat improvement , anti-poaching measures , and community participation . The NTCA conducts regular monitoring and evaluation . <p> -- As per section 38W of the Act , once the notification comes " no State Government shall de-notify a tiger reserve , except in public interest with the approval of the Tiger Conservation Authority and the National Board for Wild Life " . <p> -- According to wildlife researchers , as top predators in an ecosystem , tigers play an essential role in regulating and perpetuating ecological processes . Ensuring the conservation of this apex carnivore ensures the health of forest ecosystems , the biodiversity they represent , and the security of water and climate . Hence , statement 3 is correct . <p> -- Tigers inhabit a wide range of habitats in India , including high mountains , mangrove swamps , tall grasslands , dry and damp deciduous forests , and evergreen and shola forest systems . " Since there are many resources at the disposal of Project Tiger and the national interest behind this project the protection enacted on tigers has an umbrella effect that extends to other sub-species , " said an NTCA official . <p> Therefore , option ( b ) is the correct answer . <h> QUESTION 15 <p> With reference to the Hornbill Festival , consider the following statements : <p> 1 . It is organised by the Nagaland government as the state 's largest public event -- started in 2000 as an annual tradition , it aims to boost tourism by showcasing Naga heritage and culture , and thus act as a unifying force within the state . <p> 2 . The Hornbill Festival holds a special place within the larger public debate on liquor prohibition in the state . <p> -- Tourism Minister Temjen Imna Along said that the government has granted tourists and stall owners permission to use Indian-made Foreign Liquor ( IMFL ) within the festival venue , the Kisama Heritage Village . <p> -- This move has been decried by influential church bodies , who have long contested the effort to make alcohol , including traditional rice beer , publicly available at the state 's largest gathering . <p> -- The Hornbill Festival , organised by the Nagaland government , is the state 's largest public event . Started in 2000 as an annual tradition , it aims to boost tourism by showcasing Naga heritage and culture , and thus act as a unifying force within the state . The festival acts as an umbrella of the major festivals celebrated by the 14 recognised Naga tribes in the state , each replete with its own traditions and practices . Hence , statement 1 is correct . <p> Manas Srivastava is currently working as Senior Copy Editor with The Indian Express ( digital ) and leads a unique initiative of IE - UPSC Essentials . He majorly writes on UPSC , other competitive exams and education-related projects . In the past , Manas has represented India at the G-20 Youth Summit in Mexico . He is a former member of the Youth Council , GOI . A two-time topper/gold medallist in History ( both in graduation and post-graduation ) from Delhi University , he has mentored and taught UPSC aspirants for more than four years . His diverse role in The Indian Express consists of writing , editing , anchoring/ hosting , interviewing experts , and curating and simplifying news for the benefit of students . He hosts the YouTube talk show called ' Art and Culture with Devdutt Pattanaik ' and a LIVE series on Instagram and YouTube called ' You Ask We Answer ' . His talks on ' How to read a newspaper ' focus on newspaper reading as an essential habit for students . His articles and videos aim at finding solutions to the general queries of students and hence he believes in being students ' editor , preparing them not just for any exam but helping them to become informed citizens . This is where he makes his teaching profession meet journalism . He is also the editor of UPSC Essentials ' monthly magazine for the aspirants . He is a recipient of the Dip Chand Memorial Award , the Lala Ram Mohan Prize and Prof. Papiya Ghosh Memorial Prize for academic excellence . He was also awarded the University 's Post-Graduate Scholarship for pursuing M.A. in History where he chose to specialise in Ancient India due to his keen interest in Archaeology . He has also successfully completed a Certificate course on Women 's Studies by the Women 's Studies Development Centre , DU . As a part of N.S.S in the past , Manas has worked with national and international organisations and has shown keen interest and active participation in Social Service . He has led and been a part of projects involving areas such as gender sensitisation , persons with disability , helping slum dwellers , environment , adopting our heritage programme . He has also presented a case study on ' Psychological stress among students ' at ICSQCC- Sri Lanka . As a compere for seminars and other events he likes to keep his orating hobby alive . His interests also lie in International Relations , Governance , Social issues , Essays and poetry . ... Read More 
@@118576707 <h> Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al Thani says there is work being done ' to get things back on track ' . <p> The Prime Minister of Qatar has said he has observed new momentum in efforts to achieve a ceasefire in Gaza since the US presidential election , with the incoming Trump administration aiming to bring an end to the conflict before taking office . <p> Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani , a key mediator in the ceasefire discussions , chose not to provide specifics about the negotiations but told an international conference in Doha that the gaps between the two sides are not significant . <p> Qatar , which has played a central role as a mediator throughout the 14-month conflict , paused its efforts last month due to frustration over the lack of progress . However , Sheikh Mohammed indicated that his government has recently re-engaged in the process after recognising a renewed willingness from both parties to reach an agreement . <p> Advertisement <p> " We have sensed after the election that the momentum is coming back , " he told the Doha Forum on Saturday . <p> He noted that he has been in contact with both the outgoing Biden administration and the incoming Trump administration and found that , despite some differences in approach , both are committed to the same goal of ending the war . <p> " We have seen a lot of encouragement from the incoming administration in order to achieve a deal , even before the president comes to the office , " Sheikh Mohammed said . <p> While declining to discuss details -- saying he wanted to " protect the process " -- he expressed hope for a resolution " as soon as possible . " <p> Advertisement <p> " If you look at the gaps and the disagreements , they are not something substantial that really affects the agreement , " he added . 
@@118576737 <h> Gaza Cola , a new UK-based brand , pledges profits to rebuild Palestinian hospitals , capitalizing on anti-US sentiment during the Hamas-Israel conflict . This mirrors earlier cola-based protests , like Mecca Cola , targeting American brands . The author examines the interplay of religion , consumer behavior , and brand symbolism , questioning the long-term viability of such protest brands against established giants like Coca-Cola . <p> AgenciesCan cola brands that try to ride the anti-US sentiment in the wake of Hamas-Israel conflict play the long game ? <p> Gaza Cola is a new cola brand launched in the UK with the promise of sending all its profits for rebuilding Palestinian hospitals . The brand is trying to exploit an anti-US sentiment in the light of the Hamas-Israel conflict . Mecca Cola , launched in France in 2002 , was probably the first to take an anti-US stance by going after the big American cola boys . <p> Why do protests pick the sugary drink for their single-minded attention and do these strategies work ? Remember what Gita Mehta expounded in her book Karma Cola -- the packaging and mass marketing of unique Indian offerings ( yoga , meditation , etc ) can be equated with the marketing prowess of cola brands . <p> Are we seeing the opposite of this , with colas being equated to ' adharma ' in a sense ? Let us unpack this bit by bit , or sip by sip , starting with a look at religion and consumer behaviour . <p> Religion and consumer behaviour has been a topic of great interest to me . In fact my PhD thesis was on how religiosity can affect the way we choose and consume products and services . Surprisingly , religion has not been a hot topic among consumer researchers . While there are some pioneering work done by researchers like Elizabeth Hirschman of the University of Virginia , you will not find hundreds of researches on the topic . <p> Why , you may ask ? For one , religion is seen as a taboo topic , not to be asked , at least in a market research interview . Readers of this paper may be surprised to learn that the US census does not collect religious affiliation of the respondents . <p> In India we have been collecting religion information for the last 90+ years and this year there is a debate on more granular information to be collected about the respondents . What does the existing research done on religion and consumer behaviour point to ? Religiosity can be studied from two angles . One is the religious affiliation ( Hindus , Catholics , Protestants , Muslims etc ) . The other is the intensity of religious belief , or how actively religious is a person . The research one could access did say that across Catholics , Protestants , Muslims , Jews and Hindus , there were some differences in the way they decide on their purchases . For example , Muslims and Jews were seen to be more innovative and adventuresome in their purchase decisions . The research I did in India did not show any major difference across various religious consumers when it came to purchase of consumer durables . <p> But there was a significant difference between those who were highly religious and those less religious ; the more religious were more demanding from brands than the less religious . <p> When it comes to consumer products like drinks and soaps , you would imagine that religious affiliation and religiosity should have less of an influence ( barring food products that have been explicitly banned ) . There are food restrictions across religions . Muslims prefer food products labelled ' halal ' . We do n't know if Muslim consumers boycott products that are not labelled halal . Other categories also ride the halal wave . There are several cosmetic brands that are halal ; L'Oreal even has a factory in Indonesia that is halal-certified . <p> The use of financial products and services also have a religious flavour . Given that usury is averse to Islam , there has been a growth of what is called ' Islamic Banking ' and there are Shariah-compliant financial products in several countries with significant Muslim population . Some mutual funds , even in India , offer compliance with Shariah guidelines by not investing in specific types of companies like those involved in alcohol production . It may surprise readers that devout Muslims are often averse to insurance products . <p> Financial products are high-involvement purchases . At the other end of the spectrum are low-involvement products such as soft drinks , chewing gum and deodorants . Does religion have any role in the purchase of these products ? <p> While there is no published research on the topic of religion and consumption of specific brands of soft drinks and chewing gum , there is ample evidence to show that colas are targeted not because they are or are not halal , or are high-involvement . The targeting of colas is more a protest against what is seen as American imperialism . <p> I suppose brands like Coca-Cola and McDonald 's are seen as symbols of America that a common consumer can identify with . In this digital age the more ubiquitous symbols of America should be Google , Facebook , Instagram , WhatsApp , X , etc . But consumers who use these see the posts of their own family and friends -- America is invisible in these digital brands . <p> Then there is Coca-Cola , Pepsi and McDonald 's . There is even the " Golden Arches Theory of Conflict Prevention " . This theory was proposed by writer Thomas Friedman in his 1999 book The Lexus and the Olive Tree . That theory has been violated multiple times in the recent past . <p> The launch of Gaza Cola is also reminiscent of the cola brand Double Seven ( Satatar ) that was launched in 1977 by the Morarji Desai-led Janata government , after it booted out CocaCola . The brand was marketed by the government-owned Modern Food Industries , makers of Modern Bread . The brand fizzled out just like the coalition government that launched it . <p> My surmise is that these antiCoke brands may not be able to play the long game . Quite simply , when a consumer is sipping a can of Coke or Pepsi , he or she is not just sipping a highly carbonated , high-sugar drink , but they are sipping a little bit of America itself . And that bit of fantasy has stood the test of time and will endure . <p> The writer is an independent brand coach &amp; founder of Brand-Building.com 
@@118577113 <h> Digital comics are circulated among platform users and provide an accessible outlet for processing emotion , showing solidarity and disseminating knowledge . <p> A mural in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza , in Dublin in Ireland , in this photograph from November 2023 . Reuters <p> Comics and graphic narratives have long been used to document the events of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , both by people visiting and reporting on the region , as well as by Palestinians and Israelis . <p> My previous writing explored how How to Understand Israel in 60 Days or Less reflects the artist/author 's complicated journey of self- and cultural discovery . As a Jewish American woman embarking on an Israeli-funded Birthright Trip , Glidden faces the violence enacted by the Israeli state . The book highlights Glidden 's quest for an authentic representation of Israeli and Palestinian lived realities , and her journey towards self-acceptance . <p> Personal memory and reflection -- whether about identity versus culture or lived experience versus political unrest -- has been a common thread across many graphic representations . <p> Comics and illustration can be powerful forms of witness in their capacity to juxtapose text and image . While some illustrators or cartoonists have replicated antisemitic , orientalist and anti-Arab stereotypes , taking up the long-established visual negative stereotypical tropes , others seek to document , educate and empathize with victims . The use of negative visual tropes is not limited to graphic representations of Israel and Palestine , but a widespread phenomenon that manifests in various dehumanizing and hateful iterations across the visual arts . In this article , I focus not on the stereotypes we might find in comics related to Israel and Palestine , but instead prioritize how they are acting as networked resources . <p> Here , I discuss how creators have recently taken to social media to share short comics about what many experts say is the Palestinian genocide in real-time . <p> Sabaaneh 's evocative illustrations have been featured in the Washington Post alongside the work of other Palestinian and Israeli cartoonists who are similarly sharing their critiques of the ongoing violence . <p> Sabaaneh , along with other Palestinian artists , are joined by western illustrators who are similarly using their social networks to draw attention to the IDF military incursion and its deadly effects . <h> Networks of care <p> These digital comics are circulated among platform users and provide an accessible outlet for processing emotion , showing solidarity and disseminating knowledge . <p> While the comics I point to in this article allow artists to process their feelings towards the conflict , they are also a crucial form of resistance to the ongoing attacks on Gaza and surrounding areas . <p> One of Lynda Barry 's ' Ceasefire Balloon ' paintings . This and other pieces were sold on the artist 's Etsy page in support of the Middle East Children 's Alliance . ( Barry 's Instagram account , @thenearsightedmonkey ) <p> Barry 's posts are often met with messages of support and empathy from followers . Her activist work has also translated into a fundraising project , with paintings of " Ceasefire Balloons " being sold on Etsy in support of the Middle East Children 's Alliance . <p> Montr ? al author and illustrator Sandra Dumais has also taken up a practice of creating comics that reflect her response to the ongoing attacks while simultaneously spreading messages of awareness and solidarity . <p> In her March 4 post , Dumais shares a single panel comic that reflects on the privileged realities of life in the West against the backdrop of what is happening in Gaza . Dumais has also leveraged her artwork as a means of raising funds . <h> Witnessing from afar <p> Artists like Barry and Dumais share their responses to the Palestinian genocide from a privileged western perspective that is secondary to the experiences of the Palestinian people who are living through it . These artists and others use the juxtaposition of text and image to represent the emotional toll of witnessing from afar , while also sharing messages that denounce the actions of the IDF . <p> By doing so , these webcomics join global calls for a ceasefire and serve as a means of virtual activism by way of community-enacted resistance . Artists and platform users interact with and take up each other 's work as a way of creating a digital social movement . <h> ' Being together alone ' <p> This is reminiscent of what social media scholars studying mental health communities , such as Natalie Ann Hendry , refer to as " being together alone , " where people working through experiences find community , solidarity and support in popular online spaces . <p> Comics not only show what is happening in Gaza through illustration but also provide an alternative to mainstream perspectives . This means two things : these webcomics are functioning as emotional outlets for the artists , as well as intentional acts of solidarity and resistance . <p> Amy Mazowita is a PhD Candidate at Concordia University.This article first appeared onThe Conversation . 
@@118577137 <p> New Delhi : External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday , when asked a question , on whether the United States was trying to attract India into its sphere , gave a witty reply . During a panel discussion at the Doha Forum in Qatar , Jaishankar , responding to a question said , " We 've been trying to attract them into the Indian sphere , " reported ANI . <p> Jaishankar was addressing the 22nd edition of the Doha Forum panel on ' Conflict Resolution in a New Era ' . During the panel discussion , Qatar Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al Thani and Norway Foreign Minister , Espen Barth Eide were also present . <p> " Pleased to participate @DohaForumpanel today on the topic " Conflict Resolution in a New Era " in Doha today along with PM &amp; FM@MBAAl Thaniof Qatar and FM @EspenBarthEide of Norway . As the conflicts around us increase , the need of the hour is more diplomacy , not less , " Jaishankar posted on X. <p> On Donald Trump 's Threat To Impose 100 Per Cent Tariffs On BRICS : <p> While reacting to US President-Elect Donald Trump 's threat to impose 100 per cent tariffs on BRICS nations , the EAM said that India has " no interest " in weakening the US dollar . " We had a good relationship , a very solid relationship with the first Trump administration , yes there were some issues mostly trade-related issues , but there were a whole lot of issues on which Trump was very international , and I remind people that it was actually under Trump that the QUAD was restarted , " he said . <p> During the Doha Forum , Jaishankar reflected on the positive relationship India had with the first Trump administration , highlighting the restart of the QUAD under Trump 's presidency . <p> On Syria Situation : <p> While speaking on unrest in Syria , Jaishankar said that the conflict posed a danger to the Indian diaspora there and has also caused a surge in shipping costs . " We are some distance away . We still have about half a million Indians living in Mediterranean countries . We have a trade of about USD 80 billion with the Mediterranean . Looking at the gulf , we have 10 million Indians here and about USD 180 billion of trade , " he said as reported by ANI . <p> " What 's happening in Syria , region , Gaza , Lebanon , the combination of all of this , there is a larger regional instability which is actually growing month on month . It is impacting country in Asia . We are feeling it in shipping costs , trade destructions , in radicalization . So , today , instability anywhere actually is a source of concern . There is no region that is far away and does n't matter to us . Our interests are there , " the EAM added . <p> EAM Jaishankar is on an official visit to Qatar and Bahrain from December 6-9 . <p> ( With Inputs from ANI ) <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from India and around the world . 
@@118577440 <h> Syrian rebels seize fourth city , close in on Homs in threat to Assad 's rule <h> Rebel sources said the military agreed to make an orderly withdrawal from Daraa under a deal giving army officials safe passage to the capital Damascus , about 100 km ( 60 miles ) north . <p> Reuters <p> December 07 , 2024 / 08:09 IST <h> Syrian rebels seize fourth city , close in on Homs in threat to Assad 's rule <p> Syrian rebels said they seized control of the southern city of Daraa on Saturday , the birthplace of a 2011 uprising against President Bashar al-Assad and the fourth city his forces have lost in a week . <p> Rebel sources said the military agreed to make an orderly withdrawal from Daraa under a deal giving army officials safe passage to the capital Damascus , about 100 km ( 60 miles ) north . <h> Related stories <p> Daraa , which had a population of more than 100,000 before the civil war began 13 years ago , holds symbolic importance as the cradle of the uprising . It is the capital of a province of about 1 million people , bordering Jordan . <p> Daraa 's seizure followed the rebels ' claim late on Friday that they had advanced to the edge of the central city of Homs , a key crossroads between the capital and the Mediterranean coast . <p> Capturing Homs would cut off Damascus from the coastal stronghold of Assad 's minority Alawite sect , and from a naval base and air base of his Russian allies there . <p> " Our forces have liberated the last village on the outskirts of the city of Homs and are now on its walls , " the Syrian faction leading the sweeping assault said on the Telegram messaging app . <p> A coalition of rebel factions that include the Islamist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) made a last call on forces loyal to Assad 's government in Homs to defect . <p> Ahead of the rebel advance , thousands of people fled Homs towards the coastal regions of Latakia and Tartus , strongholds of the government , residents and witnesses said . <p> ASSAD REGIME UNDER THREAT <p> A U.S.-backed alliance led by Syrian Kurdish fighters captured Deir el-Zor , the government 's main foothold in the vast eastern desert , on Friday , three Syrian sources told Reuters . <p> The rebels seized Aleppo and Hama in the northwest and centre earlier in the lightning offensive that began on Nov. 27 . <p> In another ominous sign for Assad in the east , the Syrian Kurdish force said Islamic State -- a jihadist group that imposed martial law under its harsh rule before its defeat by a U.S.-led coalition in 2017 -- had taken control of some areas in eastern Syria . <p> Aron Lund , a fellow at think-tank Century Foundation , said Assad 's government was " fighting for their lives at this point " . <p> It was possible the government could hold Homs , " but given the speed at which things have moved so far , I would n't count on it " , he said on Friday . <p> A Syrian army source said Iran-backed Hezbollah forces were positioned to bolster government defences in and near Homs . <p> Syrian state media reported dozens of rebels were killed in the Homs countryside on Friday in an operation by Syrian and Russian air forces , artillery , missiles and armoured vehicles . <p> Capturing Homs would solidify a chain of powerful positions under the Islamic insurgents ' control from Aleppo on the Turkish border in the north to Daraa on the Jordanian border to the south . <p> Gaining Homs would also increase the rebels ' chances of isolating the seat of Assad 's regime in Damascus with the ability to block the route northwest from the capital to the sea . <p> REBELS REENERGISED <p> As the rebels pressed their offensive , Russia and Jordan on Friday urged their nationals to leave Syria . <p> After years locked behind frozen front lines , rebel forces have burst out of their northwestern Idlib bastion to achieve the swiftest battlefield advance by either side since a street uprising against Assad mushroomed into civil war 13 years ago . <p> Syria 's conflict killed more than 305,000 people between 2011 and 2021 , the United Nations Human Rights Office said in 2022 . <p> Assad regained control of most of Syria after key allies -- Russia , Iran and Lebanon 's Hezbollah -- came to his rescue . But all have recently been weakened and diverted by other crises , giving Sunni Muslim militants a window to fight back . <p> Tehran , which has been focussed on tensions with arch-foe Israel since the Gaza war began last year , began to evacuate its military officials and personnel from Syria on Friday , a sign of Iran 's inability to keep Assad in power , the New York Times reported , citing regional officials and three Iranian officials . <p> The head of the main rebel faction HTS , Abu Mohammed Al-Golani , vowed in a separate interview with the New York Times published on Friday that the insurgents could end Assad 's rule . <p> " This operation broke the enemy , " he said of the rebels ' lightning offensive . <p> Advisory Alert:It has come to our attention that certain individuals are representing themselves as affiliates of Moneycontrol and soliciting funds on the false promise of assured returns on their investments . We wish to reiterate that Moneycontrol does not solicit funds from investors and neither does it promise any assured returns . In case you are approached by anyone making such claims , please write to us at **25;349;TOOLONG or call on 02268882347 
@@118577942 <h> Just In <h> US rejects Amnesty report on Israel 's genocide in Gaza <h> Amnesty International found through its research and legal analysis " sufficient basis to conclude that Israel committed , during the nine-month period ... <p> Amnesty International found through its research and legal analysis " sufficient basis to conclude that Israel committed , during the nine-month period under review , prohibited acts under Articles II ( a ) , ( b ) , and ( c ) of the Genocide Convention , namely killing , causing serious bodily or mental harm , and deliberately inflicting on Palestinians in Gaza conditions of life calculated to bring about their physical destruction in whole or in part <p> A U.S. State Department spokesperson told reporters on Thursday that the United States disagrees with Amnesty International 's new report accusing Israel of carrying out genocide in the Gaza Strip . <p> " We disagree with the conclusions of such a report , " spokesperson Vedant Patel said a day after the human rights group released the document . " We have said previously and continue to find that the allegations of genocide are unfounded . " <p> The Israeli government has vehemently rejected the findings in the report . <p> " The deplorable and fanatical organization Amnesty International has once again produced a fabricated report that is entirely false and based on lies . The genocidal massacre on October 7 , 2023 , was carried out by the Hamas terrorist organization against Israeli citizens . Since then , Israeli citizens have been subjected to daily attacks from seven different fronts . Israel is defending itself against these attacks acting fully in accordance with international law , " wrote the Israel Foreign Ministry in a post on X. <p> In a statement , the Israeli branch of the organization -- which reportedly did not take part in the funding , research , or writing of the report -- said that " the scale of the killing and destruction carried out by Israel in Gaza has reached horrific proportions and must be stopped immediately , " per The Times of Israel . However , the groups does not believe the events " meet the definition of genocide as strictly laid out in the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide . " <p> In the 296-page report released Wednesday -- titled , " You Feel Like You Are Subhuman " : Israel 's Genocide Against Palestinians in Gaza -- Amnesty International found through its research and legal analysis " sufficient basis to conclude that Israel committed , during the nine-month period under review , prohibited acts under Articles II ( a ) , ( b ) , and ( c ) of the Genocide Convention , namely killing , causing serious bodily or mental harm , and deliberately inflicting on Palestinians in Gaza conditions of life calculated to bring about their physical destruction in whole or in part . " <p> In order for a conflict to be considered genocide under international law , there must be both evidence of specific criminal acts -- such as killing members of a given group -- as well as " intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group , as such . " <p> In its report , Amnesty International concluded that " these acts were committed with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza . " Intent also came up during the State Department press conference Thursday when journalist Said Arikat of the Palestinian paper Al-Quds asked Patel a follow-up question about the report . <p> " I know that genocide depends a great deal on intent ... And the report bases its conclusions on the statements , time and time and time again , by Israeli commanders , by Israeli officials , " he said . " What is it going to take for you , for the United States of America ... to say what is happening is genocide ? " Patel responded , " That 's an opinion , and you 're certainly welcome and you are entitled to it , as are all the organizations . " <p> Israel faces an ongoing genocide case , led by South Africa , at the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Court recently issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , former Israeli Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , and Hamas leader Mohammed Diab Ibrahim Al-Masri. 
@@118578313 <p> In Gaza , thousands of children with severe medical conditions are waiting desperately for permission to leave the region for life-saving treatment . The delays , caused by complex bureaucratic processes and security checks imposed by Israeli authorities , have led to tragic consequences , with some children dying before they can receive the care they need . <p> One heartbreaking example is 12-year-old Islam al-Rayahen , who had leukemia and urgently needed a stem cell transplant . Despite six applications for medical evacuation by his family , Israeli authorities denied each request for undisclosed " security reasons . " UNICEF officials who visited him in late October described the child as malnourished and in unbearable pain . Islam died just three days later . <h> A Broken Healthcare System <p> The healthcare system in Gaza has been severely damaged by years of conflict , and the ongoing 15-month military campaign has pushed it to the brink . Of the territory 's 36 hospitals , only 17 are functioning , and even these are overwhelmed by patients with war injuries as well as chronic conditions . Equipment has been destroyed , specialized doctors are scarce , and medical supplies are running out . <p> The World Health Organization ( WHO ) estimates that 14,000 patients in Gaza require urgent evacuation , including 2,500 children . Gaza 's Health Ministry puts the number even higher , with 22,000 people needing treatment unavailable in the region . Among them are 7,000 individuals in critical condition who could die without immediate care . <h> The Long Wait for Approval <p> Medical evacuations from Gaza require Israeli permission . In the past , around 100 patients a day were transferred out of the region . However , since May 2023 , when the Rafah border crossing was closed and Israeli forces took control of the Kerem Shalom crossing , the rate has plummeted to fewer than two patients per day . <p> This slowdown has left many families in limbo . Approvals often take months , and even when patients are cleared , their caregivers -- usually parents or grandparents -- are sometimes rejected on vague security grounds , leaving children unable to travel . Organizations like Doctors Without Borders report that requests are frequently denied without explanation , creating immense frustration and heartbreak for families . <h> Stories of Suffering <p> The human cost of these delays is devastating . Two-year-old Osaid Shaheen was diagnosed with eye cancer in April 2023 . His family initially applied for evacuation through the Rafah crossing , but it was shut down . Subsequent applications for travel through Kerem Shalom were rejected . During the months of waiting , the cancer spread to both of Osaid 's eyes . Doctors in Gaza , struggling with limited supplies , warn that if he does not receive proper treatment soon , they will have to remove his eyes to prevent the cancer from spreading further . <p> " I did n't expect that a child could get a security rejection , " said Osaid 's mother , Sondos Abu Libda . " How will he live his life without seeing ? How will he play or have a future ? " <p> Four-year-old Qusay al-Askari is another child caught in this crisis . He has a heart defect that could lead to paralysis if he does n't receive surgery soon . His mother , Nima , has been waiting for months to hear whether he will be allowed to leave Gaza . " Should I wait until my son becomes paralyzed ? " she asked , her voice heavy with despair . <h> The Role of Israeli Authorities <p> The Israeli military 's Coordination of Government Activities in the Territories ( COGAT ) is responsible for processing evacuation requests . Officials say every application is subject to a security review , including checks for potential " connections to terrorism . " However , critics argue that these decisions often appear arbitrary and lack transparency . <p> Humanitarian organizations , including UNICEF and Doctors Without Borders , have expressed frustration at the slow pace of approvals and the lack of clear explanations for rejections . " These children can not afford to wait . They 're dying while the world watches , " said Rosalia Bollen , a UNICEF official . <h> A Worsening Crisis <p> Since the war between Israel and Hamas escalated in October 2023 , more than 44,500 Palestinians have been killed , and over 105,000 injured , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry . The destruction has made it nearly impossible for local healthcare facilities to keep up with the needs of the population . Gaza 's only dedicated cancer hospital was seized and heavily damaged in the conflict , leaving patients with no options for advanced treatment within the region . <p> Even when medical evacuations are approved , they do not always proceed smoothly . In one instance , Doctors Without Borders sought to transfer eight children in November 2023 . While five were approved , their mothers or grandmothers were rejected as escorts . Without caregivers , the evacuations could n't move forward , leaving the children stranded in Gaza . <h> The Impact on Families <p> The delays and rejections are taking an emotional and physical toll on families . Many are living in dire conditions , sheltering in tent camps with little access to clean water or food . Parents describe watching their children suffer in pain , unable to provide the care they need . <p> For example , two-year-old Al-Hassan is suffering from kidney failure . His mother , Asma Saed , has been waiting for three months to hear whether he will be allowed to leave Gaza for treatment . In the meantime , she and her son are living in a squalid camp in Khan Younis . " He screams all night , " she said . " I just want him to live like any other child who can walk , play , and smile . " <h> Urgent Action Needed <p> Humanitarian organizations are calling on the international community to intervene and ensure timely medical evacuations for Gaza 's patients , especially children . The stakes are high : delays in treatment can mean the difference between life and death . <p> As families wait in anguish , the message from aid groups is clear : time is running out . Without immediate action , many more children in Gaza will face preventable suffering and death . 
@@118578333 <p> Hello readers ! Through this news wrap , we present the top developments of the day . Today 's rundown includes developments on Maharashtra ministry allocation , Samajwadi Party 's decision to quit MVA over their stance on Babri demolition , West Asia updates , and more . <p> Tensions are simmering within Maharashtra 's newly formed government . The swearing-in of Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis and Deputy Chief Ministers Eknath Shinde and Ajit Pawar has sparked a fierce battle over portfolio distribution . Shiv Sena ( Shinde faction ) has raised alarms over the allocation of key ministries , including a high-stakes demand for the Home Ministry . <p> Reportedly made by Shinde to the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) leadership , the demand echoes a similar arrangement from the previous government . It has fueled a bitter rift between allies and has left the Cabinet 's final structure hanging in the balance . <p> The situation in Syria is getting more volatile by the day , with the Syrian rebels entering the central towns of Rastan and Talbiseh and southern city of Daraa . <p> The fresh assault , just north of the central city of Homs. brings the rebels closer to Syria 's third largest city . On Friday , the opposition fighters captured the central city of Hama , Syria 's fourth largest and on Saturday the rebels seized control of the southern city of Daraa . <p> Meanwhile , an Israeli airstrike killed at least 29 people including four medical staff in one of the last remaining hospitals in northern Gaza . <p> Adding further tension to the strained bilateral ties with India , Bangladesh reportedly deployed the deadly Turkish-made Bayraktar TB2 drones along the Indo-Bangladesh border . <p> Bangladesh Army resorted to these high-tech drone for intelligence , surveillance , and reconnaissance purposes . However , the positioning of the drones at a sensitive region like Indo-Bangla border has garnered many questions . <p> Indian pacer Mohammed Shami is gearing up for a return in the final two Tests of the ongoing series against Australia . His playing gear has already been sent to Australia , and fitness clearance from the National Cricket Academy ( NCA ) is anticipated to be a mere formality . ( More Cricket News ) <p> According to a PTI report , while Shami 's participation in the Brisbane Test starting December 14 remains uncertain , his appearance in the Boxing Day Test in Melbourne ( December 26 ) is all but confirmed . <p> A source close to the cricketer said that the NCA " fitness certificate " will come very soon . <p> " Shami 's India kit has already been dispatched to Australia . He will complete Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 assignment and then leave , " the source told PTI. 
@@118578485 <p> After quite a period of stagnancy , the civil war in Syria has erupted once again , and this time the rebels have thundered a sudden blitzkrieg infighting on the President Bashar al-Assad regime , taking direct aim at the core of his rule , the capital , Damascus itself . For almost four years , the Syrian government consolidated the territorial control of its major cities , throwing minor pockets of confrontation outside the zone of control . However , there is an intense dramatic escalation in the northwest that brings once again the civil war to the table . <h> Rebels ' resurgence <p> The offensive , launched by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham and other rebel factions , has very much surprised the Syrian regime . Within a short period , rebels , especially HTS , have succeeded in taking strategic areas , including the strategic city that was last reclaimed by the government back in 2016 . The act underlined a highly momentous change in the pattern of the war . According to analysts , this offensive is coming through during an understaffed time for Assad 's outside patrons -- Russia , Iran and Hezbollah -- now involved to their ears in others ' real local conflicts , notably that of Ukraine , Gaza and Lebanon . <h> Turkey 's possible role <p> However , some analysts believe that there could be something else behind the rebels ' resurgence . Former US ambassador to Syria Robert Ford said that the government of Ankara has possibly tacitly endorsed the offensive since there have been no fruitful negotiations with the Assad regime regarding the return of Syrian refugees . By pushing for the recapture of territory , the rebels could then use this leverage to send some of the unwanted Syrian refugees back into areas under their control , weakening Assad 's position in the negotiations . Turkey denied involvement , but it is the coordination of the rebel factions with the bolstered support provided by Turkish-backed militias that serve as the defining elements in this insurgent momentum . <h> Exploiting Assad 's weakness <p> The other reason for the unexpected offensive is a deduction based on the dwindling resources of Assad . Rebels seem to have found the time and opportunity to exploit weaknesses within Assad 's grip on the country due to the heavy reliance of his military on Russian airpower and Iranian-backed militias . Apart from the recent constraints faced by Hezbollah in Lebanon , Israeli airstrikes targeting Iranian assets in Syria have further weakened the defenses of Assad . <h> Psychological blow <p> The rebels ' strategy is not only a military push but also a psychological blow to the regime . With Aleppo -- a city symbolic of Assad 's victory in the past -- falling into rebel hands once again , the offensive represents a victory for those opposed to Assad 's rule after years of defeat . <h> Why is there a war in Syria ? <p> The roots of the Syrian war date back to March 2011 , when pro-democracy protests erupted in the southern city of Deraa . Inspired by the Arab Spring uprisings , Syrians took to the streets demanding President Bashar al-Assad 's resignation , hoping to rid the country of his autocratic rule . The government 's brutal crackdown on these protests escalated quickly , turning peaceful demonstrations into full-scale rebellion . <h> The escalating war <p> What began as a quest for democratic reform spiraled into a multi-front civil war . Assad 's regime , backed by Russia and Iran , fought to maintain control over the country . Rebel factions , both moderate and extremist , emerged from the opposition , often at odds with one another , making the conflict more complex . Groups like Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , originally part of Al-Qaeda 's global jihadist network , grew in influence , focusing on toppling Assad and establishing their vision of governance in areas under their control . <h> International powers and humanitarian crisis <p> As the war raged on , foreign powers took sides , with the United States and European countries supporting moderate rebel factions , while Russia and Iran backed Assad 's regime . Meanwhile , extremist groups such as the Islamic State ( ISIS ) seized territory and declared their caliphate , further complicating the conflict . <p> The war has led to catastrophic humanitarian consequences : over half a million deaths , 12 million displaced people , and widespread destruction across the country . In addition to the internal factions , the war became a proxy battleground for regional and global powers , each with their interests . <h> Turning the tide : Rebels push southward <p> By 2018 , it seemed as if Assad had gained the upper hand , regaining most of the country with the help of Russian airstrikes and Iranian militia support . But the battle for Idlib , the last major rebel stronghold , remained unresolved . Although a ceasefire brokered by Russia and Turkey held since 2020 , the recent escalation marks a dramatic shift . <p> As rebel forces push southward , and with key cities like Homs and Deir el-Zour now threatened , Assad 's future looks uncertain . The rebels are no longer merely defending their territories -- they are actively pushing to reassert control over regions once lost , and Damascus is once again in their sights . Whether this offensive leads to a definitive victory for the opposition or forces the regime to regroup with international support remains to be seen . However , this latest flare-up underscores the deeply entrenched divisions within Syria and the fragility of any lasting peace . 
@@118589753 <h> Sino-Indian D ? tente As A Game Of Duplicity <h> Share : <p> Following talks between Indian defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart Admiral Dong Jun in Laos recently ( on the sidelines of an ASEAN conference ) , the Chinese Defence Ministry spokesperson Sr. Col. Wu Qian came out with an interesting comment : " We look forward to harmonious dance between the Chinese dragon and Indian elephant with concerted steps . " ( re : THE HINDU , November 29 , 2024 ) . <p> Soon after , Indian foreign minister S. Jaishankar told the Lok Sabha that Sino-Indian ties were moving in the direction of " some improvement , " while referring to disengagement with China in eastern Ladakh. ( re : THE TIMES OF INDIA , December 4 , 2024 ) . <p> The announced rapprochement and proposed partnership between a dragon ( an imaginary animal which is the Chinese symbol ) and an elephant ( a real-life animal which is the Indian symbol ) presages uneasy prospects that stem from an unequal relationship between the two states . How can the Indian elephant rhyme its ponderous steps with the quick fast moving steps of its Chinese partner in a tango on the dancing floor of global politics ? Besides , Sino-Indian relationship continues to remain an elephant in the room ' of Delhi 's South Block -- a problem that is too unwieldy to be tackled . <p> To be frank and coming back to brass tacks , however uncomfortable and disconcerting it might be for both the Indian ruling BJP and the Opposition , the fact is that India can not compete with China , either in the field of economy or in the sphere of military might . To take just one instance , China had been developing its human resources by educating and training its youth to man its economy and face challenges in the competitive global arena . In 2023 , it spent $906 billion on education for a population of 1.409 billion ( while India spent just $ 13.67 billion for our population of 1.429 billion ) . As a result , it is this technology-savvy generation of Chinese youth who are exporting chips to India that sustain our software infrastructure . There are other areas where India has to depend on imports from China , as a result of which India had lost more than $1 trillion owing to the deficit in bilateral trade . China enjoys nearly $ 85 billion trade surplus over India . Further , Chinese export of manufactured goods like electric locomotives , signaling rakes and other engineering apparatus , and even the entry of Chinese techies , are helping the Indian Railways to modernize its system . This was brought about by a pact signed by India and China in November 2012 to develop the railways through mutual cooperation in high-tech , high-speed rail , heavy haulage and station development . Some critics however are now blaming this introduction of Chinese technology for the spurt of fatal rail accidents . But given our usual Indian habit of bungling such technology ( as revealed by investigations which exposed the failure of the railway staff ) , instead of accusing the Chinese of sabotaging our railway system ( as some hot-heads among the political circles do ) , we should engage in some honest self-introspection to find out what went wrong . <p> In contrast with China 's emphasis on educating the youth in modern sciences , India had neglected such training ( and cut down the budget allocation on education ) which has resulted in the growth of masses of unemployable youth , who can not find jobs . <p> Military imbalance <p> If we turn to the defence sector , we find again an imbalance between the military prowess of India and China . The Chinese mythological dragon has cast a spell on the modern Indian army , reducing it to an inferior rival . Although the Hindu god Ganesha wears an elephant head , and is worshipped by our brave jawans , the elephant has not been able to save them from the Chinese dragon 's deadly assaults on our borders at Galwan and other spots along the Sino-Indian boundary . By all yardsticks , acknowledged even by Indian army generals , the Chinese PLA ( People 's Liberation Army ) is head and shoulders superior to the Indian army , in terms of manpower and possession of sophisticated armaments . A recent survey carried out by Lt. Gen. Deependra Singh Hooda ( retired ) draws our attention to ( i ) the disparity between the budget allocation for defence , with China spending more than India ; ( ii ) China 's nearly self-sufficient production capabilities in contrast with India 's continuing dependence on imports ; and ( iii ) the Chinese PLA 's advancements in space , cyber and information warfare compared with India 's slow growth of domestic projects . ( Re : Delhi Policy Group 's report -- Competitive Forces : Evaluating the Military Capabilities of India and China . July 2 , 2024 ) . <p> De -- jure to de-facto -- making a virtue of necessity <p> Given this stark reality , let us look at the boundary dispute in a dispassionate way and search for a pragmatic way out . As it is , historically the McMahon Line and other similar official markings of borders in other sectors , had been causes of disputes between neighbouring states on either side of the borders , whose present rulers allege that such demarcation had been made in an arbitrary way by the colonial rulers without consulting the native authorities and inhabitants of these areas . <p> But now , how can we cope with these lines of border demarcation carved out by past rulers , which are regarded as inconvenient and branded as illegal by the present rulers ? There are two options . One -- China and India can engage in wars to reverse the old lines of demarcation in order to occupy and integrate some areas which they claim to be their own , into their respective territories . This has been the history of Sino-Indian relations for the last seven decades . It has not led to any permanent solution , and has instead dragged the two nations into a futile and military confrontation with China having an upper edge . It has made India prioritize budgetary expenditure on defence over that on health care and other social benefits that our citizens are entitled to . The other option is a give-and-take settlement of sorts that adheres to the status quo ante . The recent disengagement agreements in areas like the Depsang Plains and Charding La near Demchok are signs of such a settlement . <p> As predictable , politicians from the Opposition parties have found an opportunity to take a snipe at the Modi government for making concessions to Chinese claims through these agreements , and are accusing it of cowardice . But both they and Modi know deep down in their hearts that India ( ruled by whichever political party ) has no option but to retreat from its posture of braggadocio , since it does not have the guts to translate that rhetoric of sabre-rattling into an act of military confrontation with China in the battlefield . It is precisely because of this incapacity , that despite Chinese occupation of parts of Ladakh in 2020 , Narendra Modi had to brush it off with his false press statement saying " no outsider was inside Indian territory " on June 19 , 2020 . <p> Under these circumstances , where China enjoys a superior position vis-a-vis India in both economic and military terms , is it not pragmatic for India to concede and accept its position as a junior partner when negotiating with China on commercial and trade issues , as well as border disputes ? One agrees that it is humiliating for India . But at certain moments in history , real life needs become more important than political rhetoric . India today stands at that moment . <p> China 's domestic problems <p> At the same time , let us also look at the other side of the picture . Behind its aggressive posture in foreign policies , back home in China , its dictator Xi is facing an economic crisis . The massive capitalist expansion under his regime has led to enormous concentration of wealth in the hands of a few billionaires ( second highest number after the US ) , who are being accused of corruption . This has also coincided with the collapse of the real estate market which is making consumers cautious and business houses wary of investing . The bloated and uncompetitive state-owned enterprises are suffering from pressures of ballooning debt . High levels of unemployment among the youth are compelling them to come out on the streets in demonstrations of protest , as witnessed recently in Hong Kong . <p> When journalists report these events , they are immediately hounded by the police , some of them being put behind bars . The latest case is the sentencing of the veteran journalist Dong Yyu ( 62 ) to seven years of imprisonment for espionage , just because he was having lunch with a Japanese diplomat , in the course of his usual reporting assignment for news gathering . <p> In its defence sector , the Xi regime has to cope with cases of wide spread corruption among the top brass of its armed forces . Recently , Xi had to suspend a top military official , Admiral Miao Hua , who was also a member of the powerful Central Military Commission , on charges of corruption . Earlier , even ministers like the Defence Minister Li Shangfu and his predecessor Wei Feng Hei were ousted after being accused of corruption . It is evident that the Chinese administrative machinery and its military apparatus are thoroughly rotten to the core , being eaten up by worms of corruption . <p> It is in order to surmount these domestic problems which he can not solve , and to sideline popular grievances , Xi is trying to divert the attention of his people from their diurnal anxieties to the wider sphere of global politics . He is arousing a spirit of aggressive nationalism among them by raising the false bogey of foreign attacks ( over the controversial issue of Taiwan 's status ) and thus hoping to rally the disgruntled , unemployed Chinese people behind him by appealing to their nationalist instincts . <p> Having scored a point over India by retaining its influence over the territories it occupied by agreeing to their being buffer zones ' , Beijing is now turning its aggressive designs against Taiwan ( an independent Chinese state with a democratically elected government ) by claiming it to be a part of its territory . In a similar aggressive gesture it claims Arunachal of India as its part . But are the Chinese citizens of Taiwan and the Indians residing in Arunachal willing to be a part of the present People 's Republic of China , exchanging their present democratic rights for their inevitable suppression under an authoritarian regime ? Instead of threatening Taiwan and Arunachal with military occupation , why does n't Xi agree to a plebiscite under independent UN auspices to ascertain the preferences of these residents of Taiwan and Arunachal ? <p> Uncertain future <p> The future of Sino-Indian relations depends to a large extent on how Xi Jing Ping manages to tackle the increasing problems in his domestic sphere and the big tariff battle with the US in his economic policy . It is these twin issues that preoccupy him now which have probably led him to deescalate tensions on the Sino-Indian border -- so that he can turn his attention and concentrate on those immediate priorities . A crafty and cunning politician as he is , he is stretching out his hands covered in friendly gloves towards Modi to freeze the stalemate in the form of disengagement ' and creation of buffer zones . ' But these may be temporary compromises . Once Xi sorts out these problems in his home and abroad , he in all probability may return to the old anti-Indian policies that he has inherited from his predecessors . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> We should also remember that the Sino-Indian dispute is a part of the wider inter-imperial conflict between two rival gangs of rogue states -- the US-Israel axis on the one hand and the Sino-Russian axis on the other . Indian prime minister Narendra Modi is playing a duplicitous role by placating both the rivals . On the one hand , it is supplying Israel with military armaments to fight in Gaza , and sending Indian labourers to man its economy , and on the other hand , it is coming to the rescue of Russian economy by buying its oil . <p> We are yet to see how far the Modi government can walk this tightrope , once this inter-imperial rivalry intensifies on a global scale , moving beyond the borders of Gaza in the Middle East and Ukraine in Europe . <p> Sumanta Banerjee is a political commentator and writer , is the author of In The Wake of Naxalbari ' ( 1980 and 2008 ) ; The Parlour and the Streets : Elite and Popular Culture in Nineteenth Century Calcutta ( 1989 ) and ' Memoirs of Roads : Calcutta from Colonial Urbanization to Global Modernization . ' ( 2016 ) . <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118589754 <h> North Gaza : Israel destroys the last collapsing hospital to complete forced displacement crime <h> Share : <p> Palestinian territory -- Israel is systematically closing hospitals in northern Gaza through direct military targeting , a suffocating siege , and the killing , injuring , and arresting of patients , wounded individuals , and medical personnel . This is part of an ongoing crime of forced displacement against all Palestinian residents of northern Gaza . <p> Early this morning , Israeli occupation forces resumed military assaults on civilians in Beit Lahia , conducting deadly raids on homes and streets before encircling Kamal Adwan Hospital , which remains partially operational , along with two other hospitals in northern Gaza . <p> According to Euro-Med field field teams , Israeli forces used Palestinian detainees as human shields , forcing them to warn hospital staff that all displaced persons and companions of patients must leave the premises and head to areas controlled by Israeli forces . Many were arrested upon arrival , while others were forced to flee to a checkpoint in the Civil Administration are and eventually to Gaza City . <p> The Israeli military also forced the evacuation of the Indonesian medical delegation volunteering at Kamal Adwan Hospital , leaving without their vehicles . <p> The assault near Kamal Adwan Hospital lasted several hours , leaving between 30 and 50 people dead in nearby streets and homes . Witnesses report that searches for additional victims are ongoing . <p> Dr. Hussam Abu Safia , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , described the catastrophic situation inside and outside the facility . Four medical staff members were killed , many others injured , and the hospital is now without surgeons . He stated that the Israeli forces compelled the Indonesian Hospital 's medical team -- the only team conducting surgeries -- to evacuate , leaving hundreds of victims in desperate need of immediate care amid dwindling medical supplies . <p> On Thursday , Israeli forces bombed the Indonesian Hospital in Jabalia , targeting water tanks and injuring companions of three patients . Previously , the upper floors of Al-Awda Hospital in Jabalia were also bombed . <p> These attacks highlight Israel 's ongoing efforts to completely shut down northern Gaza 's hospitals . Already crippled by a lack of medical supplies , these hospitals operate with exhausted staff overwhelmed by months of famine and continuous emergencies . The aim appears to be the eradication of any chance of survival for Palestinians in northern Gaza . <p> Thousands of displaced people were forced to flee toward Gaza City yesterday after Israeli forces attacked multiple shelters in Beit Lahia and continued forcibly evicting northern Gaza residents . <p> Dr. Abu Safia also affirmed that the Israeli army continues to destroy homes over the heads of residents in northern Gaza neighbourhoods , leaving the area uninhabitable both now and in the future . <p> The World Health Organization ( WHO ) and the International Committee of the Red Cross ( ICRC ) must urgently intervene to provide northern Gaza hospitals with medications , supplies , food , and medical personnel while ensuring the safety of patients , the wounded , and medical staff . In light of the failure of diplomatic efforts , these organisations must at least issue public statements condemning Israel 's grave violations , which have escalated dangerously over the past year . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> To halt genocide in Gaza , the international community and the UN must fulfill their legal obligations : impose a comprehensive arms embargo on Israel ; hold it accountable for its crimes ; protect Palestinian civilians ; prevent their forced displacement ; ensure their return to their homes ; release arbitrarily detained Palestinians ; and facilitate unrestricted humanitarian aid , particularly life-saving assistance , to northern Gaza . <p> The Israeli military must withdraw from all Palestinian occupied territories to uphold international law and safeguard the lives of Palestinians . <p> Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor is a Geneva-based independent organization with regional offices across the MENA region and Europe <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118589755 <h> Share : <p> In the aftermath of a highly contentious and heated debate over Israel 's war in Gaza and the use of the terms " apartheid " and " genocide " in describing what has taken place there , the Oxford Union debating society on November 29 voted 278 to 59 in declaring " This house believes Israel is an apartheid state responsible for genocide . " <p> In an article in Countercurrents , an India-based online news , views and analysis website , Australian scientist , activist and writer Dr Gideon Polya addressed the ever-mounting death toll in Gaza by quoting one debate participant , Palestinian writer Susan Abulhawa , who stated that there are an " estimated 300,000 Palestinians killed in the first year of the Gaza Massacre . " Abulhawa went further in saying that " if the world were watching the live streamed systematic annihilation of Jews in real time , there would be no debating whether that constituted terrorism or genocide . " <p> The Oxford Union debating society 's finding was in line with that of a special UN committee that earlier in November declared in its findings that Israel 's war in Gaza was " consistent with genocide . " While only yesterday Amnesty International issued their findings of an investigation in which they concluded that Israel was carrying out genocide in Gaza saying that Israel 's conduct is unlawful . " <p> As the war in Gaza shows no sign of reaching a ceasefire agreement any time soon , activists from several anti-war and human rights groups once again protested outside of the building housing the office of California Democratic Senator Alex Padilla calling for his arrest as a " war criminal . " Their message to Padilla consistent over the course of the war has been , " Stop funding genocide . " <p> To wit , Padilla has not listened while refusing to " to join 19 other senators who voted for Bernie Sanders ' Joint Resolutions of Disapproval " which would have blocked $20 billion for more weapons for Israel . <p> Padilla has also voted against Bernie Sanders ' S.Res 504 that would have publicly determined if Israel human rights practices in Gaza violates the 1961 Foreign Assistance Act which prohibits US military aid to states that consistently commit human rights abuses . He was also among 81 senators who opposed a letter by Senator Thomas Carper ( D-DE ) and 18 other senators that called for the Biden administration " to establish a bold public framework in recognizing a non-militarized Palestinian State . " <p> After hearing from several activists who spoke on Padilla 's complicity in genocide in supporting Israel , the group performed a skit of the senator 's mock arrest for his war crimes followed by a sidewalk die-in . An activist playing Padilla speaking from behind bars , in a mask in the likeness of the senator , asked questions regarding the war and when the crowd responded he said , " I ca n't hear you , " echoing the sentiments many of the senator 's constituents and others accuse him of , namely , being deaf to their voices in calling for him to " Stop funding genocide . " <p> The activists demanded that he " Stop arming Israel , restore funding for UNRWA and allow sufficient aid into Gaza . " Padilla , it was noted , has received $30,850 in contributions from the Israeli lobby according to the website tracaipac.com/us-senate . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Leslie Angeline , an anti-war activist who is now in her 18th day of a hunger strike in solidarity with Gazans , admitted , while speaking to those in attendance , that while she was hungry , her pain was nothing compared with what people in Gaza face every day . She promised to endure her strike . <p> For some time after the protest ended , the chalked messages on the sidewalk remained unmolested as a very public notice to passersby of Padilla 's complicity in aiding Israel 's efforts and war crimes being committed in Gaza . <h> Related Posts <p> Palestinian territory - Israel is systematically closing hospitals in northern Gaza through direct military targeting , a suffocating siege , and the killing , injuring , and arresting of patients , wounded individuals , and medical personnel .... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118589756 <h> War on Humanity : Gaza Tells Horrors of Crimes Against Humanity and Genocide <h> Share : <p> Is PM Netanyahu an egomaniac leader to Israelis ? Most would question his delusional hold on power and demand his resignation but agree , he made Gaza inhabitable and delivered impunity from foreign dictates to the naked eyes of the conscientious world . To a rational observer , human understanding can not be tempered with impunity for crimes against the civilian population . His arrest warrant by the ICC is often a puzzle as nobody would enforce its implementation . The latest report by Amnesty International confirms the ' crime against humanity ' and Genocide ' were committed by the Israeli forces on Gaza . " Hell on Earth " -- The UN Secretary General warns the conscientious global community of appaling and catastrophic conditions in Gaza from all spectrum of reason with more than 44,000 civilian massacred , more than 100,355 injured , more than 16,000 children and women massacred and 16,000 or more women and children still buried under rubble and unaccounted for , and the rest of humanity under continuous bombardment by the Israeli warmachines supported and aided by the US supplied weapons of mass destruction . Even the hospitals , places of worship , schools , graveyards and safe zones are not spared by the Israeli war machines . Israeli leaders reportedly have dropped more than four equal to Hiroshima nuclear bombs on Gaza . International observers spell out the tragic events : words can not describe the humanitarian calamities and sufferings of the besieged people of Gaza and the West Bank . <p> The Gaza genocide is happening alive on screen in daily media coverage because there are no Arab or Muslim leaders to challenge the Israeli myth of being a Middle East superpower . The Arab -Muslim leaders do not exist on this planet except being after dinner jokes across the Western world . The Western institutions of peace , security and conflict management feel no obligation to protect the civilian population of Gaza because their ethnicity does not correspond to the Anglo-Saxon origin . If the original population of Gaza and West Bank-Palestine happened to be Jews or Christians , the bombing and destruction was unthinkable . " It is only wrong doers stand as Protectors- one to another ; But God is the Protector of Righteous " clarifies the Divine message . ( The Quran : 45 ; 19 ) . Another clarification points out the truth : " We have not created the Heavens and the earth and whatever is between them in sport : We have not created them but for a serious end . But the greater part of them do not understand it . " ( The Quran : Chapter 44 : 38 ) . The professed animosity is against Islam and Palestinians and Israel spearheads the killing of civilians to end the freedom movement for an independent State of Palestine . <p> The US and European Leaders Ignored the Israeli Crimes Against Humanity and Genocide <p> Evil happens when conscientious men do nothing.To this author , a cataclysmic nature of human intellect is unleashing a highly irrational and unthinkable world of complexity to come to our consciousness destroying all progress and achievements of any human civilization on this Earth . Is it not a conspiracy against humanity , Nature and our sustainable future on this planet ? <p> They claim to be peacemakers but horrors of war , pains and morally corrupt leadership practices show deception and inconsistency in policies and behaviors . Both the US President , Secretary Blinken deceived and misled the world with talks of a ceasefire plan since May 2024 , and a ' two-state solution ' -- all simply to buy time for Israel to put an end to life in Gaza and the freedom of Palestine . They found equally inept , corrupt and despotic Arab-Muslim leaders to engage them in the fallacy of peacemaking and allow Israel to commit catastrophic crimes against Palestinian people . The US and Israeli leaders have unbridled ambitions and power , unleashing violent assumptions of hatred , secret intrigues , and animosities that overwhelm the daily thought processes of a society -- a nation , no matter how " normal " it claims to be , can not function as a normal entity when it mocks the originality of Palestinians and calls for " death to Arabs . " The Arab-Muslim leadership was complicit in making the genocide happen in Gaza . <p> Israeli leaders had planned long before the Gaza onslaught to populate the region with settlers and rob it of its natural resources . Felicity Arbhutant and Michel Chossudovsky ( Video : Global Research:12/03/24 : https : **39;777;TOOLONG ... explains : An official " secret " memorandum authored by Israel 's Ministry of Intelligence recommended the forcible and permanent transfer of Gaza 's 2.2 million Palestinian residents to Egypt 's Sinai Peninsula , specifically to a refugee camp in Egyptian territory . " Felicity Arbhutant clarifies : Netanyahu 's October 2023 declaration of war against 2.3 million people of the Gaza Strip is a continuation of its 2008-2009 invasion of Gaza under " Operation Cast Lead . " The underlying objective is the outright military occupation of Gaza by Israel 's IDF forces andthe expulsion of Palestinians from their homeland . I should however mention that there are powerful financial interests which stand to benefit from Israel 's criminal undertaking ( Genocide ) directed against Gaza ..... " Israel is set to become a major exporter of gas and some oil , " IfAll Goes to Plan " . In the current context , Israel 's " All Goes to Plan " option consists in bypassing Palestine and " Wiping Gaza off the Map " , as well confiscating ALL Gaza 's maritime offshore gas reserves , worth billions of dollars . <p> We , the People , We , the Humanity are equipped with incomparable knowledge and wisdom , and if we bomb and destroy the earth and its sustainability for life , then we negate our very existence as the intelligent beings responsible to protect life and sanctity of the Earth . We are capable of resolving problems through dialogue and peaceful means.But our professed ignorance and arrogance toward Divine Knowledge have pushed us toward evil and futility in a global cataclysm -- the treacherous conflict at the epicenter of man-made destruction , driven by lingering suspicion toward others within this magnificent Universe . The Earth and the Universe are meant to support human beings and meet all their needs across time and space . Are we living in a disconnected world of our own making ? The Message of the Quran ( 64:40 , 67:40 ) clarifies the truth of universal brotherhood and wisdom for all the times to come : <p> It is God Who has made for you the Earth as a resting place and the sky as a canopy ; and has given you shape and made your shapes beautiful , and has provided for your sustenance of things pure and good ; such is God , your Lord . So Glory be to God , the Lord of the Worlds . He it is Who created you from dust , then from a sperm-drop , then from a leech-like clot , then He brings you out as a child . Then lets you grow and reach your full strength , and lets you become old -- though some of you die before -- and lets you reach an appointed term , so that you may learn wisdom . <p> We can not abandon the search for a better and more rational world of systematic mechanisms to protect peace and security of mankind on this planet . We , the People , We the Humanity and conscientious thinkers and scholars must wake-up to the immense sophisticated and technologically advanced challenges to disconnect us from the Nature of Things and to dehumanize us by global scenarios of ethnicities , nationalism , state borders and cultural superiorities and ruling class distinctions . William Godwin ( Enquiry Concerning Political Justice and Its Influence on Modern Moral and Happiness , 1793 ) , said it right : <p> Men of genius must rise up ... . to analyse the machine of society to demonstrate how the parts are connected together ... and point out the defects and remedy . It is thus only that important reforms can be produced ... He who is a friend to general happiness will neglect no chance of producing in his pupil or his child , one of the long-looked for saviours of the human race . <p> Dr. Mahboob A. Khawaja specializes in international affairs-global security , peace and conflict resolution and has spent several academic years across the Russian-Ukrainian and Central Asian regions knowing the people , diverse cultures of thinking and political governance and a keen interest in Islamic-Western comparative cultures and civilizations , and author of several publications including : One Humanity and the Remaking of Global Peace , Security and Conflict Resolution , and a forthcoming book : Global Humanity and the Remaking of Peace , Security and Conflict Resolution beyond the Lens of Human Consciousness . <h> Related Posts <p> Palestinian territory - Israel is systematically closing hospitals in northern Gaza through direct military targeting , a suffocating siege , and the killing , injuring , and arresting of patients , wounded individuals , and medical personnel .... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118592771 <p> " The present-day rulers are using horrific distractions so that the common masses do n't cry out for food and employment , which is afflicting a huge population in India " <p> Humra Quraishi <p> Human Rights Day , 10 December , is almost here but is there any relevance left to this day ? Humans and their basic rights have been reduced to a nothingness of sorts . There is genocide on , in , and around Gaza , where the Israeli forces so very brutally and blatantly kill the hapless Palestinians . There 's no stopping the human killings and the disasters spreading out , yet we , the alive , sit like deadened mute spectators . <p> Focusing on the havoc taking place in our country , there are hate speeches of the political rulers of the day and with that , there seems no stopping to the communal build-ups ! Much hue and cry about the environmental pollution but what about the ongoing political pollution ? Dangerous , destructive , and severe . Killing forms and souls and affecting the very survival of hundreds . <p> Horrific distractions are being used so the masses do n't cry out for rotis and rozgaars ! No bread and bread-earners , only diggers equipped with hammers and all possible digging material . Tell me , where are we heading in an atmosphere burdened with human cries ? <p> Restrictions on visit to Sambhal <p> Sambhal in Uttar Pradesh stands out as last week five of its citizens were killed and many more injured and arrested . There rages a huge controversy about whether those arrested are the actual culprits or victims of the communally charged atmosphere , dripping with obnoxious comments ... lows reaching such lows that a particular police officer even terming a certain section of the aggrieved minority citizens of Sambhal as " jaahils " ( uneducated and uncouth ) ! He should be aware of the basic fact that he is a civil servant and can not treat the minority community with such gaudy arrogance and use of third-class terms ! <p> Why is it that nobody can visit Sambhal till December 10 ? If the administration and the political rulers have nothing to conceal then let us visit the town and see for ourselves the ground realities . Needless to add by then the victims and their entire clans and families could be threatened and made to keep shut and not to speak out . They would have little choice but to agree to all the Sarkari commands otherwise the aftermath could ruin their lives for times to come . <p> It is getting much too dangerous to see how the agenda appears unfolding . Mosques and dargahs and age-old historical structures are being brought into focus to be targeted by the Hindutva brigades under the various alibis . And then utter chaos and communal atmosphere is bound to spread out , overtaking all possible strains of governance . <p> Communal virus and the connected onslaughts unleashed right from 6 December 1992 , when the Babri Masjid was targeted , are spreading out as never before . The right-wing brigades and their men have connectivity with the political rulers , so one can well imagine the havoc that could unfold . <p> Questions over Dargah Ajmer Sherif <p> With news of the Hindutva men also questioning the basis of the dargah of Ajmer Sharif , I have been thinking of the numerous occasions when I visited this dargah of Khwaja Moinuddin Hasan Chisti -- also known as Gharib Nawaz . I had met hundreds of non-Muslims , who had travelled to this dargah from the various States of the country , praying for the fulfillment of their mannats ( wishes ) ... Complete bonding between the Muslims and the non-Muslim devotees ... such a touching sight . <p> It is relevant to know the details of this Sufi mystic , Khwaja Moinuddin Hasan Chisti -- also known as Gharib Nawaz . He had travelled from the Middle East and settled in Ajmer . He reached there when he was in his middle age but stayed on till his last years . It 's said that he was born in East Persia around 533 Hijri ( 1138-39 AD ) and lost his parents at an early stage . Though he had inherited an orchard and a windmill , no sooner he had come in contact with a dervesh Sufi , Ebrahim Qandoosi , than he gave up all worldly belongings and travelled towards Samarkand and Bukhara which were centres of great learning . From there he travelled further , towards Mecca and Medina and it was whilst there that he decided to travel down towards India . <p> At that time Ajmer was ruled by the Rajput ruler Prithvi Raj Chauhan . Khwaja Saheb settled down at a hillock , close to the Ana Sagar lake . Soon the local people started visiting him , who were taken in by his simplicity and piety . As the power of his blessings made way , even the mighty rulers and rajas made their way toward the humble dwelling of this Sufi . It 's amazing how this practice continues to this day . Though Khwaja Saheb passed away in 1236 AH , at the age of 97 to date thousands visit his dargah daily . <p> To date a large number of visitors and devotees to the dargah are non-Muslims . This could be because Sufis believed that there should be no compulsion in religion and that there should never be any demarcations and biases along religious lines . <p> Sufi Traditions attracted people <p> Traditions state that this mystic sufi would state : " The closest to Allah is one , who possesses the following three qualities : magnanimity of the river , kindness of the sun , and humility of the earth . He had also said " noblest of character is possessed by one , who is bountiful in poverty , content in hunger , cheerful in grief and friendly in hostility " and the " surest way to keep off punishment in hell is to feed the hungry , to redress the aggrieved and to help the distressed . " Khwaja never brought up any issue related to religion . He is known as Gharib Nawaz because he reached out to anybody in need and distress , irrespective of caste or creed . <p> Legend states that the Mughal Emperor Akbar was blessed with a son after he offered prayers at this dargah . And thereafter his son , Jehangir , was a regular visitor to this dargah . Mughal emperors have left very obvious traces of their visits in the form of buildings , compound walls , mosques , darwazas , and gates . <p> Together with this the concept of free distribution of food to those assembled in the dargah . An ongoing tradition is that of food cooked daily in two huge degs ( huge cooking vessels ) for free distribution . It 's said that that Mughal emperor Akbar had presented a huge ' deg ' in which enough rice could be cooked to feed 5000 people . Emperor Jehangir also presented another deg . And till date , food cooked in them is distributed to those assembled . Mughal Emperor Shahjahan 's daughter , Princess Jahan Ara , was not just a regular visitor but is said to have written a book on the Khwaja . <p> And Queen Mary , Empress of England , at the time of her coronation in India in 1911 A.D. had visited this dargah at Ajmer and left a trace of her visit by having a roof constructed over a tank . 
@@118595646 <h> How the Gaza conflict influenced Trump 's victory <h> Published on Dec 07 , 2024 <p> While it is not the sole factor for Trump 's victory in the recent US elections , the Gaza crisis and the US 's role in the Middle East shaped US electoral dynamics <p> Image Source : Getty <p> The United States ( US ) concluded its presidential elections against the backdrop of a brutal war between Israel and Palestine and severe debates about the superpower 's role in this war . While early exit polls had predicted a narrow margin victory for the Democratic party , the results turned out to be in favour of the Republicans . While various factors have been attributed to Trump 's victory , this article seeks to understand the role of the Palestine issue in swinging votes away from the Democrats . <p> This election has been a landmark moment for both Trump and the Republicans . Not only has Trump been able to reverse the people 's mandate , which he lost to Joe Biden in 2020 , but the Republicans have also reclaimed the Senate and inched closer to a majority in the House . With over 77 million voting in his favour as opposed to nearly 75 million in favour of Harris , Trump is the first Republican candidate to win the popular vote since George W. Bush . <p> With over 77 million voting in his favour as opposed to nearly 75 million in favour of Harris , Trump is the first Republican candidate to win the popular vote since George W. Bush . <p> As the post-election analysis trickles in , a few key points have emerged . First , Trump has strengthened his performance across nearly all demographics , including the core Republican base , the working class , Latinos , African-Americans , college graduates , young male voters and even urban populations in cities like New York , Chicago , and Miami , which have traditionally been bastions for the Democrats . Second , despite Harris raising more campaign funds than her opponent , she could not retain both the victory margins and counties gained by her predecessor , Joe Biden . <p> In fact , for every 100 votes lost by Harris , Trump gained 78 votes . The missing 22 votes from this loss/gain equation suggest that , while the public lost trust in Harris and her policies , this trust did not proportionally transfer to Trump . Rather than just an alignment with Trump , this gap also suggests a disillusionment with the Democrats , especially within their core base and swing states . While socio-economic issues , such as migration , high inflation , and the tirade against " wokeness " played a critical role in the elections , a part of the discussion surrounding the Democrats ' loss has fixated on the role of the Gaza crisis , and Arab American1 and Muslim voters voting against the Democrats after feeling disenfranchised over policies supporting Israel . <h> Impact of Gaza <p> There are two main ways in which the impact of Gaza can be noted in the 2024 US elections . Firstly , in the swing state of Michigan , where Arab Americans form a strong part of the electorate , Democrats were not able to win as many seats as they wanted . Trump and third-party candidate Jill Stein together received almost 70 percent of the vote in the city of Dearborn ( an Arab-American stronghold ) , which helped give Trump his victory in the state . Voters from this city and other parts of Michigan were adamant about voting against Harris for what they believed to be her wilful negligence of their interests . Indeed , as pointed out by many voters and analysts , Donald Trump was quite intentional about meeting the Arab and Muslim American communities in the cities of Michigan , even bringing together a cohort of Imams to endorse him in one of his rallies . Harris , on the other hand , did not make any such concessions , further angering the community beyond her party 's uninhibited support of Israel . Secondly , it is also quite likely that liberal and progressive voters who felt dismayed at the Democrats ' unwillingness to confront Israel also voted for other candidates , further underscoring the impact of the conflict . <p> Trump and third-party candidate Jill Stein together received almost 70 percent of the vote in the city of Dearborn ( an Arab-American stronghold ) , which helped give Trump his victory in the state . <p> Thus , there seems to be some indirect evidence that the issue of Israel and Palestine has played a role in dictating voting sentiments . For instance , in three of the seven swing states , Pennsylvania , Arizona , and Georgia , polling conducted in August 2024 demonstrated that between 30 to 39 percent of voters were more likely to vote for the Democratic candidate ( Kamala Harris ) if the US were to withhold aid to Israel due to its genocide in Gaza . Given that these three states did not even include Michigan , the swing state with a significant Arab majority , it is clear that there has been some indirect impact of Gaza on the American vote . <p> Other trends that also indicate some level of impact are the various polls done among young voters ( 18-29 ) , many of whom are coming of age . According to polls conducted in June 2024 ( before Harris replaced Biden as the Democratic candidate ) , almost 53 percent of young voters wanted a ceasefire in Gaza . This has been linked to young generations of Americans following pro-Palestinian content on TikTok , thereby increasing their opposition to Israel 's activities in Palestine . <h> Contextualising Gaza in the US elections and the impact of Trump on the conflict <p> In general , no election is a single-issue election and the US , with a population of about 337 million , that includes several different ethnic and religious groups , deserves a far more complex breakdown of election trends . Even if Michigan was won decisively by Trump due to Arab American voters , it only contributed 15 electoral votes to Trump who won by a total margin of 86 electoral votes . In other words , even if Trump lost Michigan , he would have still won this election . <p> Other reasons can be attributed to the Democrat 's losses . For instance , as Francis Fukuyama has argued , rising rent and prices across the US were a problem for most young voters . Additionally , a disproportionate focus on what is termed as " woke liberalism " at the cost of providing opportunities to less privileged members of the working class was another reason Fukuyama cited , a point expressed by some other political pundits , too . Trump supporters also view the US 's open borders and immigration with immense hostility , especially as inner cities ' fortunes crumble and rural towns fear crime . <p> The war in Gaza has made foreign policy an important determining factor in US elections , reflecting past trends where the Vietnam War ( as one example ) played a key role in dictating election outcomes . <p> Throughout this interrogation of voting patterns above , a few issues become clear . First , the war in Gaza has made foreign policy an important determining factor in US elections , reflecting past trends where the Vietnam War ( as one example ) played a key role in dictating election outcomes . Second , the potency of this issue is nevertheless limited and not the main deciding factor since many other domestic issues also played a role . Third , voters were aware of the difficult choices they were faced with regarding the issue of Palestine , and while some voted for a third party to keep their conscience clean , others voted against the Democrats to punish them for their involvement in the war . <p> In conclusion , while it wo n't be fully possible to isolate the impact of the war on US electoral politics , it is plausible to state that the Arab and Muslim American diasporas will play a role in determining political competition in the US . With a population expected to hit 8 million over the next two decades , and with the concentration of Muslims in specific swing states that play a crucial role in elections , political parties in the US will ill afford to ignore their sentiments about conflicts playing out in the Middle East . Eventually , this gives the region and its conflicts ever-increasing importance in the future . <p> Mohammed Sinan Siyech is a Non-Resident Associate Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation . <p> Akanksha Narain is an independent researcher based in London . <p> 1The Arab American population consists of numerous religions and sects , including Muslims , Christians , Jews , Druze and Mandeans , and is majority Christian . https : **39;1401;TOOLONG ... 
@@118597447 <p> Jerusalem : The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) and the Israel Security Agency ( ISA ) announced on Friday the killing of three senior Hamas commanders in airstrikes carried out in the Gaza Strip this week . <p> The commanders were implicated in the October 7 attack on Israel , which resulted in numerous civilian casualties and abductions , said the statement . <p> Among those killed was Majdi Aqilan , the deputy commander of Hamas ' Shati Battalion . IDF said Aqilan was in charge of commanding the onslaught in Nahal Oz kibbutz on October 7 and has since been behind much of the terrorist activity against IDF troops in Gaza , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> Another target , Mamdouh Mehna , was a senior figure in Hamas ' tunneling operations . Mehna allegedly participated in the attack on Nahal Oz on October 7 . <p> The third commander , Ahmad Suwaidan , also of the Shati Battalion , was reportedly involved in the abduction of Israeli civilians during the October 7 assault . Israel has been launching a large-scale offensive against Hamas in Gaza to retaliate against a Hamas rampage through the Israeli border on October 7 , 2023 , during which about 1,200 people were killed and around 250 others taken hostage . The relentless Israeli attacks in Gaza have caused an immense humanitarian crisis in the Palestinian enclave . The Palestinian death toll from ongoing Israeli attacks in the Gaza Strip has surpassed 44,000 , according to Gaza-based health authorities . ( IANS ) 
@@118600164 <h> Saudi royal slams ' genocidal ' Israel , welcomes Trump <p> A senior Saudi royal termed Israel " genocidal " and an " apartheid " state on Saturday , as he called on incoming US President-elect Donald Trump to bring peace to the Middle East . " Friendly countries in the region are hoping that Mr. Trump pursues what he started before , to bring peace with capital letters to the Middle East , " he said . <p> Donald Trump <p> MANAMA : A senior Saudi royal termed Israel " genocidal " and an " apartheid " state on Saturday , as he called on incoming US President-elect Donald Trump to bring peace to the Middle East.Prince Turki Al Faisal , who was Saudi Arabia 's intelligence chief for more than two decades , also said he hoped Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu would be brought before the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) . His comments at the Manama Dialogue conference in Bahrain follow increasingly tough statements from Saudi officials since talks were paused on a potential normalisation of ties with Israel after the start of the Gaza war . " Israel today , according to international human rights groups , is not only an apartheid colonial state , but it is also a genocidal one , " Prince Turki said . <p> " It is committing genocide on the people of Gaza . " He added : " It 's about time for the world to ... take the necessary steps to bring those who are charged by the International Criminal Court to justice . " The ICC issued warrants for Netanyahu and former defence minister Yoav Gallant last month on suspicion of crimes against humanity and war crimes.Saudi 's de facto ruler , Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman , also accused Israel of genocide at a joint Arab League and Organisation of Islamic Cooperation summit in Riyadh last month . <p> Amnesty International levelled the same charge this week in a new report that was dismissed by Israel as " fabricated " and " based on lies " . The war in Gaza was sparked by Hamas 's October 7 , 2023 attack on southern Israel , which resulted in the deaths of 1,208 people , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally based on official figures.Israel 's retaliatory military campaign has killed at least 44,612 people in Gaza , mostly civilians , according to figures from the territory 's Hamas-run health ministry that the United Nations considers reliable.Prince Turki , also a former Saudi ambassador to the US , said Trump 's " strong mandate " from American voters " can enable him to provide the statesmanship that is highly needed in the world . " Friendly countries in the region are hoping that Mr. Trump pursues what he started before , to bring peace with capital letters to the Middle East , " he said . " It is time for America , under your presidency , to change the course of this troubled region , " he added.During Trump 's first administration , the UAE , Bahrain and Morocco signed the Abraham Accords recognising Israel , a break with the long-held Arab consensus that there should be no ties without the creation of a Palestinian state . 
@@118609752 <h> Bashar al-Assad defeated : What has happened in Syria so far , what now <h> Assad was never meant to be Syria 's leader . He was an ophthalmologist practising in London when his brother and father 's heir-apparent died . How did his regime survive for 24 years ? What were his ties with India ? <p> A man waves a Syrian opposition flag as people celebrate at Masnaa Border Crossing , after Syrian rebels announced that they have ousted President Bashar al-Assad , Lebanon , December 8 , 2024 . REUTERS/Amr Abdallah Dalsh <p> Who is fighting whom in Syria , and why ? Why are so many foreign governments , from the US to Russia to Iran to Turkey involved ? How did Assad 's regime survive for so long , and what happens now that he is gone ? <p> And what is India 's attitude towards Assad ? We explain . <p> Advertisement <h> Why is Syria in the midst of a civil war ? <p> Since 1971 , Syria was in the control of Hafez al-Assad , the all-powerful President seen by many as a dictator . After Hafez died in 2000 , his son , Bashar , took over . In 2011 , when the Arab Spring saw dictators being toppled across West Asia , protests began against Assad too . <p> Assad belongs to the Alawite community , a sect of Shia Islam . Many in Syria believed that while Sunnis were the majority , power and resources were concentrated in the hands of the Alawaites . After coming to power , Assad had opened up the economy , but the gains had largely been limited to the elites . Thus , when protests began -- initially peacefully -- price rise and unemployment were among the major issues . <p> Assad 's regime cracked down on the protesters , and the agitation soon spiralled into armed civil war . Among the fighters were many factions -- with different external backers -- and many aims , but forcing Assad to step down was a largely common goal . <p> The rebels had taken control of areas to the northeast and northwest of the country . However , Assad was in control of a large section of Syria . This was made possible thanks to a major offensive in 2015 , when Russia provided air support and Assad 's forces , with the help of Iran , beat back the rebels . Since 2020 , the civil war had remained a frozen conflict , till the anti-government forces mounted a quick and surprisingly effective campaign from November 27 . <p> Who was fighting whom , and why ? <p> Advertisement <p> The leader of the group that just captured Damascus is Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , led by Abu Mohammad al-Jolani . The HTS was founded in 2011 as Jabhat al-Nusra , the al-Qaeda 's branch in Syria . In 2016 , it broke away to form the Jabhat Fateh al-Shaam ( JFS ) , standing for the liberation of al-Shaam , or the Levant ( the sub-region of the Middle East lying near the Mediterranean Sea , including Jordan , Syria , Lebanon , Israel and Palestine ) . The HTS wanted to overthrow Assad and establish a Sunni-Islamic rule . <p> The other significant player are the Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) , a collection of Kurdish militias that want more autonomy and rights for the Kurds . They are not a major enemy of Assad . <p> Then is the Turkey-backed Syrian National Army , opposing both Assad and the Kurds . <p> Among foreign players , Iran and Russia support Assad , and Lebanon 's Hezbollah have provided him with crucial fighting support . The US and Turkey have backed the anti-Assad forces , though Turkey 's beef is mainly with the Kurds , including those within its own borders . <p> With Iran , Hezbollah , and Russia all distracted with their own wars in Gaza and Lebanon , and Ukraine , respectively , Assad was missing critical support . As the rebels ran over the country , they met little effective resistance from the official Syrian Army . <p> However , it is too early to say if Assad 's fall is the end of the Syrian civil war , or just another chapter . <p> Advertisement <p> While Assad was undoubtedly unpopular , many believed him to be a bulwark against Sunni Islamic fundamentalism , and a champion of minority rights . <p> Assad was never meant to be Syria 's leader . He was an ophthalmologist practising in London when his elder brother and father 's heir apparent , Basil , died in a car crash in 1994 . After he came to power in 2000 , there were early , nascent indications that his rule would not be as authoritarian as his father 's . His marriage to London-born investment banker Asma Akhras further boosted his liberal image . But his response to the 2011 protests , and the increasing brutality of repression since , ended all hopes of a ' Damascus Spring ' . <p> However , the group that has toppled him has a violent al-Qaeda past . Though the HTS has struck a more liberal , conciliatory note towards minorities recently , many fear their win might turn Syria into an ' Afghanistan on the Mediterranean ' . <h> What were India 's ties with Bashar al-Assad ? <p> India has had friendly ties with Syria under Assad . In fact , The 6th Round of India-Syria Foreign Office Consultations took place in New Delhi on November 29 . <p> The Ministry of External Affairs said in a press release then , " India and Syria enjoy warm and friendly relations based on historic and civilisational ties . India has been a keen developmental partner for Syria and is also actively involved in capacity building of the Syrian youth . Both the countries also cooperate on various multilateral forums . The discussions held today will contribute in further strengthening of India-Syria bilateral partnership . " <p> Yashee is an Assistant Editor with the indianexpress.com , where she is a member of the Explained team . She is a journalist with over 10 years of experience , starting her career with the Mumbai edition of Hindustan Times . She has also worked with India Today , where she wrote opinion and analysis pieces for DailyO . Her articles break down complex issues for readers with context and insight . Yashee has a Bachelor 's Degree in English Literature from Presidency College , Kolkata , and a postgraduate diploma in journalism from Asian College of Journalism , Chennai , one of the premier media institutes in the countr ... Read More 
@@118609784 <h> Challenges in Gaza , Lebanon , Syria : Jaishankar <h> Says India has to be realistic about competing interests in the region . <p> The minister also weighed in on the " relationship or absence of it between Israel and Iran " , which he said , has been a source of concern and some of India 's diplomatic efforts are focused on that aspect . <p> Pointing to the multiple ongoing conflicts in West Asia , the latest being the escalating situation in Syria where rebels are claiming to have overthrown the Bashar al-Assad regime , External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Sunday said there were " challenges from Gaza to Lebanon to Syria " , and that India has to be realistic about competing interests in the region . <p> Jaishankar was speaking at the Manama Dialogue in Bahrain . The theme of the 20th edition of the event was ' Middle East leadership in shaping regional prosperity and security ' . <p> " What we do in my business is essentially try to address the challenges of the day as collectively and as effectively as possible . And this today would extend from Gaza to Lebanon and now to Syria as well . But at the same time , we have to be realistic about competing interests in this region , " he said . " One of the interesting evolutions of the world today is actually on different issues , sometimes in the same region , you have a different combination of countries that are working together , " he added . <p> The minister also weighed in on the " relationship or absence of it between Israel and Iran " , which he said , has been a source of concern and some of India 's diplomatic efforts are focused on that aspect . <p> " We are one country that has the ability to speak to both Israel and Iran . That is one communication link , which is weak . We are not the only communication link . We are serving an important cause ; at the right moment , right people get what the intended message is , " he said . In October , Iran fired around 200 missiles into Israel in response to Israel 's killing of Hezbollah chief Hassan Nasrallah and other commanders of the militant outfit . Israel subsequently retaliated against the Iranian strikes . <p> On the attacks on commercial ships in the Red Sea ( by Houthi militants ) , Jaishankar said India has an interest in trying to mitigate the security situation . " So when we look at the diversion of maritime routes and the insurance costs , and the shipping costs and the container costs and the delay that it has imposed , obviously , you know , India , but not just India , we have an interest in trying to mitigate that situation , " he added . <p> He also highlighted India 's sustained economic growth and the West Asian region 's place in that matrix . " India is today almost a $4 trillion economy , ( and ) we expect to comfortably double that this decade . Our trade is today around $800 billion ; that too should at least double this decade , " he said . <p> Advertisement <p> " So I again can not overstate the stakes that we have because this region is the immediate for us the world beyond our borders that immediately awaits us , " he said . <p> Divya A reports on travel , tourism , culture and social issues - not necessarily in that order - for The Indian Express . She 's been a journalist for over a decade now , working with Khaleej Times and The Times of India , before settling down at Express . Besides writing/ editing news reports , she indulges her pen to write short stories . As Sanskriti Prabha Dutt Fellow for Excellence in Journalism , she is researching on the lives of the children of sex workers in India . ... Read More 
@@118609883 <h> He also condemned the overall handling of the escalating civil war but said the routing of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and Russian forces might be for the best . <p> Trump 's statement came as Syrian rebels , led by Islamist militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , inched closer to the Syrian capital of Damascus on Saturday . ( AP ) <p> In his first remarks since the escalation of the Syrian civil war , United States President-elect Donald Trump Saturday said that the US military should stay out of the conflict as the country is not a " friend " . <p> Trump 's statement came as Syrian rebels , led by Islamist militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , inched closer to the Syrian capital of Damascus on Saturday . The advances in the past week were among the largest in recent years following a surprise offensive from the country 's northwest . <p> Advertisement <p> In his post , he also condemned the overall handling of the civil war but said the routing of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and Russian forces might be for the best . He added that Russia " is so tied up in Ukraine " that it " seems incapable of stopping this literal march through Syria , a country they have protected for years . " <h> ' Not going to militarily dive , ' says US national security adviser <p> With world leaders watching the rapid level of escalation , President Joe Biden 's national security adviser Jake Sullivan separately stressed that the Biden administration had no intention of intervening . <p> " The United States is not going to ... militarily dive into the middle of a Syrian civil war , " Sullivan told an audience in California . <p> He said the US would keep acting as necessary to keep the Islamic State -- a violently anti-Western extremist group not known to be involved in the offensive but with sleeper cells in Syria 's deserts -- from exploiting openings presented by the fighting . <p> Advertisement <p> Insurgents ' stunning march across Syria sped faster Saturday , reaching the gates of Damascus and government forces abandoning the central city of Homs . The government was forced to deny rumors that Assad had fled the country . <p> Assad 's government has been propped up by the Russian and Iranian military , along with Hezbollah and other Iranian-allied militias , in a now 13-year-old war against opposition groups seeking his overthrow . The war , which began as a mostly peaceful uprising in 2011 against the Assad family 's rule , has killed a half-million people , fractured Syria and drawn in a more than a half-dozen foreign militaries and militias . <p> Syrian opposition fighters remove a government Syrian flag from an official building in Salamiyah , east of Hama , Syria Syria , Saturday Dec. 7 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ghaith Alsayed ) <p> The insurgents are led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , which the US has designated as a terrorist group and says has links to al-Qaida , although the group has since broken ties with al-Qaida . <p> Advertisement <p> The insurgents have met little resistance so far from the Syrian army , the Russian and Iranian militaries or allied militias in the country . <p> The Biden administration says Syrian opposition forces ' capture of government-held cities demonstrates just how diminished those countries are by wars in Ukraine , Gaza and Lebanon . <p> " Assad 's backers -- Iran , Russia and Hezbollah -- have all been weakened and distracted , " Sullivan said Saturday at an annual gathering of national security officials , defense companies and lawmakers at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley . <p> " None of them are prepared to provide the kind of support to Assad that they provided in the past , " he later added . <p> Advertisement <p> The US has about 900 troops in Syria , including U.S. forces working with Kurdish allies in the opposition-held northeast to prevent any resurgence of the Islamic State group . <p> Gen. Bryan Fenton , head of US Special Operations Command , said he would not want to speculate on how the upheaval in Syria would affect the US military 's footprint in the country . " It 's still too early to tell , " he said . <p> What would not change is the focus on disrupting IS operations in Syria and protecting US troops , Fenton said during a panel at the Reagan event . <h> Close watch <p> Syrian opposition activists and regional officials have been watching closely for any indication from the incoming Trump administration , in particular on how the US would respond to the rebel advances against Assad . <p> Advertisement <p> Robert Wilkie , Trump 's defense transition chief and a former secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs , said during the same panel that the collapse of the " murderous Assad regime " would be a major blow to Iran 's power . <p> The United Nations ' special envoy for Syria called Saturday for urgent talks in Geneva to ensure an " orderly political transition " in Syria . <p> An influential Syrian opposition activist in Washington , Mouaz Moustafa , interrupted a briefing to reporters to read Trump 's post and appeared to choke up . He said Trump 's declaration that the US should stay out of the fight was the best outcome that the the Syrians aligned against Assad could hope for . <p> Rebels have been freeing political detainees of the Assad government from prisons as they advance across Syria , taking cities . Moustafa pledged to reporters Saturday that opposition forces would be alert for any U.S. detainees among them and do their utmost to protect them . <p> Advertisement <p> Moustafa said that includes Austin Tice , an American journalist missing for more than a decade and suspected to be held by Assad . <p> Hayat Tahrir al-Sham renounced al-Qaida in 2016 and has worked to rebrand itself , including cracking down on some Islamic extremist groups and fighters in its territory and portraying itself as a protector of Christians and other religious minorities . <p> While the US and United Nations still designate it as a terrorist organization , Trump 's first administration told lawmakers that the US was no longer targeting the group 's leader , Abu Mohammed al-Golani. 
@@118609965 <h> The abrupt fall of President Bashar al-Assad 's regime ends five decades of Baath Party rule in Syria , following a decisive offensive by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) and allied factions . While Damascus celebrated , the country faces an uncertain future , marked by deep divisions , displaced populations , and scepticism over HTS 's governance . The regime 's collapse also disrupts regional power dynamics , affecting the strategic interests of Russia , Iran , Turkey , and Israel . The challenges ahead underline the complexity of rebuilding a fragmented nation . <p> APOpposition fighters celebrate in Damascus , Syria <p> In a dramatic turn of events , rebel forces led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) captured Damascus , marking the end of Bashar al-Assad 's presidency . The offensive , launched from HTS 's base in Idlib on November 27 , swiftly overtook strategic cities , including Aleppo , Hama , and Homs , before forcing Assad to flee the capital . The fall of Damascus brought jubilant celebrations , with citizens chanting , " We declare the city of Damascus free . " <p> HTS announced the end of 50 years of Baath Party dominance , issuing a statement : " After 50 years of oppression under Baath rule , and 13 years of crimes and tyranny and ( forced ) displacement , we announce today the end of this dark period and the start of a new era for Syria . " <h> A Divisive Legacy <p> Assad , who succeeded his father Hafez al-Assad in 2000 , entered office amid hopes of reform . However , he perpetuated the authoritarian structure of his father 's regime , which suppressed dissent and centralised power . The 2011 uprisings , inspired by the Arab Spring , were met with brutal repression , igniting a civil war that devastated the nation . Over half a million people were killed , six million became refugees , and millions more were internally displaced . <p> Assad 's grip on power was largely sustained through military backing from Russia and Iran . Russian air support and Iranian militias , including Hezbollah , played key roles in quelling opposition . However , recent regional and global developments left Assad vulnerable , enabling HTS 's rapid advance . <h> Challenges of Transition <p> Rebel leader Abu Mohammed al-Golani , now known as Ahmed al-Sharaa , announced the establishment of a transitional authority . Prime Minister Mohammed al-Jalali has been appointed to oversee state institutions during this period . Al-Jalali stated his willingness to " work with any leadership chosen by the Syrian people . " <p> Despite this announcement , many remain sceptical about HTS 's capacity to lead . Originally affiliated with al-Qaeda , HTS has attempted to rebrand itself as a nationalist movement . However , concerns persist about its long-term intentions , with fears of authoritarian Islamist rule under its leadership . <p> The transition also risks reigniting internal divisions among rebel factions , who control different regions of the fragmented country . Without a cohesive vision for governance , Syria faces the possibility of further conflict . <h> Regional Power Shifts <h> Russia : A Strategic Loss <p> The fall of Assad is a significant blow to Russian influence in the Middle East . Since its military intervention in 2015 , Russia had been the Assad regime 's staunchest ally , maintaining key naval and air bases in Tartous and Latakia . These bases , crucial for projecting power in the Mediterranean and Africa , now face uncertain futures as Russia grapples with its ongoing war in Ukraine . <h> Iran : A Fractured Axis <p> For Iran , Assad 's ousting undermines the " Axis of Resistance , " which links Tehran to Hezbollah in Lebanon via Syria . This network has facilitated arms transfers and bolstered Iran 's regional influence . Tehran 's position is further weakened by recent Israeli strikes targeting its assets and Hezbollah 's losses in conflicts with Israel . <p> The loss of Assad also disrupts Iran 's strategy of supporting allied groups in Yemen , Iraq , and Gaza , leaving its regional aspirations in disarray . <h> Mixed Reactions from Neighbours <h> Turkey 's Calculated Neutrality <p> Turkey , which hosts over three million Syrian refugees , denied direct involvement in the HTS offensive . However , analysts suggest Ankara may have provided tacit support , aligning with its interest in stabilising northern Syria and countering Kurdish militias . Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan had long advocated for a negotiated resolution to the Syrian conflict , but Assad resisted such overtures . <h> Israel 's Strategic Considerations <p> Israel views Assad 's fall as both an opportunity and a challenge . On one hand , it disrupts Iran 's supply chain to Hezbollah . On the other , HTS 's rise introduces unpredictability . Israel has bolstered its presence along the Golan Heights to prevent spillovers and safeguard against potential arms seizures by extremist groups . <h> Decades of Turmoil <p> Syria 's civil war , rooted in the 2011 anti-government protests , spiralled into a protracted conflict involving multiple factions and foreign powers . Assad 's regime , supported by Russia and Iran , withstood numerous challenges over the years but at a devastating cost to the nation . The last four years saw relative calm in the conflict until HTS 's surprise offensive reignited hostilities . <p> Syria 's future is fraught with uncertainty . Millions of displaced Syrians , both within the country and abroad , are watching developments with a mix of hope and fear . The lack of a unified leadership among rebel factions and the shadow of HTS 's extremist origins further complicates the transition . <p> While the end of Assad 's rule is a turning point , it does not guarantee peace or stability . Addressing Syria 's deep divisions , rebuilding its shattered infrastructure , and ensuring inclusive governance will require coordinated efforts from both internal stakeholders and the international community . 
@@118610089 <h> Former Puducherry CM Ramachandran no more <h> Fire breaks out at a shop at Gandhi Nagar Market in Delhi 's Shahdara ; several fire tenders at spot . More details awaited <p> 10:23:15 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Four members of family dead in suspected murder-suicide case in Kurukshetra <p> 10:13:18 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> The news that a gang of seven members sexually assaulted a mentally challenged college student in the Ayanavaram area of ? ? Chennai is shocking . In this regard , the student 's father filed a complaint at the Chennai Ayanavaram Police Station , but the accused were released with just a warning . With the efforts of one of the student 's relatives , the case has now been registered and two accused have been arrested , five are absconding . Why is the Chief Minister MK Stalin who condemns all the criminal activities in other states in the country before the full details are known , why is he not talking about this incident ? <h> Women are not safe in West Bengal . West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has always tried to deny the incidents of Sandeshkhali and Jaynagar . This encourages people with a criminal mindset ... The 18-year-old girl was missing for three days and the condition in which her body was found shows that she was tortured and later killed ... The state government has always been in denial mode ... West Bengal is among the top five states in the country in terms of atrocities against women ... The people of West Bengal have to understand that as long as Mamata Banerjee is in power , women will not be safe in the state <p> - West Bengal BJP President and Union Minister Sukanta Majumdar <p> 09:32:04 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Biden to meet with national security advisors on Syria : White House--afp <h> Lok Sabha LoP and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi arrives in Delhi . <h> Lando Norris wins in Abu Dhabi , Mclaren seal constructors title <h> Jaipur Ahead of the Rising Rajasthan Global Investment Summit starting from December 9 in Jaipur , the main roads and government buildings of the city have been decorated and illuminated <p> 08:12:54 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> " In badminton , the score always starts with ' love ' , &amp; your beautiful journey with Venkata Datta Sai ensures it continues with ' love ' forever ! ? ? Thank you for personally inviting us to be a part of your big day . Wishing you both a lifetime of smashing memories &amp; endless rallies of joy ! , " posts Sachin Tendulkar <p> 08:11:25 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Trump says will attempt to end birthright US citizenship--afp <p> 08:03:09 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren chaired a meeting at his residence in Ranchi , which was attended by ministers and legislators <p> 07:51:00 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Punjab and Haryana police officials held a meeting with farmer leaders in Rajpura to discuss issues related to the farmers ' protest . Farmer leader Sarwan Singh Pandher was also present <p> 07:47:37 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Indian Embassy continues to remain operational in Damascus , Syria . The Embassy is in touch with all Indian nationals , and they are safe : Sources <h> Visuals of rainfall from Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi <h> A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking direction to immediately clear the blockage of National as well as state Highways in Punjab , which it said are " encroached and blocked illegally by alleged farmers and farmer unions " at various locations in the state <p> The PIL seeks direction from the states of Punjab and Haryana and the Union of India to remove restrictions on farmers ' protests and also to ensure that all National Highways and railway tracks are not blocked by the agitating farmers . The PIL seeking directions that the states and the Union should ensure smooth passage for the general public to be heard by the Supreme Court on December 9 . <p> 06:18:24 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> D Gukesh logs his second win against defending champion Ding Liren in World Chess Championship , beats him in 11th game to take lead <h> The situation in Syria is concerning for India . The groups involved there have had links to terrorism and have historically acted against India 's interests , with initial connections to Pakistan . While they now claim to focus on change and development , we have heard similar promises before from groups like the Taliban <p> - Defence expert Qamar Agha on Syrian civil war <p> 05:57:12 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> As far as India is concerned , our relations are normal with Syria . Although we do n't have any Indians in Syria ; less than 100 are in Syria and quite a few of them are UN workers , our volume of trade is also about 113 million ... the trade volume is not that heavy that it can affect India economical <p> - Defence expert Raj Kadyan on Syrian civil war <p> 05:52:32 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> We are following the dramatic events in Syria with extreme concern . As a result of negotiations between B. Assad and a number of participants in the armed conflict in the SAR , he decided to leave the presidential post and left the country , giving instructions to transfer power peacefully . Russia did not participate in these negotiations . At the same time , we appeal to all parties involved with a strong call to renounce the use of violence and resolve all governance issues by political means . In this regard , the Russian Federation is in contact with all groups of the Syrian opposition . We call for respect for the opinions of all ethno-confessional forces of Syrian society , and support efforts to establish an inclusive political process based on the unanimously adopted UN Security Council Resolution 2254 <h> Reception hall at Damascus presidential palace set on fire : AFP <p> 05:30:04 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Russia says Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has left the country , reports AP <p> 05:21:24 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> The subject that we have asked to address is regional strategic cooperation . Since we are talking about the region , it might be useful to start with some first principles and allow me to share how India sees this region . For us , when we speak about the region , there is the importance of the region itself -- the society , the people , the culture , the history , the civilisation ... most of all , this region has had , in history , great ideational impact on the wider world <h> Farmers ' ' Delhi Chalo ' march : " The two forums have decided to call of today 's ' jatha ' . From 12 pm to 3.45 pm today , our ' jatha ' peacefully tried to move towards Delhi . We knew that 101 men do n't have enough strength to move ahead because of the arrangements made by the central government . The Modi government believes that it does the best propaganda in the world , and we believe that this is true . They feel that can defame the farmers and portray this ( Delhi chalo march ) as anti-national <h> Germany calls Assad 's ouster a ' relief ' , warns against radicalisation <p> Germany 's top diplomat called the fall of Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad " a great relief " for the people of war-torn country , while warning against radicalisation . <p> " The end of Assad represents for millions of people in Syria a great relief , " said Annalena Baerbock , adding , " the country must not now fall into the hands of other radicals , whatever form they take . " <p> 04:26:16 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> France : Welcomes the fall of Syrian President Bashar Al-assad <p> Source : Reuters <p> 04:25:32 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> France : Now is the time for unity in Syria <p> Source : Reuters <p> 04:21:37 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Saudi Arabia cuts oil prices after OPEC+ delays reviving output <p> Source : Bloomberg <p> 04:17:40 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> UN Envoy calls for peace , unity , and justice after 14 years of conflict in Syria as rebels topple Assad 's government . <p> " Today marks a watershed moment in Syria 's history -- a nation that has endured nearly 14 years of relentless suffering and unspeakable loss . The United Nations Special Envoy for Syria extends once again his deepest solidarity to all who have borne the weight of death , destruction , detention , and untold human rights violations . This dark chapter has left deep scars , but today we look forward with cautious hope to the opening of a new one -- one of peace , reconciliation , dignity , and inclusion for all Syrians . <p> To those displaced , this moment renews the vision of returning to homes once lost . To families separated by war , the beginnings of reunions bring hope . To those unjustly detained , and the families of the detained and the missing , the opening of prison doors reminds us of justice 's eventual reach . <p> The challenges ahead remain immense and we hear those who are anxious and apprehensive . Yet this is a moment to embrace the possibility of renewal . The resilience of the Syrian people offers a path toward a united and peaceful Syria . <p> To this end , the Special Envoy underscores the clear desire expressed by millions of Syrians that stable and inclusive transitional arrangements are put in place , that the Syrian institutions continue to function , and that the Syrian people are enabled to begin to chart the path to meeting the legitimate aspirations of the Syrian people and restore a unified Syria , with its sovereignty , independence and territorial integrity , in a way that can receive the support and engagement of the entire international community . <p> Mr. Pedersen has heard from many Syrians , including armed groups and civil society , both women and men , and has noted public statements underlining a will to protect their fellow Syrians and state institutions going forward against retribution and harm . <p> Let me echo these statements and issue a clear and unambiguous appeal at this hour that all armed actors on the ground maintain good conduct , law and order , protect civilians and preserve public institutions . <p> Mr. Pedersen urges all Syrians to prioritize dialogue , unity , and respect for international humanitarian law and human rights as they seek to rebuild their society . He stresses that there must be a collective effort to secure peace and dignity for all . The Special Envoy stands ready to support the Syrian people in their journey toward a stable and inclusive future decided and shaped by the Syrian people . <p> Let us honor the memory of those who have suffered for decades by committing to help Syrians build a Syria where justice , freedom , and prosperity are shared realities . Let us stand in solidarity with Syrians to help them ensure that this new chapter is one of hope and opportunity for every Syrian , " the United Nations envoy said on Sunday in a statement . <p> 04:08:05 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> ' A new page is being written in the history of Syria ' , says country 's Foreign Ministry after rebels topple Assad 's government <p> " A new page is being written in the history of Syria , " the country 's Foreign Ministry said in a statement Sunday . The ministry and its diplomatic missions around the world will " remain committed to serving all fellow citizens and managing their affairs , " the statement said , asserting that the future of Syria will be one in which " justice and equality prevail . " <p> 04:03:03 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Farmers suspend ' Delhi Chalo ' march for day after some of them suffer injuries due to tear gas shells at Shambhu along Punjab-Haryana border . <p> Source : Press Trust of India <p> 04:00:59 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Turkey says Assad govt ' collapsed ' , control of Syria ' changing hands ' <p> Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan said on Sunday that Syria 's government had collapsed , after Islamist-led rebels declared they had taken Damascus , sending President Bashar al-Assad fleeing after five decades of Baath party rule . <p> The " Assad regime collapsed and control of the country is changing hands " , Fidan said a the Doha Forum in Qatar , adding that " this did n't happen overnight . For the last 13 years , the country has been in turmoil " since civil war began with Assad 's repression of democracy protests in 2011 . <p> 03:59:34 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> All armed actors in Syria must maintain law and order and preserve pubic institutions , says UN Envoy <p> Source : Reuters <p> 03:54:31 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Russia says took another village in east Ukraine : Report <p> Russia on Sunday said its forces captured the village of Blahodatne in Ukraine in an area where the southern and eastern fronts meet , as Moscow presses a steady advance on the battlefield . <p> Russia 's defence ministry said in a statement that troops had captured the village in the embattled Donetsk region . <p> 03:45:09 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Iranian diplomats left Damascus embassy before ' assault ' : Report <p> Iranian diplomats in Damascus had left their embassy before it came under attack on Sunday , Iranian media said , after Syrian rebels declared the fall of the Tehran-allied government of Bashar al-Assad . <p> " Iranian diplomats at the embassy in Damascus evacuated the premises prior to an assault , " the Tehran Times daily reported , citing foreign ministry spokesman Esmaeil Baqaei , and adding that embassy staff were safe . <p> 03:38:42 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Turkish foreign Minister : Syria has reached a stage where Syrian people will shape future of their own country , today there is hope <p> Source : Reuters <p> 03:21:53 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Iran 's embassy was stormed by Syrian rebels following their capture of Damascus , Iran 's English-language Press TV reported on Sunday . <p> 02:59:02 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> China says hopes Syria ' returns to stability as soon as possible ' <p> Source : AFP <p> 02:54:13 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Aware that the chaotic and dynamic circumstances on the ground in Syria could give ISIS space to find the ability to become active , to plan external operations : Pentagon official <p> Source : Reuters <p> 02:49:33 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has left Damascus to an unknown destination , say two senior army officers <p> Source : Reuters <p> 02:41:21 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Russia takes control of settlement of Blahodatne in eastern Ukraine : Report <p> Source : Reuters <p> 02:32:23 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Calls on all parties in Syria to protect civilians , particularly minorities , respect international norms and work to achieve an inclusive political settlement : Pentagon official <p> Via Reuters <p> 02:24:25 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Iraq evacuates embassy in Syria , moves staff to Lebanon : Report <p> Source : Iraqi news agency <p> 02:23:36 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> UN envoy voices ' cautious hope ' for Syria at its ' watershed moment ' <p> The UN special envoy to Syria said the country was at " a watershed moment " Sunday , after Islamist-led rebels declared they had taken Damascus , sending President Bashar al-Assad fleeing and ending five decades of Baath rule . <p> Describing nearly 14 years of civil war in Syria as a " dark chapter ( that ) has left deep scars " , Geir Pedersen said in a statement that " today we look forward with cautious hope to the opening of a new one -- one of peace , reconciliation , dignity , and inclusion for all Syrians " . <p> 02:16:30 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Syrian Rebels say they have started attack on Kurdish forces in northern town of Manbij <p> Source : Reuters <p> 01:55:27 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Police use tear gas on farmers as they continue their ' Dilli chalo ' march near Shambhu border <p> 01:55:14 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> UN Syria Envoy Pedersen says he stands ready to support Syrian people in their journey toward a stable and inclusive future <h> Diplomatic advisor to UAE President : Iran 's ' deterrence thinking ' has been shattered by events in Gaza , Lebanon , developments in Syria but remains a critical , regional player <p> Source : Reuters <p> 01:10:07 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Diplomatic advisor to UAE President : Syria is still a very ' patchy picture ' in terms of its territorial integrity <p> Source : Reuters <p> 01:08:45 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Diplomatic advisor to UAE President : Egypt has wisely taken a position of not being dragged into the region 's endless problems , Egypt has an economic crisis <p> Source : Reuters <p> 01:07:43 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Trump calls for ' immediate ceasefire ' , negotiations over Ukraine war <p> US president-elect Donald Trump said on Sunday that there should be an " immediate ceasefire " between Ukraine and Russia and that " negotiations should begin " between the warring countries . <p> " Too many lives are being so needlessly wasted , too many families destroyed , and if it keeps going , it can turn into something much bigger , and far worse , " he said on his Truth Social platform . <p> 01:06:32 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Diplomatic advisor to UAE President : We should use this moment to speak with Iran about the region <p> Source : Reuters <p> 01:04:34 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Diplomatic advisor to UAE President : Assad did not use the ' lifeline ' by various Arab countries , including UAE , who in recent years sought to reconcile with Syrian government <p> Source : Reuters <p> 01:02:33 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Indian women 's team loses to Australia by 122 runs in second ODI in Brisbane . <p> 12:59:09 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Diplomatic Advisor to UAE President : We have to wait and see what happens in Syria next , a credible nation state is the solution <p> 12:58:09 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Diplomatic advisor to UAE president : The driver in the future of Syria , has to be Syrian <p> Source : Reuters <p> 12:56:22 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Diplomatic advisor to UAE President : The rapid collapse of the Syrian government is in part due to the political failure of the Assad regime <p> Source : Reuters <p> 12:52:45 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Police use tear gas to disperse farmers who began their ' Dilli Chalo ' march today , but stopped at the Shambhu border <p> 12:51:46 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Diplomatic advisor to UAE President : A main concern for us about Syria is extremism and terrorism <p> Source : Reuters <p> 12:48:47 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Trump says Assad ' fled ' Syria after losing Russia 's support <p> Source : AFP <p> 12:44:36 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> BJP has no trust in democracy now : Samajwadi Party <p> " BJP has no trust in democracy now . They are creating a border-like situation . Why did BJP government not want to talk to them ? If farmers wish to hold a talk then it 's BJP 's responsibility to do so . Samajwadi Party is with farmers , " said Samajwadi Party spokesperson Fakhrul Hassan Chaand on farmers ' ' Delhi Chalo ' march . <h> Israeli military says it does not intervene in the events taking place in Syria <h> S.Korean Interior Minister offers to resign <p> Source : Reuters <p> 12:00:37 PM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Door is very much open for Mohammed Shami but while playing Syed Mushtaq Ali he developed swelling : Rohit Sharma on pacer 's comeback <p> Door is very much open for Mohammed Shami but while playing Syed Mushtaq Ali he developed swelling . So we are monitoring him and we do n't want to put pressure on him and we will take the call based on what BCCI medical team feels : Rohit Sharma on pacer 's comeback <p> 11:59:59 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Jasprit Bumrah cannpt alone take responsibility . The other guys also needs to step in and share responsibility as there will be days Bumrah wo n't get wickets : Rohit Sharma <p> 11:49:32 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Thin line between getting agrressive and over aggressive : Rohit Sharma on Siraj-Head <p> There is thin line between getting agrressive and over aggressive and it is my job as captain to see that no one crosses the line . But a few words can be exchanged . Siraj knows what he needs to do for the team and he will do everything required : Rohit Sharma on Siraj-Head <p> 11:46:42 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Before coming here I heard that people here were booked when they took a different stand that you wanted to conduct an election on ballot , because you were not confident about the results ... This is surprising ... I want to tell you that whatever complaints you have handed over to me , we will forward them to Election commission and CM of the state and bring a resolution that we do n't want election on EVM , it should be done on ballot . <p> - NCP-SCP chief Sharad Pawar <p> 11:46:16 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> America , England and many European countries are conducting elections on ballots , not on EVM ... When the whole world is holding elections on the ballot , why not us ? <p> - NCP-SCP chief Sharad Pawar <p> 11:44:56 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Syrians in Damascus trample on toppled statue of Assad 's father <p> Syrians in the capital Damascus cheered on Sunday as they trampled on a toppled statue of President Bashar al-Assad 's father Hafez , AFPTV images showed . <p> Hafez al-Assad ruled Syria from 1971 until his death in 2000 , setting up a paranoid , brutal system of government that his son inherited . On Sunday , Islamist-led rebels declared Bashar al-Assad had fled the country following a lightning offensive that overran the country . <p> 11:41:30 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> India slip to third in World Test Championship table after 10-wicket defeat to Australia in the second Test in Adelaide . Australia ( 60.71 ) are back on top of the points table with South Africa ( 59.26 ) in second place . India placed third at 57.29 . <p> 11:40:43 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Disappointing week for us . Did n't play well enough . We failed to grab opportunities and that cost us the game : India skipper Rohit Sharma <p> 11:40:33 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> We are looking forward to Gabba . There 's not much time in between . Challenges of every Test match is fresh . We have some good memories from last time : Rohit Sharma <p> 11:40:21 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Every team gets out , guys go through bad form , not just in India but eery where else . We need to see how we can do things better : Skipper Rohit Sharma after team 's 10-wicket defeat against Australia <h> Australia beat India by 10 wickets to win the second Test in Adelaide <p> Shiv Sena - UBT leader Priyanka Chaturvedi said on Sunday , " What is happening with the farmers is extremely unfortunate considering they are demanding the MSP support that is being denied to them despite the government 's ( central ) commitment - the govt which spoke about to double the farmers ' income ... " <p> On MVA MLAs not taking oath , she said , " ... What is being done in Maharashtra is unfortunate . They are trying to silence the voice of not just the opposition but the people who are challenging the verdict ... We decided to not take the oath to express our protest against the EVM and ECI mandated result that has come in the favour of Mahayuti . " <p> 10:58:18 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis arrives at the state legislative assembly in Mumbai . <p> 10:55:19 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Prime Minister will launch ' Bima Sakhi Yojana ' in Panipat on Dec 9 . This initiative of Life Insurance Corporation of India ( LIC ) is designed to empower women aged 18-70 years , who are Class X pass . <p> 10:47:57 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Australia bowl out India for 175 on day 3 , need just 19 runs to win the pink-ball Test in Adelaide <p> Source : Press Trust of India <p> 10:34:16 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> South Korea prosecutors open case on President Yoon Suk Yeol <p> Source : Reuters <p> 10:29:54 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Jammu and Kashmir : The security forces started search operation in Kathua after noticing of suspicious movement . <p> 10:11:40 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Syrian Turkey-based opposition leader says they will meet with Arab , European countries , UN to agree on next stage <p> Source : Reuters <p> 10:10:32 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> White House says Biden and his team monitoring ' extraordinary events in Syria ' and in touch with regional partners <p> Source : Reuters <p> 10:00:56 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> This government is of ' lathi-danda ' , says Bihar LoP Tejashwi Yadav on lathi charge on protesting BPSC students . <p> " This government is of ' lathi-danda ' . The CM does not know what is happening in Bihar , he is not able to run Bihar properly . Youth 's future are being played with . We say to CM that youth are not at fault when server gets down during their application , the server should be up for 2-3 days so that students can apply , " says Bihar LoP Tejashwi Yadav . <p> 09:50:33 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Rebels to broadcast their first statement to Syrian people on state tv , no timing yet - Two rebel sources <p> Source : Reuters <p> 09:47:23 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Syrian government appears to have fallen in stunning end to 50-year rule of Assad family after lightning rebel offensive <p> Source : The Associated Press <p> 09:38:57 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Syrian opposition war monitor says President Bashar Assad has left country to undisclosed location <p> Source : The Associated Press <p> 09:37:52 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Syrian prime minister says he is ready to hand over government to opposition in peaceful transition <p> Source : The Associated Press <p> 09:31:14 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Syrian rebels say it is prohibited to go near public institutions that will remain under the supervision of the ' former Prime Minister ' <p> 09:04:34 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Syria War News Live : ' A black phase in the history of Syria has ended , says Syrian opposition leader <p> Syrian PM says ready to cooperate with any leadership chosen by the people <p> 08:42:24 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> War monitor says Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has left the country <p> The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported on Sunday that President Bashar al-Assad had left the country following significant territorial losses to a swift rebel offensive . <p> Rami Abdel Rahman , head of the Observatory , stated , " Assad left Syria via Damascus International Airport before the army and security forces withdrew from the facility . " AFP has not independently verified the claim . <p> 08:31:08 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Thousands of Syrians gather at a main square in Damascus <p> Thousands of Syrians in cars and on foot gather at a main square in Damascus , waving and chanting for freedom <p> 08:20:48 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Syrian rebels claim entry into capital Damascus <p> Early Sunday , Syrian insurgents announced they had entered Damascus , marking the culmination of a swift offensive across the country . Residents in the capital reported hearing gunfire and explosions , while there was no immediate response from the Syrian government . <p> Pro-government Sham FM radio stated that Damascus airport was evacuated , and all flights were suspended . The insurgents also claimed to have entered the notorious Saydnaya military prison , north of Damascus , announcing they had " liberated our prisoners . " <p> On Saturday night , opposition forces seized control of Homs , Syria 's third-largest city , following a retreat by government forces . The government dismissed speculation that President Bashar Assad had fled the country . <p> The fall of Homs dealt a significant blow to Assad 's regime . The city serves as a crucial junction linking Damascus with the coastal provinces of Latakia and Tartus , which are key to Assad 's support base and host a strategic Russian naval facility . <p> 07:51:52 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Syrian rebels claim breakthrough at Sednaya prison as gates are opened <p> Islamist-led rebel forces announced on Sunday that they had breached the gates of the notorious Sednaya prison near Damascus . Sharing the development on Telegram , the rebels declared it an " end of the era of tyranny in the prison of Sednaya . " <p> The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , a Britain-based monitoring group , confirmed the incident , reporting that " the doors of the infamous ' Sednaya ' prison , known as the ' human slaughterhouse , ' have been opened for thousands of detainees held by the regime 's security apparatus throughout its rule . " <p> 07:21:40 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Police put barricades and install nails at the Shambhu Border as the farmers have announced to resume their ' Dilli Chalo ' march today <p> Hezbollah has begun withdrawing its forces from areas around the Syrian capital , Damascus , and the city of Homs , according to a source close to the Lebanese group . The move comes as their ally , President Bashar al-Assad , faces intensified pressure from a rebel offensive . <p> After pausing their protest march on Friday , a group of 101 farmers from Punjab plans to restart their procession to Delhi on Sunday at noon . Security at the Shambhu border has been heightened in preparation for the march , as reported by ANI . <p> Punjab farmer leader Sarwan Singh Pandher stated on Saturday that the central government had not reached out to address the farmers ' concerns . <p> 06:57:31 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Syrian forces retreat from Homs as insurgent offensive intensifies <p> Insurgents in Syria made significant advances on Saturday , reaching the suburbs of the capital , Damascus , and prompting government forces to retreat from the central city of Homs . Government officials swiftly denied rumors that President Bashar Assad had fled the country . <p> The fall of Homs , a critical juncture linking Damascus to the coastal provinces of Latakia and Tartus , marks a significant setback for Assad 's regime . The region holds strategic importance , serving as a stronghold of support for Assad and housing a key Russian naval base . <p> According to pro-government outlet Sham FM , Syrian forces have repositioned outside Homs without providing further details . Rami Abdurrahman , head of the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , reported that government troops and security personnel had withdrawn , allowing rebel forces to gain control over parts of the city . <p> Homs ' capture represents a significant victory for the insurgents , who have already taken Aleppo , Hama , and vast areas in the south during their rapid offensive that began on November 27 . Analysts believe this development could be a turning point in the Syrian conflict . <p> Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy met with U.S. President-elect Donald Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris on Saturday ahead of the Notre Dame reopening ceremony , scheduled for today . <p> The iconic Notre Dame Cathedral is set to reopen on Sunday after five years of extensive restoration . The Gothic landmark suffered severe damage in a catastrophic fire on April 15 , 2019 . Shortly after the disaster , French President Emmanuel Macron pledged to restore the cathedral within five years , recognizing its profound historical significance to France . <p> Following the meeting , Zelenskyy posted on X , stating , " I had a good and productive trilateral meeting with President @realDonaldTrump and President @EmmanuelMacron at the Elysee Palace . " <p> 06:55:08 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Fire engulfs private resort in Manali , no injuries reported <p> A fire broke out at a private resort in Manali , Kullu , on Saturday , officials confirmed . Firefighters quickly arrived at the scene and successfully extinguished the flames . Authorities reported no injuries or casualties in the incident . <p> In a related incident , a forest fire erupted in the Bada Bhuin Panchayat area of Kullu on November 26 , with massive flames visible from afar . <p> Sandeep Sharma , Conservator of the Kullu Circle Forest Department , revealed that approximately 50 hectares of dry grassland have been destroyed by fires over the past two weeks , causing an estimated financial loss of ? 5 lakh . <p> 06:54:23 AM IST , 08 Dec 2024 <h> Filmmaker Subhash Ghai admitted to ICU at Lilavati Hospital <p> Renowned filmmaker Subhash Ghai has been hospitalized in the ICU of Lilavati Hospital in Mumbai . Reports indicate that Ghai , celebrated for directing films like Ram Lakhan , Khalnayak , Pardes , and Taal , was taken to the hospital on Wednesday evening after experiencing respiratory problems , weakness , dizziness , memory lapses , and difficulty speaking . <p> However , a statement from Ghai 's representative clarified that the filmmaker 's admission was for a routine check-up . 
@@118610104 <p> The Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) group began its lightning offensive two weeks ago , capturing the key cities of Aleppo , Homs , Hama before proceeding to Damascus unopposed and seizing control of the Syrian capital on Sunday . Government forces loyal to Assad were forced to retreat as rebels captured control of key cities one by one , in a move that challenged the Assad family 's nearly six decades of autocratic rule . <h> LATEST UPDATES ON SYRIA 'S SITUATION <p> Rebels freed hundreds of prisoners who were locked up for decades during Assad 's rule . Inmates reunited with their families in emotional moments and held up their fingers to gesture how many years they had spent in prison . <p> Amid the celebratory moments , some men ransacked shops and walked away with essentials before rebels declared a curfew . Posters , banners and statues of Assad and his family were toppled and defaced in various parts of Syria , signifying the sudden end of their iron-fist rule . <p> Top rebel commander Abu Mohammed al-Golani , whose HTS was once Syria 's branch of al-Qaeda but has softened its image over the years , celebrated Assad 's fall and said a " new history was being written " after a " great victory " . <p> Speaking to thousands of people at the medieval Umayyad Mosque in central Damascus , al-Golani said , " How many people were displaced across the world ? How many people lived in tents ? How many drowned in the seas ? " He made the remarks in reference to thousands of Syrian refugees who died trying to reach Europe during the civil war . <p> Mohammad Ghazi al-Jalali , Syria 's Prime Minister under Assad , batted for free elections and said he was in contact with Golani to discuss the transfer of power to a transitional governing body . Syria had been ruled by the Assad family for over five decades , with Assad taking power in 2000 following the death of his father , Hafez Assad . <p> A Kremlin source said that Assad was in Moscow and Russia had granted and his family asylum on " humanitarian grounds " , according to Russian media . Earlier , there was speculation that Assad died in a plane crash after his flight took off from Damascus and disappeared from the radar soon after . Moscow had confirmed that Assad had left Syria but did not say where he was going . <p> advertisement <p> Since the civil war erupted in 2011 as an uprising against Assad , his forces and their Russian allies had bombed cities to rubble . Even after the rise of the Islamic State , which once controlled large swathes of Syria , Assad remained in control and his forces retook the cities and most territory from the terror group 's control . <p> But , with Russia bogged down in its war with Ukraine and Iran 's allies ' blows from Israel - Hamas and Hezbollah - in Gaza and Lebanon , there was little support for Assad . It was evident from the rebels ' lightning offensive , which captured cities easily without any resistance . <p> US President Joe Biden reacted to the Syria crisis and said the " brutal " Assad regime had fallen , but warned that Islamic State would try to take advantage of the political vacuum to re-establish its dominance in Syria . He said the US would play a role in ensuring stability and protecting its personnel against any threats . <p> The US Central Command said its forces conducted dozens of airstrikes on Islamic State targets in central Syria on Sunday . It said the strikes were aimed at preventing a resurgence of the Islamic State in the war-torn country . 
@@118610107 <h> Download App <h> Iltija Mufti 's remarks on Hindutva has sparked a political debate , with the BJP defending its ideology , the Congress advocating respect for all religions , and criticism aimed at the Muftis for ' divisive ' statements . <h> In Short <p> BJP defends Hindutva as integral to Indian culture and criticises Mufti <p> Congress calls for mutual respect among religions amidst the row <p> People 's Democratic Party ( PDP ) leader Iltija Mufti 's recent " Hindutva is a disease " remark has sparked a political row with the ruling BJP accusing Mehbooba Mufti 's daughter of creating a divide in society and the Congress advocating for mutual respect among religions . <p> " Ram the deity must hang his head in shame &amp; watch helplessly as minor Muslim boys are whacked with chappals only because they refuse to chant his name . Hindutva is a disease that 's afflicted millions of Indians &amp; sullied God 's name , " Iltija Mufti said after a video of 3 minor Muslim boys being forced to chant ' Jai Shri Ram ' in Madhya Pradesh went viral on social media . <p> " Those who are unaware of India 's culture and heritage need to be given a message about Sanatana culture once again . Hindutva gives a message of taking all sections of society together and moving forward with inclusive thinking , " Naqvi said . <p> " There is no need to give any knowledge about this . Some people have developed a phobia of Hindutva and those with such a phobia should study about it once , " he added . <p> West Bengal BJP leader Agnimitra Paul also slammed Iltija Mufti , alleging that she and her mother , former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti , have consistently spoken out against India . <p> " Mehbooba Mufti and her daughter always speak against India . Recently , Mehbooba Mufti compared Gaza and Bangladesh to India , and now Iltija Mufti is comparing Islam with Hinduism . This is an insult to both religions , " Paul said , accusing the Muftis of spreading hatred in the region . <p> Countering the BJP , Congress leader Rashid Alvi responded more diplomatically , urging respect for all religions . " Iltija Mufti has praised Hinduism , and as a young leader and the granddaughter of Mufti Mohammad Sayeed , we must all show respect for each other 's beliefs , " he said . <p> On Saturday , Iltija Mufti took to X and slammed the incident which took place in Ratlam , where a 16-year-old boy assaulted three minors with a slipper . The teenager also verbally abused them , while forcing them to chant ' Jai Shri Ram ' . 
@@118610200 <h> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar pointed to the crisis-ridden Middle East amid the swiftly developing situation in Syria , where rebels have overthrown the Bashar al-Assad regime <p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar was speaking at the Manama Dialogue in Bahrain on December 8 . ( Image : PTI/File ) <p> Pointing to the crisis-ridden Middle East with the swiftly developing situation in Syria , where rebels have overthrown the Bashar al-Assad regime , External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Sunday said there were " challenges from Gaza to Lebanon to Syria " . <p> Jaishankar was speaking at the Manama Dialogue in Bahrain , where he arrived on Saturday ( December 7 ) . The theme of the 20th edition of the event is ' Middle East leadership in shaping regional prosperity and security ' . <h> related stories <p> On India 's contribution in solving the ongoing conflict in West Asia , he said : " We are doing this on the diplomatic side . We are one country that has the ability to speak to both Israel and Iran . That is one communication link , which is weak . We are not the only communication link . We are serving an important cause ; at the right moment , right people get what the intended message is . " <p> This is the final leg of his four-day , two-nation trip . He was received by his Bahrain counterpart Dr Abdullatif bin Rashid Al Zayani . <p> The minister will also co-chair the 4th India-Bahrain High Joint Commission ( HJC ) with Al Zayani , which will review the " entire gamut of the bilateral relations and discuss avenues to further strengthen the multifaceted ties between India and Bahrain " . <h> top videos <p> Jaishankar arrived in Bahrain after his visit to Qatar , during which he met the country 's top leadership as well as leaders of other countries . He also took part in the Doha Forum panel on ' Conflict resolution in a new era ' . 
@@118610294 <p> " Ram the deity must hang his head in shame and watch helplessly as minor Muslim boys are whacked with chappals only because they refuse to chant his name , " Iltija said in a post on X. <p> She further added that " Hindutva is a disease thats afflicted millions of Indians &amp; sullied a Gods name . " <p> However , following uproar , Iltija claimed that her statement was deliberately distorted . <p> " Much outrage over my tweet and also whataboutery about Islam . The senseless violence that 's been carried out in the name of Islam is what caused Islamophobia in the first place . Today , Hinduism ( not Hindutva ) also finds itself in a similar situation where it 's being used &amp; abused to lynch &amp; persecute minorities . Let 's call spade a spade , " she said in another post . <p> Speaking to the medipersons , she said that this is an India of Mahatma Gandhi and she has spoken against Hindutva , not Hinduism . " Hindutva , which stems from Savarkar 's philosophy that India is only for Hindus , is what I oppose . I know Hinduism is a religion of peace and compassion . Hindutva , on the other hand , is a disease that needs to be weeded out . " <p> Meanwhile , speaking to PTI , Ravinder Raina , the BJP leader from Jammu and Kashmir , said that nowadays , videos are being circulated using AI about Hindus and Muslims , adding , the PDP leader retweeted a similar video and used a language that is not acceptable . " There can be differences in opinions in politics , however , no one can hurt religious sentiments . She should apologise . " <p> BJP leader Agnimitra Paul said that Mehbooba Mufti and her daughter always speak against India . <p> " Some days ago , Mehbooba Mufti was comparing Gaza , Bangladesh with India . Her daughter , PDP leader Iltija Mufti , is now comparing Islam with Hinduism ... How can she compare the two religions ? ... They have lost ( J&amp;K Assembly elections ) and the Muslims of Kashmir have rejected them as they are spreading hatred , " said Paul . 
@@118610931 <h> Analysis Collapse of Syria 's Assad is blow to Iran 's ' Axis of Resistance ' <p> PTI Updated : December 08 , 2024 22:34 IST <p> Manama , Dec 8 ( AP ) For Iran 's theocratic government , it keeps getting worse . Its decades-long strategy of building an " Axis of Resistance " supporting militant groups and proxies around the region is falling apart . First came the crushing Israeli campaign in Gaza triggered by the October 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel by Iranian-backed Hamas . That war spawned another in Lebanon , where Israel has mauled Iran 's most powerful ally , Hezbollah , even as Israel has launched successful airstrikes openly inside of Iran for the first time . And now Iran 's longtime stalwart ally and client in Syria , President Bashar Assad , is gone . As dawn broke Sunday , rebel forces completed a lightning offensive by seizing the ancient capital of Damascus and tearing down symbols of more than 50 years of Assad 's rule over the Mideast crossroads . Ali Akbar Velayati , a key adviser to Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , once called Assad and Syria " the golden ring of the resistance chain in the region . " " Without the Syrian government , this chain will break and the resistance against Israel and its supporters will be weakened . " That break in the chain is literal . Syria was an important geographical link that allowed Iran to move weapons and other supplies to Hezbollah in Lebanon . Its loss now further weakens Hezbollah , whose powerful arsenal in southern Lebanon had put Iranian influence directly on the border of its nemesis Israel . " Iran 's deterrence thinking is really shattered by events in Gaza , by events in Lebanon and definitely by developments in Syria , " a United Arab Emirates senior diplomat Anwar Gargash said at the International Institute for Strategic Studies ' Manama Dialogue in Bahrain . Iran still holds the card of its nuclear programme . Though it denies that intention , it can use the potential for building a weapons capability to cast a shadow of influence in the region . " Iran remains a critical regional player , " Gargash said . " We should use this moment to connect and speak about what 's next in my opinion . " <p> It 's a dramatic reversal in Iran 's regional might Only a few years ago , the Islamic Republic loomed ascendant across the wider Middle East . Its " Axis of Resistance " was at a zenith . Hezbollah in Lebanon stood up against Israel . Assad appeared to have weathered an Arab Spring uprising-turned-civil war . Iraqi insurgents killed US troops with Iranian-designed roadside bombs . Yemen 's Houthi rebels fought a Saudi-led coalition to a stalemate . Syria , at the crossroads , played a vital role . Early in Syria 's civil war , when it appeared Assad might be overthrown , Iran and its ally , Hezbollah , rushed fighters to support him -- in the name of defending Shiite shrines in Syria . Russia later joined with a scorched earth campaign of airstrikes . The campaign won back territory , even as Syria remained divided into zones of government and insurgent control . But the speed of Assad 's collapse the past week showed just how reliant he was on support from Iran and Russia -- which at the crucial moment did n't come . Russia remains mired years after launching a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022 . For Iran , international sanctions over its advancing nuclear programme have ground down its economy . For Israel , breaking Iran 's regional network has been a major goal , though it is wary over jihadi fighters among the insurgents who toppled Assad . Israel on Sunday moved troops into a demilitarised buffer zone with Syria by the Israel-held Golan Heights in what it called a temporary security measure . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called Assad 's fall a " historic day , " saying it was " the direct result of our forceful action against Hezbollah and Iran , Assad 's main supporters . " Iran 's theocratic rulers long touted their regional network to Iranians as a show of their country 's strength , and its crumbling could raise repercussions at home -- though there is no immediate sign of their hold weakening . Anger over the tens of billions of dollars Iran is believed to have spent propping up Assad was a rallying cry in rounds of nationwide anti-government protests that have broken out over recent years , most recently in 2022 . <p> Iran could respond by revving up its nuclear programme The loss of Syria does not mean the end of Iran 's ability to project power in the Mideast . The Houthi rebels continue to launch attacks on Israel and on ships moving through the Red Sea -- though the tempo of their attacks have again fallen without a clear explanation from their leadership . Iran also maintains its nuclear programme . While insisting it enriches uranium for peaceful purposes , Western intelligence agencies and the International Atomic Energy Agency say Iran had an organised nuclear weapons programme until 2003 . The head of the IAEA also warned Friday that Iran is poised to " quite dramatically " increase its stockpile of near weapons-grade uranium as it has started cascades of advanced centrifuges . " If Iran would develop nuclear weapons , that would be a great blow to the international nonproliferation regime , " said Thanos Dokos . Greece 's national security adviser , in Bahrain . There remains a risk of wider attacks in the region , particularly on oil infrastructure . An attack in 2019 initially claimed by the Houthis but later assessed by experts to have been carried out by Iran temporarily halved Saudi Arabia 's production of oil . " If , as a result of escalation , there are attacks against the energy infrastructure of Iran or Saudi Arabia , that would be bad news for the global oil supply , " Dokos warned . Whatever happens next , Iran will need to make the decision weighing the problems it faces at both home and abroad . " Whereas stability is a difficult commodity to export , instability can travel very fast , which is why stability in the Middle East is very important for all of us , " Dokos said . ( AP ) GSP <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI ) 
@@118611364 <p> The Bashar al Assad regime is tottering with reports that the president has already left Damascus . The Syrian army , once bolstered by Russia , Iran and Hezbollah fighters have given up and over a 1000 soldiers are said to have fled to Iraq . Russia is now busy in Ukraine , and Iran 's proxies no longer have either the manpower or the fire power to make a difference on the ground . <p> However , while critics across the world may be delighted with the fall of the Assad presidency , what happens next is also of grave concern . Chaos and infighting in Syria would further destabilise an already volatile region . The emerging situation is complex as various rebel groups that unitedly worked against Assad may now fight for the loaves of office . <p> It could also be a smooth process as in Afghanistan , when the Taliban took over Kabul in August 2021 . There were fears of bloodshed in the streets of Kabul but the army simply gave in and negotiated with the Taliban without a fight . In 2001 too , when the US and NATO forces entered Kabul , the Taliban simply melted away . <p> The Sunni rebel group leading the current fighting is Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , which had its origins in Al Qaeda and was designated a terror outfit by the US and the UN . This outfit as well as various rebel Sunni groups ranged against the Syrian regime are all backed by Turkey . James Jeffrey , a former US envoy and special representative to Syria , said in an interview to Al Jazeera that the US believes the organisation has changed and that despite the fact that it is terror group , Americans have been in touch with HTS indirectly . Jeffrey also made the point that for the last four to five years the group has not targeted either the US soldiers stationed in some enclaves in Syria or any other Western country . So the stage is set for the terror tag to be removed from HTS . <p> However , for Kurds in Syria -- who are the largest ethnic minority in Syria making up around 10 per cent of the population -- the picture may not be as rosy . The Kurds in Syria have had the solid backing of the US and the West . They had also fought against the Assad government in the over 14-years of the civil war . The Syrian Kurds were able to get a degree of autonomy during this time . The Kurds now may once again face problems , more so as the victors comprising of Sunni armed groups , Islamists and other smaller local outfits will not be willing to give the Kurds the self-rule they enjoyed so far . More so because the rebels are backed by Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan , who has been repressing the Kurds in his own country and fear that Kurds across the region could one day have their own homeland . <p> The US and its allies at the moment are extremely happy with the turn of events in Syria . West Asia is rid of the " enemies ' ' . The Russia-Iran-Syria axis has been broken , with much thanks to Israel 's war in Gaza and Lebanon , and its airstrike on Iran that has destroyed much of Tehran 's air defences . With Russia and Putin busy with its own war , the world looks " safer " for the West . While the US will not be directly involved on transition negotiations , it will work behind the scenes through Turkey , a NATO member , as well as Qatar and other GCC countries to ensure that Syria does not become another Libya . Whether everything will work according to plan remains an open question . 
@@118611627 <p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Sunday that Indiaexpects to double its $4 trillion economy as well as its $800 billiontrade this decade , adding the country is prepared to undertake manyresponsibilities , make greater contributions , and be more visible inthe Gulf . <p> SNS New Delhi December 8 , 2024 6:51 pm <p> External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar <p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Sunday that India expects to double its $4 trillion economy as well as its $800 billion trade this decade , adding the country is prepared to undertake many responsibilities , make greater contributions , and be more visible in the Gulf . <p> " India is today almost a $4 trillion economy , we expect to comfortably double that this decade . Our trade is today around $800 billion , that too should at least double this decade , " he said addressing the Manama Dialogue in Bahrain . <p> The minister said the stakes that India has in the Gulf are very high because this region is the most immediate for it in the world beyond its borders . " So whatever happens here , historically , culturally , civilisational wise , economically , connectivity wise matters a lot . And at one level I 'm sure that all of us would like to hope for at least a lowest common denominator on the basis of which countries cooperate . I think given the importance of this region , we should be more ambitious , we should aim for something very much higher , " he added . <p> Advertisement <p> Mr Jaishankar said the Gulf is a region with which India does trade worth $170-180 billion every year . It is a region where there is an Indian diaspora today of about ten million people and growing . It is also a region that is not just a key energy partner , but a broader economic partner , a very crucial source of investment , and increasingly an important technology collaborator . <p> Talking about the importance of connectivity in the world , the minister said the primary preoccupation of the world today is to de-risk the international economy , Emphasising the need for reliable supply chains , he noted that the global connectivity is very fragile , it is very limited . Many of the historic disruptions have not been addressed . <p> " So , we are today very heavily focused on trying to in a way find a kind of new hard wiring for the international economy . And one of the most ambitious initiatives here is the IMEC , the India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor , which was agreed upon by a set of countries during the G20 Summit in India in 2023 . And we hope that from India , across the seas through this region , across the Mediterranean into Europe we will see this connectivity corridor materialise , " he added . <p> He also spoke about the India-Myanmar-Thailand trilateral highway . <p> Talking about mobility , he said , " We are also entering an era of AI , of innovation , of Start-Ups . There is a global workplace in the making . Those ten million Indians who live here testify to that . This is only going to intensify . " he called for strategic conversations to deal with greater mobility and the compulsions of greater mobility . <p> As regards India 's abstentions from some UN resolutions regarding Gaza , Mr Jaishankar said the resolutions that " do not reflect the entire reality " of the situation by downplaying the October 7 terror attack by Hamas , ca n't be supported by India , which is itself a ' victim of terrorism ' . 
@@118611832 <p> New Delhi : Bashar al-Assad , the leader of Syria , reportedly fled Damascus early Sunday , following a rapid assault by the insurgent group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham over the last two weeks , upending the regional order in West Asia in a major blow for Iran and Russia . <p> " Assad is gone . He has fled his country . His protector , Russia , Russia , Russia , led by Vladimir Putin , was not interested in protecting him any longer . There was no reason for Russia to be there in the first place . They lost all interest in Syria because of Ukraine , where close to 600,000 Russian soldiers lay wounded or dead , in a war that should never have started , and could go on forever ... " said Donald J. Trump , US President-elect , in a statement on social media platform Truth Social . <p> Tehran and Moscow have propped up the Assad regime since the beginning of the Syrian civil war in 2011 , with Iranian troops from the elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps first defending the government of Syria in 2012 . Hezbollah -- the Shiite militia from Lebanon -- which has been supported by Tehran , also sent its fighters to Syria in support of Assad . <p> Russia , which has a naval base in the port of Tartus , used its air power to hit rebel-held areas at the height of the civil war in 2016 , which further helped defend the Assad regime . Following the efforts of all these actors , Assad and his government were able to claw back lost territory across the country , defeat various terrorist and rebel groupings , and brought about a stalemate of sorts over the last half decade in the country . <p> The Indian Ministry of External Affairsput out an advisory Saturday , urging Indians to avoid all travel to the country . There are around 90 Indians left in the country , along with others who have been working with United Nations programmes in the country , explained MEA spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal Friday . <p> The Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , which was reduced to managing the Idlib province and parts around Aleppo , was formed following strategic disagreements between the al-Nusra Front and al-Qaeda in 2017 . The group was designated a terrorist organisation by the US in 2018 for its connection to the Sunni islamist al-Nusra Front and by extension , al-Qaeda . Its leader Abu Muhammad al-Jawlani has a $10 million bounty placed by the US government . <p> Al-Jawlani in recent years has rechristened himself as a pragmatist , who is opposing the Assad regime , rather than leading a terrorist organisation , and has worked alongside the Syrian National Army , which is backed by Turkey to topple Assad . <p> Starting from the capture of Aleppo , from the end of November till Sunday , al-Jawlani 's group has captured a number of Syrian cities , including Hama , Daraa and now Damascus . <p> According to Reuters , Assad left Damascus in a plane Sunday , which was headed westwards , before taking a U-turn and then going dark . His whereabouts are currently unknown . Syria 's Prime Minister Mohammad Ghazi al-Jalali , in a video message , has promised to remain in Damascus and to work out a transitional roadmap with al-Jawlani , and has expressed his opinion that there should be free elections in the country . <h> Who is Muhammad al-Jawlani ? <p> Born Ahmed Hussein al-Sharaa in 1982 , al-Jawlani spent the first seven years of his life in Saudi Arabia before returning to Damascus -- the city his grandfather had fled to following the capture of the Golan Heights by Israel in 1967 . <p> In a 2021 interview to PBS , al-Jawlani said , " But at that time , I was strongly influenced by the Palestinian intifada uprising , which was taking place in neighbouring Palestine in 2000 and 1999 . I was still a young man ; I was 18 or 19 years old . I started thinking at that time about how I can pursue my duty of defending the nation , which was being persecuted by the occupiers and invaders . " <p> He added in the interview that he was happy by the 9/11 attacks against the US for their continued support towards Israel , but regretted the death of innocents . <p> Before al-Jawlani attempted to change his image as a freedom fighter from Assad 's rule , he was the founder of the Al-Nusra Front after his release from the notorious Camp Bucca prison in Iraq , which is known for radicalising a number of individuals , including Muhammad Abu Bakhr al-Bagdadi , the former leader of the Islamic State in Levant ( ISIL ) . <p> Al-Jawlani was lodged in Camp Bucca due to his role in the defence of Iraq during its invasion by the US in 2003 . He landed in the country two weeks after the invasion , according to his interview to PBS . <p> During his time with the Al-Nusra Front , he refused to acknowledge ISIL , and instead swore loyalty to al-Qaeda . In July 2013 , he was designated a terrorist by the United Nations Security Council for his affiliation with al-Qaeda . <p> In 2017 , al-Jawlani split with the masterminds behind 9/11 and formed the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham . <h> Setback for Moscow &amp; Tehran <p> The rapid defeat of the Syrian army by the Islamist rebels comes in the wake of the multiple challenges faced by Assad 's two biggest backers over the past year . <p> Russia , which has been in a war with Ukraine since February 2022 , has had to use its military resources in Eastern Europe , which has seen its footprint decline in Syria . <p> As president-elect Trump pointed out in his post , the cost of the war with Ukraine has been huge for Moscow in terms of equipment and manpower , with reports of nearly 5,00,000 Russians losing their lives in the war , according tonumbers provided by the Ukrainian government . These numbers are unverifiable , but indicate the losses faced by Moscow . <p> Iran has been on the backfoot since its ally Hamas launched an attack against Israel on 7 October , 2023 , which left around 1,200 Israelis dead and saw another 250 taken hostage . The war in Gaza has seen Israel target Iranian assets in the region , including in Syria , which has degraded its military position . <p> Earlier this year , Israel launched a strike on an Iranian diplomatic compound in Damascus , which saw the death of a number of senior IRGC commanders , for which Iran retaliated with a direct rocket attack at Tel Aviv for the first time in its history . <p> Israel has continued to strike at various targets across Syria in an effort to weaken Iran 's position in the country . The war in Gaza has seen the senior leadership of Hamas killed , along with 44,000 Palestinians , and has been ongoing for 14 months . <p> In September , Tel Aviv also took aim at Hezbollah , expanding its operations to Southern Lebanon and killed the long-time leader of the organisation , Hassan Nasrallah . Israel 's efforts in Lebanon have severely weakened Hezbollah , another key backer of the Assad regime . <p> According to the New York Times , the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham reached out to Iran earlier last week and promised to protect the Shiite minority in the country , in exchange for Tehran 's non-aggression . By the end of the week , Iran began evacuating its assets and diplomats from the country . <p> With the fall of Assad , Iran 's " axis of resistance " from Iraq to Yemen , via Syria and Southern Lebanon , has been severely weakened , especially as Damascus was a key point for Tehran 's support to Hezbollah . <p> Israel has moved its troops to the Golan Heights to protect its communities there , while Jordan and Lebanon have closed the border with Syria . 
@@118612028 <p> The Gaza Division 's combat engineering unit and the special Yahalom unit carried out the tunnel-demolition operation . <p> During the operation , the military claimed it destroyed hundreds of booby-trapped subterranean shafts and other explosive devices in the region . <p> A Hamas tunnel that spanned several hundred meters in northern Gaza 's Jabalia was recently demolished by combat engineers , the IDF says . <p> The operation to demolish the tunnel was carried out by the Gaza Division 's combat engineering unit and the elite Yahalom unit . <p> During the operation , dozens of booby-trapped tunnel shafts and numerous explosive devices in the area were destroyed , the military says . <p> According to the IDF , the **26;1170;TOOLONG tunnel was used by Hamas operatives to attack troops in Gaza . The military says troops found RPGs hidden inside the tunnel , which also featured blast doors and several rooms to reside in . <p> The IDF says the troops also encountered Hamas operatives who emerged from the tunnel and fired anti-tank projectiles during the operation . The operatives were eliminated in an airstrike and fire from the ground , the IDF adds . <p> Israel 's war against Hamas has destroyed vast areas of Gaza and displaced 90 per cent of the population of 2.3 million , often multiple times . The war began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel in October 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking around 250 people hostage . <p> Israel 's blistering retaliatory offensive has killed at least 44,600 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , which does not say how many of the dead were combatants . Israel says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . 
@@118625108 <p> Bashar al-Assad 's regime had withstood more than a decade of uprisings , civil war and international sanctions since the onset of widespread protests in 2011 . Yet , it collapsed in a remarkably short period . <p> This sudden turn of events , with the opposition advancing without significant battles or resistance , has left regional powers scrambling to assess the fallout and its broader implications . <p> This dramatic development signals a reshuffling of power dynamics in the region . It also raises questions about Syria 's future and the role of its neighbours and global stakeholders in managing the post-Assad landscape . <h> What does the future hold for Syria ? <p> With the collapse of the Assad regime , Syria now finds itself fragmented and divided among three dominant factions , each with external backers and distinct goals : <p> 1 . Syrian opposition forces , led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham : These groups , supported by Turkey , now control central Syria , extending from the northern border with Turkey to the southern border with Jordan . <p> Although they share a common religious identity , the Sunni factions have a history of internal conflicts , which could hinder their ability to form a cohesive government or maintain long-term stability . <p> The opposition forces range from former jihadists coming from Islamic State and al-Qaeda to secular groups such as the Syrian National Army , which split from Assad 's army after the 2011 uprising . <p> 2 . Kurdish forces : The Kurdish groups control territory in northeastern Syria , bordering Turkey in the north and Iraq in the east . They continue to receive support from the United States , which has established military bases in the area . This support risks escalating tensions with Turkey , which views Kurdish empowerment as a threat to its territorial integrity . <h> How will this impact the region ? <p> The swift fall of the Assad regime has profound implications for the major players in the Middle East . <p> The Sunni rebel forces , with strong Turkish backing , capitalised on a moment of vulnerability in Syria . The Assad regime 's allies were preoccupied -- Russia with its ongoing war in Ukraine , and Iran and its proxies with their ongoing conflict with Israel . This provided a strategic opportunity for the rebels to advance swiftly across Syria to the capital , Damascus . <p> Turkey already effectively controls a strip of territory in northern Syria , where its military has been fighting Syrian Kurdish forces . Now , with the victory of its Syrian opposition allies , Turkey is expected to expand its political and military influence in Syria , causing more challenges for the Kurdish minority fighting for its autonomy . <p> Israel is also in a strategically better position . The fall of Assad disrupts the so-called " axis of resistance " , comprised of Iran , Syria and Tehran 's proxy groups like Hezbollah in Lebanon , Hamas in Gaza and the Houthi rebels in Yemen . <p> Iran 's critical military supply lines to Hezbollah will likely be severed , isolating the militant group and likely weakening it even further . <p> Additionally , the fragmentation of Syria into ethnic and religious factions could diminish the regional focus on Israel , providing space for it to pursue its broader strategic goals . After Israel agreed to a ceasefire with Hezbollah last month , for example , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu emphasised a shift in focus to countering the " Iranian threat " . <p> Masoud Pezeshkian was elected as Iran 's President in July 2024 . <p> Iran , meanwhile , has the most to lose . Assad was a crucial ally in Iran 's regional proxy network . The collapse of his government follows the significant damage that Israel has already inflicted on its other partners , Hamas and Hezbollah . Iran 's regional influence has now been severely diminished , leaving it more vulnerable to direct conflict with Israel . <p> The fragmentation of Syria also poses significant security risks to its neighbouring countries -- Turkey , Iraq , Jordan and Lebanon . Refugee flows , cross-border violence and sectarian tensions are likely to escalate . Turkey is already hosting more than 3 million Syrian refugees -- many of whom it hopes will return home now that Assad 's government is gone . <p> For Iraq and Lebanon , this instability could exacerbate their fragile political and economic situations . The Balkanisation of Syria along ethnic and religious lines could encourage other groups in the region to rebel against governments in the pursuit of their own autonomy . This risks entrenching divisions and prolonging conflict across the region . <p> While many Syrians have celebrated Assad 's fall , it remains to be seen whether their lives will improve much . With the absence of a unified and internationally recognised government in Syria , sanctions are unlikely to be lifted . This will further strain an already devastated Syrian economy , deepening the humanitarian crisis and potentially fuelling extremism . <p> ( The author is a Research Fellow , at Middle East Studies , Deakin University . This article is republished from The Conversation under a Creative Commons license . Read the original article. ) 
@@118626866 <p> It is business as usual for the global powers , where the interests of smaller nations find no room in the grand chessboard of geopolitics . These smaller states are often reduced to mere pawns , manipulated and sacrificed to achieve larger strategic objectives . In this ruthless pursuit , terrorism -- once condemned universally -- seems to have found a revival as a covert instrument to serve political ends . <p> This resurgence is not coincidental . It stems from a calculated effort to destabilize regions , weaken adversaries , and maintain influence in contested areas . The cost , as always , is borne by the innocent , with nations caught in the crossfire struggling to secure their sovereignty and peace in an increasingly volatile world . <p> As this trend gains momentum , it raises critical questions about accountability , morality , and the long-term consequences of weaponising terror in the name of strategic gains . Who truly benefits from this game of destruction , and what does it mean for global security ? <p> Terrorism as tool for political objectives <p> The rise of jihadist culture in Afghanistan was no accident ; it was a deliberate construct born out of geopolitical maneuvering during the Cold War . In the late 1970s and 1980s , this ideology was fostered as a means to resist the Soviet invasion . Armed and funded primarily by global powers like the United States , Saudi Arabia , and Pakistan , the movement was initially framed as a fight for freedom and sovereignty . However , its deeper implications soon became apparent . <p> The nurturing of jihadist factions created a fertile ground for the spread of fundamentalism . This strategic move , aimed at toppling the USSR , had unintended -- or perhaps ignored -- long-term consequences . The extremist groups that emerged did not dissolve with the Soviet withdrawal ; instead , they evolved , multiplied , and expanded their reach globally . <p> The ideological and logistical support provided during that era laid the foundation for movements that would later fuel global terrorism . Beyond their immediate objectives , these groups contributed to the creation of Islamophobia , as their actions were often used to stereotype entire communities and paint Islam as a religion of violence . This narrative continues to impact global relations , fostering division and fear , while the very powers that cultivated these groups step back , leaving a legacy of chaos and mistrust . <p> The Afghan jihad was not just a regional conflict ; it became the epicenter of a chain reaction that reshaped global geopolitics , leaving scars that the world continues to grapple with today . <p> Redefinition of extremist networks in Syria <p> The prolonged conflict in Gaza , the West Bank , and Lebanon has set the stage for a broader strategic shift in the Middle East . After Israel 's war on Gaza and its failure to achieve the complete annihilation of historic Palestine , and following its military incursions in Lebanon aimed at weakening Hezbollah , attention has now shifted to Syria . The objective appears to be the disintegration of the Syrian state , transforming it into a hub for global terrorist networks , thereby providing justification for the continued US military presence in Syria and Iraq . <p> This strategy serves multiple purposes . It offers a pretext for Israel to occupy Syrian territories near the Golan Heights , an area where significant oil reserves have been discovered . By controlling these resources and leveraging the rise of sectarian violence and jihadist enclaves , Israel could further consolidate its position and strengthen its claim to being a " Jewish state " while diminishing hopes for a viable Palestinian state . <p> Figures like Abu Mohammad Al-Jolani , once a key Al-Qaeda leader , formed AL Nusra front operative and later an ISIS loyalist , illustrate the complex rebranding of extremist actors in this evolving landscape . Jolani , now leading the HTS , has been recast as a more " moderate " opposition figure to the Syrian government , with the tacit support of entities like Turkey and the White Helmets . Despite this transformation , the US officially continues to offer a $10 million reward for his capture due to his past affiliations . <p> The intersection of resource control , sectarian manipulation , and the legitimization of certain extremist groups highlights the intricate and often contradictory nature of global power dynamics in the region . These maneuvers aim to perpetuate instability , ensuring long-term foreign influence while undermining the sovereignty and unity of Middle Eastern states . <p> Abu Mohammed al-Golani speaks at the Umayyad Mosque in Damascus on Sunday , Dec. 8 , 2024 . Golani , a former al-Qaida commander who cut ties with the group and says he embraces pluralism and religious tolerance , leads the biggest rebel faction and is poised to chart the country 's future.Photo AP <p> Evolution of extremist networks <p> The dismantling of Al-Qaeda 's core leadership led to the death of many of its operatives , while others managed to escape and establish new extremist networks in their homelands . These networks , dormant for a time , were later activated as the geopolitical landscape evolved . <p> The US invasion of Iraq in 2003 provided fertile ground for these groups to regroup and rally supporters under the guise of resisting occupation . By invoking the rhetoric of jihad , extremists gained traction among those disillusioned by foreign intervention and the chaos it created . <p> Syria played a critical role as a training hub for fighters destined to battle US forces in Iraq . The porous borders allowed the free flow of Salafists , Takfiris , and other extremist elements who used the region to prepare for their operations . Over the years , Al-Qaeda sympathizers found fertile ground in the Levant , leveraging local grievances and sectarian divides to expand their influence . <p> The formation of ISIS ( the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria ) marked a turning point in the history of global terrorism . Emerging from the remnants of Al-Qaeda in Iraq , ISIS capitalized on the instability created by the US occupation and the power vacuum in post-Saddam Iraq . With US policies inadvertently enabling its rise , ISIS expanded its reach , spreading terror across the region . <p> The group exploited the chaos of the Arab Spring to gain footholds in Syria , Libya , and beyond , creating a transnational terror network that left devastating impacts across the Middle East and North Africa . These developments underscore the unintended consequences of foreign interventions and highlight how extremist ideologies exploit political instability to thrive . The legacy of these movements remains a critical challenge for global security today . <p> The fall of Syrian cities <p> The prolonged instability in Syria has been exacerbated by the actions of regional players like Turkey , whose policies have significantly influenced the dynamics of the conflict . For over 13 years , Turkey has provided military and logistical support to jihadist groups , sheltering them in the northern regions of Syria , particularly in Idlib province . <p> This area has become a de facto Turkish enclave , with the imposition of Turkish schools , currency , and language on the local population , drawing parallels to Turkey 's annexation of Iskenderun province during the French occupation of Syria . <p> Currently , over 30 jihadist factions , well-armed and trained under Turkish supervision , maintain control over northeastern of Syria . This deliberate strategy of fostering and harboring extremist elements has further fragmented Syria , undermining its sovereignty and paving the way for prolonged chaos . <p> The involvement of other actors has added fuel to the fire . <p> Following the ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu issued a stark warning to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad , accusing him of " playing with fire . " <p> This rhetoric was soon followed by covert coordination between Israeli and Turkish intelligence services , culminating in attacks on key Syrian cities . This strategic collaboration underscores a shared interest in weakening Syria 's central government and preventing it from reclaiming its territorial integrity . <p> The implications of these developments extend beyond Syria 's borders . The systematic erosion of Syrian sovereignty , coupled with the empowerment of jihadist factions , threatens regional stability and creates a haven for extremist networks . Moreover , the parallels with historical annexations signal a troubling trend of exploiting conflict to pursue territorial and political ambitions . <p> Syria stands at a critical juncture , fighting a lonely and relentless battle against a mosaic of terrorist factions comprising Uzbek , Uyghur , Turk , and Arab mercenaries . These groups are sustained and supported by nations with vested interests , using Syria as a battleground for their geopolitical agendas . The stakes of this conflict extend far beyond Syria 's borders , threatening the security and stability of regions like South Asia and the West if left unchecked . <p> The fall of the Syrian government to rebel forces supported by external powers will have profound implications for the country 's future . This pivotal moment raises questions about whether Syria will emerge as a unified nation or succumb to the " clean and break " policy outlined by US strategists in 1995 , which proposed the fragmentation of certain Middle Eastern states to serve geopolitical interests . <p> This strategy , rooted in reshaping the region 's political landscape , envisions the disintegration of strong states like Syria into smaller , fragmented entities . By weakening centralized authority , external actors can establish zones of influence , exploit resources , and diminish the region 's ability to resist foreign intervention . <p> For Syria , this could mean the division of its territories along ethnic , sectarian , and ideological lines -- Kurdish autonomy in the northeast , jihadist strongholds in the north and northwest , and fragmented Arab territories across the center and south . <p> Such a scenario would not only undermine Syria 's sovereignty but also destabilize the broader Middle East . The fallout from this disintegration would likely include the proliferation of extremist groups , increased regional rivalries , and humanitarian crises on an unprecedented scale . <p> An opposition fighter steps on a broken bust of the late Syrian President Hafez Assad in Damascus , Syria , Sunday Dec. 8 , 2024 . Photo AP <p> A Syrian solution by Syrians <p> In contrast to externally imposed fragmentation , a solution led by Syrians themselves offers the only hope for preserving Syria 's territorial integrity and rebuilding national harmony . This approach requires inclusive dialogue among all stakeholders -- government representatives , opposition groups , ethnic minorities , and civil society organizations . Only through such a process can Syrians address the root causes of the conflict and chart a path forward that reflects the aspirations of the entire population . <p> Allowing the Syrian people to resolve their issues independently is not just a matter of sovereignty but a necessity for long-term stability . The imposition of foreign solutions often exacerbates divisions and fuels resentment , making lasting peace impossible . <p> What next for Syria 's sovereignty ? <p> The current conflict is about more than just the survival of the Syrian government . It is about the survival of Syria as a cohesive nation-state . The external support for rebel forces -- whether through direct military aid , logistical support , or political backing -- has not only prolonged the conflict but also laid the groundwork for possible partition . <p> The international community 's role should be to support Syria 's sovereignty , facilitate peace negotiations , and address the humanitarian needs of its people . Interventions aimed at disintegration or domination only serve to perpetuate the cycle of violence and instability . <p> The coming years will reveal whether the Syrian government and people can resist the forces of disintegration and reclaim their country from the brink of collapse . Will Syria emerge as a unified state , guided by the will of its people ? Or will it be divided , its fate dictated by external powers ? <p> The answer lies in the balance between external intervention and internal resilience . Syria 's future will depend on the ability of its people to unite against the odds and reject attempts to fragment their nation . The stakes are high , and the world is watching . 
@@118643989 <h> Harris , Trump or Musk ? See full list of finalists for TIME 's Person of the Year 2024 <p> Harris , Trump or Musk ? See full list of finalists for TIME 's Person of the Year 2024 <p> TIME Magazine will soon announce its 2024 Person of the Year . The magazine has selected its annual Person of the Year since 1927 , recognizing the person , group , or idea with the most significant global impact , positive or negative , over the past year . In 2023 , the honor went to singer Taylor Swift . Previous winners include Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and the " spirit of Ukraine " in 2022 , Elon Musk in 2021 , Ebola fighters in 2014 , and Barack Obama in both 2008 and 2012 . Ten finalists for the 2024 title were revealed on NBC 's Today show . The magazine 's criteria for selection is the person , group , or concept that " had the biggest impact -- for good or for ill -- on the world over the previous 12 months . " Kamala HarrisDonald Trump defeated Vice President Kamala Harris in the presidential election , Harris conceded on November 6 . The election concluded a rapid 107-day campaign launched after President Joe Biden ended his reelection bid on July 21 and endorsed Harris . Harris focused her campaign on reproductive rights , criticizing Trump 's role in the Supreme Court 's overturning of Roe v. Wade and portraying him as a threat to democracy . Harris and Biden were jointly named Person of the Year in 2020 after defeating Trump and Mike Pence.Kate Middleton <p> Kate Middleton , the Princess of Wales , revealed her cancer diagnosis this year after undergoing a planned abdominal surgery . The surgery took place in January , requiring a two-week hospital stay . Kensington Palace initially stated she would remain out of public view until Easter . Online speculation about her absence prompted Middleton to disclose her diagnosis in March . In September , she announced the completion of her chemotherapy treatment . Previously , Middleton was on the 2013 TIME100 list of Most Influential People and a 2011 Person of the Year runner-up . Kensington Palace said she would be out of the public eye until Easter . <p> Elon MuskElon Musk will co-lead a new government efficiency department , President-elect Trump announced . Trump won the 2024 presidential election after Musk endorsed him , appeared at rallies , promoted pro-Trump content on X ( formerly Twitter ) , and helped shape Trump 's agenda . The Department of Government Efficiency is expected to propose federal workforce and regulatory cuts . Musk , named TIME Person of the Year in 2021 , bought and rebranded Twitter to X in 2023 . He is the world 's richest person , according to Forbes . Musk 's previous ventures include online payments , electric vehicles , and commercial space.Yulia NavalnayaYulia Navalnaya , wife of deceased Russian dissident Alexei Navalny , has vowed to continue her husband 's political work . Following his death in prison in February , Navalnaya publicly blamed Russian President Vladimir Putin . She has since gained international recognition , meeting with world leaders like US President Joe Biden amidst Russia 's ongoing war in Ukraine . Navalnaya has been called the " first lady " of the Russian opposition and was named one of TIME 's 100 Most Influential People of 2024 . Benjamin NetanyahuIsrael 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu faces international scrutiny amid ongoing conflict . In October 2023 , Hamas attacked Israel , resulting in 1,200 deaths . Israel subsequently launched a military offensive in the Gaza Strip . The Gaza Health Ministry reports 44,056 casualties in Gaza . The conflict expanded to Lebanon in September , targeting Hezbollah . Netanyahu told TIME in August , " We 're in the midst of a war , a seven-front war . I think we have to concentrate on one thing : winning . " In November , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Netanyahu , his former defense minister , and Hamas ' military chief , alleging crimes against humanity . Jerome PowellJerome Powell leads the Federal Reserve . He became chairman in 2018 , serving under both Presidents Trump and Biden . Voters consider the economy the most important issue in the 2024 election , and Powell guides the Fed 's economic policies . Former President Trump , who initially nominated Powell , later criticized the Fed for high interest rates . Powell emphasizes the Fed 's non-partisan nature . He appeared on the TIME100 list in 2019 and 2020 and was considered for Person of the Year in 2023 . Powell " stressed the importance of the Fed 's independence from political parties and candidates . " Joe Rogan Joe Rogan 's podcast remained popular in 2024 . " The Joe Rogan Experience " topped Spotify 's charts for the fifth consecutive year , averaging 11 million listeners per episode , primarily young men . The podcast covers various topics including current events , comedy , and politics . In August , Rogan 's stand-up comedy special , " Joe Rogan : Burn Your Boats , " premiered on Netflix . Prior to the election , Rogan released a three-hour interview with Trump , whom he later endorsed . Some voters reported the interview influenced their voting decisions . Rogan has been a controversial figure . He has received criticism for spreading COVID-19 misinformation and past use of racial slurs . In 2022 , Rogan was listed on TIME100 's list of Most Influential People.Claudia SheinbaumClaudia Sheinbaum became Mexico 's first female president in October . She is also the first Jewish person to lead the country since its independence over two centuries ago . Sheinbaum , a longtime leftist , campaigned on helping low-income Mexicans . She faces challenges like a weak economy and increased organized crime . Following a tariff announcement from Trump on Mexican goods entering the U.S. , Sheinbaum stated Mexico would respond with its own tariffs.Donald TrumpDonald Trump has won the 2024 presidential election , marking a return to the White House after his 2020 loss to Joe Biden . Trump secured victory by winning the popular vote and flipping every swing state in his favor . Increased turnout among young male voters was key to his success.This victory is unprecedented for several reasons . Trump will be the oldest president in US history . He is also the first convicted felon to be elected president , following his conviction earlier this year in New York on 34 counts of fraud.Trump 's campaign focused on the economy and border security as his main priorities . He has pledged to impose tariffs on Mexico , Canada , and China upon taking office , a move that has raised concerns among economists . He has also announced several controversial cabinet picks . Trump was previously named TIME 's Person of the Year in 2016 . Mark ZuckerbergMeta CEO Mark Zuckerberg faced government scrutiny in 2024 . He testified before a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing about social media 's impact on youth . Election officials at all levels also worried about misinformation spreading on Facebook during the 2024 election cycle . Zuckerberg 's net worth , estimated at $210 billion by Forbes in December , ranked him the world 's fourth richest person . He was included in the TIME100 AI list in 2024 . Previously , in 2010 , when Facebook exceeded 500 million users , TIME named him Person of the Year . <h> About the Author <p> At TOI World Desk , our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock . With an unwavering commitment to accuracy , depth , and timeliness , we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world , delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers . Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world . 
@@118644275 <p> The speed at which the situation in Syria has spiralled into anarchy defies all logic . With the availability of the best surveillance systems , eyes in the sky , eavesdropping capabilities and artificial intelligence , there should hardly be scope for strategic surprise in the world of military and quasi-military affairs . Yet , with uncanny frequency , turbulence festers under the scanner to burst out with a vengeance . We are well past the stage where one could luxuriously explain the backdrop of this hugely complex problem which has the potential to upset the entire apple cart in the Middle East . The number of players in the fray , along with ideologies and multiple other interests , complicate the situation beyond measure . <p> A brief recall may be necessary . The issue here is the collapse of the Bashar al-Assad regime which represents the Ba'ath Party ; the latter has been in power in one form or another since 1963 . Syria has largely been a secular society ; while promoting plurality , an Alawite ( Shia ) minority has ruled without any pretence of democracy . It has been strategically aligned with Shia Iran from where Syria has received much of its weaponry and funding . The existence of a pro-Iran regime in Syria facilitated Iran 's proxy war strategy in the Levant . A civil war broke out in Syria in 2011 after the Assad regime targeted exponents of the Arab Spring who were demanding greater democracy . It raged till 2018 , involving a plethora of players with interest in the region . First was the US , which supported the rebels against the Assad regime due to the latter 's anti-Israel , pro-Iran approach . There were several Sunni radical groups such as Al-Nusra and ISIS , all breakaways from Al-Qaeda , not necessarily aligned with the Syrian opposition . <p> The second was Iran whose entire strategy of control of the Levant -- through proxies steered by its Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps -- and hence , the ability to threaten Israel , was contingent upon an aligned Syria . Hezbollah extended this control into south Lebanon . That brought in Israel , too . <p> Third was Russia , with its deep interest in a foothold in the Middle East , particularly in the various facilities around the strategic port city of Latakia on the Mediterranean , the only warm-water base with the Russian Navy outside the Black Sea . The advent of ISIS in 2014 complicated matters as it fought against every other element . The Gulf nations , led by Saudi Arabia and Turkey , too joined indirectly in support of the opposition forces against Assad , converting a political civil war into an ideological one . <p> After the defeat of ISIS in 2018 , the civil war ebbed . The pandemic in 2020-21 saw it at a very low pitch . The chaotic withdrawal of the US from Afghanistan , the Ukraine war and then Gaza -- all of these took attention away from Syria between 2020 and ' 23 . However , control of the Levant was with Iran . Which is why it is surprising that the Hayat Tahrir al Sham ( HTS ) managed to build itself up to such a militarily powerful position as to rout the Syrian Army . HTS was a progressively evolving organisation which morphed from the Al-Nusra Front , which had itself split from Al-Qaeda in 2016 . <p> Most sources say that Damascus is now in the hands of the HTS , as are the major cities of Aleppo and Homs . Initial analyses can only point to two or three reasons for the meltdown . First , the utter mismanagement of governance by Assad , leading to the people 's support switching completely to the opposition . Second is the weakening of the Iranian hold over the Levant as a result of the erosion of Hezbollah in south Lebanon over the last 15 months , and particularly since the recent Israeli offensive . Third , the deterrent presence of Russian Special Forces and the Russian Air Force became less effective as the Ukraine war had a debilitating effect on Russian capability in the Middle East . A weak counter attack by the Russians last week was followed by a closure of all assets . While no reasons as yet can be ascribed to the lightning rise of HTS , there are enough fingers being pointed at potential stakeholders such as the US which had also been accused of raising and funding ISIS before it went out of control . The positive signals thus far are some reassuring statements from HTS leader Abu Mohammad Al-Jolani , although his credibility remains questionable . <p> It 's important to understand the likely immediate effects of the overthrow of Assad . First , Iran 's supply chain to Hezbollah is now compromised , thus potentially delaying or making impossible the refurbishment of its military capability to take on Israel . Israel 's approach to the ceasefire may also change due to this . Second , this will have an indirect effect on the war in Gaza where Israel can make military victory the focus of its resources and attention . Third , the Russian absence strengthens American stakes and , potentially , Saudi influence in the Levant , although Saudi strategic focus appears to be changing . It is after many years that Iran 's capability to influence a rising Shia crescent has been curbed . We should hope that HTS does not evolve along the lines of ISIS , declaring Caliphate . Otherwise , another theatre of war would open up on the Levant front , much like in 2014 . The likelihood of Iran accepting this situation with a strategic disadvantage to itself is small . It may calibrate its response to regain its stature . Hopefully , that should not mean the start of a missile-and-rocket war against Israel . The Middle East is indeed welcoming Donald Trump in strange ways . <p> The writer is a former corps commander of the Srinagar-based 15 Corps . Views are personal 
@@118644666 <h> Download App <h> From Syria 's support for India on the Kashmir issue to Delhi 's backing of Syria 's claim over the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights , Delhi and Damascus have been partners . The fall of the Bashar al-Assad regime could have far-reaching implications for India . Adding to this is the Iran-Turkey dynamics in Syria . <p> However , the fall of the Bashar al-Assad 's regime , hailed as a watershed in the Middle East , could reshape dynamics not only for India-Syria relations but also in the broader context of a world increasingly divided into two competing blocs . What happens to Syria 's stand on Kashmir and where India now stands on the Syrian claim to the Golan Heights , are aspects that might be revisited . <p> advertisement <p> Meanwhile , the Indian government said it was monitoring the situation in Syria , and underlined the need for all parties to work towards preserving the unity , sovereignty and territorial integrity of Syria . <h> 1 . WAS SYRIA 'S ASSAD INDIA 'S FRIEND ? <p> Syria , under the leadership of President Bashar al-Assad , maintained friendly relations with India . <p> Despite the tumultuous civil war in Syria , which started in 2011 , India continued to engage with Assad 's regime , particularly after major regional players like the UAE , Bahrain , and Saudi Arabia re-established ties with Syria . <p> The bilateral visits between the heads of states of the two nations started early with Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru visiting the west Asian nation in 1957 . The same year saw President Shukri Al Quwatli of Syria travel to New Delhi . <p> Syria has historically been an important member of the Nehru-championed Non-Aligned Movement ( NAM ) . <p> For India , maintaining stable relations with Syria and other key players in the Middle East has also been crucial in countering Pakistan 's narratives within these Muslim-majority nations . <p> Most recently , India 's junior minister for external affairs , V Muraleedharan , made a crucial ministerial-level visit to Damascus in July 2023 , marking the first such visit since 2016 . <p> In 2017 , Assad also voiced concern about India facing terrorism and compared the situation to Syria 's . <p> " I believe our independence dates back to the same period in the 1940s . While our geographies may differ , the reasons behind the terrorism both countries face may also vary . However , at its core , terrorism is one , and the ideologies we both confront are similar . In India , terrorism is used for political purposes , and the situation is no different in Syria . This is an extremely dangerous phenomenon , " Bashar al-Assad said in an interview with an Indian TV channel in 2017 . <p> Now , with the fall of Assad , it would be important to see if the next regime honours the long , time-tested relationship . <p> advertisement <p> What should come in India 's favour is that it is seen as a neutral player in Syrian politics . <h> 2 . WHAT 'S THE SYRIAN STAND ON KASHMIR ? <p> Syria , a Muslim-majority country , has consistently supported India 's position on the Kashmir issue . <p> This stance is distinct from many other countries in the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation ( OIC ) , which have often taken a contrary view . Contrary , more so , as Pakistan has time and again tried to use the OIC for anti-India rhetoric . <p> The Syrian government , under Assad , has stated that the Kashmir dispute is an internal matter for India and that New Delhi has the right to resolve it in any manner it sees fit . <p> In 2016 , Syria reasserted India has a right to resolve the Kashmir issue in " any manner " and " without external assistance " . <p> If the new regime in Syria , made of non-state actors , does n't do a complete flip , the stand on Kashmir is expected to stay the same . <p> " One thing that works for India right now is that even non-state militant actors usually do n't have problems with India , and see it as neutral . This has helped navigate sectarian divisions in the region based around protection of its citizens , " Kabir Taneja , a Deputy Director at the New Delhi-based think tank , Observer Research Foundation ( ORF ) , posted on X. <h> 3 . WHAT WAS INDIA 'S QUID PRO QUO WITH SYRIA ? <p> advertisement <p> India 's engagement with Syria has been a part of its broader strategy to enhance its presence and influence in the Middle East . In return for Syria 's support on issues like Kashmir , India has provided significant development and humanitarian assistance . Most importantly , India has supported " Syria 's legitimate right to regain the occupied Golan Heights " . <p> Israel captured the rocky Golan Heights in the Levant region from Syria in the 1967 Six-Day War . <p> " India has consistently supported all Arab causes . I would also like to reiterate our strong support for Syria 's legitimate right to the Golan Heights and for its very early and full return to Syria , " former Indian President Pratibha Patil , said during her visit to Syria in 2011 . <p> India had announced scholarships for Syrian students to study in India during Muraleedharan 's visit in 2023 . <p> Additionally , India sent humanitarian aid to Syria following a deadly earthquake in February 2023 as part of Operation Dost ( friend ) . <p> Minister of State of External Affairs V Muraleedharan met Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in July 2023 . ( Image : X/V Muraleedharan ) <p> advertisement <p> Assad 's regime has also called on India to take an active role in the Middle East peace process . India 's relations with Syria stood the test of time when the Syrian crisis broke out in 2011 . <p> At the United Nations , India has also refused to support sanctions against Syria . <p> Now as a new regime is set to take a seat in Syria , it would be worth noting if the ' give and take ' continues for mutual benefit . <h> 4 . INDIA 'S INVESTMENTS IN SYRIA <p> India , for decades , has been investing in Syria 's infrastructure and development , aiming to strengthen bilateral ties and leverage Syria 's geostrategic location . <p> In 2004 , an agreement between ONGC and IPR International for oil and natural gas exploration , and another joint investment by ONGC and China 's CNPC to acquire a 37% stake in a Canadian firm operating in Syria . <p> The USD 240 million Line of Credit was for the Tishreen Thermal Power Plant project . <p> India 's investments in education , agriculture , information technology , have been to help Syria participate in India 's global value chain and contribute to its economic recovery . <p> advertisement <p> India has also supported capacity building for Syrian youth . Under India 's ' Study in India ' programme , 1,500 seats were offered to Syrian students for UG , Master and PhD programmes in four phases from 2017 to 2018 . <p> In trade terms , bilateral trade between the two nations was over USD 100 million from 2020 to 2023 . However , in 2024 , it has declined to USD 80 million . <h> 5 . IRAN OUT-TURKEY IN : THE CURRENT SCENARIO <p> Iran and Russia have been key supporters of Assad , while the US and Turkey have backed anti-Assad forces . <p> However , with Iran , Hezbollah , and Russia distracted by their own conflicts in Gaza , Lebanon , and Ukraine , respectively , Assad 's regime faced diminished support , coinciding with its downfall . <p> Turkey , which has been involved in the conflict primarily due to its concerns about Kurdish groups , continues to play a role in the region . <p> The rebel groups , which drove Assad out , are backed by Turkey . <p> In contrast , Iran 's influence in Syria is likely to diminish in the immediate aftermath of Assad 's fall . Although the long-term implications remain uncertain . <p> India 's future engagement with Syria may likely be shaped by the new dynamics , with Turkey at the helm . Turkey , known to be critical of India 's claim on Kashmir , has often sided with Pakistan . The sidelined power , Iran , however , continues to have a cordial relationship with India , despite it leaning away from Russia towards its rival , the United States . However , Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan recently skipped the mention of Kashmir in his UN speech . <p> It is too early to say how the events in Syria will fold out , and how they impact India-Syria ties . What will work in India 's favour is that it is seen as a partner that is neutral to the politics of the country . This will help New Delhi open channels with whoever is at the helm of affairs in Syria . 
@@118644764 <h> The Bashar al-Assad government in Syria had supported India on the Kashmir issue . At the same time , India also refused to support sanctions against Syria and helped Damascus in development projects <p> Under the Narendra Modi government , India renewed bilateral ties with Syria after the country rejoined the Arab League in 2023 . ( AP Image ) <p> With rebel forces claiming the fall of Bashar al-Assad 's government in Syria , India is watching cautiously the power shift in the restive Middle-Eastern country , which could have an impact over the ties between the two countries . <p> " We are monitoring the situation in Syria in the light of on-going developments . We underline the need for all parties to work towards preserving the unity , sovereignty and territorial integrity of Syria . We advocate a peaceful and inclusive Syrian-led political process respecting the interests and aspirations of all sections of Syrian society . Our Embassy in Damascus is in contact with the Indian community , for their safety and security , " the Ministry of External Affairs ( MEA ) said in a statement on December 9. <h> related stories <p> Both India and Syria have enjoyed cordial and peaceful diplomatic relations under the Assad regime . But with the fall of Assad government , there could be shift in the dynamics between the two countries . <h> History Of India And Syria 's Relations <p> Assad has been ruling Syria since 2000 , with his father Hafez al-Assad being in power since 1971 . <p> During the civil war in 2011 , India adopted a position favouring conflict resolution through a non-military and a Syrian-led political process . India maintained relations with Syria even at the peak of the civil war when several nations isolated Damascus and it was expelled from the Arab League . <p> India helped Syria in key development projects , including providing a $240 million line of credit for a power plant , investment in IT infrastructure , steel plant modernization , oil sector and exports of rice , pharmaceuticals and textiles . <p> India also refused to support sanctions against Syria during the Covid-19 pandemic , citing humanitarian concerns . New Delhi also called for non-interference by foreign countries . <p> Under the Narendra Modi government , India renewed bilateral ties with Syria after the country rejoined the Arab League in 2023 . Then Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan was on a significant ministerial-level visit to Damascus in July 2023 . <h> When Syria Supported India On The Kashmir Issue <p> While India supported Syria on several international issues , including the Palestinian cause and Syria 's claim over Golan Heights , Damascus backed New Delhi 's position on Kashmir , maintaining that it is an internal issue of the country . <p> In 2016 , Syrian Ambassador to India Riad Abbas had said Kashmir was an internal issue of India . " Anyone who raises a weapon against the government , we call them terrorists , and the government must take action against them , " Abbas had told The Hindu . <p> He had also said that Syria is looking up to India for assistance in re-building the war-ravage country . <h> India Is Cautious <p> Experts believe that India 's close ties with Syria would have helped New Delhi to further leverage its relations with the Middle Eastern countries . But with the rebel group , Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham , backed by Turkey , claiming victory over Syria , New Delhi is closely watching how the situation unfolds in the troubled country . <p> Recently , Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan did not mention the Kashmir issue at the United Nations , which many viewed as a sign of improving the India-Turkey relations . <p> New Delhi has issued a travel advisory asking Indians to avoid travelling to Syria and urged those staying there to exercise " utmost precaution " and restrict their movements . " In view of the situation prevailing in Syria , Indian nationals are advised to avoid all travel to Syria until further notification ... Those who can , are advised to leave by the earliest available commercial flights and others are requested to observe utmost precaution about their safety and restrict their movements to the minimum , " the MEA said . <h> Is Islamic State Coming Back ? <p> The rebel groups led by HTS in Syria had its origins in al-Qaeda , which has been declared a terrorist organisation by the US and United Nations . Although HTS leader Abu Mohammad al-Jolani has said he has severed ties with al-Qaeda , and the aim of his outfit was to overthrow the Assad government and not launch attacks on the west , western countries and India are cautious . <p> The HTS is backed by Turkey , had claimed regions in northern Syria after the US withdrawal of forces from there . HTS started out as a branch of the Islamic State of Iraq , when it was founded in January 2012 as Jabhat al-Nusrah . Aaron Y. Zelin , a senior fellow at Washington Institute , said when Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi brought the organization from Iraq to Syria in April 2013 , Jolani " disavowed Baghdadi and pledged allegiance to Ayman al-Zawahiri , then the leader of al-Qaeda . " Later , Jolani left al-Qaeeda and focused on expanding HTS . <p> Since the US military 's withdrawal from Syria , many Americans have been worried that the move would give the Islamic State a chance to rise again . <p> Recently , the US military conducted a series of airstrikes against the Islamic State after Assad fled to Russia . The Pentagon said the attacks were precision airstrikes and it does not believe there were any civilian casualties . The US military is still conducting a battle damage assessment , according to US Central Command . <h> top videos <p> President Joe Biden has said the end of Assad 's presidency was in part due to US support for Israel 's war on Gaza and its fight against Hezbollah in Lebanon , as well as support for groups in Syria and Iraq that weakened Syria 's close ally , Iran . <p> He also said the US forces will remain in northeast Syria , where they support the Kurdish-led Syrian Defence Forces against Islamic State . About 900 US troops are currently in the northeast of the country . 
@@118644850 <h> Assad falls thanks to a weak Tehran <p> A defaced portrait of late Syrian president Hafez al-Assad stands above a ransacked government security facility , in Damascus . Islamist-led rebels declared on December 8 , that they have taken the Syrian capital in a lightning offensive , sending President Bashar al-Assad fleeing and ending five decades of Baath rule in Syria . ( Photo : AFP ) <h> Summary <p> Iran and its proxy network have been revealed to be paper tigers . More defeats will surely follow this one . <p> This is a Mint Premium article gifted to you . Subscribe to enjoy similar stories . <p> The fall of Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria marks the eclipse of Iran 's self-styled axis of resistance in the Middle East . While the successful advance of the Syrian Sunni insurgents into Damascus seemed sudden , it did n't happen overnight . Mr. Assad 's flight from the country seals what has been a disastrous few months for Tehran and its allies . <p> By removing the Assad regime , the insurgents -- known as Hayat Tahrir al-Sham -- have cut off Tehran 's main proxy militia , Hezbollah , from its supply lines . This was possible because of Israel 's mauling of Hezbollah in November , prompting the terror group to accept a cease-fire with the Jewish state . The decision was in direct contrast with Hezbollah 's goal when it entered the war on Oct. 8 , 2023 . <p> As Hassan Nasrallah , its now-deceased leader , expressed at the time : " The Lebanon front will not stop before the aggression on Gaza stops . The resistance in Lebanon wo n't stop supporting and assisting the people of Gaza , the West Bank and the oppressed people in these holy lands . " By the time both parties agreed to a cease-fire , Nasrallah was dead . Hezbollah decided that sticking by its junior ally in Gaza was no longer worth the price . The dramatic events in Syria rapidly followed . <p> Hezbollah 's actions came after Iran 's decision to avoid any major retaliation for Israel 's Oct. 26 attacks on targets inside Iran . This reluctance persisted despite Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei 's promise of a " crushing response to what they are doing to Iran . . . and to the resistance front " after the attack . Iran hesitated in part because of the failure of its Iraqi and Yemeni proxies to penetrate Israeli air defenses with drones and missiles . Israel continued to make progress against Hamas in Gaza , despite Iran 's various efforts to open support fronts to relieve the pressure . Gaza 's Islamists are now isolated , facing Israel alone . <p> The apparent eclipse of Iran 's proxy axis , its helplessness in the wake of Israeli countermeasures , and the loss of Syria are of particular note because the alliance had fared so well for so long . Iran 's first success in the field of irregular warfare came with its creation of Hezbollah in 1982 . It piloted Hezbollah to a victorious insurgency against Israel from 1985 to 2000 , and then to undisputed political domination of Lebanon after 2008 . After the fall of Saddam Hussein in 2003 , Tehran-supported Shiite militias became the dominant political-military force in Iraq . Outreach to Hamas via Hezbollah from the early 1990s secured Iran a foothold in the Israel-Palestinian conflict , with its enormous symbolic importance in the Arab and Muslim worlds . <p> The 2010 Arab Spring , the 2012 destruction of the Saleh regime in Yemen and Iran 's rescue of the Assad regime in Syria that same year all contributed to the expansion of Iranian influence across the region . <p> On the eve of Oct. 7 , 2023 , Iran 's proxy system seemed at the height of its power . Iran , with its formidable ballistic-missile array and its nuclear ambitions , appeared to have succeeded in turning indirect conflict into a tool of state . A year on , however , everything looks different . Iran 's error was that it neglected a basic rule of irregular warfare : Avoid being drawn into the open on the conventional battlefield . <p> Doughty proponents of irregular warfare , from George Washington to Ho Chi Minh , all lived by this rule . Iran and its allies have abandoned it and suffered the consequences . The Oct. 7 attack , in addition to being a massacre , was a strategically absurd decision by a tiny statelet to launch a conventional offensive against a vastly more powerful neighbor . Hezbollah 's choice to bombard Israel in the following days constituted a similar misstep . Iran 's decision in April this year to abandon proxy warfare and launch a direct attack on Israel compounded the error . <p> In each case , Israel 's response laid bare the profound inferiority of the Iranians and their allies in direct confrontation . The result : Hamas and Hezbollah are decimated , Gaza is a smoking ruin , Southern Lebanon is a pile of rubble , and Iran is exposed as helpless before Israeli air power . <p> The region now sees Iran and its misnamed axis of resistance as a paper tiger . The rebels ' assault in Syria and the stunning collapse of the Assad regime are the first fruits of this new look . More will doubtless come . <p> Mr. Spyer is director of research at the Middle East Forum and director of the Middle East Center for Reporting and Analysis . He is author of " Days of the Fall : A Reporter 's Journey in the Syria and Iraq Wars . " 
@@118645075 <p> The Times Magazine has named a person of the year since 1927 . Last year , the publication selected Taylor Swift . Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy was named the person of the year in 2022 and Elon Musk won the title in 2021 . <p> The title is not new for President-elect Trump too . He was named Time 's Person of the Year in 2016 after he beat Democrat Hillary Clinton in the election . According to the outlet , the 78-year-old ' reshaped the American electorate ' . <p> In its shortlist description for Kate Middleton , Time 's stated that the ' Princess of Wales made international headlines this year and stirred a conversation about privacy and health for public figures ' . This comes months after Middleton revealed that she had been diagnosed with cancer . In September , she announced that she had completed her chemotherapy treatment . <p> " Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been one of the most influential and controversial world leaders this year , " the outlet added . " Defying criticism of his war on Hamas , the terrorist organization that killed 1,200 people in an attack against Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , Netanyahu continued his military assault on the Gaza Strip . " <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from World and around the world . 
@@118645476 <h> What Elon Musk does n't get about military technology <h> Technology matters amongst military weapons only when they enjoy decisive edge over the existing weapons through a generational advantage . We , therefore , need to water down the enthusiasm over drones being a superior or transformative military technology to fighter jets . Drones , at best , will co-exist with other new generation weapons <h> We need to water down the enthusiasm over drones being a superior military technology to fighter jets . <p> Military weapons often become victims of ' technology trap ' . When technological innovations lead to new weapons , existing weapons are often ' declared ' as belonging to ' fossilised generation ' . <p> Elon Musk , Tesla Motors CEO and ' X ' owner , is the lead ' thinker-in-chief ' of this school . His assertion that ' drones offer more flexibility and safety in modern warfare compared to the American F-35 fighter jets ' is , however , debatable . Few military innovations from previous wars have succeeded in perpetuating their monopoly unopposed . The drones versus fighter jets tussle , instead , should be contextualised within the wider debate over competing weapon systems versus their co-existence in modern warfare . <p> Musk is probably right when he says that the F-35 fighter jets suffer from high costs . However , this is partly because the designs have undergone many changes . These are early decades of F-35 **28;1154;TOOLONG and the new jets are yet to reach ' economy of scale ' . Musk 's assertion that the F-35 jets also have a ' flawed design and do not meet modern day operational requirements ' is not backed by significant statistical evidence . On the contrary , Israel has amply demonstrated the effective use of F-35 in its ongoing war against Hamas in Gaza and the air strikes over Iran . Contrary to Musk 's claims of being obsolete and outdated , the F-35 jets are still one of the best in the fifth generation fighter series and buyer countries are eager to stock it up in their fighting squadrons . <p> Musk would like us to believe , as he has been propagating in last few years , that we have actually entered the ' age of drones ' . Apparently , they offer more flexibility and safety in modern warfare , unlike the F-35 jets that apparently ' kill pilots ' . They also come with different innovative variants . Future warfare , Musk believes , would be between competing ' swarms of drones ' . However , contemporary warfare practices amply show that drones are not ' genius weapons ' and do not provide battlefield edge in any way . <p> Within the air warfare domain , we have missiles of different range that are equally safe . Drones do not match the Mach speed of the fighter jets and can become floating ducks due to slow speed and absence of defensive capabilities . The computer-aided piloting have aerial limitations and drones are actually ' horseless carriages ' over long distances . Incidentally , the US , despite boasting of the largest drone force , could not use them effectively in any of its wars , be it Afghanistan or elsewhere . <p> From a political economy perspective , drones may be cheaper to produce . Probably , that also speaks why it has become increasingly available to many states and even non-state actors as well . In the process , the intrinsic value of drones as an effective military tool stands diluted . <p> Technology matters amongst military weapons only when they enjoy decisive edge over the existing weapons through a generational advantage . We did have certain instances of ' leapfrog technology ' that changed the warfare scenario in the twentieth century , such as innovation of submarines , tanks and fighter jets . These were effective war-machines since their innovation also led to global diffusion and proliferation amongst all militaries . Collectively , they changed the conduct of war by mid-twentieth century . <p> We are still not factoring the invention of nuclear weapons even though they singlehandedly stopped changed Japan 's position during World War II . Japan immediately surrendered since it had no alternate to the powerful military innovation . <p> Drones , on the other hand , made a very low-level , graduated entry into the world of military weapons in 1970s . Despite a long existential history , they are yet to significantly alter any war outcome on their own . We are yet to hear any eureka moment or phenomenal war achievements about drone usage . It only establishes that they do not have demonstrative military capabilities . <p> Drones are not the first challenger to the fighter jets ' domination . When the missile systems came into existence , they were similarly touted as ' future weapons ' , replacing the fighter jets . Like drones , they also had this benefit of saving the pilots from being killed or preventing large number of armed forces people from active soldering ( tail support ) . That did not happen since missiles did not offer any generational advantage over fighter jets , despite weaponisation in different variants and ranges . Additionally , fighter jets improved from one generation to another . Today , missiles compete and co-exist with fighter jets in all countries that boast of significant military power . <p> Defence strategies comprise a mix of weaponry <p> Contemporary national defence strategies are , therefore , not based on exclusivity of one set of weapons vis- ? -vis another set of weapons . Within the domain of air warfare , the defence or offence strategies are based on a mix of fighter jets , missiles of different range and anti-missile defence system . Interestingly , the US National Defence Strategy of October 2022 , while emphasising on integrated defence , does not talk of drones at all in its force planning whereas missiles of different ranges figures prominently . Drones do figure in Chinese national defence strategy and China remains one of the largest exporters of drones to many countries . But even Chinese accord a greater significance to missiles and fighter jets in their offensive strategy . Drones , in fact , figure quite low in all national security discourses and defence strategies . They are not ' silver bullets ' , but just another platform , making the war business cheaper . <p> Modern warfare is increasingly getting complex and uncertain . Only countries having technological wherewithal would compete . Military powers , would , therefore , need technological warhorses like fighter jets and other competing weapons as well . We , therefore , need to water down or dilute the enthusiasm over drones being a superior or transformative military technology to fighter jets and its consequential emergence as the sin qua non of future warfare . The hype and hoopla over drones are hyper-inflated . Drones , at best , will co-exist with other new generation weapons and are unlikely to emerge as the centerpiece of national defence strategies . Musk would soon realise this after actually getting into the business of governance and defence . <p> Invite your friends and family to sign up for MC Tech 3 , our daily newsletter that breaks down the biggest tech and startup stories of the day <p> Advisory Alert:It has come to our attention that certain individuals are representing themselves as affiliates of Moneycontrol and soliciting funds on the false promise of assured returns on their investments . We wish to reiterate that Moneycontrol does not solicit funds from investors and neither does it promise any assured returns . In case you are approached by anyone making such claims , please write to us at **25;1184;TOOLONG or call on 02268882347 
@@118645724 <p> This picture taken from the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights shows smoke billowing above the Syrian Governorate of Quneitra during Israeli bombardment , on December 9 , 2024 . Israel launched strikes on weapons depots in Syria 's east on December 8 , a war monitor said , after rebels toppled Bashar al-Assad 's government earlier . ( Photo by Jalaa MAREY / AFP ) <p> Israeli strikes killed at least six people in the central Gaza Strip , Palestinian medical officials said Monday , while also hitting suspected chemical and long-range weapons sites in Syria to keep them from rebels who seized Damascus . <p> The U.N . Security Council plans to hold emergency closed consultations on Syria later Monday at the request of Russia , which on Monday said it granted asylum to its longtime ally Syrian leadeashar Assad . <p> Russian President Vladimir Putin personally made the decision to offer asylum to Assad , Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters . Peskov would n't comment on Assad 's specific whereabouts and said that Putin was n't planning to meet with him . <p> Israel 's offensive has killed over 44,500 Palestinians in Gaza since the start of the war , according to local health authorities . They say most of the dead are women and children but do not distinguish between fighters and civilians . <p> The war began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 , including older adults and children . Around 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> GENEVA -- The U.N . human rights chief said Monday that former President Bashar Assad and other top Syrian officials behind possible war crimes " should be brought to justice . " <p> Volker T ? rk also said any transition process in Syria should not be separated from the need for accountability for alleged war crimes that took place in its civil war that began in 2011 , leaving hundreds of thousands dead and millions fleeing their homes . <p> T ? rk , the U.N . high commissioner for human rights , also noted that Syria has not ratified the International Criminal Court statute , but the court in The Hague could have jurisdiction if the " new Syria " decides to ratify it -- an allusion to whoever the new leadership of Syria becomes . <p> Turk said there were " serious grounds to believe " that Assad and others in serious leadership positions in his government may have committed atrocity crimes , " and as a result , yes , they should be brought to justice . " <p> Russia grants political asylum to Assad , Kremlin says <p> MOSCOW -- The Kremlin said Monday that Russia has granted political asylum to former Syrian President Bashar Assad . <p> Russian President Vladimir Putin has personally made the decision to offer asylum to Assad , Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters . <p> " Such decisions certainly ca n't be made without the head of state , " Peskov said in a conference call with reporters . " It was his decision . " <p> Peskov would n't comment on Assad 's specific whereabouts . He said that Putin was n't planning to meet with Assad . <p> The Kremlin spokesman said that Moscow has been doing everything needed to ensure the security of its military bases in Syria . <p> He said the future of the Russian bases will be a subject for discussion with the new authorities . <p> " For now , we are witnessing a period of transformation and extreme instability , so it will obviously take time and require a serious conversation with those who will have power , " he said . <p> " The developments have surprised the world , and we were n't an exclusion , " Peskov said when asked whether the Kremlin was surprised by Assad 's quick demise . <p> GENEVA -- The U.N . human rights chief , Volker T ? rk , says any political transition in Syria must ensure accountability for perpetrators of serious violations during the country 's civil war , and guarantee that those responsible are held to account . <p> Speaking Monday to reporters in Geneva , T ? rk said Syrians took to the streets a day earlier " with much hope and much anxiety for the future " after President Bashar Assad quit power and left the country . <p> The rights chief said reform of the security apparatus in Syria will be important for the transition , which " must also ensure that the tragedy of missing people is addressed . " <p> He suggested that Assad himself should be held to account . <p> " We will need to make sure that those who are responsible for these violations -- be it on the side of the previous government , the president , and others -- but also all others who are responsible for violations , that they are brought to account , " T ? rk said . <p> ANKARA , Turkey -- Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan said Monday that Ankara hopes the fall of the Syrian government will usher in a new era where different ethnic and religious groups can live peacefully under an inclusive new government . <p> Fidan also said his country hopes that a " new Syria " would maintain good relations with its neighbors and bring stability to the volatile region . <p> " The developments in Syria yesterday have given us a glimmer of hope , " Fidan said in a speech to Turkish ambassadors . " We expect international actors , especially the United Nations , to reach out to the Syrian people and support the formation of an inclusive government . " <p> The minister said Turkey would continue to support Syria 's territorial and political unity and work toward the country 's " prosperity , security and stability . " <p> But Fidan said it was important that the Islamic State group and Kurdish militants do not take advantage of the situation , adding that Turkey " would work with determination " to prevent Syria from turning into a " haven for terrorism . " <p> " Turkey , which has reached out to its Syrian brothers during difficult times , will also be by their side , as the new page opens in Damascus , " Fidan said . " We believe that the Syrian people will also make good use of this golden opportunity . " <p> Israel says a drone that appears to have originated in Yemen hit a city in central Israel <p> TEL AVIV , Israel -- The Israeli military said Monday that a drone that appeared to have originated in Yemen slammed into a city in central Israel . <p> Video posted by Israeli news sites showed a large burst of smoke erupting from a high-rise apartment building . <p> The military said sirens were not sounded to warn of the incoming drone . There were no immediate reports of injuries . <p> Iran-backed militants in Yemen have been attacking Israel since Hamas ' assault on southern Israel in October 2023 . <p> Turkey-backed forces take full control of Syrian city from U.S.-backed and Kurdish-led force <p> ANKARA , Turkey -- The Turkish-backed forces known as the Syrian National Army launched an offensive against the Syrian Democratic Forces in the northern Syrian city of Manbij on Dec. 6 , days after expelling SDF fighters from the city of Tal Rifaat . <p> Turkish security officials said Monday that " control of Manbij has been secured , " without providing further details . The officials provided the information on condition of anonymity , in line with Turkish regulations . <p> Turkey views the SDF , which is primarily composed of a Syrian Kurdish militia group , as an extension of the banned Kurdistan Workers ' Party , or PKK , and a terrorist organization . The force , however , has been a key partner of the United States in the fight against the Islamic State group . <p> Separately , the U.S.-backed Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces said in a statement on Monday that a Turkish drone strike in the village of al-Mistriha north of Raqqa in eastern Syria killed 12 civilians , including six children . <p> Top aide to Assad 's brother found dead , war monitor says <p> BEIRUT -- A Syrian opposition war monitor says a top aide to the brother of Syria 's ousted president was found dead in his office near the capital , Damascus . <p> The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said Maj. Gen. Ali Mahmoud , who was in charge of Maher Assad 's office , had led a 2018 military campaign in southern Syria . <p> A video that circulated on social media allegedly showed Mahmoud covered in blood while sitting on a chair . His clothes appear to have been set on fire . It was not clear if he was killed by Maher Assad or he committed suicide , the observatory 's chief Rami Abdurrahman said . <p> Maher Assad was in charge of the army 's 4th Armored Division which played a major role in Syria 's conflict since it began in March 2011 . <p> JERUSALEM -- Israel 's foreign minister says the strikes were to prevent them from falling into the hands of hostile actors . <p> Gideon Saar said Monday that " the only interest we have is the security of Israel and its citizens . " <p> " That 's why we attacked strategic weapons systems , like , for example , remaining chemical weapons , or long-range missiles and rockets so that they will not fall in the hands of extremists . " <p> Syrian prime minister says Cabinet working to ensure a smooth transition of power <p> DAMASCUS , Syria -- Syria 's prime minister says most Cabinet ministers who are in Damascus are performing their duties from their offices to promote security and that food and medicine are available to the public . <p> " We are working so that the transitional period is quick and smooth , " Mohammed Ghazi Jalali told Sky News Arabia TV station on Monday . <p> The government is working with insurgents , Jalali said , adding that he is ready to meet their leader , Ahmad al-Sharaa , formerly known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani , who heads the jihadi Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or HTS . <p> Among the dead was Raed Ghabaien , who was released from Israeli detention in 2014 , according to Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital , where the casualties were taken . <p> He was killed along with his wife when an Israeli strike hit their tent in the central town of Zuweida , the hospital records showed . <p> Two other people were killed in a strike that hit their house late Sunday in the built-up Nuseirat refugee camp . Another two were killed in a strike in the Wadi Gaza area early Monday . An Associated Press journalist counted the bodies at the hospital 's morgue . <p> Mourners held funeral services Monday morning for the six dead and nine others who were killed in a strike the previous day in the urban refugee camp of Bureij . <p> Israel 's offensive has killed over 44,500 Palestinians in Gaza since the start of the war , according to local health authorities . They say most of the dead are women and children but do not distinguish between fighters and civilians . <p> Israel says it only strikes militants and blames Hamas for civilian deaths because its fighters operate in residential areas . <p> The war began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 , including older adults and children . Around 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> US Central Command forces launch airstrikes in central Syria <p> TAMPA , Fla. -- U.S. Central Command says its forces launched dozens of airstrikes targeting Islamic State group camps and operatives in central Syria . <p> The strikes on Sunday were intended to " disrupt , degrade , and defeat ISIS , in order to prevent the terrorist group from conducting external operations and to ensure that ISIS does not seek to take advantage of the current situation to reconstitute in central Syria , " it said in a statement . <p> The airstrikes hit over 75 targets using B-52s , F-15s , and A-10s , it said , noting that damage assessments were underway and there were no indications of civilian casualties . <p> A Japanese official says Tokyo is ' gravely worried ' about the situation in the Middle East <p> " Japan is gravely worried about a large number of deaths among citizens and strongly concerned about further worsening of the humanitarian conditions , " Hayashi said Monday . <p> He added that Japan is " hopeful " that the latest developments could lead to an improvement in the situation . <p> New Zealand foreign minister calls for ' peaceful transition ' in Syria <p> WELLINGTON , New Zealand -- New Zealand Foreign Minister Winston Peters says his country is closely following developments related to the collapse of former President Bashar Assad 's government in Syria . <p> " This was a regime that perpetrated significant human rights abuses , including repeated chemical weapons attacks , against its own people for many years , " Peters said in a statement issued on Monday . " Now we need to see a peaceful transition with civilians protected and UN Security Council resolutions upheld . This is critical for moving towards a sustainable and comprehensive political solution . " 
@@118645759 <h> Ceasefire at last ? Israel , Hamas to discuss list of hostages to be released <p> Mounted police forces disperse an anti-government protest demanding action for the release of Israelis held hostage by Palestinian militants in Gaza since the October 2023 attacks , in Tel Aviv on December 7 , 2024 AFP <p> A day after Benjamin Netanyahu said the ceasefire talks would speed up , reports suggest that Israel and Hamas have discussed the names of people who would be exchanged as part of negotiations . <p> A Hamas delegation that was in Cairo on Sunday submitted a list of hostages who are unwell or aged , reported Al-Araby al-Jadeed , Qatar-owned new outlet , quoting sources . These were among the people who would be freed in the beginning of the proposed ceasefire . <p> Hundreds of Israeli Jews and Palestinians are currently protesting together against the war and calling for a ceasefire in Tel Aviv <p> Surprisingly , Hamas also submitted names of four US citizens who were not part of the previous category . Out of the seven hostages with dual US-Israeli citizenship , Israel declared four dead and only three of them are believed to be alive . However , the fourth person in the list is yet to be identified . <p> Hamas has also submitted a list of Palestinians detained by Israel to be released in exchange of the hostages . Israel is reportedly reviewing the names of the prisoners and decide on the list on Monday . <p> Demonstrators and police clash in front of Netanyahu 's residence on Gaza Street in Jerusalem . ProtestersThey demand the immediate resignation of Netanyahu. **26;735;TOOLONG <p> The last time Israel and Hamas agreed on hostages release and ceasefire was in November 2023 , when 105 hostages were released but it lasted only for a week . Israel also rescued eight hostages in August . <p> Several hostages were killed in Israeli airstrikes and rescue failures , including an instance when IDF mistakenly killed three hostages who escaped captivity in December 2023 . <p> It is believed that Hamas has 96 hostages but many of them are feared dead . IDF has recovered bodies of at least 38 hostages from Gaza . 
@@118645778 <p> Manama , Dec 9 ( PTI ) External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday underlined new opportunities in space , education , FinTech and technology as he held talks with his Bahraini counterpart and exchanged views on recent developments in the region . Jaishankar , who arrived in Manama on Saturday on the final leg of his two-nation trip , co-chaired the 4th India-Bahrain High Joint Commission ( HJC ) with his Bahrain counterpart Abdullatif bin Rashid Al Zayani . " We see great potential in many new areas like space , education , FinTech , and science &amp; technology . I would like to take the opportunity to publicly affirm the priority that we attach to developing our cooperation with Bahrain , " Jaishankar said in his opening remarks . Noting " significant progress " in recent years in trade and investment , the minister said that New Delhi wants to develop a positive momentum and invited investors from Bahrain to come and explore opportunities in India . He said the two countries also cooperate closely in defence and security matters and reaffirmed India 's firm commitment to the safety and security of international maritime activities . Describing Bahrain as a " valuable partner " in the Gulf region , Jaishankar said India appreciates Manama 's support at various multilateral and international forums . Jaishankar said West Asia is a region of deep strategic interest to India , and in recent times , it 's a region where there is cause for deep concern , particularly over the conflict in Gaza . " We condemn acts of terrorism and loss of civilian lives into conflict . We believe in adherence to international humanitarian law . We have emphasized the importance of safe and timely supply of humanitarian aid to the people of Palestine , and we call for an early ceasefire and release of all hostages , " he said . He said India has consistently supported the resolution of the Palestinian issue through a two-state solution . " We have also contributed to the building of Palestinian institutions and capacities , and we certainly appreciate that Gulf countries are also working in the same direction , " he added . Jaishankar also thanked the Bahrain government for ensuring the welfare of the Indian community . Later , in a post on X , he said , " Took stock of our bilateral relationship focusing on trade , investments , healthcare , energy , security , tourism and people-to-people ties . Discussed new opportunities in space , education , FinTech and technology . Also exchanged views on recent developments in the region . " A joint statement issued after their meeting said both sides discussed key global developments , and regional and multilateral issues of mutual interest . The two countries view each other as key partners in the region , working together to foster a more peaceful and inclusive global community in West Asia , it said . The two ministers appreciated the progress made in the bilateral ties and agreed to continue the pace of high-level bilateral visits and meetings . The Indian side acknowledged that the bilateral security dialogue and the Joint Steering Committee ( JSC ) in the field of combating international terrorism , are important mechanisms in institutionalizing cooperation in the area of security cooperation , including Cybersecurity . The two ministers reiterated their condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and called on all states to reject and abandon the use of terrorism against other countries , the joint statement said . They also reaffirmed their commitment to exploring avenues of cooperation in diverse areas including Energy and Hydrocarbons , Renewable Energy , Infrastructure , Trade and Investments , Defence and Security , Health , Food and Agriculture , Hospitality , Pharmaceutical Industry , Electronic Industry , downstream Aluminium , IT and data centres , Space , Tourism , Environment , Youth and Sports . Both sides acknowledged the deepening of political and people-to-people ties since the historic state visits . The Indian side highlighted the increase in Indian investment in Bahrain since the state visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019 . The two sides also expressed satisfaction at the stability , sustainability , and diversity of bilateral trade . They agreed to work towards strengthening these trade and investment ties and work towards creating a bilateral Joint Working Group on Trade and Investment , the statement said . Bahrain renewed its desire to conclude a bilateral agreement to eliminate double taxation with India ( DTA ) , to strengthen cooperation in tax matters and develop economic , commercial and investment opportunities between the two friendly countries . The two ministers agreed to expedite negotiations for an early launch of acceptance of the Indian RuPay Card in Bahrain . They also agreed to work towards closer cooperation in the sectors of FinTech and Digital Payments . Both sides emphasized the importance of bilateral collaboration in the field of health and pharmaceuticals . The two sides recognized the significance of hydrocarbon trade as a vital component of this cooperation , contributing to mutual energy security and economic growth . Both committed to taking steps to enhance energy cooperation , especially in upstream and downstream sectors of Oil and Gas in Bahrain and exploring avenues for expanded trade , joint ventures , and mutual investments , the statement said . The two sides agreed to work towards developing and strengthening the defence cooperation between the two countries , which may include the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between the two countries ' Armed Forces . Later , the minister interacted with the Indian Community in Manama and appreciated their contribution in strengthening ties between India and Bahrain . <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI ) 
@@118646568 <h> Syrian rebels topple statues as Assad regime collapses IN PICS <h> Syrian rebels declared the fall of Bashar al-Assad 's regime after toppling statues of his father , Hafez al-Assad , across Syria . Amid celebrations in Damascus , Hama , and Latakia , they announced Assad 's escape and the release of political prisoners , marking end of five decades of Assad family rule . <p> Syrian rebels declared the end of President Bashar al-Assad 's rule on Sunday , sparking celebrations across the country . During the historic moment , demonstrators in cities across Syria , including Damascus , Hama and Latakia , toppled statues of Bashar 's father and former president Hafez al-Assad , saying their attacks forced Assad to flee , ending five decades of Assad family rule . <p> Image Source : AP <p> 2/7 <p> In Damascus , protesters damaged and demolished a statue of Hafez al-Assad near the Presidential Palace , a symbol of the regime 's fall . The severed head of the statue could be seen being dragged through the streets by a car , a mob beating it on the back with sticks . <p> Image Source : AP <p> 3/7 <p> Demonstrators took down another statue of Hafez al-Assad amid chants of " Allahu Akbar " in Hama , Syria 's fourth-largest city . There were similar scenes in Latakia , where the crowd documented the moment on their cell phones as they celebrated with gunfire and chants . <p> Advertisement <p> Image Source : AP <p> 4/7 <p> Rebels seized control of Syrian state television to announce victory , saying Assad had fled Damascus to an undisclosed location . They also announced the release of political prisoners from Sednaya prison , a notorious military camp near Damascus . " We celebrate the liberation of our prisoners and the end of injustice in Sednaya , " the rebel statement read . <p> Image Source : AP <p> 5/7 <p> Despite the rebels ' declaration , the Syrian army issued a counter-statement , claiming ongoing operations against " terrorist groups " in Hama , Homs and Deraa . This contradictory narrative has left uncertainty over the regime 's status . <p> Image Source : AP <p> 6/7 <p> The rapid collapse of the Assad regime has sent shockwaves through the Middle East . With ongoing conflicts in Gaza and the region 's complex alliances involving Russia and Iran , Syria 's future remains uncertain . <p> Advertisement <p> Image Source : AP <p> 7/7 <p> After 13 years of war that devastated the country and displaced millions , the rebels ' victory may signal a new chapter for Syria , but the road ahead is fraught with challenges . 
@@118646816 <h> Russia , Iran Abandon Syria - Death Knell For Gaza <h> Extremists take over <p> Lebanon-based al-Mayadeen reports tonight , December 8 , 2024 that Russia , Iran , Turkey call for immediate end to hostilities in Syria . <p> My cynical interpretation of this - beyond pathetic - " call " is the following : <p> Turkey knew and did/does all it can - again - to destroy Syria . Russia and Iran were surprised or act surprised ; they can do nothing given their own malaise . Or their " intelligence " services failed miserably ? <p> Their common statement is devoid of constructive steps in this uniquely urgent situation . It does not even mention the Syrian government or its President . They " call for " terrorists who are approaching the outskirts of Damascus and have declared long ago that they want to get rid of the Baathist party , al-Assad etc. and create an Islamist state to " end hostilities " ! <p> They endorse , for all practical purposes , that Bashar al-Assad falls or he and his family are killed ? la Saddam Hussein and Muammar Gaddafi . <p> In this statement , they endorse that terrorists , supported over time by the CIA , NATO US , NATO Turkey and Israel , take over Syria - no matter the price to be paid by the innocent Syrian people . <p> They do not call upon the UN and its Security Council , do not mention regional organisations , do not address what they themselves could do - they only appeal to terrorists to behave nicely ... <p> OK , I call them terrorists - not moderate rebels , opposition forces , rebel groups , participants in a civil war , or whatever you 'll see in the Western press . HTS - see later - that now sweeps down toward Damascus is considered a terrorist group even by the United States , United Kingdom , Canada , European Union and some other countries . <p> The US and Europe now finally get the regime change they started in Darra in 2011 and continued at the Marrakesh Meeting of what was euphemistically called " The Friends of Syria " with some 100 countries . There in Marrakesh , they decided to depose President al-Assad and replace him with a new National Council ? la Libya consisting of 300 unknown and un-elected people . <p> That was December 12 , 2012 - 4 years on the day before Aleppo was liberated from their terrorist friends , then called al-Nushra , assisted by their ' humanitarian ' PR helpers , The White Helmets - and btw also some Uyghurs who were being educated in Aleppo , presumably to go back to ' liberate ' China 's Xinjiang Province with the help of the US ... <p> What happens in Syria is not predominantly - if at all - a civil war ; it never was . <p> It was - and still is - an international regime change attempt that ended with the liberation of Eastern Aleppo from 4,5 years of al-Nushra occupation . It happened on December 12 , 2016 . I was there , and I documented it in photo documentaries and numerous articles you can find on The Transnational and its archive sites . <p> It should not surprise you that none of the dozens of Western media I offered my writings to - based on being present where there were extremely few foreigners - wanted to publish any of them . <p> You , dear reader , had to be lied to : the Western-orchestrated and financed , full-scale support for terrorists did not happen ; it never happened . It was a ' civil war ' with ' mostly ' moderate ' rebels that the West could support . The US/West fully supports terrorism when it suits the West 's purposes . And toppling al-Assad was such a purpose . But with the fall of Aleppo in December , they gave up , and Syria disappeared from the media front pages . <p> In certain ways , it is as nasty and unethical as the support of Israel 's genocide on Palestinians . <p> It is this al-Nusra - now Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) - that is conquering Syria these very hours , and they will , according to most reports , take control of Syria 's capital , Damascus , within a few hours . They have the full support of the West . You have not heard any Western leader lament or condemn the supporting countries or HTS itself . <p> They are all fine with backing terrorism , even though they normally pretend they are fighting terrorism . <p> To understand a little bit better what HTS is , see here . You 'll read that HTS can be seen as " a new stage in the life of the blessed revolution " , Abu Jaber urged all factions of the Syrian opposition to unite under its Islamic leadership and wage a " popular Jihad " to achieve the objectives of the Syrian revolution , which he characterised as the ouster of the Ba'athist regime and Hezbollah militants from Syrian territories , and the formation of an Islamic government . <p> HTS ' leader , Abu Mohammad al-Julani , indeed a multi-faceted personality " had served as the emir of the now-defunct al-Nusra Front , the former Syrian branch of Al-Qaeda . The US State Department listed Al-Julani as a " Specially Designated Global Terrorist " in May 2013 , and four years later announced a $10 million reward for information leading to his capture ... " <p> At this moment , CNN , for instance , treats Mr al-Julani as a statesman and asks him only nice questions . Judge for yourself here . <p> If you wonder about the role of the CIA , read Wikipedia about the CIA 's Operation Timber Sycamore -- another of charming President Obama 's nasty tricks ( together with the regime change in Kiev three years later ) in cooperation with David You-Know-Who-Petraeus . <p> Tonight al-Mayadeen - in Lebanon - can also tell you that " ' Target is Damascus , ' Erdogan hopes ' smooth march ' on Syria 's capital . " I tend to assume that Mr Erdogan also hopes for a smooth killing of Bashar al-Assad , his family and people around him , members of parliament and others who had normal working relations and even positive views of the president . <p> I met a few such people . <p> Take a moment to browse my photo documentation mentioned above . You 'll also see that I happened to meet some of the victims - not of " dictator al-Assad 's regime " but of the invading and occupying terrorists ' activities . Actually , the most systematic destruction and heartbreaking human consequences I have ever experienced , and I have visited and worked in a few war zones . <p> Simply , NATO member Turkey 's role in mass-producing terrorists for Syria and stealing everything it could out of Aleppo and its industrial zone ( the 2nd largest in the Middle East with 40 000 workers that no leftwingers or labour unions in Europe bothers the slightest about ) from 2011-2016 are well-known facts - and why not try to repeat them now the chance looks much better ? <p> If there is some truth in all the above - and I write in the belief there is - now only God can save the innocent Syrian civilians from slow extermination - not a deliberate genocide but with similar effects over time as in Gaza . <p> Please be aware of the country 's tremendous diversity in terms of ethnicity and religion ; perhaps because of this diversity and marked elements of secularism , religion-based fundamentalism has not taken root in Syria . <p> No group of terrorists can accommodate that diversity and create stability , not to speak about peace . The Syrian people , including , for instance , the secular and the 10% Christians , will face unspeakable horrors caused by these Western- , CIA- ( and others ) and Israel-supported terrorist groups who will fight each other till the last Syrian for power over all of Syria . <p> In summary , you may now add yet another nail in the West 's coffin : Yugoslavia 's dissolution , The Global War On Terror ( GWOT ) that has failed and also supports terrorists ) , Afghanistan , Iraq , Libya , NATO 's expansion and the resulting destruction of Ukraine , Nord Stream 's destruction and USrael 's live-streamed Gaza Genocide : Syria 's complete destruction on the road to becoming an Islamist/Jihadist fundamentalist state . <p> Hoping I shall be proven wrong sooner rather than later , this victorious Islamic fundamentalism in Syria is unleashed by a very unusual , informal and tacit coalition of Russia , the US , EU , Turkey , Israel , Iran and others . <p> One day you support genocide on Palestinians . The next day , you support the terrorist occupation of Syria , a country with thousands of years of culture , the end of the old Silk Roads . What moral catastrophe next ? <p> Tonight , I think of the very decent and cultured people I met in Syria in 2016 and wonder just how much darker our dark times are going to be . <p> Jan Oberg is the co-founder and director of TFF-The Transnational . The views expressed here are the writer 's own . 
@@118646958 <p> It was there to defend itself as the three men discussed the threat AI poses and its potential to take over humankind . It was Dr Parikh , Director of Medical Research at Mumbai 's Jaslok Hospital , who decided to bring in Copilot , " just to see what the technology has to say in its defence . " <p> " Hey Copilot , " said Dr Parikh , as he opened the AI-powered platform . " Yuval raises a concern about you and tries to warn us to be careful . Does that change your perspective on Yuval ? , " Dr Parikh asked . <p> " He is not anti-technology , but he advocates for careful consideration of its implications . Keeping his warnings in mind is wise . But , it does n't fundamentally change my thoughts on him or his work . Do you agree with his stance ? " Copilot said , to a round of applause from the audience gathered at The Lalit in Mumbai on Saturday . <p> The three speakers , joined by Copilot toward the end , were discussing Harari 's latest book , Nexus , which talks about the history of information systems and the potential dangers of AI . <p> While all the speakers agreed that Copilot as of now was simply mirroring the information that 's already out there , and gathering some more by asking Dr Parikh his views , what the AI tool said summed up Harari 's stance on the issue . <p> " I do n't talk about the immense potential of AI because there are advocates for it . So , it is the job of historians , philosophers to issue some warning . The intention is not to stop research in AI . The issue is to identify the threats and work towards addressing them , " Harari said . <h> Problem with information networks <p> In his previous books , Sapiens and Homo Deus , Harari has dealt with what it is that makes humans smarter and better than other living beings . In Nexus , he raises the basic question : If humans are so smart , why are we so stupid ? <p> " We can make fireworks , we can split the atoms . We are so powerful but yet time and again as individuals and as an entire species we make such dumb decisions . We are creating an extremely powerful new technology , AI , which might escape our control and annihilate us , " the author said . <p> Harari listed out several reasons to support his theory . Instead of uniting to deal with the dangers , humans are in the process of destroying the global order . The world , he said , seems to be on the brink of a third world war , and all countries , even the most powerful ones , want to play the role of a victim . The problem , Harari explained , is not with the nature of human beings , it is with the quality of information we are getting . <p> Aamir Khan , after expressing his admiration for Harari , agreed with the author , saying , " Half the time we do n't know what is true and what is not . What is true has become more difficult to discern . " <p> The advent of the World Wide Web had promised to bring more freedom and democracy , with everything open and transparent , and people more connected with each other . <p> However , in 2024 , the world has become such that " each set of people are enclosed inside an information cocoon and they have no connection to reality , " Harari said . <p> In his previous books , the philosopherhas spoken about the reason humans control the world , and not chimpanzees or elephants . It is because we can operate with each other in thousands and millions and billions . <p> " All the networks were held together by information , " Harari added . <p> He said the first step toward addressing modern-day concerns about bad information networks and the threats of AI is to simply understand what 's happening , and then take responsibility . But , in today 's world , nobody wants to take responsibility . <p> " At one level , everyone wants to be a victim . Groups like to tell their story as a victim because it releases them of all responsibility . Country after country , even those who have all the power , are claiming to be powerless . " Harari said . <p> He elaborated how the fantasy self has become a fantasy to be completely independent , and that it can not work . " Because there is nothing in the universe that 's completely independent , " the author said , emphasising collaboration and global cooperation to ensure that AI does n't become a tool in the hands of just a few countries to dominate the world . <h> ' A misunderstood power ' <p> Harari cautioned how AI is taking over bureaucracy , but there is n't enough knowledge on how bureaucracy functions . <p> With Aamir Khan listening , Harari said the information on bureaucracy needs to come through mass infotainment platforms such as films . <p> " You get the same stories dominating popular information networks like films . For example , the theme of the love triangle . It talks to us because this is a story embedded in millions of years of evolution . But , we do n't have enough on how bureaucracy functions . I am talking about films that explain to us some part of reality . For example , if I want to understand the Indian budget , which film should I watch ? " Harari said . <p> He explained how AI is taking over bureaucratic functions such as deciding for a bank who is eligible for a loan , or in the military , where to shoot . <p> " In the Israel-Hamas war , AI was deciding which places to bomb in Gaza . The shooting is still done by human beings , but the decision on what to shoot is increasingly done by AI , " the philosophersaid . <p> In time , AI could replace human lawyers , accountants , and other bureaucratic professions . <p> " The power of bureaucracy is the most misunderstood power in the world . That 's why we need better stories about bureaucracy on how it functions , " Harari added . <p> Khan pointed to his 2010 film Peepli Live as an example . " It was a satire on how we are , but it handled bureaucracy to a large extent too , " he said . 
@@118661292 <h> Share : <p> Pope Francis unveiled the Vatican 's annual nativity scene on Saturday , highlighting the Holy Family 's connection to occupied Bethlehem . This year , the baby Jesus figure was draped in a Palestinian keffiyeh , a traditional symbol of Palestinian identity and resistance . <p> The nativity scene was crafted by Palestinian artists from occupied Bethlehem . It featured a Bethlehem Star inscribed in Latin and Arabic with the message : " Glory to God in the highest , and on earth peace , goodwill to all people . " The Holy Family figures were carved from olive wood , symbolizing their roots in Palestine . <p> The display was created in partnership with the Palestinian Presidential Committee for Church Affairs , the Palestinian Embassy to the Vatican , Dar Al-Kalima University , and the Beitcharilo Center . Ramzi Khouri , a senior Palestinian official and head of the Church Affairs Committee , joined the Pope at the ceremony . <p> During the unveiling , Pope Francis presented a Bethlehem Star to two Palestinian children representing the committee . The star symbolized the hardships faced by Palestinian children amid ongoing Israeli terrorism . <p> Following the unveiling , a Mass for peace and a ceasefire in Palestine was held at the Angeli Chapel . Deputy Custodian of the Holy Land Ibrahim Faltas , Father Ibrahim Shomali , and Monsignor Marco led the service . <p> Pope Francis used the event to call for an end to Israel 's violence . <p> " Enough wars , enough violence ! " he said . " Did you know one of the most profitable industries here is weapons manufacturing ? Profit from killing . Enough wars ! " <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> He prayed for peace to reign across the world and for all people to feel God 's love . <p> The Pope 's remarks come as he faces outrage from pro-Israel figures . He recently called for an investigation into whether Israel 's actions in Gaza constitutes genocide . He also condemned the deaths of children and Israel 's attacks on a Gaza church . <p> Through this nativity scene , the Vatican sent a message of solidarity with Bethlehem and the broader Palestinian struggle , underscoring its hopes for peace and justice during this holy season . <p> Palestinian territory - Israel is systematically closing hospitals in northern Gaza through direct military targeting , a suffocating siege , and the killing , injuring , and arresting of patients , wounded individuals , and medical personnel .... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118661294 <h> The War on Gaza : A New Global Order In The Making -- Part II <h> Share : <p> " If the United Nations once admits that international disputes can be settled by using force , then we will have destroyed the foundation of the organization and our best hope of establishing a world order . " -- Dwight D. Eisenhower <p> International law or ' rules-based international order ' ? <p> On 8 March 1992 , The New York Times published excerpts from the Pentagon 's draft of the Defense Planning Guidance for the Fiscal Years 1994-1999 . This important piece of archive addressed the " fundamentally new situation which has been created by the collapse of the Soviet Union , the disintegration of the internal as well as the external empire , and the discrediting of Communism as an ideology with global pretensions and influence " . The new international environment , it was explained , has " also been shaped by the victory of the United States and its coalition allies over Iraqi aggression -- the first post-cold-war conflict and a defining event in U.S. global leadership . " <p> The drafters of this " Guidance " stated that the United States ' first objective should be " to prevent the re-emergence of a new rival , either on the territory of the former Soviet Union or elsewhere , that poses a threat on the order of that posed formerly by the Soviet Union . This is a dominant consideration underlying the new regional defense strategy and " requires that we endeavor to prevent any hostile power from dominating a region whose resources would , under consolidated control , be sufficient to generate global power . These regions include Western Europe , East Asia , the territory of the former Soviet Union , and Southwest Asia . " And the second objective is " to address sources of regional conflict and instability in such a way as to promote increasing respect for international law , limit international violence , and encourage the spread of democratic forms of government and open economic systems . " They also acknowledged that while the U.S. can not become the world 's " policeman " , by assuming responsibility for righting every wrong , the U.S. will " retain the pre-eminent responsibility for addressing selectively those wrongs which threaten not only our interests , but those of our allies or friends , or which could seriously unsettle international relations " . They furthermore determined the various types of U.S. interests involved in such instances as being : access to vital raw materials , primarily Persian Gulf oil ; proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missiles ; threats to U.S. citizens from terrorism or regional or local conflict ; and threats to U.S. society from narcotics trafficking . " <p> As a matter of fact , during the whole decade of the 1990s , as the tumultuous twentieth century shuddered toward its close , the global geopolitical landscape was overwhelmingly dominated by a much-heated American internal debate about a big question : will America strive to dominate the world , or lead it ? <p> This topic was the object of an influential book2 written by Zbigniew Brzezinski , former National Security Advisor under President Jimmy Carter . In it , he reminded Americans that their might should not be confused with omnipotence , and their well-being and the world 's are entwined . He explained that panicky preoccupation with " solitary American security , an obsessively narrow focus on terrorism , and indifference to the concerns of a politically restless humanity neither enhance American security nor comport with the world 's real need for American leadership . " The conclusion Brzezinski then quite logically drew was that " unless it can harmonize its overwhelming power with its seductive but also unsettling social appeal , America could find itself alone and under assault in a setting of intensifying global chaos . " <p> Such a conclusion was all the more logical , accurate and timely as America -- and the world with it -- found themselves at the turn of the new millennium in an unprecedented state of disarray in the wake of the 2001 September 11th attacks . These led , among other epochal events , to the American blunders of Afghanistan and Iraq invasions in 2001 and 2003 respectively whose adverse consequences the world at large is still suffering from . <p> It is equally worthwhile to recall that when G. W. Bush took office in 2000 , he brought with him Vice President Dick Cheney , Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld , and Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz , all of whom had served together in Ronald Reagan 's and G. H. Bush 's administrations . In 1992 , while he was in the Defense Department , Wolfowitz -- long recognized as the intellectual force behind a radical neoconservative fringe of the Republican Party -- was asked to write the first draft of a new National Security Strategy , a document entitled " The Defense Planning Guidance " . 3 The most controversial elements of that strategy were that the United States : should dramatically increase its defense spending ; be willing to take preemptive military action ; and be willing to use military force unilaterally , with or without allies . <p> Out of power during the Clinton administration , Wolfowitz and his colleagues presided over the creation , in 1997 , of the Neoconservative think tank called " Project for a New American Century " ( PNAC ) , which was placed under the chairmanship of William Kristol , the " Godfather " of American neoconservatism . And as soon as it was brought back to power within the G. W. Bush 's administration in 2000 , Wolfowitz 's team got involved in shaping the U.S. neoconservative foreign policy , whose main principles were laid down in a defining document titled " Rebuilding America 's Defenses : Strategy , Forces and Resources for a New Century " . 4 This 90-page document was written in September of 2000 , a full year before the 9/11 attacks . <p> Interestingly enough , in its section V entitled " Creating Tomorrow 's Dominant Force " , it stated that " the process of transformation , even if it brings revolutionary change , is likely to be a long one , absent some catastrophic and catalyzing event -- like a new Pearl Harbor " . One year later , that event would indeed happen , and two decades later , the most important question of " what did really happen on September 11 , 2001 ? " remains unanswered . Was it the result of a needed conspiracy to execute a premeditated plan ? Or was it a mere coincidence exploited by believers in conspiracy theories ? Only time will tell . However , what History has already recorded for sure is that this catastrophic event brought about equally catastrophic consequences , both intended and unintended , for America itself , for the Arab and Islamic world , and for the entire world . <p> In hindsight , Brzezinski 's 2004 assessment and expectations represented something of an unexpected 180-degree turn compared to his previous well-known ideological and geostrategic attitude and writings . In effect , only seven years before , he had written a hugely authoritative book5 in which he outlined a strategy entirely based on the oft-cited phrase of Sir Halford J. Mackinder , who is generally considered the founding father of geopolitics : " Who rules Eastern Europe rules the continental heart ; who rules the continental heart rules the world-island ; who rules the world-island rules the world " . 6 Brzezinski argued that the last decade of the twentieth century witnessed a tectonic shift in world affairs : " For the first time , a non-Eurasian power rose not only to the position of a key arbiter of relations among the states of Eurasia , but also to the position of the dominant global power . The defeat and fall of the Soviet Union completed the rapid rise of a northern hemisphere power , the United States , as the sole and , indeed , the first truly global power . Eurasia , however , retains its geopolitical importance . Not only does its western periphery -- Europe -- still hold much of the world 's political and economic power , but its eastern region -- Asia -- has recently become a center of vital economic growth and growing political influence . " That said , the ability of the United States to effectively and sustainably exercise global primacy will depend entirely on how it manages its complex relationships with the powers of this region , and particularly on the absolute imperative of " preventing the emergence of a dominant and antagonistic Eurasian power . " <p> In a language strongly reminiscent of that of " The Prince " of Niccol ? Machiavelli , Brzezinski first specifies that in the blunt terminology of past empires , the three great geostrategic imperatives would be summarized as follows : " Avoid collusion with vassals and maintain them in the state of dependence justified by their security ; cultivate the docility of protected subjects ; prevent barbarians from forming offensive alliances . " He then advocates , on this basis , a strategy of unilateral domination , which had been called for before him by neoconservative ideologues and would later be adopted as a line of conduct during the terms of George W. Bush . <p> The essential point to keep in mind , Brzezinski says -- giving sense to current events in Ukraine -- is that " Russia can not be in Europe without Ukraine being there as well , while Ukraine can be in Europe without Russia being there ( ... ) Ukraine , a new and important space on the Eurasian chessboard , is a geopolitical pivot because its very existence as an independent country helps to transform Russia . Without Ukraine , Russia ceases to be a Eurasian empire . Russia without Ukraine can still strive for imperial status , but it would then become a predominantly Asian imperial state ( ... ) However , if Moscow regains control over Ukraine , with its 52 million people and major resources as well as its access to the Black Sea , Russia automatically again regains the wherewithal to become a powerful imperial state spanning Europe and Asia . Ukraine 's loss of independence would have immediate consequences for Central Europe , transforming Poland into the geopolitical pivot on the eastern frontier of a united Europe . " <p> In the final analysis , and contrary to Brzezinski 's " updated " wishes and predictions , America succeeded in being neither the guarantor of its own and the world 's security nor the promoter of the global common good . Far from it . What the United States effectively did is what all states normally do , as Lord Palmerston once famously proclaimed7 -- most probably having in mind the United States precisely -- that 's to say to pursue their interests . <p> And while Brzezinski seemed to make amends in this respect , many other scholars and ideologues were advocating for American empire . Renowned economist Deepak Lal for one , also in 2004 , wrote a controversial book8 in which he laid out a historical and cross-civilizational examination of the role empires have played to provide the order required for peace and prosperity , and how this imperial role " has come to be thrust on the United States . " Expressing wish fulfillment for America of the exact same Virgil 's hope for Rome , Lal argued that " if the U.S. public does not recognize the imperial burden that history has thrust upon it , or is unwilling to bear it , the world will continue to muddle along as it has for the past century -- with hesitant advances , punctuated by various alarms and by periods of backsliding in the wholly beneficial processes of globalization . Perhaps , if the United States is unwilling to shoulder the imperial burden of maintaining the global pax , we will have to wait for one or other of the emerging imperial states -- China and India -- to do so in the future . " Till then , he concluded , " we may be fated to live with the ancient Chinese curse , ' May you live in interesting times . ' " <p> To be sure , since its founding , the United States has consistently pursued a grand strategy focused on acquiring and maintaining preeminent power over various rivals , first on the North American continent , then in the Western hemisphere , and finally globally . During the Cold War , this strategy was manifested in the form of " containment " , which provided a unifying vision of how the United States could protect its systemic primacy as well as its security , ensure the safety of its allies , and eventually enable the defeat of its adversary , the Soviet Union . This is exactly what a 2015 Council on Foreign Affairs ( CFR ) report stated. 9 <p> Unlike the March 1992 " Guidance " which rarely , if ever , mentions China as being a rival or a foe , CFR 's President , Richard Haas -- who has written the forward part of this report -- concurs with the authors ' conclusion according to which " Of all the nations -- and in most conceivable scenarios -- China is an and will remain the most significant competitor to the United States for decades to come . " <p> Said omission of China in previous similar literature is also explained in the report by the fact that " the American effort to ' integrate ' China into the liberal international order has now generated new threats to U.S. primacy in Asia -- and could eventually result in consequential challenge to American power globally . " <p> In reality , behind those openly expressed fears and criticism , lies an undisclosed threat that perhaps supersedes all others . That is the fact that Beijing 's domestic policies that have succeeded in transforming China from an impoverished nation into a world superpower , in a relatively short period of time -- more precisely thanks to the reforms implemented by Deng Xiaoping since 1978 , after Mao Zedong 's death in 1976 -- have been performed within a paradigm that does not fully comply with the conventional fundamental Western liberal values and recipes . Those policies are thought to have contributed to an " economic miracle " distinctively characterized by an eightfold growth in gross national product over two decades . This prompted Joshua Cooper Ramo in 2004 to coin the term " Beijing Consensus " 10 , a moniker that nods to the " Washington Consensus " whose set of political and economic development prescriptions severely impacted the socio-economic situation of so many developing countries , especially in Latin America in the late 1980s. 11 <p> Hence , the overarching argument for China 's ideological threat to the West in general and the United States in particular is that China 's prodigious and rapid growth is providing an attractive alternative development model for the Global South , thereby signaling a challenge to American soft power . Stefan Halper argued in his 2010 book12 that the " net effect of these developments is to reduce Western and particularly American influence on the global stage -- along both economic and ideational axes . " <p> In the face of the challenge represented by the meteoric growth of the Chinese economy and its military power , Washington thus needs " a new grand strategy that centers on balancing the rise of Chinese power rather than continuing to assist its ascendancy . " This strategy , the report goes on to say , can not be built on a bedrock of containment , as earlier effort to limit Soviet power was , because of the current realities of globalization . " And short of a " fundamental collapse of the Chinese state that would free Washington from the obligation of systematically balancing Beijing " , even the alternative of a " modest Chinese stumble would not eliminate the dangers presented to the United States in Asia and beyond " , and would constitute a serious threat to the U.S.-dominated international order . <p> The " Chinese challenge " continues unabated to haunt the American security establishment -- which is largely autonomous and operates behind a wall of secrecy -- lending additional credence and great contemporary relevance to the prescient views put forward by French Alain Peyreffitte in his 1973 essay. 13 Indeed , in 2021 the Atlantic Council published a paper titled " Global Strategy 2021 : An Allied Strategy for China " . 14 It was prepared in collaboration with policy planning officials and strategy experts from ten " leading democracies " . 15 Its forward part was written by none other than Joseph S. Nye , who has coined the term " soft power " in the late 1980s , before circling the globe and coming into widespread usage following an article he wrote in 1990 in Foreign Policy magazine. 16 <p> The strategy states that " China is the foremost geopolitical threat to the rules-based international system since the end of the Cold War , and the return of great-power rivalry will likely shape the global order for decades to come . Likeminded allies and partners need to take deliberate and coordinated action to strengthen themselves and counter the threat China poses , even as they seek longer-term cooperation with Beijing . " The Free world , the concluding remarks read , has " an impressive record of accomplishment in defeating challenges from autocratic great-power rivals and constructing a rules-based system . " , and by pursuing this strategy " with sufficient political will , resilience , and solidarity " , they can " once again outlast an autocratic competitor and provide the world with future peace , prosperity , and freedom . " <p> In contrast to other similar previous papers , one sentence is repeated time and again in this strategy , namely " the rules-based system " . It has since become the alpha and omega of American -- and British -- officials , academics , and media pundits . <p> For example , as recounted by John Dugard in a particularly insightful study17 , President Biden published an op-ed18 about Ukraine in the New York Times in which he declared that Russia 's action in Ukraine " could mark the end of the rules-based international order and open the door to aggression elsewhere , with catastrophic consequences the world over " . 19 There is no mention of international law . Later , in a press conference at the conclusion of the June 2022 NATO Summit Meeting in Madrid , he warned both Russia and China that the democracies of the world would " defend the rules-based order " ( RBO ) . Again , there is no mention of international law . On 12 October 2022 the US President published a National Security Strategy which makes repeated reference to the RBO as the " foundation of global peace and prosperity " , with only passing reference to international law. 20 <p> So , what is this RBO " creature " , that American political leaders have increasingly invoked since the end of the Cold War instead of international law ? Is it a harmless synonym for international law , as suggested by European leaders ? Or is it something else , a system meant to replace international law which has governed the behavior of states for over 500 years ? <p> The RBO may be seen as the United States ' alternative to international law , an order that encapsulates international law as interpreted by the United States to accord with its national interests , " a chimera , meaning whatever the US and its followers want it to mean at any given time " . 21 Premised on " the United States ' own willingness to ignore , evade or rewrite the rules whenever they seem inconvenient ' 22 , the RBO is seen to be broad , open to political manipulation and double standards , and " seems to allow for special rules in special -- sui generis -- cases " . 23 <p> According to Dugard and many other scholars who have studied this subject , the rationale behind the reference by Washington to the RBO rather than to international law is that the U.S. is not a party to a number of important multilateral treaties and other legal instruments that constitute the backbone of international law as it is commonly known , including some fundamental legal instruments governing international humanitarian law. 24 <p> And as it relates to the War on Gaza , the rationale is that the United States is unwilling to hold some states , such as Israel , accountable for violations of international law . They are " treated as sui generis cases in which the national interest precludes accountability . " This exceptionalism in respect of Israel was spelled out by the United States in its joint declaration with Israel on the occasion of President Biden 's visit to Israel in July 2022 , 25 which reaffirms " the unbreakable bonds between our two countries and the enduring commitment of the United States to Israel 's security " and the determination of the two states " to combat all efforts to boycott or de-legitimize Israel , to deny its right to self-defense , or to single it out in any forum , including at the United Nations or the International Criminal Court . " <p> This commitment explains the consistent refusal of the United States to hold Israel accountable for its repeated violations of humanitarian law , support the prosecution of perpetrators of international crimes before the International Criminal Court , condemn its assaults on Gaza , insist that Israel prosecute killers of a US national ( journalist Shireen Abu Akleh ) , criticize its violation of human rights as established by both the Human Rights Council and the General Assembly , accept that Israel applies a policy of apartheid in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , 26 and oppose its annexation of East Jerusalem . And , of course , there is the refusal of the United States to acknowledge the existence of Israel 's nuclear arsenal or allow any discussion of it in the context of nuclear proliferation in the Middle East. 27 Such measures on the part of Israel are possibly seen as consistent with the " rules-based international order " even if they violate basic rules of international law . <p> The RBO has been routinely criticized by Russia and China . Thus , in 2020 Sergey Lavrov , the Russian foreign minister , declared that the West advocated a " West-centric rules-based order as an alternative to international law with the purpose of replacing international law with non-consensual methods for resolving international disputes by bypassing international law . " 28 He further explained that the RBO was coined to " camouflage a striving to invent rules depending on changes in the political situation so as to be able to put pressure on disagreeable States and even on allies . " And again , on 25 May 2022 Lavrov , on the occasion of Africa Day , read out a statement by President Putin in which he declared in the context of Russia 's action in Ukraine that : " The main problem is that a small group of US-led Western countries keeps trying to impose the concept of a rules-based world order on the international community . They use this banner to promote , without any hesitation , a unipolar model of the world order where there are " exceptional " countries and everyone else who must obey the " club of the chosen " . 29 <p> As for China , its foreign minister Wang Yi stated in 2021 , at a virtual debate of the UN Security Council on the theme of multilateralism , that " International rules must be based on international law and must be written by all . They are not a patent or privilege of a few . They must be applicable to all countries and there should be no room for exceptionalism or double standards . " 30 <p> The " Global South " : From Fence-Sitter to Arbiter ? <p> The existing world order is at an inflection point , and the times ahead will likely be radically different from those experienced in our lifetimes and will determine the course of decades to come . The last similar epochal circumstances in recent history occurred between 1930 and 1945 and between 1999 and 2008 . In both periods a confluence of peculiar political , economic , social , and cultural conditions led to fundamental shifts in world order ; and in both instances such conditions paved the way for American leadership , or more accurately , global primacy. 31 <p> In the currently changing global strategic environment , opposition to and disapproval of the RBO -- due to its incompatibility with international law as enshrined in the UN charter , multilateral treaties , and customary rules -- are not exclusive to a resurging Russia and a rising China . They also have been , and still are being voiced by an increasing number of emerging countries of a more assertive Global South , determined to play its legitimate part and have a say in the governance of world affairs . <p> Moreover , the West 's -- and especially the US ' -- support for Israel 's genocide in Gaza , in blatant violation of international and humanitarian law , when combined with condemnation of and imposition of immediate and unprecedented sanctions on Russia following its invasion of Ukraine , proves that the RBO talk is sheer hypocrisy , thereby immensely complicating the West 's position in the battle of narratives and global influence it is engaging with Russia and China . <p> As I referred to earlier , the essential narrative of the West is built into the U.S. national security strategy , the core idea of which is that China and Russia are implacable foes that are " attempting to erode American security and prosperity " and are determined " to make economies less free and less fair " , and " to control information and data to repress their societies and expand their influence . " <p> The irony , as remarked by Prof. Jeffrey Sachs -- who has served as adviser to three UN Secretaries-General , and is currently serving as a Sustainable Development Goals ( SDGs ) Advocate under Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres -- is that " since 1980 the US has been in at least 15 overseas wars of choice ( Afghanistan , Iraq , Libya , Panama , Serbia , Syria , and Yemen just to name a few ) , while China has been in none , and Russia only in one ( Syria ) beyond the former Soviet Union . The US has military bases in 85 countries , China in 3 , and Russia in 1 ( Syria ) beyond the former Soviet Union . " 32 <p> The same irony is also manifested in the unconvincing West 's mantra that it is opposing dictatorships and championing freedom , human rights and democracy around the world . No wonder the Global South sees hypocrisy in the US 's framing of its hostility to and competition with such countries as China , Russia , Iran and North Korea -- regularly singled out in successive National Security Strategies and lumped together in an " Axis of Upheaval " 33 -- as a battle between democracy and autocracy . How else can one explain the fact that Washington continues to support many " undemocratic " and even " dictatorial " regimes and governments , selectively providing them with multifaceted aid and assistance ? <p> Indeed , according to Freedom House , as of fiscal year 2015 the U.S. government has been providing military assistance to 36 of the 49 nations the NGO counts as dictatorships " , a percentage of 73% ! In 2021 , this proportion had not changed since 35 out of 50 continued to receive such aid . Worst still , Freedom House informed34 that during the same period , as COVID-19 spread , " governments across the democratic spectrum repeatedly resorted to excessive surveillance , discriminatory restrictions on freedoms like movement and assembly and arbitrary or violent enforcement of such restrictions by police and non-state actors . Waves of false and misleading information , generated deliberately by political leaders in some cases , flooded many countries ' communication system , obscuring reliable data and jeopardizing lives . " Also , and inevitably , the " parlous state of US democracy " did not go unnoticed ; it was conspicuous in the early days of 2021 as an " insurrectionist mob , egged on by the words of outgoing president Donald Trump and his refusal to admit defeat in the November election " , stormed the Capitol building , the symbolic heart of US democracy . The United States , the NGO advised , will need " to work vigorously to strengthen its institutional safeguards , restore its civic norms , and uphold the promise of its core principles for all segments of society if it is to protect its venerable democracy and regain global credibility . " All these withering blows marked the 15th consecutive decline in global freedom , the NGO lamented . <p> An answer to this big and troubling question of the U.S. relations with authoritarian countries was given in a thoroughly-researched study35 published by Carnegie Endowment for international Peace in 2023 . The paper reached three overarching conclusions : <p> First , Biden 's policy with regard to authoritarian countries represents , on the whole , more continuity with than change from most previous U.S. presidents , reflecting deep structures of interest that have shaped U.S. relations with these countries for decades . <p> Second , security issues are the dominant driver of U.S. relations with authoritarian countries -- for both positive and negative relations -- and span a wide range of security concerns , including competition with China and Russia , terrorism , and regional instability . Economic interests -- such as energy investments , critical minerals , arms sales , or ensuring U.S. market access -- also play a role in spurring positive U.S. relations with some authoritarian states , but overall are far less important than security concerns . Therefore , when the United States has a clear security interest in maintaining friendly relations with an authoritarian country , concerns about democracy are usually on the back burner , if not absent entirely . <p> Third , the trends going forward appear to be mixed . With U.S.-China and U.S.-Russia tensions continuing to escalate , " the United States will have more reasons to put aside its concerns about democracy and human rights in some authoritarian countries as it tries to convince them to move closer to its camp . It will also be motivated to turn a cold shoulder to other countries that align themselves with its rivals . " <p> The Carnegie study points to the fact that many people in U.S. policy circles debate the wisdom of the administration 's trade-offs between its stated interest in supporting democracy globally versus countervailing interests that lead it to maintain close ties with some autocrats . But these debates are often confined to a few high-profile cases and rarely draw from a broader understanding of the overall landscape of U.S. relations with authoritarian regimes and the trajectory of such relations across recent decades . <p> The authors of the paper conclude by saying that Washington 's policy " produces justifiable charges of hypocrisy among observers around the world who see a U.S. administration apply the principle and deliver generous doses of self-righteous rhetoric in one country and then completely ignore democracy and rights issues in another . " <p> With regard to the Ukraine war , the West 's narrative is that it is a brutal and unprovoked attack by Vladimir Putin in his quest to recreate the Russian empire . Yet the real story of what caused the crisis is the Western promise to the reformist President Mikhail Gorbachev that NATO would not enlarge to the east . " Not one inch eastward " 36 was the assurance given by US Secretary of State James Baker to Gorbachev on February 9th , 1990 . What has followed , however , is a wave of aggrandizements that concerned former members of the defunct Warsaw Pact and two Scandinavian nations as of late : three in 1999 , seven in 2004 , two in 2009 , one in 2017 and 2020 , and one in 2023 ( Finland ) and 2024 ( Sweden ) , in addition to the 2008 commitment to incorporate Georgia and Ukraine -- two countries in the immediate vicinity of Russia . Since the Alliance was created in 1949 , its membership has thus grown from the 12 founding members to today 's 32 members . <p> All this despite early warnings emanating from very experienced U.S. diplomats . In fact , on 5 February 1997 , diplomat-historian George Kennan did not mince words in arguing that " expanding NATO would be the most fateful error in American policy in the entire post-cold war era . Such a decision may be expected ... to impel Russian foreign policy in directions decidedly not to our liking . " 37 And one year later , on 1 February , William Burns -- then U.S. ambassador in Moscow and now CIA Director -- sent a confidential cable to Washington D.C. , which he titled " Nyet Means Nyet : Russia 's NATO Enlargements Redlines " . The main part of that famous cable read : " Ukraine and Georgia 's NATO aspirations not only touch a raw nerve in Russia , they engender serious concerns about the consequences for stability in the region . Not only does Russia perceive encirclement , and efforts to undermine Russia 's influence in the region , but it also fears unpredictable and uncontrolled consequences which would seriously affect Russian security interests . Experts tell us that Russia is particularly worried that the strong divisions in Ukraine over NATO membership , with much of the ethnic-Russian community against membership , could lead to a major split , involving violence or at worst , civil war . In that eventuality , Russia would have to decide whether to intervene ; a decision Russia does not want to have to face . " 38 <p> President Valdimir Putin also sent strong messages to the West at least on three occasions : in his speech at the Munich Security Conference in 2007 where he denounced the U.S.-led unipolar order ; through his war against Georgia , at the end of which Tbilisi lost Abkhazia and South Ossetia in 2008 ; and finally with the annexation of Crimea in 2014 . Retrospectively , one may conclude that those messages have been inadequately understood , to put it mildly . <p> Back in 2022 , John Mearsheimer said in this regard that " My argument is that the West , especially the United States , is principally responsible for this disaster . But no American policymaker is going to acknowledge that line of argument . So they will say the Russians are responsible . " 39 More recently , he reiterated this same conviction in a conference titled " The Causes and Consequences of the Ukraine Crisis " . 40 <p> For all these main reasons and others , Jeffrey Sachs was perfectly right to conclude that " Europe should reflect on the fact that the non-enlargement of NATO and the implementation of the Minsk II agreements would have averted this awful war in Ukraine " , and that " It 's past time that the US recognized the true sources of security : internal social cohesion and responsible cooperation with the rest of the world , rather than the illusion of hegemony . " With such a revised foreign policy , he added , the US and its allies would avoid war with China and Russia , and enable the world to face its myriad environment , energy , food and social crises. 41 <p> Sachs 's good advice is precisely what China in particular has been advocating and applying through a series of eye-catching initiatives aimed at increasing its power and boosting its diplomatic clout and global prestige to fulfil President Xi Jinping 's " Chinese Dream " vision , all the while countering Western hegemony . <p> On that account , Beijing launched the " Belt and Road Initiative " ( BRI ) in 2013 , the " Community of Shared Future of Mankind " in 2015 , the " Global Development Initiative " ( GDI ) in 2021 , and the " Global Security Initiative " ( GSI ) in 2022 . Moreover , in light of President Biden 's " Democracy vs . Authoritarianism " narrative and ahead of the second Summit for Democracy42 , President Xi Jinping announced the " Global Civilization Initiative " ( GCI ) . 43 At the Communist Party of China 's " Dialogue with World Political Parties High-level Meeting " , he said that the initiative will allow nations worldwide to adopt a new type of modernization and development and assist them in having a firm hold on their future development and progress. 44 He also declared that China wants other nations to uphold the principle of equality , have an open mindset , refrain from imposing its values and models , and build a global network for inter-civilizational dialogue and cooperation . <p> As a result of this frantic battle of narratives , today more than ever the Global South is being courted by both sides , hence finding itself in an historically favorable condition to pursue its own interests , which have , for too long , been cynically disregarded by too often condescending world 's great powers . And the answer to the important question of which direction the majority of the Global South 's countries and public opinion will be tipped seems to be embodied in the compelling fact that bold actions and initiatives are being undertaken together with China and Russia , not with the West . <p> Among other significant common undertakings that signal a new age of international relations ushering the world into a multipolar global order is the creation of the BRICS group in 2009 and the " Group of Friends in Defense of the Charter of the United Nations " in 2021 . <p> Named after its five founding members ( Brazil , Russia , India , China and South Africa ) , the BRICS group is a collective of emerging economies eager to sustain and improve their economic trajectory . The four fundamental values and principles that underpin this non-Western grouping are : economic development , multilateralism , global governance reform , and solidarity . <p> The inclusion of Egypt , Ethiopia , Iran , and the United Arab Emirates in the 16th BRICS Summit in Kazan , Russia , in October 2024 formally marked its expansion . During that Summit convened under the theme " Strengthening Multilateralism for Just Global Development and Security " , the leaders of the member states commended the Russian chairship for hosting an " Outreach " / BRICS Plus " Dialogue with participation of emerging developing countries from Africa , Asia , Europe , Latin America , and Middle East under the motto : " BRICS and Global South : Building a Better World Together " . Almost three dozen more countries -- including NATO member T ? rkiye , close US partners Thailand and Mexico , and Indonesia , the world 's largest Muslim country -- have applied to join the henceforth BRICS+ . <p> The group now dwarfs the Western G7 , both demographically ( 46% of the world 's population , compared with the G7 's 8.8% ) and economically ( 35% of global GDP , compared to the G7 's 30% ) . It also has the potential " to serve as a catalyst for a long-overdue revamping of global governance so that it better reflects twenty-first-century realities . " 45 <p> As far as the " Group of Friends of the Charter of the United Nations " ( GoF ) , so far composed of 18 member states46 , it concurs that " one of the key elements for ensuring the realization of the three pillars of the Organization of the United Nations and of the yearnings of its peoples , as well as of a peaceful and prosperous world and a just and equitable world order , is ensuring precisely , compliance with and strict adherence to the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter , for it is the consolidation of relations and cooperation among States that will ensure peace , security , stability and development to the international community as a whole . " It , however , considers that multilateralism , which is at the core of the Charter , is currently under an unprecedented attack , which , in turn , threatens global peace and security . <p> The GoF members also reject the attempt to establish a RBO . On the occasion of the first meeting of national coordinators of the GoF held in Tehran , Iran , on 5 November 2022 , the participants reiterated their " serious concern " at continued attempts aimed at replacing the tenets enshrined in the UN Charter , which have been agreed upon by the entire international community for conducting their international relations , with a " so-called ' rules-based order , that remains unclear , " that has not been discussed or accepted by the wide membership " , and that has the " potential , among others , to undermine the rule of law at the international level " . Further , they called for the redoubling of efforts toward " democratization of international relations " , the " strengthening of multilateralism and of a multipolar system " , while expressing their " categorical rejection of all unilateral coercive measures , including those applied as tools for political or economic and financial pressure against any country , in particular against developing countries . " <p> It is worth recalling that the GoF 's initial creation came shortly after the U.S. and a number of its allies and partners supported Venezuelan opposition-controlled National Assembly head 's claim to the presidency in defiance of President Nicol ? s Maduro , who stood accused of engineering his win at the elections , and that the group 's recurrent calls for additional membership come amid renewed great power competition between the U.S. and its top rivals , China and Russia. 47 <p> In 2023 , just a few months before the wreckage of the international and humanitarian law in the mass killing fields of Gaza , Foreign Affairs magazine 's executives had the good idea of devoting much of the May/June issue48 to the topic of the state of world order . On that occasion , several policymakers and scholars from Africa , Latin America , and South and Southeast Asia were invited to explore the dangers , as well as the new opportunities , that the war in Ukraine and the broader return of great-power conflict present for their respective countries and regions . <p> The overarching conclusion of the different contributors was that Russia 's war in Ukraine has drawn Western allies together , but it has not unified the world 's democracies in the way U.S. President Joe Biden might have hoped for when the war started . Instead , the unfolding events highlighted just how different much of the rest of the world sees not only the war but also the broader global landscape . <p> Voicing the point of view of Africans , South African Prof. Tim Murithi49 pointed out that many African countries declined to take a strong stand against Moscow , and more and more nations in the continent and elsewhere in the Global South are refusing to align with either the West or the East , " declining to defend the so-called liberal order but also refusing to seek to upend it as Russia and China have done . " The reason for that , Murithi argues , is that the rules-based international order has not served the African interests . On the contrary , it has preserved a status quo in which major world powers , be they Western or Eastern , have maintained their positions of dominance over the Global South , relegated African governments to " little more than bystanders in their own affairs " , and ignored their longstanding calls for the UN Security Council to be reformed and the broader international system to be reconfigured on more equitable terms . If the West wants Africa to stand up for the international order , he says , then " it must allow that order to be remade so that it is based on more than the idea of might makes right . " <p> For Brazilian Prof. Matias Spektor50 , developing countries are increasingly seeking to avoid costly entanglements with the major powers , trying to keep all their options open for maximum flexibility ; they are pursuing a strategy of hedging because they see the future distribution of global power as uncertain and wish to avoid commitments that will be hard to discharge . They hedge not only to gain material concessions but also to raise their status , and they embrace multipolarity as an opportunity to move up in the international order . If the United States wants to remain first among the great powers in a multipolar world , Prof. Spektor concludes , it " must meet the Global South on its own terms . " <p> For her part , Nirupama Rao51 , India 's Foreign Secretary from 2009 to 2011 and formerly ambassador to China and the United States , believes that India has " limited patience for U.S. and European narratives which are both myopic and hypocritical " , and although Europe and Washington may be right that Russia is violating human rights in Ukraine , " Western powers have carried out similar violent , unjust , and undemocratic interventions -- from Vietnam to Iraq . " New Delhi is therefore uninterested in Western calls for Russia 's isolation . To strengthen itself and address the world 's shared challenges , Rao added , " India has the right to work with everyone . " This perspective is n't unique to her country , and much of the Global South is wary of being dragged into siding with the U.S. against China and Russia . Developing countries , she rightly observes , are " understandably more concerned about their climate vulnerability , their access to advanced technology and capital , and their need for better infrastructure , health care , and education systems . They see increasing global instability -- political and financial alike -- as a threat to tackling such challenges . And they have watched rich and powerful states disregard those views and preferences in pursuit of their geopolitical interests . " That 's why Rao goes on to say , India " wants to make sure the voices of these poorer states are heard in international debates " and is positioning itself as " a heartland of global South -- a bridging presence that stands for multilateralism . " <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> In a remarkably balanced piece he wrote in the same Foreign Affairs issue , former UK Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs , David Miliband concurred with the views and legitimate demands of the " fence-sitting " Global South . It is to be hoped that Miliband 's fellow Western citizens will listen carefully to his message and , more importantly , heed his wise advice , because as he rightly highlighted in the subtitle of his contribution52 , what is also at stake in the present historical juncture is no less than " the survival of the West " . <p> 7 Twice UK Prime Minister ( 1855-58 and 1859-65 ) Lord Palmerston , also known as Henry John Temple , said before Parliament in 1848 : " Therefore I say that it is a narrow policy to suppose that this country or that is to be marked out as the eternal ally or the perpetual enemy of England . We have no eternal allies , and we have no perpetual enemies . Our interests are eternal and perpetual , and those interests it is our duty to follow . " <p> 10 Joshua Cooper Ramo , " The Beijing Consensus " , The Foreign Policy Centre , 2004 . Later on , in 2016 , Ramo explained that the Beijing Consensus shows not that " every nation will follow China 's development model , but that it legitimizes the notion of particularity as opposed to the universality of a Washington model " . See Maurits Elen , " Interview : Joshua Cooper Ramo " , The Diplomat , August 2016 . <p> 13 Alain Peyreffitte , " Quand la Chine s ' ? veillera ... le monde tremblera " ( When China Awakens ... the World Will Tremble ) , Fayard , Paris , 1973 . The essay 's main thesis is that given the size and growth of the Chinese population , it will inevitably end up imposing itself on the rest of the world as soon as it masters sufficient technology , and that " Today 's China only makes sense if we put it in perspective with yesterday 's China . " As for the title , it comes from a phrase attributed to Napol ? on I : " Let China sleep , because when China awakens the whole world will tremble . " Napol ? on would have uttered this sentence in 1816 in Saint Helena after reading " Voyage en Chine et en Tartarie " ( Journey to China and Tartary ) written by Lord George Macartney , Great Britain 's first envoy to China . <p> 16 Joseph S. Nye , " Soft Power " , Foreign Policy No. 80. 1990 : " These trends suggest a second , more attractive way of exercising power than traditional means . A state may achieve the outcomes it prefers in world politics because other states want to follow it or have agreed to a situation that produces such effects . In this sense , it is just as important to set the agenda and structure the situations in world politics as to get others to change in particular cases . This second aspect of power -- which occurs when one country gets other countries to want what it wants -- might be called co-optive or soft power in contrast with the hard or command power of ordering others to do what it wants . " <p> 17 John Dugard , " The choice before us : International law or a ' rules-based international order ' ? " , Cambridge University Press , 21 February 2023 . <p> 18 Joe R. Biden Jr. , " How the US Is Willing to Help Ukraine " , The New York Times International Edition , 2 June 2022 . <p> 19 The White House Briefing Room , " Remarks by President Biden in Press Conference ( Madrid , Spain ) " , The White House , 30 June 2022 , available at : <p> 24 Among others : the 1977 Protocols to the Geneva Conventions on the Laws of War , the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea , the 1989 Rights of the Child Convention , the 1997 Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention , the 1998 Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court , the 2006 Convention of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities , and the 2008 Convention on Cluster Munitions . <p> 30 State Councilor and Foreign Minister W. Yi , ' Remarks by State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi at the United Nations Security Council High-level Meeting on the Theme ' Maintenance of International Peace and Security : Upholding Multilateralism and the United Nations-centered International System " ' , Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People 's Republic of China , 8 May 2021 , available at : <p> Palestinian territory - Israel is systematically closing hospitals in northern Gaza through direct military targeting , a suffocating siege , and the killing , injuring , and arresting of patients , wounded individuals , and medical personnel .... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118669061 <h> The fall of Assad and the battle for Syria 's future : Regional and global ramifications <h> Published on Dec 09 , 2024 <p> The collapse of Assad 's Syrian government and the broader shift in the Middle East is going to have a rupturing effect if the regional problems do not find regional solutions <p> The Syrian civil war , in hibernation for many years , has come back with gusto as the long-standing government of Bashar al-Assad collapsed in an undramatic fashion . This ended the 60-year reign of the Assad family and the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party which took power following the 1963 military coup . A coalition of rebel militias , spearheaded by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) -- an offshoot of Al Qaeda , led by 42-year-old Abu Mohammed al-Jolani , remains at the forefront of governing the current juggernaut . The country 's armed forces have seemingly disintegrated , capitulated , or simply switched sides . <p> HTS has , ironically , conducted a shock-and-awe offensive of its own . The Syrian crisis has been rankled loose by regional instability over the past year , starting with the terror attack by Hamas against Israel in October 2023 and the subsequent geopolitical consequences in Gaza , Yemen , Lebanon , and Iran . The Syrian war never really went away , it was brushed under the carpet , managed , and even forgotten . Regionally , however , it has always been a potpourri of tussles between local groups and foreign powers , particularly between the Arab states , T ? rkiye , Iran , Israel , the United States ( US ) , and Russia . <p> In essence , the conflict from 2011 onwards can be contextualised through three main strategic views : domestic , regional , and international . <h> Domestic <p> HTS and its figurehead Jolani have been taking on Assad 's forces in a gambit of cities across Syria over the past few weeks . In the past years , HTS produced a quasi-state with its own governance structure , taxation and revenue system , and healthcare . HTS is , of course , not the first group to fine-tune this model . Al-Shabaab in Somalia has mobilised similar strategies for some time now . The Taliban in Afghanistan has continued to do so since 2021 as the only formal political power in the country . Furthermore , Jolani himself has also stated that he has no interest in furthering sectarian or ethnic fault lines while simultaneously hinting towards the establishment of an ' Islamic government ' . He has advised his followers not to damage surviving public institutions ( hospitals , healthcare , and police , among others ) . <p> The future of Syria 's political order is up in the air . The country 's dire economic situation has been pushed further into an abyss . If the HTS stakes claim , Jolani could be well on his way to becoming the next theocrat , opening a new chapter of uncertainty to a region that is already ablaze . <p> However , the HTS and various other rebel militias , including the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) lead euphoric scenes on the streets of Syrian cities , highlighting the mounting pressure against the former state 's regressive system . Reports of the army 's widespread abandonment of military positions sheds light on the tactical , strategic , and moral depletion of the security architecture which the Russians were supposed to help rebuild . On the other hand , the HTS was much better prepared , using military academies , hybrid weapons , and formalised command and control structures , built with the help of former generals and commanders who previously worked under Assad . <p> The future of Syria 's political order is up in the air . The country 's dire economic situation has been pushed further into an abyss . If the HTS stakes claim , Jolani could be well on his way to becoming the next theocrat , opening a new chapter of uncertainty to a region that is already ablaze . The Syrian Prime Minister Mohammad Ghazi al-Jalali 's call to have free and fair elections , while also facing the reality of having to hand over the city 's keys to Jolani could fracture internal views on how the country should proceed . While Jolani is unlikely to agree , if others such as the SDF give the idea of elections momentum , it could be seen as an opening by both regional and Western powers to influence impending outcomes . <h> Regional <p> Since the civil war started , Iran has played a critical role in making sure that Damascus remains close to Tehran . Over the years , Syria became ground zero for Iran-backed proxies while acting as a weapons trade route to arm Hezbollah in Lebanon . The former Iranian military general , Qasem Soleimani , who was assassinated in Baghdad by a US drone strike in 2020 , was widely known to be the chief architect of this setup . <p> Assad himself was unpopular amongst most of the neighbouring countries . While his subservience to Iran ( and Russia ) in return for a retention of power was seen as problematic , a slow return to the Arab fold had been underway since 2023 . In November 2011 , Syria was suspended from the Arab League for being unable and unwilling to stop violence against protesters . For Arab states , support for the anti-Assad movement in its initial years became unavoidable as the country 's Sunni Arab majority resisted the decades-long rule by the Assad family , which belonged to the Alawite minority -- an ethno-religious group practising a branch of Shia Islam . <p> Now , with Assad seemingly destined for the annals of history , Jolani presents a big challenge . In his speeches , the HTS leader has said that he wants to put an end to Iran and Russia 's interventions . <p> Now , with Assad seemingly destined for the annals of history , Jolani presents a big challenge . In his speeches , the HTS leader has said that he wants to put an end to Iran and Russia 's interventions . While all these overtures are strategically palatable to Arab capitals and Israel alike , his ideological opposition to what they have sided with remains a core challenge . Arab powers such as the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) and Saudi Arabia have actively undermined the Muslim Brotherhood and its ecosystems across the Middle East , while Israel continues its fight against Hamas , which emerged from the Sheikh Ahmed Yassin-led Mujama al-Islamiya , a charity affiliated with the Brotherhood working in the West Bank and Gaza . In the long term , Jolani 's candidature as the head of Syria will be an uncomfortable reality for almost everyone , albeit for diverse reasons . <p> Nevertheless , regional management via power rivalries is already underway . Russia , T ? rkiye , and Iran recently met in Qatar to discuss the developments in Syria where all three states have overlapping interests through various groups . Ankara , for example , has supported and honed the Syrian National Army , a coalition of anti-Assad organisations . Previously , Israel and Russia maintained a line of communication over the former 's airstrikes inside Syria targeting Iran-backed proxies . With a minefield of groups and interests at play , mistakes by anyone could have consequences for many . <h> Global <p> If Syria does come under HTS rule , it will be the second state after Afghanistan to have had a successful militant takeover , an indictment of the two-decade-long ' War on Terror ' . Jolani , much like Sirajuddin Haqqani , the Taliban interim government 's Interior Minister in Kabul , continues to have a US$10 million bounty on his head by the United States ( US ) . Both have appeared on Western media off late , giving interviews as individuals in positions of power . <p> If Syria does come under HTS rule , it will be the second state after Afghanistan to have had a successful militant takeover , an indictment of the two-decade-long ' War on Terror ' <p> The impact that the Taliban 's victory in Afghanistan has had on Islamist groups can not be understated . In 2021 , HTS-held territories such as Idlib congratulated the Taliban through prayers aired across the geography on loudspeakers from mosques . During the same period , HTS ideologue Abd al-Rahim ' Atun gave a lecture on " the Taliban as a model " . Their victory was seen as an aspirational blueprint for others . If the US can be defeated , then the likes of Assad can certainly be removed . The Taliban itself has congratulated the HTS and offered guidance on the path forward . <p> Russia and Iran 's role in Assad 's survivability , can not be understated . In 2015 , Damascus invited Moscow to intervene in the country 's battle with the so-called Islamic State ( also known as the Islamic State of Iraq and ash-Sham ( ISIS ) or Daesh in Arabic ) . Though Moscow 's support was existential , it arguably has changed since the war in Ukraine , where Russian military and economic capacities have been bogged down . While Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that Syria can not be allowed to fall into the hands of terror groups , he offered little to no practical support to Assad , much like Iran . That said , Russia 's intervention could still have a second play , as it would look to maintain its air and naval bases in the country 's Tartus and Latakia governorates -- Moscow 's only remaining tactical presence in both the Middle East and the Mediterranean . <p> Beyond the above-mentioned intricacies , a Jolani-led Syria would be one more blow to global counter-terrorist ambitions . With Somalia , Afghanistan , Yemen , and now potentially Syria as success stories , Islamist militant groups , specifically in the African Sahel , might feel emboldened to try and take over the slew of fragile states in West Africa . All these realities stand tall as the consequence of both global security failures and symptoms of American recidivism from actively playing the role of global policeman . The latter is further highlighted by incoming president Donald Trump 's statement saying that the US should not intervene . <h> Conclusion <p> Whether it is Syria , Yemen , or the crisis in Gaza and Lebanon , the envisioned ' new ' Middle East is at odds with the ' old ' . The current events are not sudden , but a symptom of the past decade , with an undercurrent of the Arab Spring era . Beyond the country 's own fate , a churn in both regional and international geopolitics is going to have a rupturing effect if the regional problems do not find regional solutions . The potential nuclearisation of the Middle East also remains an international worry . What happens in Syria going forward will have an impact much beyond the region , as its new political reality unfolds in the coming months . <p> Kabir Taneja is Deputy Director of the Strategic Studies programme at the Observer Research Foundation 
@@118674581 <h> Israel hits over 100 Syrian sites linked to Assad regime <p> Israel launched over 100 airstrikes targeting Syrian military sites , including a suspected chemical weapons research center , weapons depots , and air defense installations . The strikes follow Assad 's removal and increased volatility in the Golan Heights , where Israel has deployed troops . <p> Representative image ( Picture credit : AP ) <p> Israel launched more than 100 airstrikes on military sites in Syria on Monday , targeting facilities and assets linked to the former Assad regime . According to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , these strikes included attacks on the Barzah scientific research centre near Damascus , which Western countries suspect of ties to chemical weapons production.The Observatory also reported strikes on weapons depots in Deir Ezzor province and the Qamishli military airport in the northeast . Boats from the former Syrian navy were destroyed in the Latakia seaport , and air defence installations near the Mediterranean were also targeted , as confirmed by Syrian security sources.Israel 's foreign minister Gideon Saar described the deployment of Israeli troops into a buffer zone in the Golan Heights as a " limited and temporary step " necessary for security reasons . The region , annexed by Israel in 1981 , has become increasingly volatile following Assad 's removal . <p> Israel , which has long conducted operations against Iran-linked targets in Syria , has intensified these efforts in light of the ongoing Gaza conflict and regional instability . According to Reuters , regional security sources said that recent strikes included attacks on facilities previously identified as being used by Iran to develop advanced missiles.Hezbollah condemns Israeli strikesLebanon 's Hezbollah has denounced the recent escalation of Israeli airstrikes in Syria , issuing a strong statement on Monday condemning Israel 's actions . <p> As per the news agency AFP , the group criticised what it described as the " occupation of more land in the Golan Heights " and the destruction of Syria 's defensive capabilities following the overthrow of President Bashar al-Assad.In a statement , Hezbollah declared , " While we affirm our support for Syria and its people , we stress the necessity to preserve Syria 's unity . " It accused Israel of using the volatile situation in Syria to expand its territorial reach and weaken the country militarily.The remarks come as Hezbollah , a long-time ally of the Assad regime , faces a changing landscape in Syria . Assad , who had ruled for more than two decades , was ousted by rebels last weekend , ending his family 's half-century-long rule . <h> About the Author <p> At TOI World Desk , our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock . With an unwavering commitment to accuracy , depth , and timeliness , we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world , delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers . Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world . 
@@118675891 <h> Syrian conflict : US NSA Sullivan to visit Israel for talks on Syria as rebels take over - Updates <h> Story highlights <p> Citing sources , a report by the news agency Reuters on Monday ( Dec. 9 ) said that HTS leader Abu Mohammed al-Golani met overnight with Assads Prime Minister Mohammed Jalali and Vice President Faisal Mekdad to discuss arrangements for a transitional government . <p> There is a new era in Syria as rebel factions launched an unprecedented offensive on November 27 , which ultimately led to President Bashar al-Assad and his family fleeing the country . <p> The offensive was led by the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) . Citing sources , a report by the news agency Reuters on Monday ( Dec. 9 ) said that HTS leader Abu Mohammed al-Golani met overnight with Assad 's Prime Minister Mohammed Jalali and Vice President Faisal Mekdad to discuss arrangements for a transitional government . <p> The offensive was part of Syria 's civil war , which has been going on since 2011 . <h> Here 's a look at the latest updates : <p> &gt; United States ( US ) National Security Adviser ( NSA ) Jake Sullivan will travel to Israel this week for talks on Syria following the fall of Bashar al-Assad , and on a truce deal in Gaza . <p> &gt; National Security Council spokesman Sean Savett told reporters on Monday that NSA Sullivan would meet Israeli officials to discuss " efforts to reach a hostage release and ceasefire deal in Gaza , the latest developments in Syria , and for discussions about Lebanon and Iran . " <p> &gt; The ongoing developments in Syria are one of the most consequential turning points in West Asia for generations , as the fall of the Assad administration wiped out a bastion from which Iran and Russia exercised influence across the Arab world . <p> &gt; While Syria has been at war for over 13 years , the government 's collapse ended up coming in a matter of days , with the offensive launched by rebel factions . <p> &gt; While it remains to be seen how HTS will operate now that Assad is gone , it has sought to moderate its image and to assure Syria 's many religious minorities that they need not fear . <p> &gt; Global leaders have reacted cautiously to the current situation in Syria . The European Union ( EU ) said that it was not currently engaging with HTS . Germany said it would be paying attention to how HTS " deals with civilians and , in particular , minorities in the area they now control . " <p> &gt; Germany on Monday suspended decisions on asylum requests from Syrians . Sweden and France would be taking the same step . <p> &gt; Britain , meanwhile , said it would decide " quickly " on whether to remove HTS from its list of terrorist organisations . HTS has its roots in the Syrian branch of Al-Qaeda and is proscribed as a " terrorist " organisation by Western governments . <p> &gt; President Assad and his family have been given asylum in Russia . He was granted political asylum by Russian President Vladimir Putin . <p> &gt; Moscow has threatened a " harsh " response if Russia 's military bases in Syria are attacked . Russia has its Hmeimim airbase in Syria 's Latakia province , as well as a naval facility in Tartous . <p> &gt; The Kremlin has reportedly struck a deal with Syria 's rebel leaders to guarantee the safety of its bases . 
@@118687836 <p> NEW DELHI : Israel can learn from India the use of soft power to win the war of narratives in times of conflict , Israeli ambassador to India Reuven Azar said during an interaction with TOI editors . As Israel has pressed on with its military offensive to destroy Hamas , there 's been a wave of support for Palestinians in Gaza . Azar said Israel , as the only Jewish state in the region , was outnumbered in geopolitical composition . " We are the one and only Jewish state . You have very powerful media outlets that are investing billions of dollars like Al Jazeera , TRT , and many other outlets . Frankly , we have n't been investing enough because most of our investment went to hard power , not to soft power . You have been combining hard and soft power in the way that you have been challenging these groups , " he said . <p> As India looks to keep its relations with both Israel and Palestine on an even keel , calling repeatedly for a ceasefire in Gaza but also strongly backing Israel 's right to defend itself from terrorism , Azar said the Indian govt has been supportive of Israel 's " core national interests " . Acknowledging the differences between the two sides on issues like India 's continued aid to UNRWA , an agency banned by Israel , and India 's voting on UNGA resolutions concerning Palestine , the ambassador said Israel shares friendly ties with India and it will continue to engage with the Indian govt on these issues . <h> On India <p> " I 'm not in the business of giving grades to our friends . I think that when it comes to our core national interests , India has been pretty cooperative . Of course , we would like to see many countries , including India , changing their voting pattern . And I told our Indian friends that when it comes to UNRWA , we prefer that they divert their assistance to the needy people through other channels . So , this is a conversation we 're having and we are going to continue to engage . At the end of the day , this is a very friendly relationship and we have to continue having the discussion , " Azar said . <p> Like last year , India released $5 million for UNRWA ( UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian refugees in Near East ) . The govt also informed Parliament last week that it voted in favour of 10 out of the 13 resolutions that were introduced in the UNGA since the conflict began , and abstained on 3 . <h> Gaza Ceasefire <p> Azar suggested there might be some progress in negotiations for a hostage deal . The ambassador said Israel 's agenda in Gaza is to destroy the military capabilities of Hamas and ensure that the group is not able to rearm itself . " For that , you need a new order in the Gaza Strip . So , that 's what we are trying to achieve . To engage , to continue decimating Hamas , to engage with partners that want to work with us to restore peace . And that may take time . We want to see the release of hostages in batches at least . The PM ( Benjamin Netanyahu ) just met the families of the hostages and said he feels that time is ripe for a hostage deal . It seems there might be some progress in negotiations .... The bottom line is that we wo n't allow Hamas the possibility that in return of hostages , they will be able to take back control of the Gaza Strip . " <h> Two-State Solution <p> While India and most other countries have repeatedly called for a two-state solution , Israeli Parliament Knesset voted overwhelmingly earlier this year in favour of a resolution rejecting Palestinian statehood . The ambassador said Israel wants the Palestinians to rule themselves to the extent that they can without threatening Israel . " It means that as long as you have a population that is bound to try and destroy you , you wo n't be able to give them full sovereignty because they will use that in order to destroy you . We tried it with the Gaza Strip . Look what happened . For 17 years , we gave a chance . And then Hamas indoctrinated their people from the age of two or three just to kill Jews . They completely took hostage all their activities just to create this capability to destroy the state of Israel . So , we have to be realistic about the degree of self-rule that Palestinians can have , unless a new generation comes that thinks differently . " <h> On Syria <p> Speaking about the fall of Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad and its potential to further destabilise West Asia , Azar said there are three things about the geopolitical situation that are important now . " First is that the Iranian axis is debilitated as a result of the cutting of its three tentacles ( Hezbollah , Hamas and Assad ) . The second is what 's going to happen with Russian presence in eastern Mediterranean because this is shifting balance of power between Nato and Russia . And third , this was a meticulously planned attack by the Syrian opposition that was supported , sponsored by the Turkish govt . The question is to what extent they are going to be able to stabilise the Syria situation . Do n't forget that the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham comes from Jabhat al-Nusra , which was part of al-Qaida , " Azar said . 
@@118688049 <h> As Syria falls to Turkish-backed rebels , and Moscow and Tehran take powerful blows to their interests in the region , the biggest winner of the war could be Recep Tayyip Erdogan . Here 's why <p> Rebel commander Abu Mohammad al-Jolani speaks at the Umayyad mosque in Damascus on December 8 . ( Reuters ) <p> After more than a half century , an Assad -- Hafez or Bashar -- is not ruling Syria . Rebel fighters spearheaded by Hayat Tahrir al Shaam ( HTS ) reached Damascus on Sunday , forcing President Bashar al-Assad to flee to Russia with his family . <p> Even in the Middle East 's great ongoing tumult , the shift in Syria is seismic . <p> Just over a year and a half ago , Assad was viewed globally as the predominant power in his fractured country . True , the HTS-led opposition lunged at the window of opportunity that opened as Assad 's allies Russia and Iran found themselves under pressure -- still , how did the regime that had survived for five decades collapse in less than two weeks ? <p> On December 5 , as Hama fell after Aleppo , Assad announced a 50% salary hike for serving soldiers to counter the HTS ' call for them ( including Assad 's own Alawite ethnoreligious group ) to defect . It was symbolic of the desperation that Assad felt , and revealed the structural and financial weaknesses of his Syrian Arab Army ( SAA ) . <p> The SAA has been infamous both for its brutality -- images and videos are emerging from the now-liberated Sednaya Prison in which the regime kept political dissidents , including children -- and for extracting informal taxes from Syrians to compensate for their low official pay . The financial dire straits of the army reflected the state of the Syrian economy itself -- before the fall of the Assad regime , 1 United States dollar was equivalent to about 13,000 Syrian pounds . <p> The stagnation of the conflict over the last five years , with a Russia-Turkey d ? tente towards the end of the earlier phase of the war preventing the SAA from attacking Idlib , was perceived and celebrated as a victory by Damascus -- which left the army underprepared for any eventual counteroffensive . <p> Advertisement <p> More importantly , the SAA in 2024 continued to rely as much on Russia and Iran as it did in 2015 -- even though Assad 's relationship with these countries has been under strain , and Moscow has been stretched in Europe and Iran put under pressure in Lebanon . <p> Where was Iran as the regime collapsed ? <p> There have long existed significant divisions in Iran over Assad , which contributed to stymieing potentially useful Iranian assistance . Presumptions of victory in the Syrian war gave Assad the confidence to resist overbearing Iranian influence over decision-making in Damascus ( as it happened in Iraq ) . <p> In 2020 , as Iran railed against the US-brokered Abraham Accords , Assad said in TV interviews that he would not be opposed to conditional normalisation of ties with Israel . Over the last year , he has remained indifferent to Israel 's campaign in Gaza and Lebanon , content to prevent the disputed Golan Heights from developing into a fresh theatre of war . The indifference continued as Iran 's so-called " axis of resistance " -- Hezbollah in Lebanon , the Houthis in Yemen , and Hamas in Gaza -- took debilitating hits from Israel . <p> Differences on the ground between Iran 's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ( IRGC ) and the SAA , and the schisms in Iran between the pro-Assad IRGC hardliners and the more pragmatic camp of President Masoud Pezeshkian , delayed any significant action long enough for the rebels to cut off the link city of Homs from Damascus -- which in any case made the movement of Iranian aid greatly more difficult . <p> Advertisement <p> Perhaps the best reflection of Assad 's modified position in the Iranian axis was seen in his last hours of desperation , when he reached out to Washington to secure a deal -- President-elect Donald Trump gruffly shot down the idea on X. <p> What about Russia -- and Turkey ? <p> The Russian air action on Aleppo and the highway to Homs ceased by December 3 , with Moscow focusing on mitigating any immediate threats to its bases in Latakia and Tartus . <p> While Russian constraints in Ukraine are obvious , note that Russia 's earlier d ? tente with Turkey now has the context of the dangling Damocles sword over the Bosphorus Strait , which is essential for Russian warships to link up with the Black Sea fleet . <p> Turkey , on the other hand , has little to lose by cooperating with both Russia and other Arab/ Gulf states to promote stability in Syria now that Assad has fallen and the Syrian National Army ( SNA ) , the Turkish-backed armed group , can attack the Kurds in northern and western Syria more freely in the future . <p> Advertisement <p> On December 7 , Turkey joined its Arab and Iranian partners from the Astana Process , the formal Syrian peace process hosted by Kazakhstan , in calling for a political solution in Syria that ends military operations , an increase in humanitarian aid , and the implementation of UNSC Resolution 2254 ( which laid out the process of democratic transition in Syria in 2015 ) . The statement neither condemned the rebels nor expressed concern over Assad 's precarious position . Tehran and Moscow too , signed the statement . <p> Turkey 's rivalry with Syria is old and deep , going back to Syrian nationalist opposition to the Ottoman Empire . The large presence of Kurdish groups in Syria are an additional irritant . In 2004 , Assad became the first Syrian leader to visit Ankara -- but it was merely a brief geopolitical alignment due to shared anxieties over the US invasion of Iraq in 2003 . <p> When the Syrian civil war began , Ankara rushed to bolster the armed opposition to Assad , established its own military presence in Northern Syria , negotiated a freeze in the conflict with Russia , and eventually propelled the HTS/ SNA to the new reality unfolding in Damascus today -- all over the span of a decade . <p> Following Assad 's fall , Turkey has been quick to switch to the language of " inclusive governance " in Syria -- positioning itself as an enabler of stability , and projecting the rebel takeover of Damascus as a natural and inevitable outcome after a years-long struggle . <p> What could the rule of the HTS look like ? <p> Advertisement <p> HTS emir Abu Mohammad al-Jolani has worked for long , with more than just the blessings of Turkey and the US , to unify the Syrian opposition just enough to coordinate their offensives and unseat Assad . <p> Jolani 's actions since then reflect a broader trend in Islamist Sunni political jihad . By appointing Mohammad al-Bashir to the head of the " transitional " government , the HTS has sought to follow the example of Abdul Hakim bil Hajj 's Libya Islamic Fighting Group , rebranding itself as a regional , pragmatist , almost nationalist force that presents itself as an ally of the West . <p> In behaviour mimicking the Taliban 's promises in Doha in 2020 , Jolani has personally reached out to neighbouring governments in Baghdad and Beirut , calling for good relations , even offering Syria 's services to the international community in identifying Assad 's chemical weapons remnants . ( The Taliban were quick to congratulate Syrians after Assad 's fall . ) <p> As thousands of Syrians return to their country , rejoicing in the demise of Assad 's tyranny , the jihadist shadow on HTS ' character lingers , notwithstanding Jolani 's personal overtures to the country 's minority groups , including Assad 's Alawite base . <p> Advertisement <p> And what of the myriad jihadist and separatist militias that united tactically to oppose a common opponent who is now gone ? Many of them have enduring intra-group differences -- the HTS , in its earlier avatar of the al-Qaeda affiliate Jabhat al-Nusra , fought some of the groups that are operating currently under the umbrella of the SNA . The principal question for the " transitional " administration is this : will it be able to force the disarmament , demobilisation , and reintegration ( DDR ) of the armed groups in Syria today ? <p> In the wider region , it is now evident that all actors in the Iranian " axis of resistance " , including Iran itself , are now prioritising their own security and stability . While the Houthis continue their attacks on Red Sea shipping , Tehran 's muscle in the Middle East has been weakened . However , with Turkey now emerging as a stronger pole , triggering both Arab and Persian anxieties , and Israel moving swiftly to re-militarise and occupy the Golan Heights after Assad 's fall , the geopolitical landscape in the Middle East has changed even more decisively than it did on October 7 , 2023 . <p> ( The author is a Research Associate at the Council for Strategic and Defense Research , New Delhi ) 
@@118688191 <p> Benjamin Netanyahu on Tuesday begun giving evidence in a court in Tel Aviv in his long-running corruption trial , becoming the first sitting Israeli Prime Minister to take the stand as a criminal defendant . <p> " I have waited eight years for this moment , to say the truth as I remember it , which is important for justice , " said Netanyahu , dressed in a blue suit and white shirt , with an Israeli flag on one lapel and the yellow ribbon symbol representing Israel 's hostages in Gaza on the other . <p> " But I am also a Prime Minister . I am leading the country through a seven-front war . And I think the two can be done in parallel . " <p> Advertisement <p> Describing the charges against him as " an ocean of absurdness " , Netanyahu , who also faces an international arrest warrant for alleged war crimes in Israel 's war in Gaza , promised his version of events would challenge the prosecution 's case , as his statements shifted between emphasising his international significance and portraying himself and his family as victims . <p> He swatted away the charges against him as a " drop in the sea " compared to the challenges he has faced protecting his country . <p> Netanyahu asserted that he could manage his responsibilities as Prime Minister while attending his trial , even as Israel continues its war in Gaza and faces challenges following Bashar Assad 's fall in Syria . <p> " I waited eight years for this moment , to be honest , " Netanyahu said at the podium , flanked by his son Avner and several members of his Likud party seated in the courtroom . He added that his testimony would " expose flaws in the baseless accusations . " <p> Advertisement <p> The 75-year-old is charged with fraud , breach of trust and accepting bribes across three separate cases . Initially , he is expected to be questioned by his defence lawyer for several days . <h> The Allegations <p> Netanyahu is accused of accepting tens of thousands of dollars ' worth of cigars and champagne from a Hollywood billionaire in exchange for helping with personal and business interests . Additionally , he is alleged to have promoted advantageous regulations for media moguls in return for favourable media coverage for himself and his family . <p> He denies all wrongdoing , claiming the charges are part of a witch-hunt orchestrated by a hostile media and a biased legal system seeking to undermine his government . <p> The court has heard evidence from 120 prosecution witnesses in cases popularly known as Cases 1,000 , 2,000 and 4,000 . Some of these witnesses were once close aides to Netanyahu who later became state witnesses and have testified in detail , portraying him as controlling and image-conscious . <p> During his initial court appearance , Netanyahu appeared serious and somewhat weary , shaking hands with ministers and MPs who had come to support him as he entered the courtroom . <p> The trial comes amid political turmoil , with Netanyahu 's legal troubles exposing deep divides in Israel . Under Israeli law , an indicted Prime Minister is not required to step down . Nevertheless , the charges have ignited a political crisis , with protests calling for his resignation and former political allies refusing to continue in his government . This instability has led to five elections in less than four years , starting in 2019 . <p> The right-wing populist leader has long avoided appearing in court , despite claiming in a taped video address on Monday that he welcomed the opportunity to testify . His appearance marks a significant moment as he attempts to maintain his image as a skilled and respected statesman while also facing attempts to limit the independence of Israel 's judiciary . <p> Dozens of protesters gathered outside the court in Tel Aviv , including family members of hostages held in Gaza and groups opposing Netanyahu , while other groups of his supporters stood in his defence . One banner draped in front of the court read : " Crime Minister . " <p> Advertisement <p> Demonstrators protest against Prime Minster Benjamin Netanyahu outside the court in Tel Aviv Tuesday Dec. 10 , 2024 . Netanyahu is set to take the stand on Tuesday in his long-running trial for alleged corruption . ( AP Photo/Ariel Schalit ) <p> While the war with Hamas that began on 7 October 2023 and the ongoing conflict in Gaza shifted much of the public 's attention away from Netanyahu 's trial , political divisions in Israel have only deepened as the war continues . <p> Ahead of the trial , Netanyahu 's allies in the Knesset tried to delay proceedings , citing voting conflicts and Israel 's ongoing security situation . His lawyer , Amit Hadad , strongly criticised the indictment against his client , comparing the investigation to processes seen in " Russia or North Korea " and accusing the police of targeting the man rather than investigating a specific crime . 
@@118688387 <h> As Trump 2.0 's presidency nears , India anticipates increased Indo-Pacific and West Asia cooperation with the US . Quad and Abraham Accords revitalisation are likely , alongside addressing South Asian challenges . India seeks US sensitivity to its regional concerns , mirroring its support for US interests during past crises . <p> Quoting Vivekamunand <h> Ashok Malik <p> The author is partner , The Asia Group , and chair of its India practice <p> With just over a month to go before Trump 2.0 takes office in Washington , the rest of the world is reorganising itself and moving pieces in anticipation . How is India responding ? An assessment of Trump 's nominations for various senior positions indicates relatively greater push and potential for domestic disruption than in foreign policy . This is said advisedly , and with due caveats . After all , unpredictability and volatility are essential advertisements for Trump . <p> Nevertheless , for both secretary of state and NSA , he has named seasoned politicians rather than social media ideologues . This is as close as Trump has got to working with establishment figures . It could suggest more strategic continuity than predicted , especially in the Indo-Pacific , and in the context of Great Power competition . <p> New Delhi will look to this with cautious , if initial satisfaction . As Trump 's priorities , and the geopolitical landscape , have unfolded in recent weeks , there is hope for accretion in India-US cooperation in two crucial regions - Indo-Pacific and West Asia . There is also the challenge of a reset and a greater harmonisation in India 's priority South Asian geographies . <p> Continued alignment in Indo-Pacific is the easiest to predict . If there is anything that unifies politicians and stakeholders across and within party divides in Washington , it 's the sense of a longer-term contest with China . Granular differences should not be discounted . For instance , there is ambiguity - even divergence - on specifics about the defence of Taiwan . Even so , the region 's salience in any foreign policy calculations is apparent . Such thinking could crystallise early in the Trump term , as the US hosts Quad foreign ministers , and then India hosts the summit . <p> Trump is not a Quad sceptic . He recognises its value as a signal to China and as an example to European allies . Indeed , Quad graduated to ministerial status in the earlier Trump presidency , with foreign minister-level meetings in New York in 2019 and Tokyo in 2020 , at the height of Chinese belligerence in Ladakh . <p> A Trump 1.0 theme was getting US allies to resource their security and acknowledge the feasible limits - fiscal and political - of US expeditionary commitments . In Europe , he urged countries to spend at least 2% of GDP on defence , a demand now certain to rise another percentage point or two . <p> Here , Quad countries offer a showpiece for Trump . India takes responsibility for its defence , and is staring down China on its own . Japan , on Trump 's nudging , has enhanced its military budget , though he will surely ask for more . With Australia , for all the noise , it is unlikely Trump will walk away from AUKUS . Again , he will demand a higher price . <p> Will Trump appreciate the wider argument that building capabilities and manufacturing capacities in trusted Indo-Pacific countries is a net gain because it ultimately provides alternatives to outsize demands on American soldiers and supply chains ? The Biden team understood this . Given the sophisticated individuals involved , there is no reason Trump 's foreign policy lieutenants ca n't be persuaded . <p> West Asia offers a second window for convergence . Oct 7 , 2023 , day of the Hamas terror attacks on Israel , has proven to be a ' Sarajevo moment ' with entirely unexpected twists , consequences and spin-offs . What began as a conflict in Gaza has metamorphosed beyond measure . It has prised precious strategic and geographical space from Iran , especially in Lebanon . A knock-on effect has now been felt in Syria , where Turkish influence is at its highest since WW1 . <p> Whether the debilitation of Iran will tempt Israel and the US to move still further against Teheran is an open question . This will be an early call for the Trump presidency . Either way , there is greater scope today for revisiting the Abraham Accords - a Trump 1.0 initiative - and re-energising their derivatives such as I2U2 and the India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor ( IMEC ) . <p> Both Trump and Narendra Modi are alive to the opportunities . In the near future , the US could find it useful to lean on Indian diplomacy in West Asia . <p> Finally , there are irritants in India 's immediate neighbourhood . That New Delhi and Washington have not seen eye to eye on Bangladesh is well known . Yet , this is not unique . At various stages , there has been awkwardness on Sri Lanka , the Maldives and , in Trump 's earlier presidency , Afghanistan . Rather than consider each episode separately , an aggregated appreciation is warranted . Close partners might not always agree , but they need to be sensitive to each other 's most deep-seated concerns , vulnerabilities , and surroundings . <p> Consider an example . At the height of the Covid-19 crisis , a specific South American nation faced a crippling vaccine shortage . China offered support , but only if the country cut off diplomatic relations with Taiwan . For logistical reasons , the US was not in position to help stave off such blackmail . It conveyed a request to India . <p> New Delhi sent Covaxin supplies to the country concerned . It understood Washington 's sensitivities about its backyard ( the Americas ) . It stood by a friend attempting to overcome a coercive and adversarial diplomatic situation . <p> That is what close partners expect from each other . That is the strategic conversation India expects from the US in Bangladesh , South Asia and Indian Ocean Region . A Trump presidency must cut to the chase . <p> ( Disclaimer : The opinions expressed in this column are that of the writer . The facts and opinions expressed here do not reflect the views of www.economictimes.com. ) 
@@118688504 <h> Download App <p> Follow Us On : <p> NewsWorldUS NewsMan charged with burning American flag during Washington protest over Netanyahu visit <h> Man charged with burning American flag during Washington protest over Netanyahu visit <h> Federal authorities have charged Michael Snow Jr . with destroying federal property after video footage showed him burning an American flag during protests against Israeli PM Netanyahu 's address to Congress in July . <h> In Short <p> Michael Snow Jr . accused of destroying federal property . <p> Protests against Netanyahu 's Congress address in July . <p> Demonstrators replaced US flags with Palestinian flags . <p> WASHINGTON : Federal authorities have charged a man with burning an American flag in the nation 's capital during protests against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's address to Congress in July . <p> Michael Snow Jr. , 24 , of Durham , North Carolina , is charged with destruction of federal property over the burning of the flag that was pulled down at Columbus Circle -- in front of Union Station -- by demonstrators calling for an end to the war in Gaza . <p> advertisement <p> Authorities say video shows Snow shouting a " I need a better lighter ! " after initially failing to ignite the flag . Someone then handed him a bottle of lighter fluid , which he used to douse the flag before he and another person set it on fire , authorities say . <p> " Stealing a federal flag and burning it is not speech , it 's destruction of federal property , " said Matthew Graves , U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia . <p> There was no lawyer listed in the court docket for Snow , and a message seeking comment was left at a number listed for him in public records . <p> Thousands of protesters converged on Washington in July to condemn Netanyahu during his address to Congress , in which the prime minister pledged in a scathing speech to achieve " total victory " against Hamas . <p> Outside Union Station , protesters spray-painted graffiti on a monument to Christopher Columbus and hoisted Palestinian flags in place of the American flags that were removed . <p> A group of protesters had a permit to demonstrate in front of Union Station , but the U.S. Park Police said it revoked the permit after it could n't reach protest organizers that afternoon . <p> The National Park Service estimated that it cost more than $11,000 to clean up and fix damage at the site . 
@@118688687 <h> The fall of Assad : What it means for India 's strategy in West Asia <p> A man walks on a poster of Bashar al-Assad as a sanitation worker removes it from the street downtown , after Syrian rebels announced that they have ousted Syria 's Bashar al-Assad , in Damascus , Syria December 10 , 2024 . ( Photo : Reuters ) <h> Summary <p> Strategic interests need not translate as unwavering support to regimes like Assad 's . Instead , India should adopt a more balanced , flexible approach to its West Asia strategy . <p> This is a Mint Premium article gifted to you . Subscribe to enjoy similar stories . <p> The fall of Assad regime in Syria has thrust India into a delicate balancing act . While the streets of Damascus are filled with jubilation , the corridors of power in New Delhi are marked by caution and concern . The takeover of Damascus by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) marks the end of a 50-year Assad dynasty , including Bashar al-Assad 's 24-year tenure as president . <p> Assad has long been a cornerstone of India 's West Asia strategy . In a statement issued on 9 December , the Ministry of External Affairs emphasized the importance of preserving Syria 's sovereignty and advocated for a Syrian-led political process . <p> However , key questions remain : What does Assad 's fall mean for India ? Will it compel a reconfiguration of India 's geopolitical strategy in West Asia ? Could this transition have implications for India 's internal security ? And , most importantly , what should India 's next steps be ? <h> A time-tested strategic alliance <p> India 's relationship with Syria has weathered decades of geopolitical upheaval , including the civil war that erupted in 2011 . <p> Anchored in principles of non-interference , territorial integrity , and mutual respect for sovereignty , the partnership remained steadfast even as Assad faced global condemnation for brutal crackdowns and human rights abuses . New Delhi consistently backed a Syrian-led political process in line with UN Security Council Resolution 2254 , reaffirming its commitment to Syria 's sovereignty , independence , and unity . <p> India has also provided substantial economic support to Syria . In 2021 , it offered $280 million to build power and steel plants , established a Next Generation Centre for Information Technology in Damascus , and awarded scholarships to 1,500 Syrian students . These investments were not altruistic ; they aligned with India 's broader energy and security interests in West Asia . <p> Assad , in turn , proved to be a reliable ally for India on critical issues , particularly Kashmir . He supported India 's stance on the abrogation of Article 370 , dismissing criticism from the Organization of Islamic Cooperation ( OIC ) and several Arab nations . <p> Syria also served as a counterbalance to Pakistan and China in international forums . New Delhi reciprocated by backing Damascus on contentious issues like the Golan Heights and finding common ground on Gaza , even as India 's ties with Israel deepened . <h> Implications of Assad 's ouster <p> The power shift in Syria introduces a volatile and unpredictable chapter . <p> HTS , which led the overthrow of Assad , has a complicated history . Originally an al-Qaeda affiliate known as the Nusra Front , it severed ties with the jihadist network in 2016 . While the fall of Assad is celebrated by many , it also raises the spectre of extremist resurgence , a concern that could have far-reaching implications for India . <p> The Assad regime , backed by Russia and Iran , acted as a bulwark against radical forces like ISIS . With Syria now in flux , the risk of extremist groups regaining a foothold looms large . This poses a direct threat to India 's internal security . <p> The regional balance of power is also shifting . Iran and Russia , once key players in Syria , have been sidelined , while Turkey has gained influence by supporting rebel factions . The Arab world and global powers , particularly the US , are watching closely . President Joe Biden has emphasized the need for a political process , but president-elect Donald Trump has maintained that Syria 's future is for Syrians to decide . <p> For India , this upheaval necessitates a recalibration of its West Asia strategy . External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar , speaking at the Manama Dialogue in Bahrain , acknowledged the complexity of the region , noting challenges stretching " from Gaza to Lebanon to Syria . " <p> More broadly , the fall of Assad threatens to undermine strategic stability in West Asia , a region critical to India 's energy security and geopolitical ambitions . <h> What comes next ? <p> As the dust settles in Syria , India must navigate the shifting geopolitical terrain with caution and foresight . <p> Russia and Iran have long been key allies for India , as has Israel in more recent years . With Iran 's influence in Syria waning and Turkey stepping in to support rebel factions , India faces a complex challenge in navigating the evolving dynamics across Gaza , Lebanon , and now Syria . <p> The key question is clear : how will India recalibrate its geopolitical , security , and energy strategies in this volatile region ? <p> While strategic pragmatism guides India 's approach , it is undeniable that the Assad regime was both autocratic and brutal . The transition in Syria offers a delayed moment of hope and reckoning for its people , though the risk of sliding into violent extremism remains significant . For India , caution and concern are warranted , but it must avoid hesitation in opening communication channels with the transitional apparatus led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham . <p> India has rightly emphasized the importance of a Syrian-led political process , but as a rising power , it is imperative to move beyond regime-centric policies . While strategic interest is significant it should not mean unwavering support to regimes like Assad 's , underscoring the need for a more balanced and adaptable approach to its West Asia strategy . <p> Shweta Singh is associate professor , department of international relations , South Asian University . 
@@118688728 <h> How the untiring , dangerous work for human rights has given life to support for Palestine <h> Human rights discourse has indeed been weaponised and even used to justify wars . But human rights discourse has also been used to expose war crimes . <p> Student and left-wing organisations protest in support of Palestinians in Gaza , near Jantar Mantar in New Delhi in this October 2023 photograph . Reuters <p> Is it antisemitic to criticise Zionism ? This was the motion up for debate at the Munk Debate , held in honour of industrialist and free speech advocate Peter Munk . Journalist Douglas Murray supported the motion at the debate in Toronto on June 17 while news anchor-writer Mehdi Hasan opposed it . The motion was resolved with the conclusion that anti-Zionism is indeed antisemitism . <p> India has no history of antisemitism . So why have meetings about Palestine been banned and demonstrations by students protesting against the genocide being committed in Gaza been stopped ? <p> The unwritten reason is that for a Hindutva government , the Palestinian cause is identified with Islam , the religion of a majority of the Palestinians . <p> But debates about religion eclipse the central fact that the real issue is land : Israel 's illegal occupation of Palestinian territory . <p> This occupation was " founded on brute force , repression and fear , collaboration and treachery , beatings and torture chambers , and daily intimidation , humiliation and manipulation " , writes political scientist-activist Norman Finkelstein in his 2018 book , Gaza : An Inquest into its Martyrdom . <p> It is for this reason that India , in the first years after independence from British colonialism , forbade citizens from visiting Israel and South Africa as a gesture of solidarity with the people of Palestine and South Africa fighting against apartheid . <p> It is also the reason why many have refused to condemn the militant group Hamas 's attack on Israel on October 7 last year that killed at least 1,200 people . This is despite the fact that they neither support Hamas 's ideology nor do they condone the attack on civilians . <p> As scholar Edward Said wrote in Covering Islam , the Western media and experts have been guilty of " exaggerated stereotyping and belligerent hostility " towards Muslims in general and Arabs in particular . <p> This outlook is evident in the refusal of Western countries and the English media to use the term " genocide " to refer to the mass violation of human rights in Gaza . Increasingly , the human rights discourse has been used by the West to justify the Israeli occupation and freedom of speech has been weaponised to vilify Arabs . <p> Anyone who has seen the bombing of hospitals , the testimonies of doctors who have worked in hospitals there , the images of children buried under rubble and the relentless bombing of infrastructure would be hard put to deny that Israel is not committing war crimes that amount to genocide . <p> It is the human rights community that has played a vital role in documenting these crimes against humanity and even if many of these reports lie buried , they are a record of Israel 's violations . <p> Norman Finkelstein Visiting Student Encampment at Cambridge University . Most are women . It was deeply moving and inspiring . May the Force be with them . **26;720;TOOLONG <p> More recently , Amnesty International documented how Israeli forces have carried out acts prohibited under the Genocide Convention , with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza . <p> " Israeli forces have caused unprecedented destruction , at a level and speed not seen in any other conflict in the 21st century , leveling entire cities and destroying critical infrastructure , agricultural land and cultural and religious sites , rendering large swathes of Gaza uninhabitable , " says the report released on December 4 . <p> There is no telling what the impact of the Amnesty International report will be . There will certainly be an effort to undermine its influence . <p> Long before Hamas 's attack on October 7 , Israel had been condemned for crimes amounting to genocide in a 2009 United Nations Fact Finding report by Richard Goldstone , former judge of the Constitutional Court of South Africa and a Jew from a family that supported Zionism . <p> The United Nations appointed the committee after the three-week long " Operation Cast Lead " , as Israel called it , during which 1,400 Palestinians were killed between December 2008 and January 2009 . <p> Goldstone 's report found that the operation was anchored in a military doctrine aimed at disproportionate destruction and disruption in the lives of as many people " as a legitimate means to achieve military and political goals " . The goal was to clear : " dire consequences for the non-combatants in Gaza " . The report added that this policy was rooted in the humiliation and dehumanisation of the Palestinian population . <p> The report also commended the resilience and dignity of the residents of Gaza and recommended that the Security Council " refer the situation in Gaza to the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court " . <p> Israel 's reaction was predictable , dismissing the report and condemning Goldstone , who was accused of being an antisemite and a traitor to the Jewish people . The vilification and defamation of Goldstone even led to the US House of Representatives voting 344 to 36 in condemning the report as " irremediably biased and unworthy " . <p> Finkelstein wrote that Goldstone 's report was significant in heralding the dawn of the new era in which the " human rights dimension of the Israel-Palestine conflict moved centre stage -- and even temporarily -- displacing the fatuous ' peace process ' " . The report also coincided with a vicious campaign in Israel and the United States to discredit human rights organisations . <p> Under the mounting pressure Goldstone recanted . But he did not recant from the main charge that Israel deliberately deployed " disproportionate and indiscriminate force in order to punish , humiliate and terrorise a civilian population " . How could he when Israeli soldiers and writers had boasted that the Israeli Defense Forces had unleashed " insane " amounts of firepower . <p> An indiscriminate and disproportionate attack on civilian areas is itself a war crime . Two decades since Goldstone 's report , human rights activists and organisations have continued their work of documenting Israel 's war crimes , providing activists , students and journalists with material evidence with which to expose Israel 's genocidal acts . <p> It is also the human rights discourse that gives space to students to protest on campuses and the right to free speech to journalists such as Mehdi Hasan , comedian Bassem Youseff or intellectual-activist Finkelstein to publish his books on Israel 's war crimes . Youseff 's interview with English broadcaster Piers Morgan , in which the comedian highlighted the racism of the Western media , got millions of viewers from around the world . <p> Play <p> When we listen to debates , read books on genocide and war crimes or take part in protests on political issues , it is the efforts of human rights activists and organisations that keep us informed of events on the ground , often at risk to their own lives . <p> The human rights discourse has indeed been weaponised and even used to justify wars . But the human rights discourse has also been used to expose war crimes . That is why it is important to remember the human rights community of activists and to pay tribute to their work this Human Rights Day . 
@@118689500 <p> Netanyahu 's day in court - Israeli PM to take stand in long-running corruption case <h> Netanyahu 's day in court -- Israeli PM to take stand in long-running corruption case <h> Charged with bribery , fraud , and breach of trust , Netanyahu will testify three times a week , the court announced , despite the ongoing Gaza war and potential new threats emerging from broader unrest in the Middle East , including neighboring Syria . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is all set to take the stand for the first time in his corruption trial under a court order on Tuesday . <p> Charged with bribery , fraud , and breach of trust , Netanyahu will testify three times a week , the court announced , despite the ongoing Gaza war and potential new threats emerging from broader unrest in the Middle East , including neighboring Syria . <p> Netanyahu was indicted in 2019 in three cases involving allegations of accepting gifts from wealthy associates and seeking regulatory favors for media moguls in exchange for favorable coverage . He has consistently denied any wrongdoing . <p> Ahead of his court appearances , Netanyahu reignited pre-trial rhetoric against law enforcement , labeling the investigations as a " witch hunt . " He maintains his innocence and has pleaded not guilty to all charges . <p> " The real threat to democracy in Israel is not posed by the public 's elected representatives , but by some among the law enforcement authorities who refuse to accept the voters ' choice and are trying to carry out a coup with rabid political investigations that are unacceptable in any democracy , " he said on Thursday . <p> During a Monday night press conference , Netanyahu stated that he had waited eight years to share his side of the story . He also expressed outrage over the treatment of witnesses during the investigations . 
@@118689591 <h> Bhopinder Singh The collapse of Assad 's Syria to have sectarian consequences <p> An image of Syrian President Bashar Assad , riddled with bullets , is seen on the facade of the provincial government office in the aftermath of the opposition 's takeover of Hama , Syria , Friday , Dec. 6 , 2024 . AP/PTI <p> Way back in 2004 , King Abdullah of Jordan had coined a controversial and loaded term called the " Shia Crescent " , that indicated land and territory from Shia-dominated Iran running across the Iraqi-Syrian swathes up to the southern coast of Lebanon . The subsequent fall of Saddam Hussein 's Sunni-led Iraq to Shia forces , along with the successful negation of both Al Qaeda and the Islamic State , or ISIS , by Iran-led Shia militias and the assertive rise of the Yemeni Houthis , the Hezbollah of Lebanon and like-minded groups , almost confirmed a geographical crescent-like shift of power from Sunni sheikdoms to Shia forces . The steady presence of Alawite ( Shia offshoot ) Syrian President Bashar al-Assad further reiterated the portents of King Abdullah 's feared sectarian shift . <p> Civilisational tensions between the Sunni-Shia rift played out thereafter with Iran emerging as the rallying fount of the Shia uprising , to the consternation of the wary and predominantly Sunni-led sheikhdoms . Relations deteriorated to such an extent that despite paying homilies towards the beleaguered Palestinians in the face of disproportionate and brutal Israeli revenge , Jordan almost openly supported the Israeli forces as it shot down the Iranian drones targeting Israel . Since the time Israel launched the relentless bludgeoning of the Gaza Strip and southern Lebanon , the Sunni Arab leadership has played coy and mealy-mouthed , and it was left to Iran and its proxies like Hezbollah , the Houthis and the forces of Syria 's Bashar al-Assad to offer a modicum of defiance . <p> Cut to twenty years after Jordanian King Abdullah 's sectarian fear-mongering of the " Shia Crescent " in 2024 -- Iranian elements have been attacked , almost all of the top Hezbollah leadership assassinated , the Houthis routinely attacked , and perhaps most dramatically , the Syrian nation under Bashar al-Assad has collapsed . This dramatic ouster of Syria 's President comes approximately fifty-five years after his father , Hafez al-Assad , had taken over in 1971 . He was sensitive to the sectarian undercurrents and had knowingly ensured that the control of the Syrian military , intelligence , bureaucracy and key security posts were given to his fellow Shia-Alawite brethren only . <p> Naturally , the Syrian state under the Assad clan had a reflexive bonhomie with the fellow Shia Iran , and as the Arab sheikdoms were aligned to the United States , the Syrians forged a rebound relationship with the Soviet Union ( later Russia ) . All these contrarian positions and alignments militated with Syria 's neighbours like Jordan , Saudi Arabia , Turkey , as also with the other staunch US ally in the region , namely Israel . The Sunni-Arab side were out to avenge the Syrian defiance and strategic alliances by supporting dissent and sectarian tensions in Syria , to the extent of supporting Sunni extremist militias like Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or HTS , that is believed to be the principal group behind the capitulation of the Assad regime a few days back . Tellingly , the HTS has its origins in Al-Qaeda ( that was earlier in the forefront of facing Shia forces in the region ) and is backed in its recent endeavour by the support of Turkish-backed Syrian Sunni militias , collectively called the Syrian National Army . Expectedly , the rout of Bashar al-Assad 's citadel in Damascus has led to the retreat of the supporting Hezbollah fighters to their bases in the mountains and Lebanon , just as many from the Bashar al-Assad 's Army have fled and crossed over in droves to neighbouring Iraq ( led by Shia Iraqi Prime Minister Mohammed Shia ' Al Sudani ) . <p> The revised landscape in the region with the targeted diminishment of Iran and its regional proxies like Hezbollah in Lebanon or the Houthis in Yemen , and now with the Sunni-militia takeover in Syria , will have serious repercussions on the deeply polarised sectarian sentiments . The Shias are estimated to be around 15 per cent of the global Ummah ( Muslim community ) , with a majority only in Iran , Iraq , Azerbaijan and Bahrain , out of the 50-odd Muslim countries in the world . Even in India , the Shia numbers are around the same percentage and the unspoken and historical tensions with the Sunnis is unmistakable , if generally controlled . However , in neighbouring Pakistan and Afghanistan , they are violently , routinely , and systematically persecuted . Many Sunni supremacists go as far as declaring Shias apostates and non-Muslims . <p> The fall of Bashar al-Assad 's Syria is one more blow to Iran and its conflated Shia ambitions , and thus to the imminent danger to the minority Shias across the world . <p> The political leadership in the region has always been the key to check the sectarian " other " in the regional tinderbox . The Sunni House of Khalifa , which controls Bahrain , has managed to checkmate the Shia majority , just as Bashar al-Assad 's minority Shia Alawite sect had countenanced its Sunni majority till quite recently . In the complex and diverse Lebanese nation , the Shia Hezbollah had managed to carve out a space and relevance for itself in the south , in the face of rival groups from the Christian , Sunni or even Druze denominations . Now , all these levers and counter-levers will get undone and rearranged , to the detriment and disadvantage of the Shia populace . <p> At the end of the day , it was the combined vilification , the process of " enemising " and seemingly coordinated efforts of the United States , Israel , the Arab sheikhdoms and Turkey that led to Bashar al-Assad 's ouster . While he was hardly any benign or liberal leader himself , it is unlikely that Abu Mohammed al- Jolani ( an internationally declared terrorist with $10 million on his head ) , whose HTS was mainly behind the Syrian regime 's utter collapse , will be any better or more tolerant . But it is the grave risk to Shias across the world that is most disconcerting . 
@@118689734 <h> President Biden is sending senior aides to the Middle East to secure a Gaza ceasefire . Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer noted increased momentum following a ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah . Talks involve Israel , Hamas , and other parties amid ongoing violence and regional diplomatic activity . <p> U.S. President Joe Biden is intensifying diplomatic efforts by sending senior aides to the Middle East in a bid to secure a Gaza ceasefire agreement , a goal that has eluded his administration for over a year . This announcement was made by U.S. Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer , who highlighted a renewed energy surrounding the ceasefire talks . <p> Finer remarked that a recent ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon 's Hezbollah has injected momentum into the negotiations . Speaking at the Reuters NEXT conference in New York , he emphasized the potential for progress , as Biden 's presidency nears its end , ahead of the transition to President-elect Donald Trump . <p> While specifics on the officials involved and their progress remain undisclosed , these negotiations include key players like Israel , Hamas , and other regional parties . With ongoing violence following a deadly attack on Israel by Hamas , the efforts come amid broader regional concerns , including the situation in Syria and efforts to secure the release of abducted journalist Austin Tice. 
@@118690143 <p> Turkiye 's strongman Recep Tayyip Erdogan had backed the various factions of Sunni rebels ranged against the minority Alawite dynasty . Alawites are a sect of Shias and Erdogan sees himself as one of the most prominent leaders of Sunni Islam , challenging Saudi Arabia 's dominant position . <p> The collapse of the Bashar-al Assad regime in Syria was unexpected ; more so as Assad appeared to have Syria in control except for the area near the border with Turkiye , and was now acceptable to the Arab leaders who had once treated him like a pariah . Yet , the end came swiftly with the Syrian army offering no resistance . The end of the Assad dynasty 's rule has changed the power equation in West Asia . There has been a dramatic reshuffle on the chess board of the region . The Russia-Syria-Iran axis has been broken . Supporters of the Sunni rebels , Turkiye , Saudi Arabia , Qatar , UAE and other Gulf-Arab states will now be calling the shots . The US and its European allies are delighted because Bashar al Assad , with his close ties to Iran and Russia was the enemy on the ground . <p> The Assad regime , despite its many faults , was largely secular and did not discriminate on the basis of religion . On a visit to Syria just before the civil war began , a nun in a convent-seminary on the outskirts of Damascus was terrified at the prospect of the Sunni rebels taking over the country . There were widespread rumours that Idlib and other areas adjoining Turkiye were under the control of rebel forces . " It will be only a matter of time before they enter Damascus and take over the country , ' ' said Agastha , a Catholic nun . " We will probably all be shot dead as kafirs , ' ' she predicted . This was before 2011 , when the fighting really started and the civil war was in full force . She was also surprised that the " Christian nations like the US and Europeans do not understand our plight and the threat to our church . ' ' Sister Agastha was unaware of geo-politics and strategic interests of nations that made for strange bedfellows . <h> Peaceful takeover of Damascus <p> So far , the main rebel group led by Abu Mohammad al-Jolani , the leader of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , has acted responsibly . He has instructed his fighters not to shoot at civilians , ensure that public property is not damaged and assured minority Christians , Alawites , and Druze that they will not be harmed . However , considering that the rebel fighters are made up of diverse groups with different ideologies , the fear that radical elements will take control is always there . European leaders are aware of this . German foreign minister Annalena Baerbock warned that " the country must not now fall into the hands of other radicals " . France has also said as much . Meanwhile , the US has begun air strikes across Syria from late Sunday in an effort to get at " the ISIS leaders , operatives and camps ' ' , the US Central Command said in a statement . It also warned CENTCOM , together with allies and partners in the region , will continue to carry out operations to degrade " ISIS 's capabilities even during what CENTCOM called " this dynamic period in Syria . " The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria is a dreaded terror group that carried out the most brutal killings and terrorized European capitals . It was at its most powerful during 2015 when it held territory in both Iraq and Syria . By 2017 , it lost ground ; today it operates in certain pockets in Syria . <p> The US is hoping to neutralise the ISIS and ensure it does not emerge again as the transition process begins in Syria . Israel also bombarded certain areas in Syria to destroy remnants of the regime 's chemical factories . <p> The big winner here is Turkey 's strongman Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who had backed the various factions of Sunni rebels ranged against the minority Alawite dynasty . Alawites are a sect of Shias and Erdogan sees himself as one of the most prominent leaders of Sunni Islam , challenging Saudi Arabia 's dominant position . As the keepers of Mecca and Medina , the two holiest shrines of Sunni Islam , Saudi Arabia enjoys a special status among Sunni Muslims . However , despite their rivalry Turkiye , Saudi Arabia , the UAE as well as other Arab sheikdoms were together in their support for the rebel factions . <p> Erdogan has been fighting not just the Asad regime but the Kurds in both his own country and in Syria . He is now in a commanding position as his years of support for the Sunni rebels will give him considerable leverage with the new government , whenever it takes control in Damascus . Syrian Kurds are concentrated in the north-eastern part of the country that borders Turkiye and Iraq . Erdogan has been fighting Kurds in his own country and regards Syrian Kurds too with a great deal of suspicion . The US has backed Syrian Kurds , who , thanks to the civil war and the weakness of the Asad regime , were able to enjoy a certain degree of autonomy . This could be threatened by the next government in Damascus and lead to confrontation between the US and Turkiye . The US has military bases in the Kurdish area of Syria . <p> Erdogan has been fighting the Kurdistan Workers Party or the PKK , in his own country . The PKK has long waged an insurgency for greater political and cultural rights in Turkiye . <p> Besides Turkiye , other winners are the US and the West . Asad was backed to the hilt by Russia and his regime would have collapsed much earlier without Russian troops on the ground . President Vladimir Putin 's involvement in Syria gave him a foothold in West Asia and helped Russia to pull far above its weight in the region . Assad had allowed Moscow a naval base in Tartous and an air base in Latakia . Tartous is a large port city in Syria , second only to Latakia . The naval base gave Russia a strategic presence in the region while the airbase had made it easy for Russia to enhance its strike capability . The new government whenever the power transition is done is unlikely to allow Moscow these privileges . <p> With Russian troops busy in the Ukraine front , there was no help forthcoming from Putin . Washington will be delighted by the fact that Russia 's influence in Syria and the region is now vastly diluted . Many in the West are crediting Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's war in Gaza and Lebanon and its face-off-with Iran as the main reason for the collapse of the Asad government . Israeli has broken the back of Hezbollah , killed its leader and decimated its command structure . It is no longer in a position to bolster Asad 's army . The Syrian army collapsed like a house of cards without the help of Russia and Hezbollah to bolster its defences . Despite the bombings regularly carried out by Israel on Syrian targets , Israel had working relations with Asad . Even when the Iranian mission in Damascus was bombed by Israel , Syrian response was muted . <h> Iran is a major loser <p> The fall of Asad is a major blow to Iran and has further eroded its position in the region . The Shia crescent that stretched from Iran to pockets in Iraq , down to Syria and Lebanon has collapsed . Getting any of its earlier proxies reorganized and ready would not be easy . Iran is in all sorts of trouble with an emboldened Israeli Prime Minister ready to take further risks . Netanyahu could well aim at striking Iran 's nuclear facilities , considering it destroyed much of the country 's air defence in its retaliatory raid on Iran in October this year . <h> India <p> India has always had cordial relations with Syria and the Assad dynasty . It had consistently sided with India on Kashmir , at a time when most Arab countries solidly backed Pakistan . Again , during the government 's scrapping of article 370 in 2019 , Damascus said it was India 's internal matter . In 2008 , Bashar al-Assad 's visit to India led to signing of agreements in agriculture and IT , underscoring the strong economic ties between the two countries . Foreign Office Consultations between India and Syria were held in Delhi on November 29 . At the end of the talks , the MEA in its statement said : Both sides also discussed avenues to deepen the bilateral relationship with a special focus on areas like pharmaceuticals , developmental partnership and capacity building . The two sides also exchanged perspectives on important regional and global issues of mutual interest . ' ' All this will for the moment be in limbo . <p> Like other countries , New Delhi is watching developments there . However Indian investments in . " We are monitoring the situation in Syria in the light of on-going developments . We underline the need for all parties to work towards preserving the unity , sovereignty and territorial integrity of Syria . We advocate a peaceful and inclusive Syrian-led political process respecting the interests and aspirations of all sections of Syrian society . Our Embassy in Damascus is in contact with the Indian community , for their safety and security ' ' the MEA said in a statement on Sunday . 
@@118690158 <p> As tensions escalate in West Asia , Israel has been criticised for its " land grab " in Syria , days after the fall of the Assad regime . Furthermore , Netanyahu is set to testify in court for the corruption charges placed against him . <p> With the toppling of the Assam regime in Syria , Syrians continue to celebrate the start of a new era . However , neighbouring state Israel has fresh strikes towards Damascus , days after staking its claim on occupied Golan Heights . <p> Israel 's " land grab " has been criticised by gulf states such as Saudi Arabia , Qatar and Iraq . As tensions continue escalate , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was called to the witness stand in the corruption case against him . <h> West Asia Tensions Latest Developments <h> Syria Civil War <p> Days after the collapse of the Assam regime , Israel started attacking Syria after taking control of a " buffer zone " . Israel 's occupation of Golan Heights and its " land grab " has been condemned by Gulf states such as Qatar , Saudi Arabia and Iraq . <p> Furthermore , loud explosions were reported in Damascus on Tuesday . As per AFP , the explosions came hours after the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported around 250 Israeli air strikes on Syrian territory . <p> As per the UK-based war monitor , Israel has carried out several air strikes on military targets , research centres and other areas in Syria . <p> Along with Israel , the United States and Turkey have also bombed several Syrian airbases and military sites in order to " stabilise " the region and prevent the bases from being taken over by ISIS . <p> As HTS now takes over Syria , rebel leader Abu Mohammed al-Julani has stated that a list of former senior officials will be released soon . This list will determine which officials will be charged for " torturing the Syrian people " . <p> " We will offer rewards to anyone who provides information about senior army and security officers involved in war crimes , " rebel leader Abu Mohammed al-Julani said in a statement on Telegram . <h> Netanyahu On Trial <p> Amid the Gaza war , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been called to testify in the corruption case against him . <p> Netanyahu is facing three separate cases of corruption filed in 2019 . The Israeli PM , who has been accused of bribery , fraud and breach of trust , has denied all charges and stated that the allegations against him are part of a " witch-hunt " by people who want him out of office . <p> Ahead of the testimony , Netanyahu carried out a heated press conference during which the prime minister focused his comments on the situation in Syria and the ongoing war with Hamas in Gaza . <h> War On Gaza <p> As the war in Gaza continues to escalate , the Yemeni group Houthis launched an attack towards central Israel in response to " massacres " in Gaza . <p> Since October 7 , 2023 , nearly 45,000 people have been killed in Israeli attacks . The majority of these deaths have been attributed to women and children . <p> Despite the ceasefire talks resuming , Israel has stated that it does not plan to stop the war in Gaza . <p> During a press conference , PM Netanyahu stated that the war in Gaza " wo n't end now " . <p> " If we end the war now , Hamas will return , recover , rebuild and attack us again -- and that is what we do not want to go back to , " said Netanyahu. 
@@118690460 <h> Syria crisis : The State Department said the US had arranged with local groups to secure the shuttered US Embassy compound in Damascus , which suspended operations in 2012 and had been until recently under the protection of the Czech Embassy . <p> Syria crisis : The designated terror group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , also known as HTS , stormed into power after overthrowing the 50-year-long rule of Bashar al-Assad 's family in Syria , following an armed revolt against the Syrian government . Hayat Tahrir al-Sham 's takeover pushed Western countries , especially the United States into a state of dilemma about making a tie with a designated terror outfit . However , it seems that the US is ready to shift its position . The State Department on Monday said it is not actively reviewing the " foreign terrorist organisation " designation of the main Syrian rebel group that overthrew Bashar Assad 's government , but , it said such designations are constantly under review , and that even while it 's in place , the label does not bar US officials from speaking with the group . <p> " There is no specific review related to what happened " over the weekend , " State Department spokesman Matthew Miller told reporters . That said , we are always reviewing . Based on their actions , there could be a change in our sanctions posture , but we have nothing today , " <p> He said a review could be initiated if Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , known as HTS , takes steps to reverse the reasons for its designation . That would be based entirely on its actions , Miller added . <p> The designation imposes numerous sanctions against those targeted , including a ban on the provision of " material support " to such groups , although Miller said that would not necessarily prevent discussions between its members and US officials . <p> US needs to engage with HTS : Miller <p> HTS will be an " important component " in what transpires in Syria and the US needs to " engage with them , appropriately , and with US interests in mind " , said a senior administration official , who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations . <p> US cites Taliban to make tie with HTS <p> Miller cited the case of the Trump administration negotiating with the Taliban over the US withdrawal from Afghanistan , but later conceded that the Taliban has never been designated in the same way . <p> Instead , the Taliban was listed as a " specially designated terrorist organisation " , a label that comes with less stringent sanctions . <p> Nevertheless , Miller said US officials " do have the ability , when it is in our interest , legally to communicate with a designated terrorist organisation " . <p> US , Jordan in touch over Syria crisis <p> Meanwhile , President Joe Biden and Jordan 's King Abdullah II spoke by phone about the rapidly evolving situation in Syria and joint efforts to keep the Islamic State militant group from exploiting the situation , according to the White House . <p> In their call , Biden and the Jordanian monarch also discussed the dozens of US airstrikes conducted on Sunday targeting IS leaders and fighters in the Syrian desert as well as ongoing efforts to reach a ceasefire and hostage deal in Gaza . <p> The call came as Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs John Bass and Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern Affairs Barbara Leaf were in the region holding consultations with key partners . They were in Amman , Jordan , on Monday and were in Doha , Qatar , over the weekend , the State Department said . 
@@118690666 <h> Syria Pushes Gaza Genocide and Ukraine Defeat Off The Front Pages <h> How will Trump cope <p> " Assad has fled his country . His protector Russia was not interested in protecting him any longer . " This is President-elect Donald Trump 's observation on the events in Syria . How will these words echo with President Volodymyr Zelensky fighting with his back to the wall in Ukraine . If Russia can drop Assad , will Trump keep an albatross around his neck ? <p> Meanwhile , Benjamin Netanyahu , literally fighting with his back to the wall with Hezbollah and Hamas , has exulted : " Assad 's fall reverses the most important part of the " Shia " axis with Iran . " The Israeli premier 's exultation would ring true if Iran had not been polite in its goodbye to Assad . With usual subtlety , Iran has distinguished between Assad and Syria . <p> Quite in sync has been the statement by the leader of the rebels Abu Mohammad al Jolani , much the most important rebel leader . His refrain " Syria is for all Sunnis , Alawis , Christians , Druze " has found wide traction . <p> The earth shaking news that Assad 's fall has promoted is , quite ironically , the abrupt disappearance from the front page of two wars that have kept the world in their thrall . Why should a war inching towards a nuclear exchange be abruptly taken off the air waves ? Because the West was losing ? <p> Not only are the Syrian developments a welcome diversion for the West from wars that were not going well for the West . Assad 's fall also has the potential of being spun as a vindication of the Arab Spring . " Get out of the way , Assad " ordered Secretary of State Hillary Clinton . She can now claim to have been vindicated , even though the circumstances in 2011 were totally different . <p> The growing consensus among non mainstream media experts is this : the western effort in Ukraine is not to accept an obvious defeat . Moreover , everything has to avert a debacle . The new treasure trove in cash and weaponry to Kyiv , would , in Trump 's parlance , be tantamount to throwing good money after bad . He is quiet for a simple reason : he would like to negotiate honorably with Putin . He would not like to throw in the towel but have Zelensky on his feet walk towards Putin to strike a bargain however degrading which the pliant media will sell with favourable headlines . <p> Ofcourse , there is a pall of mist on the rapidity with which Assad fell . The almost cheerful appearance of Assad and his wife granted asylum in Moscow tells its own tale . Russian bases in Syria have been promised full protection by the incoming regime in Damascus . <p> Stories of vandalism of the Iranian embassy appear to be solo incidents without any organizational support . <p> There are so many fingers in the Syrian pie that it is difficult to spot the master choreographer . That Russia has vital interests in Syria as it does in Ukraine makes it the key author of the surprising turn . <p> Two other developments in the region have been marked by their masterly stealth : Riyadh-Tehran rapprochement and the coming together of all Palestinian groups ranging from Hamas to the Palestinian authority . Both these arrangements were painstakingly stitched together by China . Never in history have China and Russia been closer . <p> There have been plenty of agreements on issues stretching from Ukraine to the East Mediterranean . Take the Astana process for Syria , for instance , between Russia , Iran and Turkey . <p> In the deal a crucial player is also Turkey . So far , standing four squares behind Hamas as it faces history 's first live televised genocide , have been the following : Iran , Hezbollah , Hazb al Shaabi ( Iraq ) and the Houthis of Yemen -- all Shia variants . A prominent role being assigned to Turkey in Syrian affairs , brings a major Sunni country into focus . Recep Tayyip Erdogan 's profile receives a boost . Is Azerbaijan part of the deal with Turkey where Iranian interests are considerable ? <p> Russians along with Turkey and Iran appear to have played an amazing hand . Assad 's fall provides a face saver for Israel and the US in West Asia and for the West in Ukraine . <p> The chaotic situation in Georgia where the President Salome Zourabichvili refuses to accept the Pro Russia verdict of the national elections held in October . This is not the only flashpoint President Trump faces when he enters the White House . The US 's key interest in the Pacific Basis has been blown to Smithereens , by inept politics in South Korea . <p> Former State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland 's handiwork in Ukraine is tearing apart . Likewise Donald Lu Under Secretary of State for South Asia has egg on his face for the explosive situation developing in Bangladesh . Pakistan and Afghanistan are on edge as are Romania , Moldova . Having called snap elections President Emanuel Macron finds himself without a government in France because he will not have a leftist Prime Minister . Fascism stares Germany in the face . <p> This incomplete list of the world 's chaotic spots is simply to place in balance the dwindling G7 and the expanding BRICS . <p> The fall of the Soviet Union , for reasons of its own , brought the US into focus as the Sole Superpower . The collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008 signaled the flaws in the NeoCons mismanagement of globalization . <p> Trump would do well to remember his conversation with Jimmy Carter . " The Chinese are going ahead of us " , Trump lamented . " What should we do ? " Carter 's reply was succinct . " Except for one skirmish with Vietnam in 1979 , China has not fought a war ; we have never stopped being at war . " <p> The US 's 760 bases worldwide and wars without end were glibly explained : the Military Industrial Complex has to be kept busy . Defeats in Vietnam , Iraq , Afghanistan , Ukraine , Iraq , Afghanistan , Ukraine should cause military analysts to pause . <p> The recent relentless bombardment of the Gaza strip by one of the great military powers , without achieving any of its war aims and heaping upon itself the odium of an Apartheid state committing genocide for over a year on live television defies description . How will Trump cope ? <p> Saeed Naqvi is a senior journalist and writer . The views expressed here are the writer 's own . 
@@118690844 <h> After Assad 's fall , Palestine is sidelined again . Trump might bring it back -- for himself <h> Despite the clear , causal link between Gaza and Damascus , the resolution of the Israel-Palestine conflict has emerged as a casualty of Syria 's collapse . But Trump 's narcissistic tendencies might change that . <p> A pro-Trump hoarding in Israel after his election as US President in November Photo ( c ) Copyright Thomson Reuters 2024 <p> Follow Us : <p> Text Size : <p> Fourteen months after the Hamas-Israel war , the Palestinian issue is once again being sidelined . There 's just so much else going on . Hezbollah has called for a truce with Israel , dropping its earlier demand for a ceasefire in Gaza . Meanwhile in Syria , Bashar al-Assad 's regime has collapsed even faster than Ashraf Ghani 's artificial government in Afghanistan . <p> On the surface , the recent withdrawal of attention from the Palestinian issue seems to be a fallout of the multiple twists and turns that West Asia provides , with no method to it . But that is a mistake . <p> While the Israel-Palestine issue is chock-a-block with a complicated history and conflicting narratives , it is typically examined through the lens of the convergence or divergence in the positions of both sides on three issues -- territorial compromise , the fate of settlements , and military arrangements . <p> The perspective I wish to propose addresses the historical dynamics in how the conflict has been perceived -- at times as a bilateral issue that Palestine and Israel should resolve for the benefit of their respective citizens , and , at other times , as the key to peace and stability in the wider Middle East . <p> But as history has shown , the Palestinian issue rarely stays buried . And this time , Donald Trump could be the one to bring it back -- with peace as his prize . <h> Regional priority or bilateral problem ? <p> Until the Arab Spring of December 2010 , the resolution of the Israel-Palestine conflict was regarded as much more than merely settling a dispute between two opposing entities . This broader perspective gave rise to the Madrid Conference , the Oslo Accords , Shimon Peres ' vision of a " New Middle East " , and the establishment of the Palestinian Authority . <p> Even before it became apparent that the negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians were leading to a peace agreement -- rather than an escalation of the conflict -- the 1994 Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to Yitzhak Rabin , Shimon Peres , and Yasser Arafat in recognition of the Oslo Accords . The regional significance attributed to Israeli-Palestinian reconciliation during the 1990s provided a justification for the award , despite the eventual outcome still being uncertain . <p> Following the events of 2010-2011 and the collapse of the regional order in West Asia , the prevailing paradigm began to shift . A marked disregard for the significance of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict emerged , coupled with a growing indifference toward the consequences of lacking a viable political framework for its resolution . <p> The fall of regimes in Tunisia and Egypt and the rise of ISIS in Syria and Iraq were seen as unconnected to the stagnation of Israeli-Palestinian negotiations . Compounding this was the internal division within the Palestinian leadership , which struggled to reconcile the secularised regime in the West Bank with Hamas in Gaza . This fragmentation played a key role in the diminishing prominence of the Palestinian issue on the international stage . <p> The culmination of this neglect was seen in initiatives such as the I2U2 grouping -- comprising India , Israel , the UAE , and the US -- and the G20 's India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor ( IMEC ) initiative , where the Palestinian cause was barely acknowledged . <p> India 's shifting position on the conflict offers another lens through which to see this change , especially when comparing the two right-wing leaders who have led the country . It is often argued that Atal Bihari Vajpayee , during his tenure as Foreign Minister from 1977 to 1979 , maintained a pro-Palestinian stance , and continued to exercise caution toward the Palestinians when he became Prime Minister two decades later . <p> This stands in stark contrast to Narendra Modi , who became the first Indian Prime Minister to visit Israel in 2017 . While he travelled to Ramallah a few months later and reiterated support for an " independent Palestinian state , " the visit was relatively low-key compared to the high-profile Israel trip and avoided reaffirming India 's traditional stance on Jerusalem as the capital of a future Palestinian state . Modi has also abstained from key anti-Israel votes at international forums and forged warm ties with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> This difference between the two leaders is frequently attributed to their distinct affiliations with Hindutva ideology and their respective views on Israel 's success in surviving within a hostile Muslim environment . However , it seems to me that the simplest explanation lies in the timing of Modi 's rise to power . By the time he assumed office , a few years after the Arab Spring , an international consensus had already emerged -- one that increasingly viewed the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as a bilateral issue with minimal impact on the broader dynamics of the Middle East . <h> Footnote to frontline , and back again <p> After the 7 October Hamas attack on Israel last year , the trend shifted once again . The Israeli-Palestinian conflict drew global attention , with Palestinians gaining considerable sympathy , both within Islamic countries and among progressive circles worldwide . The idea that no peace process , nor any economic initiative , can be viable in the Middle East until Palestinians and Israelis return to the negotiating table once again became the prevailing orthodoxy . <p> Hezbollah and the Houthis in Yemen even linked the end of their war with Israel to a ceasefire in Gaza . Despite all the horrors , there was a global glimmer of hope that the events of October 2023 might serve as the catalyst for the West and Arab countries to renew the Palestinian-Israeli peace process , without which West Asia risks remaining mired in conflict . <p> Yet , the Palestinian issue is once again being pushed out of international focus -- paradoxically under conditions that are the complete opposite of those during the Arab Spring . <h> Trump , Palestine , and the Nobel Prize <p> In 2011 , the world was caught off guard by the realisation that the Palestinian question had little bearing on the seismic shifts in West Asia , where threats to regional stability were more closely linked to radical Islam and the Sunni-Shiite divide . <p> However , this time , no one can deny the link between Hamas ' decision to invade Israel in October 2023 and the fall of the Assad regime . The Iranian proxy network that had bolstered groups like Hamas and Hezbollah abruptly collapsed when it became apparent that , unlike in the past , Iran lacked the capacity to deploy troops to rescue the Ba ? ath regime . Despite the clear , causal connection between Gaza and Damascus , the resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict has emerged as the first casualty of Syria 's collapse . <p> The principal reason for this is that the fall of Syria to Hayat Tahrir al-Sham is seen as a mere footnote to a much bigger event : the outcome of the US elections . <p> During his previous term , Donald Trump had effectively buried the Palestinian cause with the Abraham Accords , a series of agreements signed by Israel with four Arab nations -- the UAE , Morocco , Bahrain , and Sudan . He had also moved the US embassy to Jerusalem , fully aware of the humiliation it inflicted upon the Palestinians . He appointed an ambassador to Israel who was an outspoken supporter of West Bank settlements . For Trump , the peace agreements between Israel and the Gulf states , along with Morocco , were definitive proof that regional stability could be advanced without Israeli-Palestinian reconciliation . <p> But the Palestinian issue has a curious , Sphinx-like way of resurfacing on the global stage just when it seems to have been relegated to the background . It is perhaps within this paradox that Donald Trump 's narcissistic tendencies could serve as the driving force behind a renewed push to resolve the Palestinian-Israeli conflict . Trump , feeling slighted for failing to win the Nobel Peace Prize despite overseeing peace agreements between Israel and four Arab nations , may seek to claim the mantle of peacemaker where others have faltered . After all , Barack Obama was awarded the coveted prize for far less . <p> Should Trump come to realise that no Israeli-Saudi peace deal , however momentous , will secure his longed-for recognition as a true leader of peace without resolving the Palestinian question , he may just convince himself that a miracle can be wrought . With the full weight of American pressure behind him , he might be the one to orchestrate the unprecedented : a deal where Israel 's maximum concession aligns precisely with the Palestinians ' minimum compromise . In that moment , the impossible could become , if only for a fleeting moment , inevitable . <p> Lev Aran is a former coordinator of the Israel-India Parliamentary Friendship League and an Israel-based freelance columnist and journalist . Views are personal . 
@@118691130 <h> Netanyahu testified calmly in his corruption trial , revealing he once lost sleep over media coverage but later realized it had no real significance . <p> Tel Aviv : Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu appeared calm as he testified in his ongoing corruption trial on Tuesday . He shared personal insights , including how he once lost sleep over media coverage but later recognized it had no real significance . This contrasted with the prosecution 's portrayal of him as obsessed with his image . <p> This marks the first time a sitting Israeli prime minister has testified as a criminal defendant , a significant and embarrassing moment for a leader who has sought to project an image of a sophisticated and respected statesman . <p> As Netanyahu began his testimony , he greeted the judges with a " hello . " One of the judges informed him that , like other witnesses , he had the option to sit or stand as he wished . <h> Netanyahu Denies Corruption Charges , Claims Media and Legal Bias <p> " I waited eight years for this moment , to say the truth , " Netanyahu said , standing at a podium in a packed Tel Aviv courtroom . He called the charges against him " an ocean of absurdness " and promised his version would cut through the prosecution 's case . <p> He said he smoked cigars but could hardly finish them because of his workload , but hated champagne . One case revolves around him receiving a " supply line " of cigars and champagne from billionaire associates . <p> His lawyer asked that he be allowed to receive notes while testifying to help ensure he can continue running the country . <p> Netanyahu will answer during his court appearances to charges of fraud , breach of trust and accepting bribes in three separate cases . <p> He is accused of accepting tens of thousands of dollars ' worth of cigars and champagne from a billionaire Hollywood producer in exchange for assisting him with personal and business interests . He is also accused of promoting advantageous regulation for media moguls in exchange for favourable coverage of himself and his family . <p> Netanyahu , 75 , denies wrongdoing , saying the charges are a witch hunt orchestrated by a hostile media and a biased legal system out to topple his lengthy rule . His testimony caps years of scandals that have swirled around him and his family . <p> The testimony , set to take place six hours a day , three days a week for several weeks , will take up a significant chunk of Netanyahu 's working hours , prompting critics to ask if he can capably manage a country embroiled in a war on one front , containing the fallout from a second , and keeping tabs on other potential regional threats , including from Iran or the recent fall of Bashar Assad in Syria . <p> Netanyahu , in his testimony , said he could " find a balance " between both commitments . <p> Dozens of people gathered outside of the court in Tel Aviv , some protesting against Netanyahu , including family members of hostages held in Gaza , and also a group of his supporters . A banner draped in front of the court read : " Crime Minister . " Under Israeli law , indicted prime ministers are not required to step down . But the charges against Netanyahu cleaved deep divisions in Israel , with protesters demanding he resign and former political allies refusing to serve in government with the Israeli leader , triggering a political crisis that led to five elections in less than four years beginning in 2019 . <p> Netanyahu 's supporters view the charges as the result of the justice system 's bias and overreach . <p> Despite the pressure , the polarising Netanyahu has rejected calls to step down and has used his position as prime minister to lash out at law enforcement , media and courts . <p> An Israeli court rejected a request by Netanyahu 's lawyers to reduce the expected testimony hours , as well as several other requests to delay the start of the testimony , which they said were necessary because of the prime minister 's busy schedule and the country 's significant challenges . 
@@118691132 <h> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is testifying in court on Tuesday , facing charges of bribery , fraud , and breach of trust in three separate cases . <p> Tel Aviv : Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is testifying in court on Tuesday , facing charges of bribery , fraud , and breach of trust in three separate cases . <p> The ongoing trial comes at a time when Netanyahu is already facing criticism in Israel for allegedly prolonging the war in Gaza and delaying a potential ceasefire agreement that could lead to the release of around 100 hostages still held in the region since the Hamas attack on October 7 , 2023 , which triggered the 14-month conflict . <h> What Are 3 Corruption Charges Against Netanyahu <h> Telecom Trade-off <p> The most significant case against Netanyahu centers around an influence-peddling scandal , where two former aides have testified against him . They are accused of promoting regulations worth hundreds of millions of dollars to Israel 's Bezeq telecom company in exchange for favorable coverage of Netanyahu and his family on Bezeq 's popular news site , Walla.Nir Hefetz , a former spokesman for the Netanyahu family , and Shlomo Filber , the ex-director of the Communications Ministry , reached plea deals with prosecutors after being arrested alongside Bezeq 's controlling shareholder , Shaul Elovitch , and other top Bezeq executives , including Elovitch 's wife and son . Former Walla journalists have also testified that they were pressured to avoid negative reporting on Netanyahu . The charges in this case include bribery , fraud , and breach of trust . <h> Lavish Gifts <p> In the second case , Netanyahu faces accusations of accepting nearly $200,000 worth of gifts from Hollywood producer Arnon Milchan and Australian billionaire James Packer . Prosecutors allege that in exchange for a " supply line " of jewelry , expensive cigars , and champagne , Netanyahu lobbied on Milchan 's behalf regarding U.S. visa issues , attempted to secure a favorable tax break for him , and worked to promote his interests in Israel 's media sector . <p> The indictment also claims that Packer , who sought Israeli residency for tax reasons , provided Netanyahu with champagne and cigars . Netanyahu has defended himself , stating that the gifts were simply from friends . Another former aide , Ari Harow , is cooperating with the prosecution in this case . The charges include fraud and breach of trust . <h> Media Meddling <p> Netanyahu is also accused of offering a newspaper publisher legislation to weaken his paper 's main competitor in exchange for more favorable coverage . He was reportedly recorded asking Arnon Mozes , the publisher of Yediot Ahronot , for positive coverage in return for supporting a law to undermine Israel Hayom , a free pro-Netanyahu newspaper that had impacted Yediot 's business . Israel Hayom is funded by Netanyahu 's late American billionaire friend Sheldon Adelson and largely serves as a pro-Netanyahu platform . <p> Netanyahu has pointed out that the proposed law to weaken Israel Hayom never passed and that he even dissolved his coalition and called a new election in 2015 in opposition to the proposal . Ari Harow is also a state witness in this case . Additionally , TV reports , based on leaked police investigations , suggest that Adelson 's wife testified that Sara Netanyahu pressured her to provide gifts and favorable media coverage . The charges in this case include fraud and breach of trust . 
@@118691295 <p> As 2024 draws to a close , Google has released its Year in Search 2024 list , offering a glimpse into the topics that captured the attention of Indians . The searches revealed a " fascinating spectrum " of interests , spanning sports , entertainment , practical queries , and trending terms , according to a Google blog . " Globally , there are billions of searches daily on Google -- and 15% of them are brand new , " the blog noted . <p> In 2024 , India 's search for meanings spanned diverse topics . The phrase " All Eyes on Rafah " became the most-searched term.Quirky lingo like " Pookie , " and cultural terms such as " Tawaif , " also drew significant searches . <p> The phrase " All Eyes on Rafah " emerged as the most-searched meaning in 2024 . This AI-generated image depicted Palestinian displacement camps and became a viral sensation after an Israeli air strike caused a fire in a southern Gaza camp . <p> Following this , " Akaay " drew significant interest after Anushka Sharma and Virat Kohli announced their second child 's name . " Cervical cancer " also saw high search interest after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced $7.5 million in assistance to combat the disease . <p> Practical needs guided India 's ' near me ' searches , with " AQI near me " topping the list amid deteriorating air quality in cities like Delhi and Mumbai . Food and cultural interests were also evident as " Onam Sadhya near me " and " Ram Mandir near me " followed , especially after the inauguration of the Ayodhya Ram Mandir by PM Modi in January . <p> The top 10 ' near me ' searches were : <p> AQI near me <p> Onam Sadhya near me <p> Ram Mandir near me <p> Sports bars near me <p> Best bakery near me <p> Trendy cafes near me <p> Polio drops near me <p> Shiv temple near me <p> Best coffee near me <p> Hanuman movie near me <h> Google Year In Search 2024 -- ' How To ' Searches : Voting Tops the List <p> Practical queries continued to dominate in 2024 , with the top ' how to ' search being " How to vote Lok Sabha . " This reflected the massive participation in the Lok Sabha elections held in seven phases from April to June . " People also expressed questions and concerns about weather and health , with trending searches for " excessive heat " and " AQI ( Air Quality Index ) near me " , " the blog noted . <h> Google Year In Search 2024 : Entertainment and Sports <p> Entertainment searches reflected a broad spectrum of interests . Films like Stree 2 , Hanu-man , and 12th Fail captured attention , while web series like Heeramandi and Mirzapur dominated the small screen . Korean dramas , including Queen of Tears , also featured prominently . <p> In sports , events such as the IPL and the Olympics drew significant interest . Cricket , unsurprisingly , dominated searches , with players like Vinesh Phogat and Hardik Pandya trending among personalities . <h> Google Year In Search 2024 : Memes and Relationship Trends <p> The humour of memes resonated deeply with Indians . The " Blue Grinch Knee Surgery " and " Gen Z Boss " memes became popular , while the " Orange Peel Theory " meme sparked conversations about relationships . 
@@118705863 <h> Why it is Imperative to Support Independent Journalism <h> Share : <p> As a loyal reader of Countercurrents.org ( CC ) I am writing this letter to you all to espouse support for this website . In today 's world , Independent journalism should be ensured with the help of the readers , and well-wishers of CC . As a reader , I feel that ignoring the appeal for fundraising is not ethical . Earlier in December , the call from CC 's editor Binu Mathew was noticed by some and not by others . This AD free website was established twenty-two years ago and it is still going strong . The fundraising is only done once a year in December as many of you know . Some of you may have noticed that I am also a contributor to CC . I have stated in the opening remark that I am writing to you all as a reader . <p> What compelled me to write this open letter , you may ask . Well , few days ago , a very personal appeal by the editor to the entire Countercurrents community came to my attention . He sounded very frustrated by the lack of response from the CC readers . He waited a few days after the initial request to the CC readers and subscribers went through its newsletter . He saw that it is the same groups of people ( readers ) are donating to the annual fund drive . We must not think that since others are giving it absolves us from doing our due diligence . This kind of attitude is very selfish and unprincipled . All of us should open our wallets and pitch in according to our means . Extending your hand to an altruistic cause is the decent thing to do . After all , you all are CC readers , and supporting it should come naturally . Countercurrents.org is neither dying nor shrinking ; it is just facing some financial challenges like any other Independent news agencies that do not rely on corporate sponsors . <p> Now , I will tell you why I prefer reading the Countercurrents over other news journals . As I open my email in the morning , usually the CC newsletter is there in my inbox unless there is some technical glitch which results in no delivery . Usually , it is there and I tend to open it first by overlooking all the other emails from friends , family , and other publications . Looking through the CC newsletter first thing has become part of my daily routine and it feels great to see what my editor has put together for the day . <p> CC newsletter is a window to the world as things are happening in the subcontinent and beyond . It is an abridged version of the CC website so to speak . With the newsletter , I can get caught up on the developments on the worldwide events . CC editors do a fine job in synthesizing that day 's events around the globe . As a result , I do not have to log into any other news outlets to find the latest news . Morning to noon is a busy time for me and the newsletter provides a synopsis of the latest news around the globe and keeps me updated . <p> Globally , independent journalism 's primary duty is to follow the news and report everything without any bias , and favoring any political party . They just report the truth . Countercurrents in all its articles highlight from the perspectives of the disadvantaged , or those who are persecuted , or being treated unfairly . Countercurrents.org is not in the habit of bending the truth to please anyone . Twisting facts or relying on speculations will be considered yellow journalism . CC prides itself for its quality and excellence . As a reader , I respect that very much . <p> I sort of made a decision not to mention any contributor by name in this letter . The reason being , I am a fan of many writers here . Therefore , the list will be very long ! I do not want to pick and choose . But I will make an exception here in mentioning CC 's long time contributor Bharat Dogra . His commitment to the marginalized communities in India is very praiseworthy . Reading his pieces on how unfairly India 's Dalit Community is treated often brings tears to my eyes . He is a huge supporter for change of minority community 's girls/women . India 's farmers who grow food to feed the nation are another topic he writes about without fail . Though the situation on the ground is often grim his end message is always hopeful that one can overcome societal division if someone champions for the cause of the disadvantaged and the needy . Seeing his article on the man who was burnt badly haunts me , and I wonder how he is doing . These are real life people like you and I who are enduring pain in the hands of others . I feel honored that I share the space with him here . My articles are varied in theme as I do not want to be predictable . But if someone has one goal to write about one topic , or a group of people , I very much respect that person . We all are different in our thinking . <p> I think as CC writers , we all complement one another . If I have time I would read a couple of articles in the morning , and bookmark the rest to read later . I always make sure to read those as they cover important issues that are happening in the subcontinent and beyond . It is a perfect balance . As if we are working in solidarity by taking a stand against all the injustices of this world . We all are strong voices for the voiceless . <p> The way CC has been persistently highlighting the War on Gaza and the plight of the Palestinians can be termed as journalism at its best . If there was a category for international media reporting -- CC without a doubt would have gotten a Pulitzer Prize for its aggressive coverage on the war on Gaza . <p> Because of the CC newsletter , we get a quick glance at many new articles that were uploaded . Since the newsletter is a mini part of Countercurrents ( an internationally famous progressive left leaning journal ) it also sheds light to other important stuff like world hunger ( in Sudan for example , where thousands are starving to death ) , climate change , environment , politics , and patriarchy . <p> With the reading of the CC newsletter we also see the poignant pieces in the Arts and literature section ( my personal favorite ) . <p> CC newsletter gives a reader an impression and clear understanding that those who contribute to CC are " cultural products of progressive minded people " of this millennium . I was reading something late last night along that line in John Updike 's short story collection titled " My Father 's Tears and other stories . " <p> I personally believe the CC newsletter is a wonderful addition to the CC website for the convenience of the readers . My humble suggestion to the editor in enhancing the newsletter will be that at the end of each week , he selects a few articles that he felt were important reads to him and make a few comments . This comment section can be called the " Editor 's Notes . " It will be a nice way to end the week . More importantly , all the CC readers will get to know its editor better and get them familiarized with his way of thinking . <p> Countercurrents.org has been consistent in its reporting . My encounter with CC is from 2017 onwards . After writing for traditional media for ten years , I got exasperated by the way a lot of the media houses treat their female contributors . I have found some of the male section editors have something against women writers . Therefore , they do not give them a prominent placement nor do they run their pieces as a lead article . Frustrated by such ill treatment I bid goodbye to those mainstream newspapers/journals and came to CC . Here I am respected as this journal is gender- blind . <p> FYI , Countercurrents.org has ranked at the very top as a left leaning progressive journal in 2024 . <p> As a well-regarded and self-respecting journalist/editor , Binu Mathew does not run reports to help or favor any politician . He does not accept or ask for corporate sponsorship or donations . His demand to the CC readers is very simple . As we read CC , justifiably he thinks it is the readers who should come forward to protect this journal by supporting it financially . CC plays a dominant role to inform its readers who otherwise will be overwhelmed by fake news and yellow journalism . Those news agencies are always distorting facts and damaging peoples ' perception in recognizing what the truth is . As a result , a lot of the readers are losing grip to realize what really is going on in this chaotic world . We now live in a complex world of social media where things often seem misleading and crazy . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> On the flip side of the coin Countercurrents.org is playing a vital role in keeping the truth alive . <p> We have two duties here . 1 ) As readers we can continue reading CC , and 2 ) as writers we can keep on writing on the topics ( about injustice , the disadvantaged , minorities , helpless , destitute , and the sick ) that are usually ignored by the traditional newspapers . Therefore , as a member of the CC community , I urge all of you readers out there to chip in and support this journal . Maybe for this once you can wait a little longer to get that Apple watch or upgrade your iPhone . Some of you female readers can hold off getting the new designer sari that you want to wear at a New Year 's Eve party . Instead , you can offer that money to CC . Your little sacrifice will help CC to secure itself financially for the upcoming year in 2025 . <p> As readers of CC , it is important for us to join its editor and his small team to provide financial support . Without money no journal can survive . Therefore , please join the CC annual fundraising drive . <p> For the last eighteen years Countercurrents.org has emerged as truly as the voice of the diverse set of activists working on human rights , freedom of expression , climate change , nationality questions , ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118705873 <h> Will Syria Start a ' Regime Change ' Deluge in The Arab World ? <h> Share : <p> In less than a week , the Bashar al-Assad regime and that of this family fell , an era that lasted for more than half a century came to an end . <p> There is no room here to talk about that era , but the end was expected for a long time , as dictatorial regimes or family-based dynasties must end , just as happened to Hosni Mubarak , Zine El Abidine Ben Ali , Ali Abdullah Saleh and others . <p> Hours before the fall of Al Assad , I called on Arab rulers to reconcile with their people before the flood comes rushing through . And now the flood has begun to rage from Damascus , and I believe , it will not stop . <p> It will inevitably sweep away other rulers of this era who accepted humiliation , disgrace , betrayal and throwing themselves into the arms of Tel Aviv , Washington and other capitals of crime . <p> What happened recently in Syria will be a prelude to the other Arab peoples . I feel very optimistic , and I believe we are facing radical changes that will affect the Arab world , and I do not know who will be the next ruler to be swept away by this deluge . <p> Thanks to the Al-Aqsa flood that exposed , revealed and disgraced many of the treasonous and collaboration regimes in our Arab world . <p> This flood will be followed by a flood of another kind , which will sweep away with it every slacker , and everyone who betrayed and conspired against Palestine , its resistance and its people , and threw himself into the arms of the criminal West , and ignored what is happening in Gaza , which will be , God willing , the main reason for uprooting many of the apostate Zionist regimes . <p> The majority of the Arab peoples are now yearning for change , and even salvation from injustice and oppression , and I do not believe that the Arab situation will continue in this way , and the Syrian situation will constitute an important factor for the peoples to pounce and revolt against rulers who are certainly not of the Arab caliber , and I am certain that this will not last long . <p> Many of the Arab rulers are feeling their heads today , and perhaps they are working on reconsidering their calculations if they can , and they realize that when the people have their say , the end of the regime will be inevitable . <p> So will these people learn from what happened recently in Damascus ? The wise man is is the one who learns from others . Who will be the next ruler who will follow Mr. Al Assad ? <p> Whoever has the answer , let him tell us , and he will have a great prize presented by the poor servant who wrote this article , which is a kiss on his forehead , and kisses on the foreheads of all the free revolutionaries of the nation , and at the forefront of the heroic revolutionaries of Gaza . <p> This article was written by Palestinian writer Dr Mohammad Abu Baker for Al Rai Al Youm in Arabic and reprinted in www.crossfirearabia.com <p> The reports through Western presses read rather familiarly . Joyful residents taking selfies on abandoned , sullen tanks . Armed men ebullient and shooting into the sky with adventurist stupidity . The removal of ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118712836 <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is set to testify in a high-stakes corruption trial on Tuesday . The proceedings , intertwined with Israel 's ongoing war in Gaza , could have profound implications for his political future . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is set to testify in court on Tuesday , facing allegations of bribery , fraud , and breach of trust in three separate cases . The trial has drawn significant attention , given its implications for Israel 's political landscape and its timing amid escalating tensions in the region . <h> Delaying judicial proceedings amid war <p> Netanyahu 's repeated requests to delay his testimony , citing the ongoing Middle East crisis , were largely denied by the courts . Critics in Israel have accused him of prolonging the war in Gaza to deflect attention from his legal troubles . Observers suggest that Netanyahu 's focus on the war may be an attempt to delay judicial proceedings and avoid potential convictions . <p> The trial , initiated in May 2020 , has faced multiple delays and is now set to proceed with Netanyahu 's testimony . The Israeli Supreme Court previously rejected a request for a 10-week postponement , emphasizing that Netanyahu had ample time to prepare . <h> What are the charges against Netanyahu ? <h> Case 1000 : The " gifts affair " <p> In this case , Netanyahu and his wife Sara are accused of receiving extravagant gifts from wealthy businessmen , including Israeli film producer Arnon Milchan and Australian billionaire James Packer . The gifts , valued at approximately 700,000 shekels ( $186,000 ) , included champagne and cigars . <p> Netanyahu is alleged to have reciprocated by advancing Milchan 's interests , such as helping him secure a U.S. visa and promoting tax exemptions benefiting Israelis abroad . Then-Attorney General Avichai Mandelblit described the gifts as a " supply channel " linked to Netanyahu 's public roles . <p> Charges of fraud and breach of trust in this case carry potential prison sentences of up to three years . <h> Case 2000 : Media influence allegations <p> This case involves claims that Netanyahu struck a deal with businessman Aron Mozes , a controlling shareholder of the Israeli daily Yedioth Ahronoth . In exchange for favorable coverage , Netanyahu allegedly proposed legislation to curb the circulation of rival newspaper Israel Hayom . <p> Mandelblit 's indictment states that despite their rivalry , Netanyahu and Mozes conducted meetings between 2008 and 2014 to discuss mutual interests , including legislative efforts to limit Israel Hayom . Netanyahu faces fraud and breach of trust charges in this case . <p> As communications minister at the time , Netanyahu allegedly facilitated financial gains for Bezeq , including mergers , in exchange for favorable reporting about him and his wife . This case includes charges of bribery , which can result in up to 10 years in prison and significant fines . <h> Broader implications for Netanyahu <p> Netanyahu 's legal challenges come at a time of heightened scrutiny of his leadership . His opponents argue that his handling of both the war in Gaza and his court cases has deepened divisions within Israeli society . As the trial progresses , its outcomes may have far-reaching consequences for Netanyahu 's political career and Israel 's governance . 
@@118718526 <h> No respect for zebra crossings <p> Editor , It is astonishing how many people , especially drivers in Shillong , turn a blind eye to zebra crossings . Is it due to ignorance or do they simply ignore pedestrians trying to cross the road ? Recently , while strolling the streets of Laitumkhrah , I saw an elderly lady standing next to a zebra crossing , trying to cross . No driver stopped to let her pass . She stood there waiting for a while until the traffic police intervened . Why is it that in Shillong , nobody seems to understand the bold white stripes on the road surface ? Each vehicle is in a rush with no time to spare . Those stripes are there for a reason , not just for show . It is important for all of us to make a mental note of the white and black stripes henceforth . We should know the traffic rules before we get a license to drive . Pedestrians in Shillong hesitate before crossing the road because even at the zebra crossing , we are n't sure whether the stripes are for us or just a decorative piece . If it were n't for the hardworking traffic police , our roads would probably turn into a chaotic symphony of horns , near-misses , and vehicles conducting their own survival of the fittest experiment . To conclude , zebra crossings are a vital aspect of road safety , providing pedestrians with a designated space to cross while encouraging drivers to be more mindful and cautious . Their simple yet effective design ensures visibility and accessibility , making roads safer for everyone . However , their true value lies in how responsibly both pedestrians and drivers adhere to the rules , ensuring mutual respect and safety on the streets . Yours etc. , Adrialli Mary Lyngdoh , Via email <p> Syria in turmoil <p> Editor Apropos of the editorial " Dictators as dynasts " ( ST December 9 2024 ) the fall of Bashar al-Assad marks a significant turning point for Syria . The capital , Damascus is captured by a coalition of Syrian rebels throwing the country into an uncertain future with the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) also known as the " Organisation for the Liberation of the Levant " originally formed in 2011 under the name Jabhat al -Nusra -- an affiliate of Al-Qaeda gaining ground . The group was one of the most effective factions fighting against Assad 's regime , with its partner , the Turkish-backed Syrian Nation Army ( SNA ) formerly known as the Free Syrian Army established in 2017 under the auspices of Turkey , having taken control . The immediate aftermath in this power-shift is a power vacuum , with various factions vying for control . The HTS remains a dominant force . Assad 's fall is a blow to Russia and Iran , who supported his regime . This opens the door for greater Turkish influence in the region . The ongoing conflict and power struggles could exacerbate the humanitarian crisis , with millions of Syrians already displaced and helpless . Both Russia and Iran have invested heavily in supporting Assad 's regime to maintain their strategic interests in the region . Syria was a crucial ally and a gateway for their influence in the Middle East . Both countries have provided substantial military support to Assad , including troops , equipment and financial aid . Assad 's collapse means the loss of these investments and a setback in their military presence in Syria that weakens the geopolitical influence of these two countries . It also disrupts their plans to use Syria to counterbalance Western and regional rivals . Russia , embroiled in a relentless war with Ukraine , also faces high stakes decisions as its biggest Middle East naval base is at Tartus on Syria 's Mediterranean coast . Both countries have economic interests in Syria , including reconstruction contracts and access to resources . The instability following Assad 's fall jeopardizes these economic opportunities . The future of other Iranian-supported groups , such as the Houthis in Yemen and militias in Iraq , are now uncertain . These groups , along with Hamas in Gaza , formed what Iran called the Axis of Resistance . This has now been significantly impacted . Israel welcomes these changes as Iran is considered a threat . The editorial rightly stated that , ' life for the ordinary citizens would only worsen and new trouble is in store for the world at large from fundamentalists there . " The fall of Assad 's regime has created a complex and uncertain situation for Syria . Assad used strong-arm tactics against protests in 2011 . This led to a civil war resulting in over half a million deaths with approximately six million people displaced . The rise of groups like the HTS and SNA brings both opportunities and challenges . While the end of Assad 's rule could portend new beginnings , the presence of fundamentalist groups poses problems of stability and security . The humanitarian situation may worsen , with potential increase in displacement and economic hardships . The international community will need to navigate this new landscape carefully to support peace and reconstruction efforts . Yours etc ; VK Lyngdoh , Via email <h> Follow us <h> About Us <p> The Shillong Times first appeared as a tabloid weekly on 10th August 1945 under the editorship of Late Sudhindra Bhusan Chaudhuri . In 1958 it was converted to a Daily . Owing to financial constraints , within six months it reverted back to a weekly . 
@@118732560 <h> How Hamas ' Oct 7 attack smashed Iran 's ' Axis of Resistance ' <p> The October 7 , 2023 , Hamas-led attack on Israel marked a turning point for Iran and its network of proxies , leading to their strategic decline . While the attack demonstrated Hamas 's military capability , it overextended Iran 's resources and triggered widespread retaliatory campaigns by Israel . Key proxies , including Hezbollah and Hamas , faced severe setbacks due to depleted resources and loss of territorial control . The Assad regime in Syria collapsed under diminished support . Regionally , Gulf states and Egypt aligned with Israel , and the US intensified sanctions against Iran . This chain reaction weakened Iran 's influence , reshaping Middle Eastern geopolitics and highlighting the consequences of overreach . <p> Just as Hitler 's failed attempt to capture Stalingrad in World War II marked a decisive turning point against Nazi Germany , the events of October 7 , 2023 , signaled the beginning of a strategic collapse for Iran and its network of proxies . The Hamas-led assault on Israel , though bold and devastating , ultimately overextended Iran 's resources and provoked a massive retaliatory response that reshaped the geopolitical dynamics of the Middle East . What began as an ambitious display of proxy warfare became a moment of overreach , unraveling Tehran 's influence and culminating in the collapse of the Assad regime in Syria by December 2024 . <h> Hamas Attack on Oct 7 <p> The Hamas assault on Israel was among the most coordinated and deadly in recent history . It showcased the group 's capabilities but also provoked a swift and overwhelming response from Israel . This escalation set the stage for broader conflicts involving Iran-backed militias throughout the region . Iran 's material and logistical support for Hamas underscored its ambition to project power through its proxies . However , the attack revealed vulnerabilities in Tehran 's strategy , including overstretched resources and limited capacity to manage multiple fronts . The international backlash against Iran 's role in the attack led to intensified sanctions and increased scrutiny of its regional activities . <h> Israel Retaliates <p> Israel 's retaliatory military campaign extended beyond Gaza , targeting other Iran-linked groups such as Hezbollah in Lebanon and Iranian positions in Syria . These actions further strained Tehran 's resources and weakened its proxies . Following the October 7 attack , Iran faced mounting challenges . Its support for groups like Hamas , Hezbollah , and other militias heavily drained its limited resources , already strained by domestic economic struggles and sanctions . The regional escalation coincided with renewed anti-government protests in Iran , further undermining its stability . <p> Mourners carry bodies of Hezbollah fighters , who were killed during hostilities with Israeli forces , after a ceasefire agreement between the two parties took effect , in Al-Sawana , southern Lebanon December 3 , 2024 . REUTERS/Ali Hankir <p> Hezbollah , one of Iran 's most significant proxies , became increasingly vulnerable . Israel 's aggressive military campaign in southern Lebanon diverted Hezbollah 's focus from supporting Assad in Syria , depleting its resources and operational capacity . This weakened its ability to act as a stabilizing force for the Assad regime . Meanwhile , Iran and Hezbollah 's preoccupation with the fallout from October 7 left the Assad regime exposed . Syrian rebel groups , notably Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , capitalized on the reduced support from Assad 's allies to launch a coordinated offensive . By December 2024 , Damascus fell , marking the end of the Assad regime and diminishing Iran 's strategic depth in the region.Hamas faced severe consequences as well . While the attack on Israel elevated its status among certain factions , it provoked devastating Israeli retaliation that crippled its infrastructure in Gaza . The group also faced international condemnation , leading to diplomatic and economic isolation . Similarly , the Houthis in Yemen , emboldened by Iran 's initial support , escalated their aggression against Saudi Arabia and the UAE . However , increased Saudi-led coalition efforts in Yemen stretched Iran 's ability to support the Houthis , weakening its influence in other theaters like Syria and Lebanon . <h> Deep Divisons <p> The October 7 attack deepened divisions within the Middle East . Gulf states and Egypt strengthened their alignments with Israel against Iran-backed groups , while Turkey and other regional players recalibrated their positions to counterbalance Iran 's waning influence . US military support for Israel post-October 7 included sanctions targeting Iran 's financial networks and enhanced coordination against Iranian proxies . Israel 's targeted strikes in Syria and Lebanon disrupted Iranian supply chains , limiting its operational freedom in the region . <p> The events of October 7 , 2023 , set in motion a chain reaction that reshaped the Middle East . Iran , overstretched and weakened , lost critical ground in its regional ambitions . Key proxies like Hezbollah and Hamas faced unprecedented challenges , from resource depletion to loss of territorial control . The Assad regime , long reliant on Iran and Hezbollah , collapsed under diminished support and a renewed rebel offensive . For Iran and its proxies , October 7 marked the beginning of a prolonged period of strategic setbacks and recalibrations . This pivotal day highlighted the cascading consequences of overreach in the complex dynamics of Middle Eastern geopolitics . <h> About the Author <p> At TOI World Desk , our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock . With an unwavering commitment to accuracy , depth , and timeliness , we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world , delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers . Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world . 
@@118732744 <p> One of the most significant developments in recent years has been the formation of the so-called " alliance without limits " between Moscow and Beijing . Announced by Presidents Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping in February 2022 , just before Russia 's invasion of Ukraine , this alliance emphasises their commitment to strategic cooperation across security , economic , and political domains , without restrictions on their collaboration . <p> While strategic ties between Moscow and Beijing have strengthened since the early 2000s , the February 2022 declaration marked an unprecedented level of anti-American solidarity . A year later , Xi remarked on the historic changes he was setting in motion with Putin : " Right now there are changes -- the likes of which we have n't seen for 100 years -- and we are the ones driving these changes together . " The conviction that the US-dominated world order is crumbling has been a long-held belief for both leaders , particularly since the 2008 global financial crisis , fuelled by a surge of " declinist " literature in America and apparent political dysfunction during the Obama and Trump administrations . <p> Advertisement <p> The growing global interest in BRICS and the perceived rise of the Global South seemed to confirm the decline of the US-led international system . However , these assessments of American decline appear a lot less convincing today . The US economy has shown remarkable resilience , outpacing both the European Union and China in growth and technological innovation . The US continues to attract significant investment , maintaining a dynamic business environment , while Europe faces structural challenges such as declining population , high unemployment , and slower economic growth . China 's economy , though still growing , is decelerating due to demographic shifts , rising debt , and trade tensions . <p> The prospect of China overtaking the US in GDP terms now seems unlikely in the near term . Projections for 2024 estimate the US GDP at $29 trillion , compared to China 's $19 trillion and the Eurozone 's $16 trillion , with Russia lagging at around $2.5 trillion . <p> With America rebounding as an economic power , the return of Trump will impart vigorous new political will to Washington in challenging Sino-Russian ambitions for a post-Western order . Although the Sino-Russian alliance appears positioned to challenge the US across Europe , the Middle East and Asia , their coordinated efforts have not yielded the expected results . Instead , they have prompted a reassessment of US priorities in these regions . <p> What began as Russia 's brief " special military operation " in Ukraine is approaching its third year . Despite some recent territorial gains in eastern Ukraine , Russia has suffered significant losses in personnel and resources ; its political and economic position in Europe has taken a big dent . It seems increasingly unrealistic to believe Russia will emerge stronger from this conflict . As a hard-boiled realist , President Putin may have less inhibitions than his supporters in recognising the necessity of a reasonable settlement with the West . <p> In the Middle East , Iran , a key partner in the Sino-Russian alliance , is now on the defensive . Iranian proxies in Gaza and Lebanon have suffered setbacks , and Bashar al-Assad has fled to Moscow for refuge . Israel has battered Iran 's much-feared " axis of resistance " . The narrative has shifted from Iran 's ambition to overthrow US dominance to concerns about the survival of the Islamic Republic amid significant adversity . <p> In Asia , Beijing 's efforts to displace the US and assert dominance have suffered setbacks . The US has revitalised its alliances , formed new partnerships , and established institutions like the Quad and AUKUS . Trump is poised to intensify economic pressures on China , which , coupled with its slowing economy , will force Beijing to reconsider its strategies towards its neighbours and Washington . Engaging the US in bilateral negotiations has always been part of China 's strategy and may now acquire a new urgency . <p> Within the Republican foreign policy establishment , there are strong sentiments advocating an emphasis on countering China in Asia rather than expending valuable military resources in Ukraine . Some suggest a deal with Putin on Ukraine . During his presidential campaign , Trump frequently spoke of " un-uniting " Russia and China and referred to the natural contradictions between these neighbouring powers . His nominee for national security adviser , Mike Waltz , has proposed strategies to achieve this goal in an article published last month in The Economist . <p> A stronger America , led by Trump , wants to tempt both Russia and China into seeking separate agreements with Washington . This dynamic might allow Trump to exploit divisions between Moscow and Beijing . However , sceptics question the feasibility of this approach , pointing to the deepening economic ties and shared interests of Moscow and Beijing in countering the West . To be sure , there is continuing anti-American bravado in both Moscow and Beijing . Nonetheless , it is realistic to assume both Putin and Xi will prioritise their bilateral interests with the US over the building of a unified front against Washington . <p> It will be intriguing to see which of the two leaders -- Putin or Xi -- will be the first to betray the " alliance without limits . " Betrayal is inherent in statecraft , where self-interest often supersedes alliance commitments . The ancient text " Mitrabhedam " from the Panchatantra explores the complexities of friendship , trust and betrayal in the relations between sovereigns . Regardless of the outcome , Trump will undoubtedly attempt to fracture the Russia-China alliance . <p> Historically , Russia and China have oscillated between alignment and betrayal over the past eight decades . In the 1950s , they were ideological allies against American imperialism , but by the 1970s , both sought separate deals with the US , accusing each other of betrayal . By the late 1990s , they had rekindled their partnership to counter Washington . <p> The question remains : Does Trump possess the diplomatic acumen to divide the alliance between Russia and China ? Delhi is not in a position to influence the outcome of the new efforts by Trump to drive a wedge between Moscow and Beijing . Any deal that the US might want to make with Russia or China will involve the resolution of many complex issues . But does Delhi have a preference ? Yes , of course ! India would be pleased to see a reconciliation between Moscow and Washington on European security issues . That will make it easier to construct a " multipolar Asia " . But India has no reason to want a US-China deal that might produce a " bipolar Asia " . <p> The writer is contributing editor on international affairs for The Indian Express . Views are personal . 
@@118732799 <h> Opinion After six years at the helm of RBI , Shaktikanta Das passes the baton <h> He navigated a difficult domestic and global environment , while ensuring harmonious relations between North Block and Mint Street <p> Dec 11 , 2024 07:47 IST First published on : Dec 11 , 2024 at 07:47 IST <p> Share <p> Comments <p> Shaktikanta Das took over as RBI Governor in December 2018 after Urjit Patel had quit unexpectedly , citing personal reasons . Das has had a challenging tenure . In his six years as governor -- he was granted an extension in 2021 -- Das deftly navigated a difficult domestic and global environment . He led the central bank through a pandemic , the Russia-Ukraine war and the conflict in Gaza , while also leading it into newer areas such as digital currency . All the while , he ensured that relations between Mint Street and North Block were harmonious . <p> When he took over as governor , Das had to deal with the NBFC crisis , following the collapse of IL&amp;FS and Dewan Housing . However , the biggest challenge that the central bank had to face was the Covid pandemic . Under his leadership , the RBI acted quickly , loosening policy rates , and also announcing a series of measures to help cushion the economy from the consequences of the pandemic . <p> Advertisement <p> Das presided over a dramatic decline in bad loans of the banking system -- gross non-performing assets have fallen to 2.8 per cent of advances as of March 2024 , down from 10.8 per cent in September 2018 . On inflation management , the record of the central bank has been more mixed . It has been argued that the RBI had underestimated the price pressures in the economy following the recovery from the pandemic . As a consequence , it was slow to raise interest rates . <p> These fears proved to be justified when inflation breached the upper threshold of the central bank 's inflation targeting framework for three consecutive quarters . There are similar concerns now that the central bank is more worried about inflation , and less about growth , which is leading it to keep policy rates more restrictive than what is needed . On currency management as well , the central bank has been more interventionist , in 2022 and now . The pace at which its forex reserves have depleted indicates to some extent its interventions in the currency market . <p> Sanjay Malhotra , revenue secretary , will take over from Das as RBI Governor . Perhaps the government believes that a bureaucrat is better able to manage relations between the RBI and the finance ministry than an independent economist . Malhotra takes charge at a time when there is a growing clamour for the RBI to ease policy rates in order to support growth . His challenge will be to steer the central bank through a period of global and domestic uncertainty . 
@@118732808 <h> Knowledge nugget of the day : Hayat Tahrir al-Sham <h> The political upheaval in Syria has brought Hayat Tahrir al-Sham into the spotlight . What is this group , and what is the history of the Syrian war ? Also , go beyond the nugget to know about other groups in the region . <p> Rebel commander Abu Mohammad al-Jolani speaks at the Umayyad mosque in Damascus on December 8 . ( Reuters ) <p> Take a look at the essential events , concepts , terms , quotes , or phenomena every day and brush up your knowledge . Here 's your knowledge nugget for today . <h> Knowledge Nugget : Hayat Tahrir al-Sham <h> Subject : International Relations <h> Why in news ? <p> The Syrian civil war has seen major developments in recent days . The government of President Bashar al-Assad , who ruled the Middle Eastern country since 2000 , has reeled under sudden intense attacks from the rebel group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham . On Sunday ( December 8 ) , its members reached the capital Damascus and celebrated the fall of the regime led by Assad , who was reported to have fled the country . <h> Key Takeaways : <p> 1 . The Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , which Abu Mohammad al-Jolani leads , was founded in 2011 as Jabhat al-Nusra , the al-Qaeda 's branch in Syria . In 2016 , it broke away to form the Jabhat Fateh al-Shaam ( JFS ) , standing for the liberation of Shaam or the Levant ( the sub-region of the Middle East lying near the Mediterranean Sea , including Jordan , Syria , Lebanon , Israel and Palestine ) . <p> Advertisement <p> 2 . Bashir Ali Abbas , a Research Associate at the Council for Strategic and Defense Research , New Delhi , wrote in The Indian Express , " By 2017 , after merging with a number of other groups , the JFS became the HTS , which had a localized operational focus distinct from al-Qaeda 's global jihadist outlook . " <p> 3 . The group has controlled much of northwest Syria , and also set up a " salvation government " in 2017 to run day-to-day affairs in the region . <p> 4 . After a cease-fire brokered by Russia and Turkey in 2020 generated an uneasy calm in northwestern Syria , the group took the opportunity to restructure its forces , becoming more professional with better training and weapons . Slowly , other rebel organisations merged with them , making them the largest force in northwestern Syria . <p> 5 . The group is said to be driven by the jihadist ideology . However , by appointing Mohammad al-Bashir to the head of the " transitional " government of Syria , the HTS has sought to follow the example of Abdul Hakim bil Hajj 's Libya Islamic Fighting Group and is rebranding itself as a regional , pragmatic , and somewhat nationalist force , positioning itself as an ally of the West . <p> Advertisement <p> 6 . Abu Mohammad al-Jolani has personally reached out to neighbouring governments in Baghdad and Beirut , calling for good relations , even offering Syria 's services to the international community in identifying Assad 's chemical weapons remnants . ( The Taliban were quick to congratulate Syrians after Assad 's fall . ) <h> Syrian Civil War <p> The Syrian civil war began around the " Arab Spring " of 2010 , dubbed so as many countries in the Middle East and North Africa saw uprisings against authoritarian governments that had been in power for decades . Foreign governments , such as the United States and Russia , also engaged with the conflict based on their respective strategic interests . <h> BEYOND THE NUGGET : Other groups of the region which often see in news <p> Hezbollah <p> 1 . Hezbollah translates to " Party of God " . The Centre for Strategic and International Studies ( CSIS ) has previously described it as " The world 's most heavily armed non-state actor , with a large and diverse stockpile of unguided artillery rockets , as well as ballistic , antiair , antitank , and antiship missiles . " <p> Advertisement <p> 2 . Hezbollah originated during the Lebanese Civil War ( 1975-1990 ) , which was a result of " long-simmering discontent over the large , armed Palestinian presence in the country " , according to the Council on Foreign Relations ( CFR ) . <p> Hezbollah originated during the Lebanese Civil War . ( Reuters ) <p> Houthis <p> 1 . The Houthis are a large clan belonging to the Zaidi Shia sect , with roots in Yemen 's northwestern Saada province . Zaidis make up around 35 per cent of Yemen 's population . <p> 2 . The Zaidis ruled over Yemen for over a thousand years until 1962 , when they were overthrown and a civil war followed , which lasted until 1970 . The Houthi clan began to revive the Zaidi tradition from the 1980s , resisting the increasing influence of the Salafists , who were funded by the state . <p> Advertisement <p> 3 . Iran , a Shia-majority country , is believed to back the Houthis , even as it has denied the charge . Its regional rival , the Sunni-majority Saudia Arabia ( along with Western allies like the US ) backs the Yemen government . Houthis ' support for Palestine is , therefore , also a manifestation of existing regional rivalries . <p> Hamas <p> 1 . Hamas is a Sunni Islamist militant group and has been running the region of Gaza since 2007 . It opposes Zionism . <p> 2 . Hamas as a whole , or in some cases its military wing , is designated a terrorist group by Israel , the United States , the European Union , the United Kingdom , and other countries . <p> 3 . The group was founded in the late 1980s , after the beginning of the first Palestinian intifada , or uprising , against Israel 's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip -- the Jewish state had captured the two Palestinian territories after winning the 1967 Israeli-Arab War . <p> Roshni Yadav is currently working as a Deputy Copy Editor with The Indian Express . She is an alumna of the University of Delhi and Jawaharlal Nehru University , where she pursued her graduation and post-graduation in Political Science . She has over four years of work experience in ed-tech and media . At The Indian Express , she writes for the UPSC section . Her interests lie in national and international affairs , governance , economy , and social issues . You can contact her via email : **30;2010;TOOLONG ... Read More 
@@118732852 <h> Israeli strikes on Gaza kill at least 38 people <h> The Israeli military told Reuters it had launched a strike targeting Hamas militants near the Kamal Adwan Hospital , which is located between Beit Lahiya and Jabalia , towns on the northern edge of Gaza under Israeli siege for two months . <p> ReutersAftermath of an Israeli strike on a house in Gaza 's Nuseirat <p> CAIRO : Israeli attacks across the Gaza Strip killed at least 38 Palestinians on Wednesday , most of them in an airstrike on a house in Beit Lahiya town on the northern edge of the enclave , medics said . <p> The Beit Lahiya strike killed at least 22 people , including women and children , health officials said . Relatives listed the names of the dead on social media . <p> More than 30 people were living in the multi-storey building before it was struck , and several family members remained missing as rescue operations continued through the morning , the Palestinian WAFA news agency said . <p> The Israeli military told Reuters it had launched a strike targeting Hamas militants near the Kamal Adwan Hospital , which is located between Beit Lahiya and Jabalia , towns on the northern edge of Gaza under Israeli siege for two months . <p> It said it was continuing to examine the incident but described the number of fatalities reported by Palestinian medics and media as " inaccurate " and not aligning with the army 's information . <p> In nearby Beit Hanoun , also part of the area under siege , medics said an Israeli airstrike killed and wounded several people , without giving an exact toll . Rescue workers said several people were trapped under rubble . <p> Earlier on Wednesday , at least seven Palestinians were killed and several others wounded in an Israeli airstrike on a house in the Nuseirat camp in central Gaza , medics told Reuters . <p> The Palestinian Civil Emergency Service and medics said four other people were killed in separate Israeli airstrikes on two houses in Gaza City , including journalist Eman Al-Shanti and her son . She was the 193rd journalist killed by Israel since the start of the war , the Palestinian Union of Journalists said . <p> The Israeli military said in a statement that two rockets were fired from the central Gaza Strip into Israel but fell in open areas and caused no injuries . 
@@118734203 <p> Palestinians evacuate a body from a site hit by the Israeli bombardment AP <p> Salah Dahman , the head of Hamas 's paraglider unit , was eliminated by the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) in Jabalia , Jewish media reports said on Wednesday . Salah Dahman was active in resisting IDF advances in Gaza by cordinating Hamas 's aerial actions and was operating from the Jabalia neighbourhood , around four kilometres from Gaza City . <p> Meanwhile , in a separate operation , the Shin Bet and IDF confirmed the elimination of Fahmi Salami , commander of the elite Nukhba forces in Hamas 's Zeitoun Battalion . The Israeli Air Force launched an airstrike on the building that hosted Fahmi Salami . The building had previously served as the Al-Falah School , IDF told the media . <p> The eliminated Hamas commander led the October 7 attack on the Paga military post of the IDF . The ambush killed 14 IDF soldiers , Times Of Israel said quoting the army , adding that he continued to lead Hamas troops despite numerous setbacks to the outfit . <h> October 7 attacks : The fall of Paga outpost and Be'eri massacre <p> Around 6:30 AM on the dreadful day , Hamas fighters infiltrated southern Israel through the border barrier . They targeted civilian settlements and military bases alike and IDF 's Paga outpost came under fire . Situated " very close to the Be'eri kibbutz ( a communal settlement in Israel in which all wealth is held in common and profits are reinvested in the settlement ) , the Paga outpost came under heavy fire and the soldiers on duty were overrun . <p> According to reports , the soldiers posted at Paga are often referred to as protectors of Be'eri as the post is closer to the kibbutz located closer to the Gaza border . However , when the attack began , IDF units based near Paga post had to concentrate on protecting kibbutz Nahal Oz , leaving Paga post defenders with no backup . Once the defenders fell , Hamas attacked and murdered as many as 130 members of the settlement . <p> According to the IDF , Israel lost many young soldiers when they decided to come out of the safety of their vehicles to halt the charge of the infiltrators deep into Israel on October 7 . Many members of the IDF 's Golani Brigade were slain when the moved on foot after Hamas fighters entered Israel close to the Paga outpost . Staff Sgt. Tomer Barak , Sgt. Ido Binenstock , Staff Sgt. Itay Glisko and Staff Sgt. Itamar Ben Yehuda -- were named among the Israeli soldiers killed in the battle near Paga . <h> Paragliders of Hamas on October 7 attacks <p> Following the attack , video A showed Hamas militants sailing into Israeli territory on motorised paragliders , while partygoers were watching them without concern . Once Salah Dahman 's paragliders touched down inside Israeli territory , they secured the terrain for their comrades of the elite commando unit to operate . The latter soon stormed the fortified electronic and cement walls that were meant to stop infiltrations from Palestinian territories , Reuters said in a report . <p> Meanwhile , some paragliders landed near Kibbutz Re'im , where Jewish people were enjoying a party and musical . Once they landed , they opened fire at the unarmed crowd indiscriminately , who had , doubtlessly , watched them landing a few minutes ago . <p> ? ? ? ? #Palestine - ? ? ? ? #Israel : Hamas has released footage of fighters training to fly from Gaza into Israeli settlements on paragliders . A number of fighters entered southern Israel this morning by making use of this tactic . **26;1739;TOOLONG 
@@118734225 <h> These Palestinians disappeared after encounters with Israeli troops in Gaza <p> PTI Updated : December 11 , 2024 23:34 IST <p> Deir al Balah , Dec 11 ( AP ) Reem Ajour says she last saw her husband and then 4-year-old daughter in March , when Israeli soldiers raided a family home in northern Gaza . She is haunted by those chaotic last moments , when the soldiers ordered her to go -- to leave behind Talal and Masaa , both wounded . Eight months later , the 23-year-old mother still has no answers about their fate . The military says it does not have them . Troops levelled the house where they were staying soon after the raid . " I am living and dead at the same time , " she said , breaking down in sobs . Ajour is one of dozens of Palestinians that an Israeli legal group , Hamoked , is helping in their search for family members who went missing after being separated by Israeli soldiers during raids and arrests in the Gaza Strip . Their cases -- a fraction of the estimated thousands who have gone missing during the 14-month-long war -- highlight a lack of accountability in how the Israeli military deals with Palestinians during ground operations in Gaza , Hamoked says . Throughout the war , the military has conducted what amounts to a mass sifting of the Palestinian population as it raids homes and shelters and sends people through checkpoints . Troops round up and detain men , from dozens to several hundreds at a time , searching for any they suspect of Hamas ties , while forcing their families away , toward other parts of Gaza . The result is families split apart , often amid the chaos of fighting . But the military has not made clear how it keeps track of everyone it separates , arrests or detains . Even if troops transfer Palestinians to military detention inside Israel , they can hold them incommunicado for more than two months -- their whereabouts unknown to families or lawyers , according to rights groups . When people vanish , it 's nearly impossible to know what happened , Hamoked says . " We 've never had a situation of mass forced disappearance from Gaza , with no information provided for weeks and weeks to families , " said Jessica Montell , the director of Hamoked . Israel 's High Court of Justice has refused to intervene to get answers , despite Hamoked 's petitions , she said . Asked by The Associated Press about the cases of Ajour and two other families it interviewed , the Israeli military declined comment . <p> 4-year-old Masaa Ajour was shot , then separated from her mother The Ajours were sheltering at a home in Gaza City that belonged to Talal 's family after being displaced from their own house earlier in the war . Israeli troops raided the home on March 24 , opening fire as they burst in , Ajour said . Ajour , who was three months pregnant , was shot in the stomach . Talal was wounded in his leg , bleeding heavily . Masaa lay passed out , shot in the shoulder -- though Ajour said she saw her still breathing . As one soldier bandaged the little girl 's wound , another pointed his gun in Ajour 's face and told her to head out of Gaza City . She said she pleaded that she could n't leave Masaa and Talal , but the soldier screamed : " Go south ! " With no choice , Ajour collected her younger son and went down to the street . " It was all in a blink of an eye . It was all so fast , " she said . Still bleeding , she walked for two and a half hours , clutching her son . When they reached a hospital in central Gaza , doctors treated her stomach wound and found her fetus ' pulse . Weeks later , doctors found the pulse had gone . She miscarried . Ajour said that several weeks later , a Palestinian released from a prison in southern Israel told her family he had heard her husband 's name called out over a loudspeaker among a list of detainees . The rumour has kept her hope alive , but the military told Hamoked it had no record of Masaa or Talal being detained . Another possibility is that they died on the scene , but no one has been able to search the rubble of the family 's building to determine if any bodies are there . The storming of their building came as Israeli forces were battling Hamas fighters in surrounding streets while raiding nearby Shifa Hospital , where it claimed the militants were based . Troops cleared families out of nearby homes and often then destroyed or set the buildings ablaze , according to witnesses at the time . The military itself may not know what happened to Ajour 's husband and daughter , said Montell of Hamoked . " That illustrates a broader problem , " she said . Ajour and her son now shelter in a tent camp outside the central Gaza town of Zuweida . Masaa , she said , " was my first joy " -- with blond hair and olive-coloured eyes , a face " white like the moon . " Masaa 's fifth birthday was in July , Ajour said , sobbing . " She turned five while she is not with me . " <p> Does the military document what troops do in Gaza ? Under a wartime revision to Israeli law , Palestinians from Gaza taken to military detention in Israel can be held for over two months without access to the outside world . Israel says the law is necessary to handle the unprecedented number of detainees as it seeks to destroy Hamas following the October 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel that killed 1,200 and took around 250 people hostage inside Gaza . The military has transferred some 1,770 of its Gaza detainees to civilian prisons , according to rights groups , but it has not revealed the number still in its detention . Milena Ansari , a researcher at Human Rights Watch , said Israel is obligated under international law to document what happens during every home raid and detention . But the military is not transparent about the information it collects on detainees or on how many it is holding , she said . Hamoked has asked the military for the whereabouts of 900 missing Palestinians . The military confirmed around 500 of them were detained in Israel . It said it had no record of detaining the other 400 . The group petitioned Israel 's High Court of Justice seeking answers in 52 cases , including that of Masaa and two other children , where witnesses testified that the missing were handled by troops before their disappearances . " The judges just dismiss the cases , without even inquiring what measures might be necessary to prevent such cases in the future , " said Montell . A court spokesperson said it often asks the military to provide additional information but is n't authorized to investigate if the military says it is not detaining them . In the cases of three missing adult Palestinians presented by Hamoked , the military first claimed it was not holding them , then found records of them being detained after being pressed by Hamoked to double-check . In another case , military police discovered that two Palestinians they had initially denied holding -- a father and his adult son -- had died in Israeli custody . The UN Human Rights Office says at least 53 Palestinians are known to have died in Israeli detention during the war . <p> Ailing with cancer , Mahmoud Alghrabli disappeared after raid The last time the Alghrabli family saw their 76-year-old patriarch , Mahmoud Alghrabli , was when Israeli troops stormed their district in Khan Younis on Feb. 4 . The soldiers ordered residents out of the area . The Alghrablis had to carry Mahmoud , suffering from cancer , out of their building on a chair , his son Ahmed Algharbli told the AP . After detaining some men , the soldiers ordered the rest to leave . Mahmoud Alghrabli made it to a sand mound near the house . Ahmed Algharbli said his brother went to help the father , but soldiers shouted at him to leave . " He left our father by force , or he would have been shot , " he said . The family returned a month later . There was no trace of Mahmoud . Ahmed Algharbli said he " walked meter by meter " searching for traces , finding bones but not knowing whose they were . He keeps them wrapped in a piece of cloth at home . Hamoked was told by the military there was no indication of him in Israeli detention . " By God , I do n't sleep at night , " said Mahmoud 's wife , Sabah Abdul-Salam . Whether he was arrested or killed , she said , " let us know , we will rest . " <p> Mahmoud Almoqayed vanished while searching for his family The only traces left of another missing man , 77-year-old Mahmoud Almoqayed , are his torn shirt and pants with his ID in the pocket . They were found in the dirt near the school where he and his family were sheltering when it was raided by Israeli troops on May 23 in the northern town of Beit Lahiya . The soldiers released Almoqayed and sent him and other men to another shelter , said his son , Rani Almoqayed , a doctor working in Saudi Arabia who pieced together the account from witnesses and family members . Once at the second shelter , the elderly Almoqayed immediately turned back , determined to find his wife and grandchildren left behind at the school , witnesses told his son . It was dark , well after 1 a.m. , and troops were all around the area . Almoqayed was never seen by his family again . Weeks later , his family found his abandoned clothes . They also found skulls and body parts nearby , Rani Almoqayed said . The military police told Hamoked it had no indication Almoqayed was detained . Rani Almoqayed believes it 's possible his father was killed and Israeli troops took the body . Since December 2023 , the military has returned at least 318 bodies and a sack of body parts to Gaza after seizing them to search for hostages , a senior UN official in Gaza told the AP , speaking anonymously to discuss confidential matters . The bodies , with no identification and often decomposed , are buried in anonymous mass graves . The family had Mahmoud Almoqayed declared officially dead , his son said . " But the doubt will not stop and one 's heart wo n't ease unless they see the body . " ( AP ) GSP <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI ) 
@@118734251 <h> Escalating Conflict : The Human Toll of the Israel-Hamas War <h> The Israel-Hamas war persists with heavy casualties , including children , in the Gaza Strip . Despite ceasefire efforts by the US and other nations , peace remains elusive . Israeli strikes continue as militants retaliate , while talks mediated by international players face significant challenges . Humanitarian conditions in Gaza worsen dramatically . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> In a night of intense conflict , Israeli airstrikes targeted northern Gaza , killing at least 33 individuals , including children , as reported by Palestinian health officials . The strikes came amid the ongoing Israel-Hamas war with no resolution in sight despite international efforts for a ceasefire . <p> With casualty numbers rising and the humanitarian situation deteriorating , local hospitals are overwhelmed . The latest strike was in Beit Lahiya , claiming 19 lives . The Israeli military insists the attacks aim at Hamas militants but acknowledges civilian casualties . <p> As diplomatic talks falter , the region faces escalating violence . UN and aid organizations struggle to provide relief due to restricted access , while international mediators push for renewed ceasefire negotiations to alleviate the crisis . 
@@118734323 <h> U.S. President Biden 's aides are engaging in Middle East diplomacy to advance a Gaza ceasefire , ensure Syria 's transition after Assad 's fall , and navigate the Trump administration 's impending return . With diplomatic efforts underway , Biden 's team faces challenges in securing deals amid regional instability . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> With President Joe Biden 's term drawing to a close , his senior aides are on a crucial mission to the Middle East . Their aim is to secure a Gaza ceasefire and help manage Syria 's transition following Bashar al-Assad 's overthrow . <p> Secretary of State Antony Blinken and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan are visiting multiple countries to engage directly with involved parties . However , it 's unclear if Biden can wield sufficient influence in the region before former President Donald Trump takes office again . 
@@118734324 <h> Biden 's Middle East Diplomacy : A Race Against Time <h> President Joe Biden 's aides are on a diplomatic tour in the Middle East to push for a Gaza ceasefire and address Syria 's political transition post-Assad . Their efforts are crucial as Biden 's tenure nears its end , but significant challenges remain , especially with Trump 's return to the presidency approaching . <p> U.S. President Joe Biden 's top aides embarked on a critical diplomatic mission to the Middle East on Wednesday . Their goal is to secure a Gaza ceasefire and progress in Syria 's transition after Bashar al-Assad 's overthrow . The effort includes key visits by Secretary of State Antony Blinken and national security adviser Jake Sullivan to several regional powers . <p> The success of these high-level talks could significantly influence Biden 's legacy in Middle Eastern diplomacy as he nears the end of his term . However , ambiguity remains about whether the U.S. can achieve lasting agreements in the region before former President Donald Trump reassumes office on January 20 . <p> Central to the agenda is Syria 's future . Over the weekend , opposition forces toppled Assad , closing a 50-year dynasty . The Biden administration is seeking a Syrian-led government transition , while also negotiating with controversial rebel groups . A parallel focus is the ongoing efforts to mediate a Gaza ceasefire and hostage release amid Israeli-Palestinian tensions . 
@@118734326 <h> Biden 's Diplomatic Sprint : Middle East Stakes <h> U.S. President Joe Biden 's top aides are visiting the Middle East , aiming for a Gaza ceasefire and Syrian transition post-Assad . Secretary Blinken and National Security Adviser Sullivan will engage with regional powers amid efforts to end the Gaza conflict and establish a stable Syrian government . <p> High-ranking aides to U.S. President Joe Biden are embarking on a critical Middle East tour , seeking to broker a Gaza ceasefire and aid Syria 's transition after the fall of Bashar al-Assad . This move highlights the administration 's dedication to managing complex diplomatic challenges in a volatile region . <p> Secretary of State Antony Blinken is scheduled to visit Jordan and Turkey , while National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan will travel to Israel , Qatar , and Egypt . The primary focus is to support a Syrian-led government transition and engage with local rebel groups deemed essential for the region 's stability . <p> This diplomatic push is also crucial as the Biden administration attempts to finalize key regional agreements before a political shift in the U.S. with the expected return of Donald Trump to the presidency . Despite challenges , efforts to secure a peace deal in Gaza continue , with Qatar and Egypt 's mediation playing significant roles . 
@@118734331 <h> Escalating Conflict : Gaza Aid Ambush and Global Ceasefire Calls <h> An Israeli airstrike in Rafah City killed at least eight Palestinians and injured 30 , as international ceasefire efforts continue unsuccessfully . Armed gangs in Gaza have targeted aid trucks , prompting Hamas to respond with force . The UN has called for an immediate ceasefire , reflecting a global demand for peace . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> An Israeli airstrike targeted a group tasked with securing aid trucks in Gaza 's Rafah City , leading to at least eight deaths and injuring 30 people . Medics fear the death toll could rise , with several in critical condition . <p> The strike comes amid ongoing tensions as armed gangs continually hijack aid trucks , leading Hamas to form a task force to counter these threats . The militarized response has led to significant casualties , with over two dozen gang members killed in recent months . <p> Efforts to broker a ceasefire by Arab countries , backed by the US , have yet to succeed . The UN General Assembly has demanded an immediate ceasefire , although this move holds no legal weight . The ongoing conflict has caused severe humanitarian crises , with widespread displacement and loss of life . 
@@118734333 <h> Israel and Palestine are signaling efforts to achieve a ceasefire , potentially leading to the release of hostages from Gaza . Talks involve various international diplomats , with Netanyahu seeing an opportune political moment . Both Biden and Trump are actively pursuing negotiations , fostering guarded optimism for conflict resolution . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> In a potential breakthrough , Israel and Palestine are exploring the possibility of a ceasefire , with aims to release hostages from Gaza . This marks a significant effort in a conflict-laden region and involves high-level diplomacy from international leaders . <p> Israel 's Defense Minister , Israel Katz , indicated to the U.S. that there 's a chance for a new agreement , although possibly limited . Meanwhile , President-elect Donald Trump has made clear demands on Palestinian groups , further influencing the negotiation landscape . <p> The timing seems advantageous for Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu as political alignments shift . Despite persistent gaps in negotiations , there 's a renewed sense of optimism , with diplomatic efforts continuing from key figures in the U.S. , Israel , and other mediating nations . 
@@118734338 <h> U.N . Assembly Demands Ceasefire in Gaza Amid Rising Tensions <h> The United Nations General Assembly voted for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and condemned Israeli actions , advocating for the continuation of UNRWA aid . The resolutions face criticism for favoring Hamas , while Israel accuses the U.N . of bias . The conflict has resulted in severe humanitarian issues in Gaza . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> The United Nations General Assembly made headlines with its urgent call for an immediate , unconditional , and permanent ceasefire between Israel and Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip . Garnering overwhelming support with 158 votes , the resolution captures the global urgency surrounding the conflict . <p> Despite the non-binding nature of General Assembly resolutions , they carry substantial political significance . With the United States and Israel among the nine countries opposing the resolution , 13 nations chose to abstain . In a related vote , the Assembly backed a resolution condemning a new Israeli law banning UNRWA 's operations , demanding respect for its mandate . <p> Criticism emerged from Deputy U.S. Ambassador Robert Wood , who argued the resolutions undermined the need to release hostages and unfairly criticized Israel . Israel accused the U.N . of bias , while Palestinian representatives highlighted the dire state of Gaza 's humanitarian crisis , echoing urgent calls for ceasefire . 
@@118734457 <h> Israeli strike on northern Gaza kills 19 , Palestinian medics say <h> Share <h> Israeli strike on northern Gaza kills 19 , Palestinian medics say <p> Palestinian medical officials say an Israeli strike on a home where displaced people were sheltering in the northern Gaza Strip has killed at least 19 people . <p> That 's according to the Kamal Adwan Hospital , which received the casualties on Wednesday after the overnight strike in the town of Beit Lahiya . <p> There was no immediate comment from the Israeli military . Israel has been waging a renewed offensive against Hamas militants in northern Gaza since early October . <p> Hospital records show that a family of eight were among those killed , including four children , their parents and two grandparents . <p> The war began when Hamas-led militants stormed into Israel on October 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 people , including children and older adults . Around 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's retaliatory offensive has killed over 44,000 Palestinians in Gaza , according to local health officials . They say women and children make up more than half the dead but do not distinguish between fighters and civilians in their count . 
@@118734464 <h> Rebel forces oust Assad as Damascus falls <h> Share <h> Rebel forces oust Assad as Damascus falls <p> Thursday , 12 December 2024 B K Singh <p> The fall of Assad 's regime signals a new chapter in Syria 's tumultuous history , raising critical questions about the country 's path to stability <p> Syrian President Bashar al-Assad 's government has been fighting rebel groups with the support of Russia , Iran , Lebanese and Hezbollah right from 2011 . Within ten days of rebels getting control over northwestern city of Aleppo and further capturing Hama and Homs , the capital Damascus also fell under their control on December 8 . President Assad along with his wife and three children fled the country before rebel forces could reach him . He has been granted asylum in Moscow . His younger brother was tipped to succeed his father as President , died in a road accident . <p> He was called back from London , where he was practising ophthalmologist , to succeed his father as President of Syria . In the initial months after taking over the Presidency in the year 2000 he was seen as a reformist and pro-people in sharp contrast to his father Hafez al-Assad 's three-decade rule with iron hands . Once pro-democracy protests erupted in 2011 , he followed the brutal tactics of his father to crush dissent . The conflict escalated into civil war and he was seen unleashing his military to blast opposition-held territories . All supporters of the Assad regime have considerably weakened their backing on account of the ongoing war they are engaged in . <p> Russian forces have a challenging battle in Ukraine . Owing to the high level of causalities of soldiers in the battle , Russia has withdrawn its forces from Syria partially and is even further recruiting foreign nationals in the force to keep the war going , which has already been continuing for a quarter to three years . Hamas 's terror attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 and Israel 's response to Gaza opened several dimensions of the West Asia conflict . <p> Iran 's supported terror groups like Hezbollah in Lebanon , and Houthis in Yemen have denounced Palestinians suffering in Gaza on account of Israeli bombardment and it opened additional fronts for Israel in the conflict . This has also weakened Iran and Hezbollah to provide adequate support to Assad 's regime . In addition , 13 years of Syrian civil war has exhausted the Syrian Army . Owing to the corruption in the bureaucratic and political circle of the Syrian government , and the series of Western sanctions , the economy has been hardly afloat . Further President Erdogan in Ankara , is facing the heat on account of three million Syrian migrants living in Turkiye and more so because Syria dismisses his proposal for deportation of migrants alleging that his country has illegally occupied Syrian areas along the border . <p> There was an option for Assad to join the Arab League last year , but he did not accept making Arab nations also opposed to him . Earlier with the help of Iran and Russia , he had survived the Arab Spring Rebellion against him , which originated in Tunisia in 2011 . The next question is about the future of Syria . Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) is a Sunni Islamist militant group , that played an important role in the Syrian civil war . It is this group that has led other rebel groups to occupy Damascus . <p> The US , UK and UN have designated it as a terrorist organisation . A bounty of $10 million was on its chief Abu Mohammad al-Golani 's head . UK has indicated lifting the ban on HTS if it delivers on promises like protecting minorities and people 's rights . Turkiye has backed some other rebel groups in the Syrian civil war , which do not have good ties with HTS . US-backed Kurdish YPG militia has established control in Syria 's northeast , also known as the Kurdish democratic union party ( PYD ) does not enjoy good and workable relations with HTS . There are separate rebels in Syria 's southwest . <p> It is quite difficult for all the groups to come together and be partners in Syria 's new regime . 900 strong military men are maintained by the US in northeastern Syria . The US has maintained this presence in the name of countering ISIS , but its actual goal was the regime change in Syria . The US has now emerged clear winner . As rebels have asserted control over Syria and its capital Damascus , uncertainties remain about the future of the country . The first day was marked by arsenals , looting of shops and banks , and emptying prisons followed by a night curfew , but the second day saw normalcy slowly returning to the capital and other cities . The main rebel commander al-Golani met Assad 's PM Mohammad Jalali and Vice President Faisal Mekdad to install a transitional government in Syria . Further , Golani has announced publicly that they would bring out a list of government officials responsible for torturing the citizens . <p> In the meantime , there have been air strikes in Syria by Israeli , US and Turkey forces to protect each of their interests . Iran and Russia have suffered major setbacks with the fall of Assad 's government . <p> Both countries have lost their key allies . As Sunni Islamic groups are going to be in control of Syria , Iran a predominantly Shia population is more vulnerable to Israeli attacks . When rebel forces took control of Aleppo about a week earlier , both Iran and Russia could not extend adequate defence leading to the fall of even Damascus . Iran was exposed in recent Israeli direct attacks , and Hezbollah was also decimated , no significant support came from Assad . In recent months , Assad 's Syria and Iran could not support each other when exigencies arose . Syria is the only state that had joined Iran 's ' Axis of resistance ' against the US and Israel . <p> The axis has become weak ; even Hezbollah 's downfall could not be prevented . Hezbollah has signed a ceasefire deal with Israel ahead of any Gaza deal . The action of the state of Iran and the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps ( IRGC ) to defend Assad did not go well with the people of Iran . It had political and economic costs . The fall of Assad sends a disturbing signal to Iran 's supreme leader Ayatollah Khamenei , who now understands that the axis of resistance can no longer protect the allies . Assad 's fall has also emboldened opposition groups in Iran . Besides these , women are protesting for their rights . <p> All these may lead to regime change in Iran too . If the Supreme Leader realigns himself with the US by reviving/ softening its stand on the 2015 nuclear deal , then regime change in Iran can be avoided . The last two weeks of violence that culminated in Assad 's fleeing Syria , also saw the Shia population enthusiastically taking measures to secure the tomb of Sayyeda Zainab , the daughter of Hazrat Ali and Fatima and granddaughter of Prophet Muhammad . This holy site signifies great importance for Shia Muslims worldwide . To guarantee the security of this precious shrine , Shias from Iran , Iraq and Pakistan are also moving to Syria . The shrine is located in al-Sitt , south Damascus . <p> Since 1979 Iranian government has provided financial support for the management of the shrine . Several Shia scholars and celebrities are buried in the shrine and surrounding cemeteries . Since 2012 the town has been under attack from armed militants in neighboring Sunni towns . Many Shia families were driven out of their homes in southern Damascus . <p> Rockets landing on random places was quite common . Sunni Muslims comprise 74 per cent of Syria 's population , whereas Shias are only 3per cent . Shias hold quite a strong sentiment for the shrine ; the issue can be a potential flash point between the two sects and would also determine the rivalry between rebel groups . <p> Will Syria 's transition to democracy be smooth ? It is possible only when different rebel groups learn to share power . 
@@118734726 <p> Iyengar , who also serves as the magazine 's chief editor , wrote an article titled " On Pacifism , " which featured imagery and language that " could be interpreted as a call for more violent or destructive forms of protest at MIT . " <p> Prahlad Iyengar , an India-origin PhD student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ( MIT ) in the US has been allegedly suspended for writing a pro-Palestinian essay . <p> As reported by the Boston Globe , Iyengar has been issued a suspension notice in response to an essay he wrote for the student-run magazine - Written Revolution . <p> Iyengar wrote an article titled " On Pacifism " for the October issue of the student-run magazine Written Revolution . As per MIT Dean of Student Life David Warren Randall , the article featured imagery and language that " could be interpreted as a call for more violent or destructive forms of protest at MIT . " <p> The university also objected that the article featured the logo of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine , which has been declared as a terrorist organisation by the US State Department . <p> Iyengar , who has been suspended for inciting terrorism , has denied all charges . The PhD student has stated that the college has charged him with terrorism due to the photos in the essay , which he did not provide . <p> Along with Iyengar 's suspension , the university has also banned the distribution of the student-run magazine . <h> MIT Students Rally For Iyengar <p> As per the official notice sent to Iyengar , he has been suspended till January 2026 , which has resulted in the termination of his five-year NSF fellowship . <p> MIT Coalition Against Apartheid also called for a rally at Cambridge City Hall in support of Iyengar . <p> " The Committee on Discipline lumped Prahlad 's case with another ongoing disciplinary case to paint Prahlad as a " repeat offender , " but suddenly and arbitrarily split the case in two parts after facing significant public criticism for violating his free speech , " MIT CAA said on X. <p> On Monday , around 100 MIT students and community members gathered at Cambridge Hall and called on city councillors to intervene in the matter and block Iyengar 's suspension . <p> Along with Iyengar 's suspension , MIT students have also raised their grievances with the university 's status as a non-profit , which allows the administration to take action against pro-Palestine students without proper oversight . <p> Iyengar 's suspension also comes at a time when universities and colleges across the United States saw widespread movements calling for the creation of an independent Palestine and to end Israel 's war on Gaza . <p> Earlier this year , students across campuses went on strike and called on their universities to divest from Israel and called on the US Government , led by President Joe Biden to condemn Israel 's response to the Hamas attack of October 7 , 2023. 
@@118734727 <p> With marketplaces , banks and other public places now open for the public , Syria is working towards resuming daily life . Meanwhile , in Israel , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu began his testimony in the corruption trial against him . <p> Syria is limping back to normalcy amid escalated attacks and territorial encroachment by the Israeli military in the wake of Al Assad 's overthrow . <p> Israel 's military said it has carried out 480 attacks on Syria in the past 48 hours , especially since the fall of the Assad regime . Despite UN protests Israel has occupied the buffer zones that separate the two countries . <p> Amid the escalated tensions , Syria has now started to reopen . <p> With marketplaces , banks and other public places now open for the public , Syria is working towards resuming daily life . <p> Meanwhile , in Israel , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu began his testimony in the corruption trial against him . <h> West Asia Conflict Latest Development <h> Syria Reopens After 480 Israel Attacks <p> Syrian markets , banks and more have reopened as the country recovers from Israel 's attacks . As per the Israel Defence Forces , a total of 480 attacks have been carried out towards Syria in the last 48 hours . <p> Israel justified its attacks and stated that it destroyed 15 naval vessels , anti-aircraft batteries and weapon production sites across Syria . <p> Following the fall of the Assad regime , Syria 's caretaker Prime Minister Mohammed " Stability and calm . " The caretaker PM added that he will be working with officials from Bashar al-Assad 's regime to resent public services and other institutions . <p> As Syria continues to reel in from instability , the United Nations has flagged severe food shortages and price spikes across cities such as Damascus , Deir Az Zor , Hama and Aleppo . <h> Netanyahu On Trial <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu made history by becoming the first serving PM to take the witness stand as a defendant in a criminal case . <p> On Tuesday , the Israeli leader took the stand in the three corruption cases filed against him . As he took the stand , Netanyahu denied all the charges against him . <p> His lawyer , Amit Hadad described the charges as a witch-hunt laid out by the opposition . He added that the prosecutors in the case were " not investigating a case , but were pursuing a man " . <p> Netanyahu 's trial comes as Israel continues to be at war with Palestinian militant group Hamas , its bombardment of Gaza Strip and West Bank and attacks in Lebanon and Syria . <p> The Israeli leader has been accused of bribery , fraud and breach of trust . <h> War On Gaza <p> As per the United Nations , humanitarian aid for Northern Gaza has remained blocked for the last two months . Based on the data released by the UN , with no aid , around 65,000 and 75,000 Palestinians have been left without access to food , water , electricity or healthcare . <p> Meanwhile , efforts to establish a ceasefire in Gaza are underway . As per the White House , more senior aides have been dispatched to the Middle East to try and seal the deal for a ceasefire in Gaza . <p> US Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer said there is increased energy towards a ceasefire deal for Gaza , especially after the deal between Israel and Lebanese militant group Hezbollah . 
@@118735287 <p> Around 200 people from all faiths gathered at Freedom Park on Tuesday , recited their prayers for Palestinians and demanded action from the Indian government to cut ties with Israel . In a program called ' Bridging Faiths for Palestine ' organised by the coalition Bengaluru for Justice and Peace , leaders and followers of Islam , Christianity , Hinduism , Buddhism , Sufism , and Judaism , along with atheists came together to stand in solidarity with Palestine and to mark International Human Rights Day . <p> This event is a part of a longer nationwide campaign demanding the Parliament take action in the ongoing Winter Session to impose an arms embargo on Israel and suspend all ties . The speakers addressed the recent admission of Union Minister S Jaishankar that it is in the national interest of India to keep sending arms to Israel . <p> Speakers emphasised that it is our duty to abide by international laws and our constitutional values and stand with the people of Palestine . <p> The organisers noted that the meet was arranged in order to shatter a common myth of the Palestinian struggle . While it is often termed as a " religious war between Muslims and Jews , " the truth is that multi-faith native people have been oppressed under the Israeli regime for almost eight decades , they said . <p> " In India , mainstream media too has promoted this misnomer , portraying the solidarity movements with Palestinians as a ' Muslim issue ' or an ' Arab world issue . ' Several scholars have studied and written about the close ideological ties between Hindutva and Zionism , and Hindutva groups have also publicly shown their support for Israel in the last year . However , criticising the Israeli government for its endless attack on Palestine , and now expanded to Lebanon , Syria , Iran , and Jordan , is a moral obligation for everyone who is concerned with justice and peace for colonised people . The International Court of Justice , the UN Special Rapporteur for Palestine and various UN bodies have termed Israel 's attack on Gaza as a genocide and held that their occupation in Palestinian territories is illegal , " they added . <p> Protestant leaders Reverend Vinayraj , a Dalit pastor from the Marottamma church , Rev Chitra , Rev Sophy and Rev Immanuel , addressed the audience , emphasising that the cause of Palestinian liberation is an integral part of their faith . Shia scholars Moulana Qaim Abbas , from Masjid al Qaim , Neelsandra , and Maulana Ali Baqar , an Indian Lebanese , spoke about how the attack on Palestinians is an attack on humanity itself . Marcy Newman , a Jewish educator recited a Hebrew prayer for Gaza and spoke about Jewish movements across the world advocating against the Israeli regime . Guru Basawa explained the values within the Lingayat culture which ties deeply with justice , peace and dignity , and spoke against the human rights violations of the Israeli regime . <p> Criticising Israeli govt for its endless attack on Palestine is moral obligation for all who are concerned with justice &amp; peace for colonised <p> -- Organisers <p> Bhante Tashi , a Buddhist monk and transgender person , explained how justice for Palestinians and the end of the Israel-led genocide is a matter concerning their faith , especially as a queer person . Vali Ba , a Sufi saint , said that one should stay in unflinching solidarity with the Palestinian people , as Indians who fought British imperialism . Maulana Wahid , Secretary , Jamat-e-Islami Hind , addressed that the Palestinians historic struggle against Israeli atrocities , occupation and ethnic cleansing must be met with a united voice as human beings for the values in international laws . <p> A pledge was taken by the attendees to firmly stand with the Palestinians and their struggle for equal rights , dignity and liberation . 
@@118735701 <p> Deir al-Balah : Israeli strikes pounded the Gaza Strip overnight and into Wednesday , with one attack ripping through a home where displaced people were sheltering in the isolated north . The strikes killed at least 33 people including children , Palestinian health officials said . <p> The Israel-Hamas war has no end in sight , even after Israel reached a ceasefire with Lebanon 's Hezbollah militants and attention shifted to the overthrow of Syrian President Bashar Assad by insurgents . Both the current and incoming US administrations have said they hope to end the war in Gaza before the inauguration in January , but ceasefire talks have repeatedly stalled . <p> The strike on the home killed 19 people in the northern town of Beit Lahiya near the border with Israel , according to nearby Kamal Adwan Hospital , which received the bodies . Hospital records show that a family of eight was among those killed : four children , their parents and two grandparents . <p> The Israeli military said it targeted a Hamas militant in the vicinity of the hospital . It said reports about the number of casualties in the strike were inaccurate , without elaborating . The military says it tries to avoid harming civilians and accuses militants of hiding among them , putting their lives in danger . <p> The hospital said another strike near its entrance on Wednesday killed a woman and her two children . <p> " We have received distress calls from neighbours and trapped people , but we 're not able to leave the hospital because of the continued risk , " he said . " We are witnessing a massive loss of life , with many martyrs in the targeted areas . " Another strike in the decades-old Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza killed at least seven people , according to the Awda Hospital . The dead included two children , their parents and three other relatives , it said . Later , the hospital said another attack hit the same camp , killing four people and injuring 16 more . <p> There was no immediate comment from the Israeli military on the other strikes . <p> In Lebanon , where near-daily Israeli attacks have continued despite the ceasefire , at least five people died Wednesday in Israeli strikes in the south , according to Lebanon 's Health Ministry and state news agency . <p> Elsewhere in southern Lebanon , Israeli forces withdrew from a strategic town and handed it back to the Lebanese army in coordination with UN peacekeepers , the two militaries said . It appeared to be the first Israeli pullout from a Lebanese border town captured during the ground invasion . <p> In Syria , the Israeli military estimates it has destroyed 70 per cent to 80 per cent of Syrian military assets in recent days , according to an official speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss an intelligence assessment . The military has said it has carried out hundreds of airstrikes . <p> Militants in central Gaza fired four projectiles into Israel on Wednesday , two of which were intercepted , the military said . The other two fell in open areas , and there were no reports of casualties . <p> The military ordered the evacuation of a five-block area of the built-up Maghazi refugee camp in central Gaza , saying the rockets had been fired from there . The orders indicated that Israel would soon carry out strikes in the area . <p> The war began when Hamas-led militants stormed into Israel on October 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 people , including children and older adults . Around 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , and at least a third are believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's retaliatory offensive has killed over 44,000 Palestinians in Gaza , according to local health officials . They say women and children make up more than half the dead but do not distinguish between fighters and civilians in their count . Israel says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> Thousands more Palestinians have gone missing during the war , some after encounters with Israeli troops . <p> Israel has been waging a renewed offensive against Hamas militants in Gaza 's heavily destroyed north since early October . Troops have surrounded Beit Lahiya , Beit Hanoun and the urban Jabaliya refugee camp , allowing in almost no humanitarian aid and ordering tens of thousands to flee to nearby Gaza City . <p> Israeli officials have said the three communities are mostly deserted , but the United Nations humanitarian office said Tuesday it believes around 65,000 to 75,000 people are still there , with little access to food , water , electricity or health care . Experts have warned that the north may be experiencing famine . <p> Sigrid Kaag , the senior UN humanitarian and reconstruction coordinator for Gaza , told reporters on Tuesday that civilians trying to survive all across Gaza face an " utterly devastating situation . " She pointed to the breakdown in law and order and looting that has left the UN and many aid organisations unable to deliver food and other humanitarian essentials to hundreds of thousands of Palestinians in need . <p> Kaag said she and other UN officials repeatedly ask Israel for access for convoys to northern Gaza and elsewhere , to allow in commercial goods , to reopen the Rafah crossing from Egypt in the south and to approve dual-use items . <p> The Israeli military says it allows in enough humanitarian aid and blames UN agencies for not distributing it , saying large amounts of aid have accumulated just inside Gaza 's borders . UN officials say Israeli restrictions , the breakdown of law and order and ongoing fighting make it difficult to access the aid and distribute it , and have repeatedly called for a ceasefire . <p> The United States , Egypt and Qatar have mediated talks between Israel and Hamas for nearly a year , and diplomats say those efforts have recently gained momentum . <p> But Hamas has said it will not release the remaining hostages without an end to the war and a full withdrawal of Israeli troops . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has pledged to continue the war until Hamas is destroyed and all the hostages are returned and has said Israel will maintain a lasting military presence in some areas . 
@@118750560 <h> Share : <p> The targeted structure was reduced to ruins during the attack . ( Muhamad Al-Sharif ) <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - Over 22 people were killed in an Israeli airstrike targeting a residential building sheltering a displaced family near the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya in northern Gaza on Tuesday night . <p> At 11:30 pm , local sources reported that the three-story residential building sheltering the Abu al-Tarabish family was targeted , killing at least 22 people , including children , and injuring dozens . Many others are still missing under the rubble . <p> Rescue teams are continuing efforts to locate survivors amid the debris , but the scale of destruction has hampered operation . <p> The bombing is part of ongoing Israeli escalations in the Gaza Strip , particularly north Gaza which has been under relentless Israeli assaults and siege since October 5 . The Israeli military has been implementing the " Generals ' Plan , " which involves ethnically cleansing the area of its Palestinian population . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Israeli forces have committed more than 7,160 massacres in the Gaza Strip since October 2023 , wiping out at least 1,410 Palestinian families from the civil registry , the Palestinian health ministry said late last month . <p> The ministry added that an additional 3,463 families lost all members except one , while 2,287 families were massacred but had more than one survivor . According to the ministry , the data is accurate as of 1 November 2024 . <p> Palestinian territory - Israel is systematically closing hospitals in northern Gaza through direct military targeting , a suffocating siege , and the killing , injuring , and arresting of patients , wounded individuals , and medical personnel .... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118750561 <h> Share : <p> Israeli soldiers stand next to an armored vehicle at the line that separates the Golan Heights from Syria , on December 9 , 2024 . AP Photo/Matias Delacroix <p> After Syrian President Bashar al-Assad stepped down Sunday and ordered a peaceful transfer of power to " rebel " forces led by the Al Qaeda-linked Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) militia , US and Israeli warplanes started a massive bombing campaign against Syria . <p> Washington and its regional allies are launching the rape and carve-up of Syria . As the Israeli army attacks north towards Damascus , the Turkish-backed Syrian National Army ( SNA ) is attacking south , targeting Kurdish forces in northern Syria , and HTS is taking over government in areas previously controlled by Assad . Statements by Israeli officials make clear that the US-Israeli bombings aim to annihilate Syria 's capability to defend itself militarily . <p> Last night , Israeli military sources told the Jerusalem Post they had carried out 350 air strikes on " the majority of strategic weapons stockpiles within Syria . " US warplanes struck 75 more targets in Syria . Israeli targets included air defense systems , missile stockpiles , airfields , warplanes , tanks , and drone fleets and military production facilities in cities , including Damascus , Homs , Palmyra , Latakia and Tartus . Israel also reportedly sank Syria 's navy at anchor in Al-Bayda and Latakia . <p> US-Israeli strikes are meeting no opposition from Syrian air defenses . Israeli officials told the Post they had " extended operational freedom " in Syria . <p> Washington 's arming of Israel throughout its genocide in Gaza has proven to be part of a broader offensive to subjugate the entire region . This was most bluntly laid out in a press conference Monday by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . Hailing the collapse of the Assad regime as " a new and dramatic chapter " in history , Netanyahu proclaimed : " We are changing the face of the Middle East . " <p> Israeli units have crossed the border into Syria to seize parts of the Golan Heights and have launched an armored offensive north towards Damascus . Al Jazeera reported that Israeli tanks had reached only 25km from Damascus and were located close to the Damascus airport . While Israeli officials denied that their forces were 25km from Damascus , they are calling to set up a " sterile " buffer zone controlled by Israel between the Golan Heights and the Syrian capital . <p> Yesterday morning , during a visit to a naval base at Haifa , Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz announced : " Together with the prime minister , I have instructed the military to establish a sterile defense zone free of weapons and terrorist threats in southern Syria , without a permanent Israeli presence . " Whether or not there was a permanent Israeli military presence , such a zone would leave the city of Damascus permanently at the mercy of Israeli attack . <p> While US and European media claim that Assad 's handover of power to HTS is bringing Syria a new democratic dawn , reports on the ground paint a different picture . The Sunni Islamist militia backed by the NATO powers and Israel are terrorizing the population -- particularly among the Christian , Druze and Shia Alawite communities . <p> Cardinal Mario Zenari , the Catholic Church 's envoy to Syria , reported to Vatican News the situation in Aleppo after its capture by HTS : " In certain zones , it 's fairly calm , but that is suspect . There is a lot of fear , government offices have shut down , as has the army , which has disappeared . Armed groups are circulating and are promising not to attack the civilian population . Until now , it appears they have respected this promise , but still people are terrified and are shutting themselves in at home . ... Fear , terror and uncertainty rule . " <p> Videos are already circulating on social media showing HTS fighters executing Alawites in the street . HTS , like the broader Al Qaeda networks and their backers in the Sunni Muslim oil sheikdoms of the Persian Gulf , is violently hostile to Shia Islam , Shia-majority Iran , and Alawites , the community to which Assad belongs . One video shows HTS forces executing what they claim are Alawites in Lattakia : <p> US officials are hailing HTS 's victory as a devastating blow to Russia and Iran , which supported the Assad regime in a nearly 14-year war with NATO-backed Islamist militias initiated by Washington in 2011 . Assad invited Iranian and then Russian forces to fight Al Qaeda-linked or Islamic State militias which had NATO backing but little popular support . Now , US officials are exultant that their support for Israel against Gaza and Hezbollah , and for Ukraine 's war with Russia , weakened Russia and Iran , letting Washington crush Syria . <p> " Our approach has shifted the balance of power in the Middle East , " outgoing US President Joe Biden said on Sunday . " For the first time ever , neither Russia nor Iran nor Hezbollah could defend this abhorrent regime in Syria . This is a direct result of the blows that Ukraine and Israel have delivered in their own self-defense with unflagging support of the US . " <p> In reality , putting Al Qaeda forces in power in Syria is a monumentally reckless and criminal action that will inevitably have consequences unintended by Washington . It will not resolve the bloody proxy wars between Israel , Turkey , Iran and the major world powers for influence in Syria and the Middle East , but ultimately pave the way for their escalation . <p> In this context , Assad 's order to his regime to hand power over to the Islamist " rebels " and the collapse of the Syrian army are bitter experience in the bankruptcy and treachery of the Arab bourgeoisie . The speed of the Syrian regime 's collapse points not only to the deliberate stand-down by Assad but also the complicity of his backers in Moscow and Tehran . <p> The Kremlin , which has withdrawn its warships from its Syrian naval base at Tartus , has given no explanation for Assad 's collapse . Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov confirmed yesterday that Assad is in Moscow but refused to say why he had fled . Ryabkov said , " He is secured , and it shows that Russia acts as required in such an extraordinary situation . I have no idea what is going on with him right now . It would be very wrong for me to elaborate on what happened and how it was resolved . " <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> On Monday , however , Iran 's semi-official Mehr news agency posted an article detailing growing conflicts between Tehran and Assad before the HTS offensive . By its account , Iranian military commanders traveled to Syria amid signs HTS was preparing an offensive in Turkish- and US-controlled areas of northern Syria . According to Mehr , " Iranian officials , after hours of consultation on developments in Syria , concluded that this time the conditions for Iran 's military assistance to Bashar Assad were not laid . " <h> Related Posts <p> Occupied Palestine ( Quds News Network ) - Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has once again invoked biblical references to justify war crimes and violations of the international law . On Tuesday , Netanyahu revealed ... <p> The reports through Western presses read rather familiarly . Joyful residents taking selfies on abandoned , sullen tanks . Armed men ebullient and shooting into the sky with adventurist stupidity . The removal of ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118750564 <h> " Arrow of Bashan " : Israel Uses Scriptures to Justify Its Invasion of Syria <h> Share : <p> Occupied Palestine ( Quds News Network ) - Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has once again invoked biblical references to justify war crimes and violations of the international law . On Tuesday , Netanyahu revealed that the Israeli army 's latest assault across Syria would be called " Operation Arrow of Bashan . " The campaign , he claimed , aims to " eliminate threats from Syria " . <p> What Is Bashan ? <p> The term " Bashan " originates from the Bible , referencing a fertile and historically significant region in present-day Syria . Known for its rich pastures and biblical associations , Bashan was a land allegedly conquered by the Israelites under the leadership of Moses . By using this name , Netanyahu ties Israel 's modern military assaults to ancient religious narratives , reinforcing a claim of divine entitlement to justify Israel 's colonial ambitions . <p> The name " Bashan " holds deep historical and biblical significance . It was a fertile region mentioned in the Old Testament , known for its agricultural abundance and strategic importance . The Israelites defeated Og , King of Bashan , and divided the land among their tribes . By naming the operation after Bashan , Netanyahu aligns modern military actions with these historical conquests , framing them as part of a divine plan . <p> The Israeli army 's latest operation targeted strategic military sites across Syria . Netanyahu claimed the strikes were designed to prevent advanced weaponry from falling into the hands of the rebels . However , the assault also reflects broader territorial ambitions . <p> Netanyahu reinforced Israel 's claim over the Golan Heights , stating , " The Golan Heights will be an inseparable part of the State of Israel forever . " Israeli forces have reportedly violated the 1974 Disengagement Agreement by invading the demilitarized zone between Syria and the occupied Golan Heights . <p> Biblical Rhetoric in Military Justifications <p> This is not the first time Netanyahu has relied on religious texts to rationalize military assaults . During the ongoing Gaza genocide , he has repeatedly quoted the Torah and Psalms , framing the genocide as a " battle between the children of light and the children of darkness . " <p> Netanyahu has previously invoked the Amalekites , a biblical enemy of the Israelites , to justify wiping out Palestinians in Gaza . He quoted Ecclesiastes , stating , " There is a time for peace and a time for war , " and promised Israeli forces they would fulfill prophecies from the Book of Isaiah . <p> Netanyahu 's use of religious rhetoric serves to mask Israel 's violations of international law and advance colonial ambitions in occupied territories . <p> Netanyahu 's repeated use of religious references to justify military operations has drawn sharp criticism . Many see these actions as an attempt to legitimize colonial ambitions under the guise of religious entitlement . The international community continues to express concern over Israel 's violations of international agreements and its impact on regional stability . <p> UN reminds Israel that Golan Heights Are Occupied Syrian Land <p> The United Nations reiterated on Tuesday that the Golan Heights is Syrian territory occupied by Israel since 1967 . The organization urged respect for Syria 's sovereignty and condemned any violation of its territorial integrity . <p> Stephane Dujarric , spokesperson for the UN Secretary-General , stated , " We continue to regard the Golan Heights as occupied territory . " He emphasized the UN 's opposition to any actions undermining Syria 's territorial unity . <p> The remarks followed Israel 's recent incursion into southern Syria , an escalation that comes amid significant changes in the region . " Neighbors should not exploit Syria 's current turning point to encroach on its land , " Dujarric said , referencing recent events in Syria . <p> The UN also highlighted breaches of the 1974 Disengagement Agreement between Israel and Syria . This agreement established a buffer zone and prohibited military activities in the area . Dujarric confirmed that Israeli forces remain stationed in three locations within the zone , violating the agreement . <p> The UN peacekeeping force ( UNDOF ) , tasked with monitoring the buffer zone , reported these violations to Israeli authorities . Dujarric stressed , " There should be no military presence or activities in the separation zone . " <p> Israel occupied the Golan Heights during the 1967 war and later annexed the area with Donald Trump 's blessing during his presidency , a move never recognized internationally . The UN reaffirmed its stance against this annexation and called on Israel to respect international law . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> On Sunday , the Israeli army declared " closed military zones " in the occupied Golan Heights and infiltrated into some Syrian cities . This followed the sudden collapse of the Assad regime by Syrian rebels . <p> He described Israel 's relationship with the UN as " complex . " Despite this , the UN 's political , humanitarian , and peacekeeping channels " remain open " with Israel . <p> After the Israeli incursion into Syrian territories , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu claimed that " the Golan Heights will forever be an inseparable part of the State of Israel . " <p> The reports through Western presses read rather familiarly . Joyful residents taking selfies on abandoned , sullen tanks . Armed men ebullient and shooting into the sky with adventurist stupidity . The removal of ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118750565 <h> Odyssey : Hopes and dreams <h> Share : <p> Societies around the globe face multiple crises . In this context , is marshaling hope and dreaming up beautiful futures -- imagining a world that could be -- a useful response , or is it escapism ? <p> Our hopes for a better world can be powerful springboards to action , but when does hope become hopium ? And if we , you and I , do depend on our hopes and dreams to keep us going , what happens if our aspirations become long shots or even hopeless ? This essay looks at these questions . <p> Two paths of change <p> For the longest time , I thought major policy change would be driven by concrete responses to the awful things happening to human and natural communities around the world . <p> Advocates for change would see new policies , for example , to curb corporate abuses and grab their wrists as they reached for ever more control over our politics . We would see strong action to address the vast social and economic inequalities . We would see measures to build on the hard-hitting clean air and water acts to eliminate the climate-ruining gases spewing from our runaway energy system . <p> The push for all these and other policy efforts would include what we saw as " non-reformist reforms . " They would look like reforms , but they would contain the seeds of deeper , transformational change -- like ditching gross domestic product in favor of new measures of societal well-being . <p> The victims of the many crises and their allies would find their voices , as would activists for the environment . Meanwhile , I and others would focus on the needed policy analysis , working to develop both reformist policies and the far-reaching prescriptions for the deeper changes that would address underlying causes . I for one have written several books full of policy prescriptions aimed at transformational change . <p> But a funny thing happened on the way to the revolution . <p> The efforts at policy-driven change remain ongoing and essential , and I am still involved in them . But you will have noticed that their progress has been terribly slow . Meanwhile , an ominous deepening of what is now called the polycrisis has occurred , most visibly in the climate crisis and in threats to democracy here and abroad . That has led many people to flee the fetters of the practical world , at least in their dreams , and find hope in imagining a world that could be . <p> Some of this is escapism , but often enough , these fetching worlds are rigorously grounded in biological and historical understandings . For example , one theme is that economic systems must learn from nature 's systems . Ecological economics , industrial ecology , the regenerative economy , and the circular economy all give some definition to this new thinking . Others are dreaming of flourishing worlds of democratic eco-socialism , while still others are looking to Asian religions and Indigenous teachings for modern guidance . <p> " New , dreamed-of worlds will not compete yet in today 's practical politics . But they are the first blueprints of the future , the playing fields of radical hope , the dreams that stuff is made of . " <p> One sees in all these envisionings a dramatic change in dominant cultural values : a new consciousness that transcends the old barriers that separate us from each other and humans from nature . The current order increasingly lacks legitimacy , and alternative worldviews that can gain our allegiance are being advocated . As a leading thinker in this field , Jeremy Lent , says , " Once we shift our worldview , another world becomes possible . " <p> Yes , the new , dreamed-of worlds will not compete yet in today 's practical politics . But they should not be dismissed as woolly , wild-eyed , or impractical . They are the first blueprints of the future , the playing fields of radical hope , the dreams that stuff is made of . <p> Indeed , one can see a new consciousness at work today across the country . It is bringing concrete change in countless local communities where something new and different is being built . See , for example , the websites for the New Economy Coalition and the Wellbeing Economy Alliance and check out their member organizations . <p> More and more people are searching for something beautiful , even if it is untethered from today 's " political realities . " If current trends continue and blossom , could we enter a world of consciousness-driven change -- not piecemeal , practical , and incremental , but fresh , bold , and sweeping ? What if enough people joined in John Lennon 's " you better free your mind instead " and the major force bringing a desirable future into the present is a sea change in the public mind ? The phrase " consciousness change " would have a whole new meaning . <p> " Dream on , " the skeptic says . " Yes , we will , " they reply . <p> Decades of discoursescientists , economists , lawyers , and here we are . Stuck.That discourse can not dowhat must be done:Reach to the human heart.The core problems aregreed , arrogance , and apathy , our dominant values astray.What we need now isnot more analysis buta spiritual awakeningto a new consciousness.So , bring on the preachers and prophets ! The poets and philosophers ! Bring on the story tellers , musicians , artists ! The teachers of ancient wisdoms ! Call them to strike the chordsof our shared humanity , of our close kin to wild things . <p> Of hopes and dreams and beyond <p> Victor Hugo wrote , " There is nothing like a dream to create the future . " If we can first envision a future that works for people and planet , we can begin to make it happen . In one of his excellent novels , Richard Flannagan asks , " What reality was ever created by realists ? ... What we can not dream we can never do . " <p> Such dreams are manifestations of hope ; the two are inseparable . The Rev. Jesse Jackson , a fellow South Carolinian of my generation , spoke about the importance of hope in 1988 at the Democratic National Convention : " Wherever you are tonight , you can make it . Hold your head high ; stick your chest out . You can make it . It gets dark sometimes , but the morning comes . ... Keep hope alive . Keep hope alive ! " Jackson knows that hope is like vision -- without it , the people perish . <p> But hope can be treacherous . We should cling to hope , but only hope that is linked to commitment and action , not mere escapism , not hopium . <p> It takes a lot of hopiumto get me through the day.There is always more hopium , and I will take it any way.I can grow my own hopium.My mind 's a fertile field.The less I know , the more I grow.You can not beat that deal.I got a bumper crop last yearwhen I turned off the news.Being hopeful was easy whenI took a long news snooze.There are far worse addictions ; hopium just affects the mind.Yet in terms of climate worries , it leaves them far behind.Dreamy hope , comforting hope , whenever needed it 's there.There 's always more hopiumwhen I 'm in my easy chair.Hope without costs , hope without consequence , this hope 's a dope 's dopein a cauldron of innocence . <p> Rebecca Solnit saw something else very important about hope . " The grounds for hope are in the shadows , " she writes , " in the people who are inventing the world while no one looks , who themselves do n't know yet whether they will have any effect . " Keep hope alive , Solnit says , but link it to action , to inventing a better world . And , importantly , keep hope alive even in the face of total uncertainty that the work it inspires will be fruitful . <p> But what if one knows for a practical certainty that that work will not be successful and save the day ? Here one enters the zone of despair . A lot of people today are despairing . <p> As I navigate among the various faces I have in this world -- the Happy Everyday Me , the Policy Wonk Me , the New Radical Me -- I sometimes fall into the zone of despair , and there I find the Despairing Me . I try not to go there , but I stumble . <p> In this windowless cellar of my mind , I have devastating thoughts , not phantasmagoric apparitions easily dismissed , but thoughts resulting from a calculus carefully tuned to empirical observation of the world spanning many years . <p> There , I encounter the thought that human enterprise on the planet -- ambitious , arrogant , heedless , at times inspiring -- has inadvertently created an insatiable contraption that is now devouring the planet at a phenomenal rate that human societies can no longer control . <p> If this contraption were bringing genuine human satisfaction and well-being while ruining the planet , well , that would be something . We would at least be going down happy . But for an apt description of our current human condition , I can not but think instead of the lyric Tom Lehrer made famous , " The whole world is festering with unhappy souls . " <p> Generally , people are unhappy for good reason . Some are unhappy because they are spoiled or misapprehending their circumstances , but for most there are genuine causes of human misery . Hard data support deprivations born in economic disparities , social inequities , environmental decay , climate change , political oppression , invidious discriminations , the failure of education and health systems , the loss of community solidarity and human companionship , and , perhaps most important , the widespread sense of powerlessness and hopelessness in the face of these challenges . <p> In this bottom chamber of despair , honesty can not assign a decent probability or even a fighting chance of finding a solution . <p> Faced with what seems a terrifying situation , human creativity can reach in several directions . First , there is Acceptance . One can accept this fate , hopelessness , with bitter nihilism or with hedonistic abandon or with a calm stoicism . I am told that Marcus Aurelius is all the rage today . Many will opt , as Thoreau noted , to live lives of quiet desperation and make the best of a bad situation . A different tack , waiting for the world beyond , is taken by some religious followers who put their faith in the afterlife , not this one . <p> Second , there is Denial . It too can take many directions . One can stick to living in the truthiness world free of fact and science and full of fake reality , like believing climate change a hoax . Or one might relax and assume these problems will be easily solved -- somehow , someday , soon enough , by someone . This is the hopium solution , life from the easy chair . <p> Then , there is the only response I and many others can live with : Resistance . In the end , one must act even in the face of hopelessness , warriors defending a sacred place , simply because it is the right thing to do , rebelling beyond hope because the human spirit says with insistence that what is unacceptable -- all the suffering , all the loss , all the tears -- must not be accepted . <p> Beyond all our fears , it is.Beyond grieving and crying , it is.Beyond even hope , it is.What then is left beyond ? A collapse of sentiment ? What do they feel:the Black man in solitary , the young girl buriedin the rubble of Gaza , the Amazon dwellerswatching the forest die ? What do we feel , you and I ? Can the mere knowledgeof the world 's desperationwhile still in a sheltered spacetake us to a place beyond ? I can only speak for myself.I hunger to strike a blowso shattering that enthrallmentbreaks into a million shardsand falls to the feet of the world . <p> Albert Camus ' The Myth of Sisyphus is an essay for our time . It is also my favorite . Camus says that Sisyphus was condemned by the gods to a dreadful and hopeless task , forever pushing a rock up to the top of the mountain only to see it roll back of its own weight . Sisyphus ' crime was " his hatred of death and his passion for life . " Camus continues , describing Sisyphus ' hopelessness : <p> " If this myth is tragic , that is because its hero is conscious . Where would his torture be , indeed , if at every step the hope of succeeding upheld him ? Sisyphus , proletarian of the gods , powerless and rebellious , knows the whole extent of his wretched condition : it is what he thinks of during his descent . The lucidity that was to constitute his torture at the same time crowns his victory . There is no fate that can not be surmounted by scorn . . . . <p> " I leave Sisyphus at the foot of the mountain ! One always finds one 's burden again . But Sisyphus teaches the higher fidelity that negates the gods and raises rocks . He concludes that all is well . This universe , henceforth without a master , seems to him neither sterile nor futile . The struggle itself toward the heights is enough to fill a man 's heart . One must imagine Sisyphus happy . " <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> There it is : the struggle toward the heights . I think we can be sustained and carried forward by the struggle , by being engaged in the fight , each as our capabilities and opportunities permit . <p> The snow lies lightly on the lilacsround by the kitchen door.The juncos peck in stone cracks , endless in their search for more.I think that is my way too , to keep the search going on.What else really could I dobut find new ways to scorn.As Camus said of Sisyphuswho toiled with his stone , there is no fate for usthat ca n't be beat by scorn.And so I scorn what passes here todayfor equality and justice before the law , for helping immigrants to find a way , for promises the troops will withdraw . <p> Oh , purple mountain majesty ! Oh , fruited plains of amber grain ! The machine crushes endlesslyeverything for investment 's gain.And so we search for ways to fight.We see the beauty of the snow , but we know to make it rightmay require our blood to flow.We 've seen the heads bandaged round , the men and women teared by gas.Each has earned a special crown.They know the system will not last.Scorn , rage , and many actions.protests coming round the world.Today we see but a fractionof banners yet to be unfurled ! <p> * * * <p> I thank Orion magazine for publishing pieces I have drawn upon in this essay . The poems are from books I have published over the last half-dozen years . <p> James Gustave Speth is author of America the Possible : Manifesto for a NewEconomy ( Yale Press ) and , most recently , They Knew : The U.S. FederalGovernment 's Role in Causing the Climate Crisis ( MIT Press ) . He has served as Dean of the Yale School of the Environment , as President of the World Resources Institute , and as Administrator of the UN Development Programme . He was Chair of the US Council on Environmental Quality during the Carter Administration . <p> Visiting several villages of Karauli district ( Rajasthan , India ) recently , it was generally not difficult to reach them . However the situation changed dramatically when going to Rawatpura village located in Sapotra ... <p> Efforts to increase food production generally emphasize intensively developed areas which already have high levels of production . On the one hand many areas recording much lower levels of food production ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118750570 <h> The children the world forgot <h> Share : <p> Two children pose in a specially made frame for World Children 's Day . Photo/Lubna Ahmad Abu Sitta <p> On 20 November , I decided to organize a special day for the 35 5-year-olds I teach in a kindergarten near me in Khan Younis . <p> It was World Children 's Day , and I figured that even if the world has forgotten Gaza 's children , we have not . <p> It 's not an official kindergarten , of course . Israel 's genocidal aggression on Gaza has seen 95 percent of Gaza 's schools destroyed or damaged , with at least 87 percent needing " significant reconstruction , " according to the UN , before they can be used again . <p> No , our " kindergarten " is a room in a house that was once a home -- my grandmother 's home to be exact . It has not escaped damage . Wood and zinc sheets have replaced walls to give shelter from the weather , but the structure is still sound and my grandmother 's relatives still live on the second floor . <p> We welcome children from the area only . Parents remain fearful of anything resembling a long journey , so we take who we can from nearby . <p> In this , our imperfect haven , we try to keep a sense of education going for these young children and to provide care for their psychological well-being . <p> All of these kids suffer some trauma or other . One has lost both her parents . Another , Yousef , has a father who had to have both legs amputated after being injured in a bombing . All of them have lost loved ones . Twenty of them have been displaced from their homes elsewhere in Gaza and are now living in tents . <p> I wanted to make that Wednesday special for the kids . Some of them had n't eaten properly in weeks , and while I would not be serving them hamburgers or shawarma , at least I could try to make something fresh . <p> Gathering food was a challenge . It always is . Like everywhere else in Gaza , Khan Younis is suffering near-famine conditions as a result of Israel blocking access for humanitarian aid into Gaza . <p> The UN reported that Israel last month had on average allowed just 6 percent of the number of trucks with humanitarian aid , including food , to cross into Gaza that it allowed before last October . <p> So I had to make my way to the eastern borders of Khan Younis where there is a shop from which I could buy some canned foods , sugar and flour . I paid from my personal savings , money I had set aside over years of hard work . <p> I prepared simple treats , thyme pastries , savory meat pies and some cheese pastries , and my brother arranged with a nearby baker to have them freshly baked at 8 am so the children could savor them warm when they came . <p> I also made some sweets and gave them to the children as little gifts . I had tried to find toys for them , but none were available in local markets that barely carry basic food supplies , let alone anything non-essential . <p> A lovely day <p> It was a lovely day . <p> I woke up early to prepare the classroom . I hung colorful drawings , posters about children 's rights and a map of Palestine on the classroom wall . <p> I set up supplies on the tables , played uplifting music and created a special corner with a decorated wooden frame in which the kids could be photographed . <p> As they arrived , I greeted them one by one with a smile and a hug . Their laughter boomed around the room when they discovered the treats , the pastries and the festive decorations . <p> Each had their own reactions . Ahmed said it was like " we have a celebration today . " <p> Marah 's eyes widened when she saw the treats : " Are these sweets for us ? " <p> Aysal also spoke up , but her voice was tinged with fear as she urged her friends not to be too loud . <p> For hours , we shared stories and laughter . Each child took turns distributing the meals , their faces lighting up with delight as they shared with their classmates . I also handed out gifts , adding to the festive spirit . <p> We sat together , joking and playing , capturing countless beautiful moments that will forever be etched in my heart . My students are young souls who deserve nothing but joy ; they should not have to bear the weight of war on their innocent hearts . <p> Rare treats for children who have not eaten properly in months . Lubna Ahmad Abu Sitta <p> 20 November ought to stand as a poignant reminder of our collective commitment to children . It marks the day in 1959 when the UN 's General Assembly adopted the Declaration of the Rights of the Child , which was followed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1989 . <p> But in the context of a genocide , marking World Children 's Day by teaching Gaza 's children about rights they are being denied every minute almost seems like a cruel joke . <p> Israel has killed at least 14,000 children over the past 14 months . More than 20,000 are missing , lost , disappeared , detained or buried under rubble and more than 17,000 children are estimated to be unaccompanied , either orphaned or separated from their closest family . <p> More than 625,000 school age children have entered a second year without an education meanwhile , and among the 1.9 million people in Gaza -- out of a 2.3 million population -- who have been forcibly displaced , half are children . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Everyone is starving and no one is safe . <p> Like Aysal , no one feels safe . <p> Still , I taught my children about 20 November and their rights and we celebrated the day together . <p> I refuse to relinquish the hope that one day they too will experience the joys of freedom , safety , education , shelter , food , medicine and the right to express themselves and travel , just like other children . <p> Palestinian territory - Israel is systematically closing hospitals in northern Gaza through direct military targeting , a suffocating siege , and the killing , injuring , and arresting of patients , wounded individuals , and medical personnel .... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118750577 <h> The Return of War to the Home Front : Do n't Look for Restraint from Donald Trump 's Military <h> Share : <p> In the early 1990s , doctors in Hiroshima , Japan , discovered a stress-induced syndrome they called Takotsubo cardiomyopathy , or " broken heart syndrome " -- a condition in which the heart 's left ventricle , responsible for pumping blood , loses its capacity in response to extreme stressors like war , natural disaster , and the loss of loved ones . Prevalent among older women , that acute condition involves heart attack-like symptoms , including chest pain and pressure , light-headedness , and dread . <p> More recently , Israeli doctors in Tel Aviv noted a spike in the condition after the October 7 , 2023 , attack by the militant group Hamas and Israel 's subsequent incursion into ( and devastation of ) Gaza in response . The mothers of Israeli soldiers in particular have been affected , as have many who did n't directly experience or witness the ravages of October 7th against that country 's civilians . ( Undoubtedly , something similar has been happening in Gaza , too , but given the disastrous situation of the medical profession there , we have no way of knowing . ) <p> Examples like these remind me of one of the most valuable things I 've learned from studying my country 's endless foreign wars as both an anthropologist and a military spouse : armed conflict transforms the bodies and minds of people far beyond its battlefields , including in the country that launched such wars in often distant lands . <p> As Americans await the inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump , I find myself thinking that it could n't be more important to understand the culturally transformative impact of war . My vantage point is a strange but ( I think ) salient one . I 'm the wife of a U.S. military veteran and the mother of children who have been encouraged by those in our family and community to become fighters " like Daddy . " Yet I 'm also someone who , through my involvement in Brown University 's Costs of War Project , has long critiqued this country 's warfighting efforts and the culture that sustains them . <p> In short , I find myself in an awkward position in this fragile democracy of ours . After all , I 'm someone who has devoted unpaid labor to our military-industrial complex , yet ca n't resist the impulse to critique it for its impact . How 's that for a conflict of interest ? <p> Having risked plenty in this position , I might as well keep at it . One thing I can say is that all too many Americans , whatever their political leanings , agree on the benefits of funding our military with ever more hundreds of billions of our tax dollars that disproportionately benefitweapons contractors rather than us or our social safety network . <p> In fact , decades of federal budgets have favored war fighting with all too lax human-rights standards in dozens of foreign countries , hostility and violence against vulnerable people within the ranks of our own troops , antiterrorism policies that have encroached on domestic civil liberties , and the flow via police departments of military assault rifles and armored vehicles onto America 's city streets . And do n't forget the Veterans Day celebrations that propagandize military service to young children or the military recruiters in public schools . All of that is yet more evidence of what Americans value most . Yes , many of us have balked at school shootings and spiking child death rates , or at the servicemen and veterans who helped lead the rampage to overturn the 2020 election certification , but it 's clear that ever more of us , in or out of uniform , agree , in some fashion , on the sanctity of armed violence . <p> In a sense , the fact that we just voted back into the presidency someone who embodies a lack of restraint might be considered the climax of America 's decades-long War on Terror that began in response to the 9/11 attacks in 2001 . Twenty-odd years later , we have a president-(re)elect who does n't believe in the peaceful transfer of power . He 's already used the bully pulpit of his presidency and then his candidacies to demonize federal workers and journalists . He 's called his political opponents " vermin " and " the enemy within , " while conjuring up specific images of violence against them . And he 's accused immigrants of " poisoning the blood " of our country -- language that , in other settings like Hitler 's Germany or early 1990s Rwanda , led to upsurges in extralegal violence even before the first official orders to kill were given . <p> Trump has used his public statements to direct his anger -- and so that of his most ardent supporters -- not toward China and Russia whose militaries threaten the sovereignty of our allies , but toward our own unarmed civilian workers who feed , educate , nourish , and pay Americans . Under such conditions , it 's hard to know which came first : our President-elect , or Americans who distrust each other as much as they do outsiders , the federal government , and factual reporting . And talking about wars of terror , if ever conditions were ripe for civilian bloodshed at home , it 's now -- a time when there exists no shared sense of what it means to be an American or even any way to talk about it together . <p> Start ' Em Early . <p> Perhaps the truest reflection of our faith in warfighting as problem-solving is the emphasis still given to telling kids that it 's a good idea to join the military . Within military communities , it remains an unspoken rule that kids ought to be raised to be like their parents in uniform . As an example , consider the Pentagon 's **27;6026;TOOLONG , attended by over 8,000 children this year and replete with athletic events , refreshments , and paraphernalia for those kids to take home . My own children experience a version of that : toy battleships and fighter jets , as well as coffee-table books displaying every class of armored vehicle ever made and old uniforms and memorabilia from various military bases . <p> Teachers at local elementary schools ask younger grades to draw pictures of those they know who serve in the military and write essays about why they 're proud of them . A local gathering in honor of loved ones in the military , during which community leaders extol the bravery and resolve of those who serve , is among the best-attended events in my small rural town . If only that many people attended PTA meetings to discuss the curriculum and school safety , among other things ! <p> In our kids ' local Cub Scouts troop during Veterans Day week , parents who served in the military were invited to talk to the scouts about what they did while in uniform . Adults and children peppered them with questions about the weaponry they used and who they fought . And mind you , in such settings , when was the last time you heard of doctors , election workers , teachers , or federal employees being asked to describe their work , no less what they use to do it ? <p> A Mandate to Kill <p> The way we spend money , go to war , vote , and raise our children suggests that , on some level , we 've already given our military and law enforcement our implicit trust . How else to interpret the results of the 2024 election ? By a significant margin , voters decided that leadership means not standing up to autocratic leaders abroad , but promising to hurt those who would speak out against you at home . <p> In June 2020 , as protests and riots against the police murder of George Floyd swelled in Washington , President Trump told military leaders that he wanted to augment police units already in the capitol with armed military personnel . Hundreds of soldiers from the Army 's 82nd Airborne Division traveled from North Carolina to Fort Belvoir just south of Washington , theoretically to help units already posted around the capitol . Those troops were issued bayonets , though they did n't display them . <p> Apparently betting on the prospect that Trump would not want to own the decision to deploy troops against unarmed civilians , Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mark Milley and Secretary of Defense Mark Esper attempted to appease him and buy time without acting on his suggestion . However we judge the minimalist guardrails those officials put in place , it 's no longer clear that anyone in Trump 's second term will be there to restrain him from moving forward with his worst intentions against civilians , including undocumented immigrants ( against whom the president-to-be is already threatening to call in the military ) . " The next time , I 'm not waiting , " Trump said of such a future possibility at a 2023 rally . <p> Trolling by Nomination <p> Next to the man himself , nothing telegraphs Trump 's willingness to use force against unarmed American civilians more vividly than his nomination of former Army National Guard officer Pete Hegseth for secretary of defense . A Fox News host with no administrative experience in the Pentagon , he sports tattoos indicating his allegiance to Christian nationalist and white supremacist causes . It 's hard to imagine a more partisan pick for a military that is supposed to be none of the above . Hegseth also ( you wo n't be surprised to learn ) settled a sexual assault allegation in 2017 by a woman who attended one of his speaking engagements . In three separate instances as a Fox News host , he advocated on behalf of three service members being investigated by military tribunals for killing unarmed civilians in Iraq and Afghanistan . Subsequently , President Trump pardoned two of those convicted men and reversed the demotion of the third , who had posed with the dead body of a teenage prisoner after allegedly murdering him with a knife . <p> Not just Hegseth 's actions but his stated goals speak to his disdain for restraint . He 's already made explicit his intention to fire any of the military 's top brass who have participated in diversity , equity , and inclusion initiatives , which , among other things , involve badly needed education to prevent sexual assault and hate speech demonizing religious and racial minorities or LGBTQ+ service members . <p> Hegseth 's appointment dovetails with the incoming administration 's revulsion against law and order within its own ranks , effectively ensuring , in the years to come , that the military will rot from the inside . Trump 's governance blueprint , the Heritage Foundation 's Project 2025 , is direct in stating that weeding out " manufactured extremism " will be nonnegotiable this time around . The authors of that plan have urged the incoming administration to place national law enforcement agencies like Homeland Security and the federal police directly under the leadership of the secretary of defense and the president . <p> Disdain for Restraint <p> Americans have a certain reverence for those who act on impulse without considering the consequences . I doubt Donald Trump would have such a reputation for being a " strong leader " without having egged on his most ardent followers with intimations of violence . Think about his claim that white supremacist protestors in Charlottesville who , in 2017 , ranted about Jews replacing them included " very fine people " ; or his boast that he could " stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody , and I would n't lose any voters " ; or his urging the crew who were to become the January 6th rioters to " fight like hell " ; or his suggestion that Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mark Milley ought to have been executed for attempting to directly reassure a Chinese general about this country 's stability while the president was trying to remain in office after his election loss in 2020 . That last example should be a reminder that instability and violence within our government present an existential safety risk not just to ordinary Americans but to the entire world , as foreign governments worry about what an unhinged Trump administration might mean for them . <p> For me , the greatest elephant in the room is our government 's possession of a vast supply of nuclear weaponry capable of causing exponentially more destruction than the bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945 . Just the non-nuclear explosives that the Biden administration has provided to Israel to drop on Gaza have , cumulatively , had a power far greater than the Hiroshima bomb -- a preview of the human destruction our elected leaders are willing to allow even without giving direct orders to do so . Since the only enemies Donald Trump now refers to live in this country , it falls within the realm of possibility that , in his hands , our arsenal of weaponry could place American cities in danger . <p> A New Kind of War <p> I like to remind myself that things have been bad in the past : police wielding fire hoses , clubs , and dogs on unarmed Black children protesting for their civil rights ; troops blocking Black teenagers from attending school ; and of course , border patrol agents separating children from their parents and locking them in cages . To a large extent , we rebounded from such horrors , even though hundreds of those immigrant children have yet to find their parents . Still , we can only imagine what will happen in the Trumpian immigration crackdown that awaits us . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> As Democratic strategist Simon Rosenberg emphasized to a group of activists and supporters the day after the election , we need to " make a lot of noise " about whatever the incoming Trump administration does , and what it means for our democracy . And independent journalism and truth-telling will make this possible , not cynical mistrust of the news or of Americans who try to call out what is likely to be Trump 's violent abuse of power . Keeping our republic will be harder than ever this time around , but Americans who care about their fellow citizens need to prepare themselves to bear witness to the human costs of what could be a new kind of war right here on our own soil . Otherwise , we 'll find all too many hearts broken , including mine . <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118757455 <p> Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz has now informed the U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin that there is a " chance " for a new deal that will bring remaining hostages , including some who hold American citizenship , held after the October 2023 Hamas attack to freedom . <p> Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz has signaled a renewed window of opportunity for negotiations seeking to rescue hostages taken during the October 2023 Hamas attack . On Wednesday , Katz let U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin know that " there 's a chance now " to have a new agreement return the remaining hostages , which include some people with American citizenship . <p> In his remarks during a telephone call with Austin , Katz expressed renewed optimism about the possibility of an end to the campaign for the release of those remaining hostages held by Hamas . " This opportunity " to bring all the hostages back home is what " these negotiations are all about , " said Katz 's statement on the issue . " There is now a chance for a new deal that will allow the return of all the hostages , including those with American citizenship , " the statement said , according to Reuters . <h> Key Talks And Developments In Syria <p> Apart from the hostage situation , Katz and Austin discussed several regional security matters , most of which focused on Syria . The two defense leaders addressed the fall of Bashar al-Assad 's regime and the recent actions of Israel in the Golan Heights , specifically the seizure of a buffer zone on the Syrian side . Both officials concurred on the ongoing threat of Iran , particularly weapons shipments , and pledged cooperation in preventing smuggling operations to transfer weapons from Iran into Lebanon via Syria . <p> On Tuesday , Israeli security officials-including Shin Bet Director Ronen Bar and IDF Chief of Staff Lt. Gen. Herzi Halevi-were scheduled to meet with senior Egyptian officials in Cairo to discuss efforts towards a hostage release deal , focused on the Gaza-Egypt border , and including the possibility of a broader agreement with Hamas . <p> An Israeli official remarked that , while Hamas has remained silent on the issue , there is a growing belief that the group may now be more open to negotiations . " Two weeks ago I thought Hamas did n't want a deal . Now I am inclined to think that it has changed its mind , " the official said , quoted by the Times of Israel . The official also added that it is possible to strike a deal sometime next month before Donald Trump 's inauguration as president . <h> New Hope Amid Regional Changes <p> This follows a November 2023 agreement that freed 105 hostages . While there is a breakthrough , Israel still believes that 96 hostages are left in Gaza from the 251 hostages taken during the October 7 attack . Recent regional developments and heightened pressure , including warnings from Trump regarding consequences for failure to free the hostages , have made people hopeful of a new deal . 
@@118765376 <h> Germany arrests suspected Islamists over attack plot <h> Story highlights <p> Germany has faced a string of attacks and plots by suspected Islamists in recent years and has been on high alert since Hamass October 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel sparked the war in the Gaza Strip . <p> Three suspected Islamist extremists have been arrested in Germany on suspicion of preparing a " serious act of violence " , with an assault rifle and knives also seized , authorities said Tuesday . <p> Police swooped Sunday on the homes of two German-Lebanese brothers aged 15 and 20 in the city of Mannheim , and a 22-year-old German-Turkish man from the Hochtaunus district of Hessen state . <p> German media reports said they were planning to attack Christmas markets in either Frankfurt or Mannheim . <p> Local prosecutors and police said in a statement that the act they were planning could have " endangered the state " , without disclosing further details . <p> Germany has faced a string of attacks and plots by suspected Islamists in recent years and has been on high alert since Hamas 's October 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel sparked the war in the Gaza Strip . <p> The brothers detained in Mannheim , who had a " strong religious ideology and profound sympathy " for the Islamic State ( IS ) group , had made concrete preparations for an attack , authorities said . <p> The assault rifle , along with ammunition , was found during a search of the 22-year-old German-Turkish man 's home , they said . Several knives , a balaclava as well as mobile phones were also turned up during searches . <p> But officials stressed that " at no point was there any concrete danger to the public " . The suspects are in pre-trial detention . 
@@118777355 <p> Just two days after the shocking and devestating October 7 , 2023 , attack by Hamas , Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu uttered prophetic words : " We will change the face of the Middle East " . The proclamation set the tone for a series of tactical military operations aimed at dismantling Hamas 's capabilities in Gaza , crippling Hezbollah in Lebanon and taking back Golan Heights from Syria . The campaign against Hamas and Hezbollah was framed as not just a battle for Israel 's security but also a broader confrontation with Iranian influence that has historically extended from the Persian Gulf through Iraq and Syria to Lebanon . By actively engaging in these military confrontations , Netanyahu has sought to position Israel as the dominant power in the region . <h> Military actions in Gaza <p> Speaking about his decision that he took just two days after the Hamas attack that killed over 1,100 people : Netanyahu said in a recent media post : " My first decision , and that of the Security Cabinet , was to focus , first of all , on the south , and afterwards on the north : To eliminate Hamas 's military and governing capabilities in Gaza , and block the danger of a Hezbollah invasion in the north . " " Now we are working to demolish Hamas 's remaining military capabilities and all of its governing capabilities , and bring back the hostages , and I emphasise , down to the last of them . " <p> Since the outbreak of hostilities on October 7 , 2023 , Israel has engaged in extensive military operations in Gaza . The conflict has resulted in significant casualties , with reports indicating that over 41,400 people have died , predominantly women and children . Netanyahu 's government has justified these operations as necessary to dismantle Hamas 's military capabilities , asserting that they have destroyed key infrastructures both above and below ground.In his speeches , Netanyahu has emphasized a proactive approach to security , stating : " We do not wait for a threat ; we anticipate it " . <h> Escalation in Lebanon <p> Following the conflict in Gaza , tensions escalated significantly between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon . Netanyahu has made it clear that he intends to change the " balance of power " with Hezbollah through military action . " In Lebanon , we used a daring stratagem that struck a severe blow to Hezbollah : We eliminated the organization 's leadership , destroyed its terrorist strongholds close to the border -- and I say terrorist strongholds which were built over decades -- and destroyed a considerable part of its arsenal of Hezbollah 's missiles and rockets , " said Netanyahu . <h> Iran 's Axis of Resistance <p> Netanyahu has said that even before the elimination of Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah , Israel had reached a clear conclusion : " Nasrallah himself was the axis of the axis " . " Strike him , and the axis will have been struck a mortal blow . Nasrallah not only fanned the flames of aggression against us , he was the connecting link between Hezbollah , Syria and Iran . Therefore , the elimination of Nasrallah was a turning point in the crumbling of the axis , " the PM said , adding : " Nasrallah is no longer with us , nor is the axis what it used to be . We are dismantling it stage by stage . " " Iran cleared a path of terrorism from the Persian Gulf to the Mediterranean Sea : From Iran to Iraq , from Iraq to Syria and from Syria to Lebanon . In the south , it armed Hamas and in the more distant south -- the Houthis , whom we have also struck hard . The axis has not yet disappeared , but as I promised , we are changing the face of the Middle East . The State of Israel is establishing itself as a focus of strength in our region , the likes of which have not been seen for decades . Whoever cooperates with us , gains greatly . Whoever attacks us , loses greatly . " <h> Syria crisis <p> The situation in Syria presented another front in Netanyahu 's strategy . With the recent collapse of Bashar al-Assad 's regime , Netanyahu grabbed the opportunity to further solidify Israel 's security posture and ordered Israeli forces to take control of positions in Golan Heights , previously held by Syrian troops , to prevent hostile entities from gaining a foothold near Israel 's borders.Netanyahu has warned the new Syrian regime against allowing Iran to establish a presence or transfer weapons to Hezbollah . He stated that while Israel does not intend to interfere in Syria 's internal affairs , it will take necessary measures if its security is threatened . <h> Regional reactions <p> Netanyahu 's vow to change the face of the Middle East through military action is unfolding against a backdrop of significant violence and upheaval . His government 's strategies in Gaza , Lebanon , and Syria reflect a commitment to altering regional power dynamics through forceful means . While this approach may temporarily bolster Israel 's security posture , it raises critical questions about long-term stability and peace in the region.The reactions from neighboring countries and international observers have been mixed . Many view Netanyahu 's aggressive posture as an attempt to capitalise on regional instability for territorial gain . Critics argue that such actions could lead to further escalation and conflict within an already volatile region . Furthermore , there are concerns about the humanitarian impact of these military campaigns . The ongoing conflict has led to widespread displacement and suffering among civilian populations in Gaza and Lebanon . As international calls for ceasefires grow louder amidst mounting casualties , Netanyahu 's government remains steadfast in its military objectives . <h> About the Author <p> At TOI World Desk , our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock . With an unwavering commitment to accuracy , depth , and timeliness , we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world , delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers . Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world . 
@@118777367 <h> India votes for UN resolution on immediate Gaza ceasefire <p> India voted with 158 other countries at the UN General Assembly for resolutions demanding an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , the release of hostages , and access to humanitarian aid . The assembly also supported the UN agency for Palestine refugees ( UNRWA ) , despite Israel 's ban on its operations , urging Israel to respect international law and allow aid delivery . <p> India voted with 158 other countries at the UN General Assembly for resolutions demanding an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . <p> NEW DELHI : India was among the 158 countries that voted in favour of a resolution at the UNGA seeking immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire in Gaza Strip . Govt also backed another resolution expressing support for UNRWA , which too was adopted with overwhelming support . UNRWA is the UN agency for Palestine refugees that has been banned by Israel but continues to receive Indian aid.The 193-member General Assembly voted Wednesday at the 10th emergency special session to adopt the draft resolution - ' Demand for ceasefire in Gaza ' , introduced by Indonesia . India was among the 158 nations that voted in its favour , while nine member states , including Israel and the US , voted against it.Among the 13 nations that abstained were Albania and Ukraine . The resolution demanded an " immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire , to be respected by all parties , and further reiterates its demand for the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages " . It demanded that the parties fully , unconditionally and without delay implement all the provisions of the Security Council resolution of June 2024 regarding an " immediate ceasefire , the release of hostages , the exchange of Palestinian prisoners , the return of the remains of hostages who have been killed , the return of Palestinian civilians to their homes and neighbourhoods in all areas of Gaza , including in the north , and the full withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza " . <p> The resolution demanded immediate access by the civilian population in Gaza Strip to basic services and humanitarian assistance indispensable to its survival , while " rejecting any effort to starve Palestinians " . The second resolution , which was adopted with 159 votes in favour , deplored laws adopted by Israel 's Parliament on Oct 28 banning UNRWA 's activities in the Palestinian territories , a measure to take effect in 90 days . It reiterates UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres ' statements that UNRWA is " the backbone " of all humanitarian operations in Gaza and no organization can replace it . And it reaffirms the necessity for UNRWA 's continued " unimpeded operation " . <p> The resolution calls on the Israeli govt " to abide by its international obligations , respect the privileges and immunities of UNRWA " and uphold its responsibility to facilitate the unhindered delivery of aid humanitarian assistance throughout the entire Gaza Strip . 
@@118777373 <p> President-elect Donald Trump has outlined his ambitious vision to broker peace between Israel and Hamas during his upcoming term , pledging to halt the conflict in the Gaza Strip . However , he has emphasised his distrust in anyone else 's ability to achieve this -- not even Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . " I do n't trust anybody , " Trump said in a Time magazine interview after being named " Person of the Year . " His blunt statement reflects his cautious approach toward the Israeli leader and the broader Middle Eastern crisis.Two-state solution or annexation ? When questioned about the possibility of a two-state solution or Israel 's annexation of the West Bank , Trump maintained his focus on ending the bloodshed . " What I want is a deal where there 's going to be peace and where the killing stops , " he remarked . <p> Trump had previously blocked Netanyahu from annexing the West Bank during his first term but left the door open for a different approach , citing the horrific attacks of 7 October 2023 , which left over 1,000 people dead . " October 7 was a very terrible day , " he said , underscoring the need for long-lasting peace.Mike Huckabee 's appointment fuels speculationTrump 's appointment of former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee as the incoming US ambassador to Israel has raised eyebrows . Huckabee , known for his support of Israeli settlements and openness to annexation , recently told Israel 's Army Radio he would follow the president 's policies regarding such contentious issues . <p> Huckabee also hinted at possible US support for Israeli settlements in Gaza but refrained from making definitive statements , noting , " I do n't want to make any comments about policy because those wo n't be mine to make . " Peace in the Middle East : A tall order ? Trump expressed confidence in resolving the Israel-Hamas war , claiming it to be a more manageable challenge than the Russia-Ukraine conflict . " The Middle East is going to get solved , " he told Time , highlighting ongoing productive developments . However , he acknowledged the complexities of creating a peace deal that satisfies all parties involved.Reflecting on his previous term , Trump cited the Abraham Accords as a missed opportunity for broader Middle Eastern cooperation and criticised the lack of subsequent progress.Emphasising his commitment to peace , Trump reiterated his goal of preventing another tragedy like the October 7 massacre . " I want a long-lasting peace , a peace where we do n't have an October 7 in another three years , " he said . <h> About the Author <p> At TOI World Desk , our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock . With an unwavering commitment to accuracy , depth , and timeliness , we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world , delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers . Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world . 
@@118777723 <h> Why Investment Facilitation for Development ( IFD ) is relevant to the UPSC exam ? What is the significance of topics such as the Telangana Thalli statue , female Labour Force Participation Rate and Mother tongue on both the preliminary and main exams ? You can learn more by reading the Indian Express UPSC Key for December 11 , 2024 . <p> Mains Examination : General Studies II : Parliament and State legislatures -- structure , functioning , conduct of business , powers &amp; privileges and issues arising out of these . <p> What 's the ongoing story : Accusing Rajya Sabha Chairman Jagdeep Dhankhar of being " explicitly partisan " in conducting the proceedings of the House and acting as an " impassioned spokesperson " of the government 's policies at public fora , the Opposition INDIA bloc on Tuesday submitted a notice for bringing a resolution for removal of the Vice-President from office , making it the first such action in India 's parliamentary history . <p> Key Points to Ponder : <p> * What is meant by no confidence motion ? <p> * Why is it called no confidence motion ? <p> * What does it take to remove the Rajya Sabha chairman from his position ? <p> * What happens after the notice for impeachment is given ? <p> * How did Article 67 come to be in the Constitution ? <p> * What are the Constitutional provisions vice president ? <p> Key Takeaways : <p> * The Opposition move is seen as a symbolic exercise to make a political point since they do n't have the numbers to ensure the passage of the resolution , in either House , in the event of it being accepted . <p> Advertisement <p> * In 2020 , the then Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu had rejected the Opposition 's no-confidence motion against Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh , saying it was not in a proper format and that the 14-day notice period was not followed . <p> * According to 67(b) of the Constitution , " a Vice-President may be removed from his office by a resolution of the Council of States passed by a majority of all the then members of the Council and agreed to by the House of the People ; but no resolution for the purpose of this clause shall be moved unless at least fourteen days ' notice has been given of the intention to move the resolution " . <p> * The Opposition notice specifically mentions the events of December 9 , in the House , when Dhankhar reportedly called some NDA MPs to speak even after rejecting their Rule 267 notice seeking to raise the " rising threats to national security due to alleged nexus between a political party and some organisations working against India " . <p> * The Opposition notice is learnt to also accuse Dhankhar of unfairly using privilege motions to silence Opposition MPs , and of disparaging expression of dissent against the government . <p> Do You Know : <p> Advertisement <p> * Under Article 64 of the Constitution of India , the Vice President " shall be ex officio Chairman of the Council of the States " . -- Since the Vice President and Rajya Sabha chairperson must be the same individual , the process for their removal is also the same and is laid down under Article 67. -- Under this provision , the Vice President " shall hold office for a term of five years from the date on which he enters upon his office " unless the Vice President resigns before that by sending a letter to the President , or is removed from office . <p> * The requirements for removing or impeaching the Vice President are provided under Article 67(b). -- It states that the Vice President may be removed if a majority " all the then members of the Council ( Rajya Sabha ) " passes a resolution for his removal , which must then be " agreed to " by the House of the People ( Lok Sabha ) . -- Under this provision , " no resolution ... shall be moved unless at least fourteen days ' notice has been given of the intention to move the resolution " . <p> * Upon the expiry of the 14-day period , Rajya Sabha will take up the resolution for discussion . The procedure outlined in Article 67(b) will then follow . -- In the present case , it is unclear if the resolution will be taken up by the House . This is because the Winter Session of Parliament is scheduled to conclude on December 20 , which is less than 14 days away . There are no precedents to determine whether this same resolution can be considered in the next Session of the House . -- In any case , given the arithmetic in Parliament , it is almost certain that the resolution will be defeated . This is largely a symbolic move of protest by the Opposition that alleges the Vice President is unfair and partisan in the way he conducts the House . <p> Previous year UPSC Prelims Question Covering similar theme : 1 . A Parliamentary System of Government is one in which ( 2020 ) ( a ) all political parties in the Parliament are represented in the Government ( b ) the Government is responsible to the Parliament and can be removed by it ( c ) the Government is elected by the people and can be removed by them ( d ) the Government is chosen by the Parliament but can not be removed by it before completion of a fixed term 2 . Consider the following statements regarding a No-Confidence Motion in India : ( 2014 ) 1 . There is no mention of a No-Confidence Motion in the Constitution of India . 2 . A motion of No-Confidence can be introduced in the Lok Sabha only . Which of the statements given above is/are correct ? a ) 1 only b ) 2 only c ) Both 1 and 2 d ) Neither 1 nor 2Previous year UPSC Mains Question Covering similar theme : ? ? To what extent , in your view , the Parliament is able to ensure accountability of the executive in India ? ( 2021 ) <p> Mains Examination : General Studies III : Achievements of Indians in science &amp; technology ; indigenization of technology and developing new technology . <p> What 's the ongoing story : Researchers at IIT Madras have unveiled a cutting-edge tool -- a detailed 3D map of five developing baby brains from the second trimester . This map , now the most detailed high-resolution 3D representation of the foetal brain , shows how it undergoes rapid growth during this critical stage and can detect possibilities of brain disorders like autism . <p> Key Points to Ponder : <p> * Why is this brain map significant ? <p> * How was the mapping done ? <p> Advertisement <p> * Discuss the significance of the DHARINI brain atlas developed by IIT Madras in advancing neuroscience and healthcare research . <p> * Compare the DHARINI brain atlas with the brain atlas created by the Allen Institute for Brain Science . Highlight the advantages and challenges of the indigenously developed technology at IIT Madras . <p> * " The intersection of neuroscience and artificial intelligence is key to understanding and replicating human intelligence . " Discuss how advancements like the DHARINI brain atlas can contribute to AI research . <p> * Analyse the challenges and opportunities in integrating brain atlas data into public healthcare systems . How can this data be used to improve diagnosis and treatment of neurological disorders ? <p> * The DHARINI brain atlas represents India 's growing capabilities in scientific research and innovation . Discuss the role of such projects in fostering global collaboration and enhancing India 's scientific reputation . <p> Key Takeaways : <p> Advertisement <p> * Dr J Kumutha , dean and professor of Neonatology at Saveetha Medical College and Hospital which collaborated on the project highlighted that this data could provide crucial insights into developmental disorders like autism , which remain poorly understood and managed . " It may also help explain why some children suffer permanent damage and develop cerebral palsy after hypoxia ( a lack of oxygen ) while others recover without lasting effects , " she said . Additionally , the findings could shed light on changes in the adult brain linked to mental health conditions such as depression or bipolar disorder . <p> * To capture the complex structures of the brain at a cellular level , researchers from IIT Madras used the brains of five still-borns in the second trimester -- at 14 , 17 , 21 , 22 and 24 weeks of pregnancy . The brains were frozen and thinly sliced , enabling scientists to see the structures . <p> * These thin slices , which become transparent , are then stained and microscopically imaged in extreme detail . Once digitised , these slides are put together to create a 3D map . <p> Do You Know : <p> * Called DHARINI , this brain atlas is the largest of its kind and the only one that captures the developing brain at such an early stage . It uses advanced technology to map over 5,000 brain sections and more than 500 brain regions . It will be completely free for anyone to access , opening up new possibilities for understanding how our brains grow . <p> Advertisement <p> * " This is groundbreaking research for clinicians -- it will help us study how the human brain develops in the womb . For instance , we 've discovered some surprising differences in timelines ; what we previously thought occurred at 14 weeks may actually happen at 17 weeks , " said Dr J Kumutha , dean and professor of Neonatology at Saveetha Medical College and Hospital , which collaborated on the project . <p> * The brain atlas created by IIT Madras is not only the largest dataset in the world , it is also the only one that has been able to capture the growing brain in foetuses . The only other publicly available brain atlas such as this was released by US Allen Institute for Brain Science in 2016 . It captured the brain of an adult woman in 1,356 plates . <p> UPSC Practice Prelims Question Covering similar theme : 3 . The DHARINI brain atlas developed by IIT Madras is significant because : ( a ) It focuses on adult brain imaging for understanding neurological disorders . ( b ) It provides the first dataset capturing foetal brain development in the second trimester. ( c ) It exclusively studies genetic influences on brain development . ( d ) It is a collaborative project with the Allen Institute for Brain Science . <p> Preliminary Examination : Current events of national and international importance . <p> Mains Examination : General Studies II : India and its neighbourhood- relations . <p> What 's the ongoing story : SRI LANKA announced on Tuesday that President Anura Kumara Dissanayake will undertake a two-day visit to India from December 15 , in his first overseas visit after assuming office . <p> Key Points to Ponder : <p> * Analyse the significance of the first overseas visit of Sri Lankan President Anura Kumara Dissanayake to India . How can this visit shape the future of India-Sri Lanka relations ? <p> * Discuss the challenges and opportunities in India-Sri Lanka bilateral relations in light of regional security concerns and the growing influence of China in the Indian Ocean region . <p> * " India-Sri Lanka relations are defined by cultural ties , strategic proximity , and economic interdependence . " Examine the scope of these relations under the new leadership in Colombo . <p> * Evaluate the role of the National People 's Power ( NPP ) government in reshaping Sri Lanka 's domestic and foreign policy . What implications does this have for India ? <p> * The Tamil minority issue has historically been a sensitive aspect of India-Sri Lanka relations . Discuss how India can engage with the new Sri Lankan government to ensure equitable rights and integration of the Tamil minority . <p> * Discuss the significance of Sri Lanka 's assurance to India regarding the non-utilization of its territory against India 's security interests . How can India leverage this for regional stability ? <p> * Examine the impact of parliamentary elections in Sri Lanka on the country 's political landscape and its relations with India . What lessons can be drawn for India 's neighbourhood diplomacy ? <p> * With China 's increasing presence in Sri Lanka , how should India recalibrate its strategic engagement with Colombo to safeguard its interests in the Indian Ocean region ? <p> Key Takeaways : <p> * The December 15-17 visit is Dissanayake 's first overseas visit since being elected the island nation 's president in September . <p> * Dissanayake will be accompanied by Foreign Minister Vijitha Herath and Deputy Minister of Finance Anil Jayantha Fernando , said Jayathissa , also the Minister of Health . <p> * During his visit , Dissanayake will meet PM Narendra Modi and President Droupadi Murmu , Cabinet spokesman Nalinda Jayathissa said in Colombo . <p> * The visit by AKD -- as he is popularly called -- is expected to give an opportunity to review ties between the two countries and look at the future prospects under the new leadership in Colombo . <p> * Dissanayake 's visit was on hold until the completion of the parliamentary election in November when his NPP recorded a historic win , gaining absolute control of the 225-member Parliament . <p> Do You Know : <p> * THE NEW Sri Lankan President is a relatively new player , as India has always engaged with the traditional political parties ruled by the elite politicians . Since his victory , AKD has made positive signals for better ties with India . His visit can be an opportunity for the top leadership in Delhi to get a better understanding of his priorities . <p> * This will be an opportunity for India to hear about Dissanayake 's plans -- first hand -- on Indian investments , views on regional security and his approach towards Tamil minority rights in the country among other issues . <p> * The invitation to visit New Delhi was extended by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar , who visited Colombo less than a fortnight after Dissanayake 's victory . <p> * Jaishankar was the first foreign dignitary to visit Sri Lanka since the National People 's Power ( NPP ) government led by Dissanayake came to power on September 23 . <p> Previous year UPSC Prelims Question Covering similar theme : 4 . Consider the following statements : ( UPSC CSE , 2020 ) 1 . The value of Indo-Sri Lanka trade has consistently increased in the last decade . 2 . " Textile and textile articles " constitute an important item of trade between India and Bangladesh . 3 . In the last five years , Nepal has been the largest trading partner of India in South Asia . Which of the statements given above is/are correct ? ( a ) 1 and 2 only ( b ) 2 only ( c ) 3 only ( d ) 1 , 2 and 3 <p> What 's the ongoing story : Tempers are on the rise again in Telangana politics as the A Revanth Reddy-led Congress government prepares to unveil the newly designed statue of " Telangana Thalli ( mother of Telangana ) " at the state secretariat on Monday , even as a Bharat Rashtra Samithi ( BRS ) worker has moved the Telangana High Court against its installation . <p> Key Points to Ponder : <p> * " The Telangana Thalli statue is not just a cultural symbol but a reflection of the state 's identity and aspirations . " Discuss the significance of such symbols in regional politics and their potential to influence public sentiment . <p> * Examine the implications of redesigning cultural symbols like the Telangana Thalli statue on political narratives and party identities in regional politics . <p> * Analyse the role of cultural and historical symbols in political movements , with specific reference to the Telangana statehood agitation . <p> * " Identity politics plays a crucial role in shaping regional political landscapes . " Critically evaluate this statement with examples from the Telangana Thalli controversy . <p> * Discuss how the intersection of culture and politics can either unite or divide societies , with reference to recent political developments in Telangana . <p> * Examine the challenges faced by political parties in balancing the preservation of cultural heritage with their efforts to redefine political narratives . Use the Telangana Thalli redesign controversy as a case study . <p> * The Telangana Thalli statue has been at the centre of a political debate between the BRS , Congress , and BJP . How do such controversies reflect larger issues of governance , cultural preservation , and political competition ? <p> * Analyse the impact of controversies surrounding public symbols like statues on the electoral prospects of political parties , particularly in states with strong regional identities like Telangana . <p> Key Takeaways : <p> * ' Telangana Thalli ' is a symbolic figure for the people of Telangana , the statue was first designed by B Venkataramana , a resident of Nirmal district , and installed at the BRS ( then the TRS ) headquarters in Hyderabad in 2003 . <p> * Venkataramana claimed he drew inspiration from the statehood agitation led by former Telangana CM K Chandrashekar Rao , popularly known as KCR . The BRS chief felicitated him in 2015 , a year after the state of Telangana was formed . <p> * The Telangana Thalli was an important part of the statehood agitation and was compared to the Telugu Thalli , also known as " Andhra Mata " . During the agitation , the pictures of Telangana Thalli adorned almost all protest groups and the Goddess was often cited to drill home the point of statehood . <p> * The statue earlier had a crown and held maize in one hand , reflecting the prosperity of the region . On her other hand was a Bathukamma pot , the cultural symbol of Telangana 's biggest festival . <p> * The Telangana Thalli was dressed in a pink silk saree meant to represent the famous silks of Gadwal and Pochampalli while the toe rings , symbolic of married women , signified the filigree ornaments of Karimnagar . She wore a gold waistband . <p> * The new statue does not have a crown and the Bathukamma pot too has been done away with , giving way to an open palm . The colour of the saree has been changed to green . The waistband has also been omitted from the new design . <p> Do You Know : <p> * Regionalism is an ambiguous concept that has both positive and negative connotations . In a positive sense , it denotes people 's appreciation for their culture , language , region , etc. with a view to maintain an independent identity . In a negative sense , it implies excessive attachment to one 's region , which may pose a threat to unity and integrity of the nation . <p> * In both cases , regionalism reflects a shared sense of identity among people in a specific geographical area . It often originates among groups in particular areas due to distinct ethnic , linguistic , economic and cultural consciousness . Sanjib Baruah argues that , like nations , regions are ' contested constructs ' . Both the nation and the region are territorial projects , which can create potential tensions between the two . <p> * The roots of regionalism in India can be traced back to the colonial period . While British rule imposed unity on colonised India , it also deepened regional disparities across the country . The British exploited these regional disparities to advance their " divide and rule " strategy . <p> * Later on , the creation of the states of Jharkhand , Chhattisgarh , and Uttarakhand in 2000 , the formation of Telangana state separated from Andhra Pradesh in 2014 , and the revocation of statehood from Jammu and Kashmir are some of the recent chapters in the trajectory of regional movements in India . <p> * The phenomenon of regionalism in India emerged primarily from the heterogeneous character of the nation . Regional demands for autonomy stem from various factors , including feelings of neglect towards particular areas , unequal distribution of resources , and the importance of cultural , ethnic , religious or linguistic identity . Additionally , ideologies and manipulation of popular sentiments in favour of a specific region or identity can sustain regionalist aspirations . <p> What 's the ongoing story : Farzana Afridi Writes : Two characteristics of India 's labour force are striking -- the low rate of participation of the working-age population in the workforce and the almost stagnant structure of labour force participation . <p> * Analyse the factors contributing to the rise in informality of work in India 's self-employed sector . How can government policies address these challenges to improve the quality of self-employment ? <p> * The low level of vocational training is a major obstacle to enhancing the quality of self-employment in India . Discuss the role of skill development programs in addressing this gap , with specific reference to ITIs and the PM Mudra Yojana . <p> * Examine the barriers to access to formal credit markets for self-employed workers in India . How does this impact entrepreneurship and the overall quality of self-employment ? <p> * " Administrative and legal inefficiencies hinder the growth of informal enterprises into formal establishments . " Critically evaluate this statement in the context of India 's unincorporated enterprises . <p> * Discuss the gender disparities in self-employment in India . What specific challenges do women face , and how can policy interventions bridge these gaps ? <p> * Evaluate the role of education and vocational training in transforming India 's labour force , particularly in the context of self-employment . What steps can be taken to make vocational training more effective and accessible ? <p> * " Ease of doing business has improved , but starting a formal enterprise remains challenging in India . " Discuss the steps required to simplify administrative and legal processes for entrepreneurs to enhance job creation and economic productivity . <p> Key Takeaways : <p> * India has a much larger share of workers who are self-employed and a smaller proportion of wage and salaried workers than most other middle-income economies . This structure has not shifted much in decades . <p> * The predominance of the agricultural sector and the relative shift towards the services sector , bypassing manufacturing , has a significant role to play in the continued high levels of self-employment . <p> * Of the working population , over half are categorised as self-employed -- almost 60 per cent in rural areas and about 40 per cent in urban areas , with an uptick in this statistic between 2017-18 and 2023-24 , particularly in rural areas and for women . <p> * There is a stark compositional difference in the self-employment of men and women . For males , the category of own-account worker dominates , while most self-employed women are " helpers in household enterprises " . Although the gender gap in the proportion of own-account workers has declined between 2017-18 and 2023-24 , the proportion of self-employed females in the category of " helpers " has increased between 2017-18 and 2023-24 . <p> * The criteria used in most economies to define formal jobs -- coverage by the social security system ; entitlement to paid annual or sick leave , and written employment contract -- are missing for the self-employed . <p> * Two other features of self-employment are notable -- low earnings and significant underemployment . Not only are the earnings of the self-employed barely above those engaged in casual labour , the gender gap in self-employed earnings has increased between 2017-18 and 2023-24 , with the gap expanding more in rural areas . <p> * The majority of self-employment work is also of poor quality and probably a fall-back option when better work opportunities are unavailable , particularly in rural areas and for women . <p> * Low education and skills , poor access to formal credit and legal support stand out as the main limitations . While these impinge on all self-employed workers , they are often particularly binding for self-employed women . <p> Do You Know : <p> * Education and vocational training : The proportion of self-employed with grade XII or above education was only 17 per cent in 2017-18 and has increased only marginally to 20.6 per cent in 2023-24 . <p> * Education levels are particularly low for self-employed women -- 9 per cent of these women had completed high school or beyond in 2017-18 , which has inched to just 11.4 per cent in 2023-24 . The proportion of all self-employed with any formal or vocational training is abysmal at 3 per cent . <p> * Vocational training can be transforming in enhancing the quality of self-employment and entrepreneurship , broadening choices and expanding work opportunities . <p> * A recent NITI Aayog report on overhauling ITIs states that " hardly any ITI arranges for tie-ups with financing institutions to make credit accessible to ITI passouts for starting an enterprise . <p> * Access to formal credit : Lack of access to formal credit markets limits the size and scope of self-employment , entrepreneurship and the ability to create establishments that generate employment . <p> * Although the ease of doing business has been steadily improving in India , starting a formal enterprise remains challenging even when the entrepreneur has the technical know-how and access to credit . The administrative and legal landscape is often complex . The WDR 2024 notes that because their time and talent are limited , ( firm ) owners are compelled to manage firms through their families which inhibits their ability to grow . By some estimates , the lack of professional managerial support could account for 11 per cent of the difference in per capita incomes between India and the US . <p> * Inadequate legal access entails friction in contract enforcement , which lowers the aggregate productivity of establishments . Studies show that the efficiency of courts in India matters for future growth in the formal manufacturing sector . According to the ASUSE , a majority of the unincorporated enterprises that are proprietary or partnerships are run by minorities . <p> What 's the ongoing story : C. Raja Mohan Writes : One of the most significant developments in recent years has been the formation of the so-called " alliance without limits " between Moscow and Beijing . Announced by Presidents Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping in February 2022 , just before Russia 's invasion of Ukraine , this alliance emphasises their commitment to strategic cooperation across security , economic , and political domains , without restrictions on their collaboration . <p> Key Points to Ponder : <p> * " The ' alliance without limits ' between Russia and China signifies a strategic shift in global geopolitics . " Discuss the key drivers and limitations of this alliance , along with its implications for the international order . <p> * Examine the challenges faced by the Russia-China alliance in achieving a post-Western global order . How have their efforts shaped US foreign policy in Europe , the Middle East , and Asia ? <p> * Analyse the potential impact of the US 's efforts to divide the Russia-China alliance on India 's foreign policy , particularly in the context of a multipolar Asia . <p> * Discuss the historical oscillation between alignment and betrayal in the Russia-China relationship over the past eight decades . How do these patterns inform the current dynamics of their alliance ? <p> * The formation of alliances such as the Quad and AUKUS represents a shift in the geopolitical landscape of Asia . Discuss their role in countering China 's influence and maintaining regional stability . <p> * " Betrayal is inherent in statecraft , where self-interest often supersedes alliance commitments . " Critically analyse this statement with reference to the potential fragility of the Russia-China alliance . <p> * With global power dynamics shifting , discuss the implications of a potential reconciliation between the US and Russia on European security and the geopolitical stability of Asia . <p> Key Takeaways : <p> * While strategic ties between Moscow and Beijing have strengthened since the early 2000s , the February 2022 declaration marked an unprecedented level of anti-American solidarity . <p> * The conviction that the US-dominated world order is crumbling has been a long-held belief for both leaders , particularly since the 2008 global financial crisis , fuelled by a surge of " declinist " literature in America and apparent political dysfunction during the Obama and Trump administrations . <p> * The growing global interest in BRICS and the perceived rise of the Global South seemed to confirm the decline of the US-led international system . <p> * The US economy has shown remarkable resilience , outpacing both the European Union and China in growth and technological innovation . The US continues to attract significant investment , maintaining a dynamic business environment , while Europe faces structural challenges such as declining population , high unemployment , and slower economic growth . China 's economy , though still growing , is decelerating due to demographic shifts , rising debt , and trade tensions . <p> * The prospect of China overtaking the US in GDP terms now seems unlikely in the near term . Projections for 2024 estimate the US GDP at $29 trillion , compared to China 's $19 trillion and the Eurozone 's $16 trillion , with Russia lagging at around $2.5 trillion . <p> Do You Know : <p> * What began as Russia 's brief " special military operation " in Ukraine is approaching its third year . Despite some recent territorial gains in eastern Ukraine , Russia has suffered significant losses in personnel and resources ; its political and economic position in Europe has taken a big dent . <p> * In the Middle East , Iran , a key partner in the Sino-Russian alliance , is now on the defensive . Iranian proxies in Gaza and Lebanon have suffered setbacks , and Bashar al-Assad has fled to Moscow for refuge . <p> * Israel has battered Iran 's much-feared " axis of resistance " . The narrative has shifted from Iran 's ambition to overthrow US dominance to concerns about the survival of the Islamic Republic amid significant adversity . <p> * In Asia , Beijing 's efforts to displace the US and assert dominance have suffered setbacks . The US has revitalised its alliances , formed new partnerships , and established institutions like the Quad and AUKUS . Trump is poised to intensify economic pressures on China , which , coupled with its slowing economy , will force Beijing to reconsider its strategies towards its neighbours and Washington . <p> * Within the Republican foreign policy establishment , there are strong sentiments advocating an emphasis on countering China in Asia rather than expending valuable military resources in Ukraine . <p> * Historically , Russia and China have oscillated between alignment and betrayal over the past eight decades . In the 1950s , they were ideological allies against American imperialism , but by the 1970s , both sought separate deals with the US , accusing each other of betrayal . By the late 1990s , they had rekindled their partnership to counter Washington . <p> Preliminary Examination : Current events of national and international importance . <p> Mains Examination : General Studies I : Salient features of Indian Society , Diversity of India <p> What 's the ongoing story : Bharatiya Bhasha Utsav , a week-long celebration from December 4 , to mark our diverse linguistic heritage and to commemorate the birth anniversary of the revered Mahakavi Subramania Bharati on December 11 , is underway in all states and Union Territories . <p> Key Points to Ponder : <p> * What is Bharatiya Bhasha Utsav ? <p> * Discuss the significance of conferring the status of Classical Languages on regional languages in strengthening Bharat 's linguistic heritage and national identity . <p> * Examine the impact of colonial policies , such as Macaulay 's Minute on Indian Education , on Bharat 's linguistic and cultural roots . How can contemporary initiatives address these historical disruptions ? <p> * Critically analyse the role of the National Education Policy ( NEP ) 2020 in fostering education in mother tongues . How does this policy contribute to preserving linguistic diversity while ensuring holistic learning outcomes ? <p> * ' Linguistic pride lies at the core of Bharat 's civilizational ethos . ' Elaborate on this statement in the context of the Bharatiya Bhasha Utsav and its role in promoting unity in diversity . <p> * Language serves as a medium to preserve cultural heritage and foster intellectual development . Discuss the steps taken by the Indian government to integrate language into education as a tool for socio-cultural and economic advancement . <p> * The multilingual fabric of Bharat is both a challenge and an opportunity in the pursuit of " Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat . " Discuss . <p> Key Takeaways : <p> * Eighty per cent of Bharat 's population identifies itself as non-English , native language speakers . Mother tongue lies at the core of deep learning , because our languages are not just tools of communication -- they are repositories of history , tradition and folklore , preserving the collective wisdom of generations and offering a unique worldview . <p> * Children , brimming with creativity and emotional intelligence , flourish when their education begins in their native language . <p> * A primer in their mother tongue builds a seamless bridge from the home to the classroom , guiding them from " mother " tongue to " other " tongue -- transitioning from speaking to writing , vocabulary to semantics , and language to subject comprehension . As Rabindranath Tagore noted , " A child learns to speak not from textbooks , but from his mother . " <p> * Education in the mother tongue fosters a natural progression from basic understanding to complex thought . Bharat 's linguistic diversity is a treasure-trove of both intellectual and cultural wealth . From the snow-capped peaks of Kashmir to the sun-drenched shores of Kanyakumari , and from the arid expanses of Kachchh to the verdant hills of Kohima , our languages encapsulate the inner essence of our people . <p> * Teaching children in their mother tongue not only preserves their connection to heritage but also equips them for the future . By laying down a robust foundation in native languages , we can empower children to master other languages and subjects with greater ease and comprehension . <p> Do You Know : <p> * On October 3 , the Union Cabinet , made history by conferring the status of Classical Languages on as many as five languages -- Marathi , Pali , Prakrit , Assamese and Bengali -- thus expanding the ambit of a category that already included six other languages : Tamil , Sanskrit , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam and Odia . <p> * On February 2 , 1835 , Thomas Babington Macaulay presented a memorandum , known as " Macaulay 's Minute on Indian Education " to the Governor General of India , prioritising English over native tongues , with the intention of creating a class of Indians loyal to British interests , alienating generations from their cultural and linguistic roots . <p> * The NEP 2020 necessitates equitable access to high-quality teaching and learning materials in various Indian languages for greater learning outcomes . It puts a strong emphasis on the fusion of technology with education , particularly in the context of preserving and promoting the nation 's diverse linguistic heritage . There have been concerted efforts to create a robust ecosystem for promotion of Indian languages so as to make education inclusive -- the Bhasha Sangam programme ; -- Machine Translation Centre of the National Council of Educational Research and Training ; -- the Anuvadini app-based translation of books , including technical books in multiple Indian languages by the All India Council for Technical Education ; -- Augmenting Study Materials in Indian Languages through Translation and Academic Writing ( ASMITA ) initiative by the University Grants Commission -- the Bharatiya Bhasha Samiti . <p> What 's the ongoing story : The China-led Investment Facilitation for Development ( IFD ) agreement has gained the support of 128 countries at the World Trade Organization ( WTO ) but India , along with South Africa , Namibia , and Turkey , will continue to oppose the initiative due to its potential to undermine the policy space of weaker nations , a central government official said on Tuesday ahead of the WTO General Council meeting in Geneva on December 16-17 . <p> Key Points to Ponder : <p> * Discuss the significance of the China-led Investment Facilitation for Development ( IFD ) agreement at the WTO . Why does India oppose it , and what are the potential implications for developing nations ? <p> * " The IFD agreement highlights the challenges of balancing global investment facilitation with the policy autonomy of developing countries . " Critically analyse this statement in the context of India 's stance at the WTO . <p> * Examine India 's proposal for a " per capita distribution of subsidies " in the context of fisheries subsidies at the WTO . How can this approach address concerns of overfishing while safeguarding livelihoods ? <p> * Analyse the potential impact of the US-China trade war on global investment flows , particularly in the ASEAN region . How does this influence India 's trade and investment strategy ? <p> * " India 's opposition to the IFD agreement reflects its commitment to preserving policy space for economic sovereignty . " Discuss this statement in light of the economic and geopolitical implications of the agreement . <p> * Evaluate the challenges associated with disciplining fisheries subsidies within the WTO framework . How does India 's approach differ from that of developed nations , and what are its implications for sustainability and livelihoods ? <p> * The WTO plays a critical role in regulating global trade . Analyse the significance of India 's advocacy for intensity-based subsidies in fisheries and its broader implications for equitable trade policies . <p> * The IFD agreement has garnered support from a majority of WTO members but faces criticism from some developing nations . Discuss the limitations of multilateral agreements in addressing the concerns of weaker economies . <p> Key Takeaways : <p> * " There is tremendous pressure and momentum from China . They have secured support from 128 out of 166 WTO members , including Pakistan . Four nations -- India , South Africa , Namibia , and Turkey -- are opposing it . The US is not opposing it but has opted to stay out of the agreement , " the official said . Notably , Pakistan was initially not part of the IFD . <p> * This comes at a time when investment flows are increasingly shifting away from China due to a possible US-China trade war and a weakening consumer demand in China . These investments are increasingly moving to ASEAN countries as Chinese firms have increased their overseas assets to record levels . <p> * The official emphasised that India believes many nations supporting the IFD are under the wrong impression that it will benefit them . " For developing countries , this agreement will impact their policy space . While more members may join , India will continue to oppose it , " the official said . <p> * Proposed in 2017 by China and other nations reliant on Chinese investments , the agreement is supported by countries with substantial sovereign wealth funds . However , experts argue the pact could harm India 's interests and restrict its policy space on FDIs . <p> * Separately , the official noted that India has advocated for a " per capita distribution of subsidies " criterion to address concerns about overfishing and overcapacity within the WTO framework . <p> * India informed the WTO that its annual fisheries subsidy amounts to $35 per fisher , significantly lower than the $76,000 provided by some European nations . India has submitted a document , ' Designing Disciplines for the Overcapacity and Overfishing Pillar : A Case for Intensity-Based Subsidies Approach ' , which will be discussed at the WTO General Council meeting in Geneva . <p> * The WTO is negotiating an agreement to discipline subsidies that contribute to overfishing and overcapacity . In 2022 , member countries finalised a pact to curb subsidies for illegal , unreported , and unregulated fishing . " Adopting a per capita distribution of subsidies criterion could provide a more accurate and fair basis for managing overfishing and capacity issues , addressing both stock sustainability and livelihood concerns , " India stated . It added annual aggregate fisheries subsidies can not be an accurate measure , as they include both beneficial and subsistence subsidies linked to livelihoods , which do not contribute to overcapacity or overfishing . <p> * General Studies II : Welfare schemes for vulnerable sections of the population by the Centre and States and the performance of these schemes ; mechanisms , laws , institutions and Bodies constituted for the protection and betterment of these vulnerable sections . <p> * General Studies II : Issues relating to development and management of Social Sector/Services relating to Health , Education , Human Resources . <p> * General Studies- III : Indian Economy and issues relating to planning , mobilization , of resources , growth , development and employment <p> * General Studies III : Inclusive growth and issues arising from it <p> What 's the ongoing story : Female labour force participation rate ( LFPR ) increased in almost all states in India during 2017-18 to 2022-23 , with rural areas seeing larger gains than urban areas , a new working paper released by the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister ( EAC-PM ) stated . <p> Key Points to Ponder : <p> * Examine the inter-state variations in female Labour Force Participation Rate ( LFPR ) in India and analyse the socio-economic factors contributing to these disparities . <p> * Discuss the trends in rural and urban female LFPR in India during 2017-18 to 2022-23 . How do these trends reflect the changing socio-economic dynamics of rural and urban areas ? <p> * Critically analyse the role of government schemes such as Mudra loans , Drone Didi , and Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana in enhancing female LFPR in India . What further steps can be taken to ensure sustainable women-led development ? <p> * " Female LFPR forms a bell-shaped curve , peaking at 30-40 years of age and declining sharply thereafter . " Analyse this phenomenon in the context of age and gender-specific challenges in the Indian labour market . <p> * How does the increase in unpaid family work contribute to the rise in female LFPR ? Discuss the implications of this trend for women 's economic empowerment in India . <p> * There is a considerable gender gap -- women 's LFPR ( 32.8% ) in 2022 was 2.3 times lower than men 's ( 77.2% ) . <p> * India 's low LFPR is largely attributed to the low female LFPR , which was much lower than the world average of 47.3% in 2022 , but higher than the South Asian average of 24.8% , as per ILO data . <p> * There has been a reversal of the slow transition towards non-farm employment after 2018-19 . The share of agriculture in total employment fell to around 42% in 2019 from 60% in 2000 . <p> * This shift was largely absorbed by construction and services , the share of which in total employment increased to 32% in 2019 from 23% in 2000 . <p> * The share of manufacturing in employment has remained almost stagnant at 12-14% . Since 2018-19 , this slow transition has stagnated or reversed with the rise in the share of agricultural employment . <p> * There has been a rise in youth employment , but the quality of work remains a concern , especially for qualified young workers . <p> Do You Know : <p> * According to India Employment Report 2024 ' , there has been concerns about poor employment conditions : the slow transition to non-farm employment has reversed ; women largely account for the increase in self-employment and unpaid family work ; youth employment is of poorer quality than employment for adults ; wages and earnings are stagnant or declining . <p> * The ' employment condition index ' has improved between 2004-05 and 2021-22 . But some states -- Bihar , Odisha , Jharkhand , and UP -- have remained at the bottom throughout this period , while some others -- Delhi , Himachal Pradesh , Telangana , Uttarakhand , and Gujarat -- have stayed at the top . <p> * Informal employment has risen -- around half the jobs in the formal sector are of an informal nature . Self-employment and unpaid family work has also increased , especially for women . Almost 82% of the workforce is engaged in the informal sector , and nearly 90% is informally employed , the report said . Self-employment remains the primary source of employment -- 55.8% in 2022 . Casual and regular employment accounted for 22.7% and 21.5% respectively . <p> * The share of self-employment remained almost stable around 52% between 2000 and 2019 , while regular employment increased by almost 10 percentage points , to 23.8% from 14.2% . This reversed by 2022 , with self-employment increasing to 55.8% , while the share of regular employment declined to 21.5% . Casual employment consistently declined to 22.7% in 2022 from 33.3% in 2000 . <p> * Regular employment is generally seen as providing better-quality jobs due to the regularity of employment and associated social security benefits , while casual work is linked with relatively poor-quality jobs due to its irregular nature and lower daily earnings . <p> Previous year UPSC Prelims Question Covering similar theme : 7 . Which of the following gives ' Global Gender Gap Index ' ranking to the countries of the world ? ( 2017 ) ( a ) World Economic Forum ( b ) UN Human Rights Council ( c ) UN Women ( d ) World Health OrganizationPrevious year UPSC Mains Question Covering similar theme : " Empowering women is the key to control the population growth . ' ' Discuss . ( 2019 ) <p> Mains Examination : General Studies II : Issues relating to development and management of Social Sector/Services relating to Health , Education , Human Resources . <p> What 's the ongoing story : The Union Health Ministry has urged states to make snakebites a notifiable disease -- a disease that is legally required to be reported to the government by both private and public hospitals . <p> Key Points to Ponder : <p> * Discuss the key reasons why snakebites are notifiable diseases . <p> * Evaluate the potential benefits of making snakebites a notifiable disease for public health management . <p> * Examine the role of healthcare infrastructure and antivenom availability . <p> * Discuss the importance of setting up zonal venom collection banks and the associated challenges . <p> * Snakebites are a major public health challenge in the country . Some three to four million cases of snakebites are reported every year , and an estimated 58,000 persons die because of them annually , according to the 2020 Indian Million Death Study , a largescale study that examined the causes of premature death in India . <p> * Earlier this year , the government launched the National Action Plan for Prevention and Control of Snakebite Envenoming ( NAPSE ) with the aim of halving snakebite deaths by 2030 . NAPSE recommended that snakebites should be made a notifiable disease . <p> * Usually , infections that are likely to cause an outbreak , lead to deaths , and those that need to be investigated quickly to take appropriate public health measures , are declared as notifiable diseases . <p> * While the list of notifiable diseases differs from state to state -- state governments are responsible for bringing out the notification -- most of them consider infections such as tuberculosis , HIV , cholera , malaria , dengue , and hepatitis among others to be notifiable . <p> Do You Know : <p> * Snakebites can lead to acute medical emergencies that require immediate care . They can cause severe paralysis that can prevent breathing , can lead to a fatal haemorrhage , and damage different tissues . <p> * There are more than 310 species of snakes in India -- 66 of them are venomous and 42 are mildly venomous . Twenty-three snake species are considered to be of medical importance as their venom can kill . However , almost 90% of snakebites in the country are caused by the ' Big Four ' -- the Indian cobra , common krait , Russell 's viper , and saw-scaled viper . <p> * Making snakebites notifiable is expected to lead to proper surveillance , and to help determine the precise numbers of snakebite cases and deaths across India . <p> * The government can then use this information to effectively manage , prevent , and control cases of snakebites . Adequate antivenoms can be provided to various regions , and proper training can be imparted in areas where snakebites are frequent . <p> Priya Kumari Shukla is a Senior Copy Editor in the Indian Express ( digital ) . She contributes to the UPSC Section of indianexpress.com and started niche initiatives such as UPSC Key , UPSC Ethics Simplified , and The 360 ? UPSC Debate . The UPSC Key aims to assist students and aspirants in their preparation for the Civil Services and other competitive examinations . It provides valuable guidance on effective strategies for reading and comprehending newspaper content . The 360 ? UPSC Debate tackles a topic from all perspectives after sorting through various publications . The chosen framework for the discussion is structured in a manner that encompasses both the arguments in favour and against the topic , ensuring comprehensive coverage of many perspectives . Prior to her involvement with the Indian Express , she had affiliations with a non-governmental organisation ( NGO ) as well as several coaching and edutech enterprises . In her prior professional experience , she was responsible for creating and refining material in various domains , including article composition and voiceover video production . She has written in-house books on many subjects , including modern India , ancient Indian history , internal security , international relations , and the Indian economy . She has more than eight years of expertise in the field of content writing . Priya holds a Master 's degree in Electronic Science from the University of Pune as well as an Executive Programme in Public Policy and Management ( EPPPM ) from the esteemed Indian Institute of Management Calcutta , widely recognised as one of the most prestigious business schools in India . She is also an alumni of Jamia Milia Islamia University Residential Coaching Academy ( RCA ) . Priya has made diligent efforts to engage in research endeavours , acquiring the necessary skills to effectively examine and synthesise facts and empirical evidence prior to presenting their perspective . Priya demonstrates a strong passion for reading , particularly in the genres of classical Hindi , English , Maithili , and Marathi novels and novellas . Additionally , she possessed the distinction of being a cricket player at the national level . Years of Experience/ Industry Experience : 8+ Qualification , Degrees / other achievements : Master 's degree in Electronic Science from University of Pune and Executive Programme in Public Policy and Management ( EPPPM ) from Indian Institute of Management Calcutta Follow her on Twitter @perupriya ... Read More 
@@118777775 <h> Israeli strikes kill 33 in Gaza <h> " All of the terrorists that were eliminated were members of Hamas and planned to violently hijack humanitarian aid trucks and transfer them to Hamas in support of continuing terrorist activity , preventing them from reaching Gazan civilians , as was done in previous cases , " the military alleged in a statement . <p> " The occupation aims to destroy all services for citizens across the Gaza Strip . " <p> Witnesses later told AFP that residents looted flour from the trucks after the strikes . <p> The Israeli military said its forces " conducted precise strikes " overnight on armed Hamas militants present in the humanitarian corridor in southern Gaza . <p> " All of the terrorists that were eliminated were members of Hamas and planned to violently hijack humanitarian aid trucks and transfer them to Hamas in support of continuing terrorist activity , preventing them from reaching Gazan civilians , as was done in previous cases , " the military alleged in a statement . <p> It insisted it " does not strike humanitarian aid trucks and the humanitarian corridor remains open and active " . 
@@118777884 <h> To get from Asia to Europe and back , global shipping companies have for decades sailed through the Red Sea and the Suez Canal . But a year ago , the Houthi insurgents in Yemen began targeting vessels in the Red Sea with drones and missiles , forcing shipping companies to divert their cargo around the Cape of Good Hope at Africa 's southern tip , a route that is some 3,500 nautical miles and 10 days longer . <p> Before this year , Tobias Kammann , a German container ship captain , had only once sailed around the southern tip of Africa , and the lack of other vessels in the little-trafficked waters made him feel very much alone . <p> But these days , there are so many ships there , he said , that " it 's a bit like the autobahn . " <p> To get from Asia to Europe and back , global shipping companies have for decades sailed through the Red Sea and the Suez Canal . But a year ago , the Houthi insurgents in Yemen began targeting vessels in the Red Sea with drones and missiles , forcing shipping companies to divert their cargo around the Cape of Good Hope at Africa 's southern tip , a route that is some 3,500 nautical miles and 10 days longer . <p> Western-led naval fleets were sent to the Red Sea to quell the attacks , which the Iran-backed Houthis said were a response to Israel 's war on Hamas in the Gaza Strip . Despite those deployments , the attacks continued , and commercial vessels have , for the most part , stayed away . And Middle East analysts said they expected the Houthis to keep up their attacks even as Iran 's influence in the region has diminished after the weakening of Hezbollah in Lebanon and the collapse of Bashar Assad 's government in Syria . <p> It 's as if the shipping industry had been transported back to the days before the Suez Canal opened in 1869 . <p> " This is one of the most significant challenges that shipping has faced in a long time , " said Salvatore Mercogliano , a maritime historian and an associate professor at Campbell University in North Carolina . <p> On average , 136 container ships a week have traveled around the Cape of Good Hope this year , compared with 40 before the Houthi attacks started , according to data from Lloyd 's List Intelligence , a shipping analytics company . <p> Now , as this great diversion enters its second year , the costs are piling up for importers , the environment and countries like Egypt that rely heavily on maritime revenue . And the stress on shipping is likely to increase if companies rush to bring in imports before any tariffs imposed by the next Trump administration . <p> Ocean freighters have avoided the Suez Canal before . It was shut from 1967 to 1975 , a period of conflict in the Middle East . But then Western economies were far less reliant on imports from Asia . Before the Houthi attacks , the canal handled 10% of world trade and more than a fifth of global container shipments , according to the United Nations . <p> The Red Sea upheaval came just as importers were enjoying some of the lowest shipping rates in years , thanks to a glut of freighters . The excess occurred after shipping companies ordered a huge number of new vessels in 2021 and 2022 , when they were flush with profits from the pandemic-era trade boom . <p> But the diversion around Africa has increased the need for vessels -- more were deployed to maintain regular service over the longer route -- and rates have surged . The cost of shipping a container from Asia to Northern Europe is up 270% in 12 months , according to Freightos , a digital marketplace for shipping . <p> The demand for ships has pushed up rates everywhere . The cost of shipping a container from China to a West Coast port in the United States is up 217% over 12 months . <p> Some importers have been hit with much larger increases . <p> Vassilis Korkidis , president of the Piraeus Chamber of Commerce in Greece and head of a maritime electronics company , said he paid $8,700 for a 40-foot container of goods shipped from Shanghai in September , four times as much as a year earlier because of the longer trip . <p> " We have considerable delays and an incredible increase in transport costs , " he said . <p> Economists say the Houthi attacks have contributed to inflation around the world , and importers fear the higher costs will become permanent . <p> " We want to make sure that the world 's governments do n't see this as a new normal , " said Steve Lamar , president of the American Apparel and Footwear Association . <p> NYT News Service <p> A map shows the Gulf of Aden between Yemen and Somalia on the Hanoi Express , a freighter docked in Hamburg , Germany , on Nov. 10 , 2024 . The transport route around the southern tip of Africa was once little used -- but freighters are now forced to take it and are charging higher rates . <p> Last month , the group called on President Joe Biden to do more to stop the Houthis , who have carried out some 130 attacks on commercial ships in 12 months , according to data from the Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project , a crisis monitoring organisation . <p> The rise in shipping rates has well exceeded the rise in costs at the big shipping companies , driving their profits sharply higher . The ocean division of Maersk , the Danish shipping giant , reported operating earnings of $4 billion in the third quarter , up from $1.1 billion a year earlier . Maersk declined to comment . <p> The crew on commercial ships are feeling the strain of the longer voyages . <p> Kammann , captain of the 1,309-foot-long Hanoi Express for Hapag-Lloyd , a German shipping company , said his vessel did not stop at a port for as long as six weeks on the route around Africa . To break the monotony , he said , he has tried to devise more engrossing training drills and organize events like barbecues and karaoke for his crew . " I have to make it more interesting for them , " he said . <p> Stephen Cotton , the general secretary of the International Transport Workers ' Federation , which represents seafarers and other workers , said he was concerned about crews on ships that carry bulk cargo , like coal , iron ore and fertilizer . Operators of those carriers , he said , sometimes do not tell their crew members the routes they will be traveling -- and they may end up going through the Red Sea . <p> " This sense of anxiety and not knowing if you 're a target is an issue , " he said . <p> The diversion has hurt economies , too . <p> Large container ships can pay as much as $1 million to go through the Suez Canal , according to industry executives . Lloyd 's List data shows that passage through the canal has fallen 70% , which has deprived Egypt 's government of revenue at a time when its budget has been severely constrained . The International Monetary Fund said in August that Suez Canal receipts at Egypt 's central bank had fallen nearly 60% in the first quarter of 2024 , compared with a year earlier . <p> Before the Houthi attacks , ships used to emerge from the Suez Canal and dock first at the port of Piraeus in Greece , where they unloaded goods onto feeder ships for other Mediterranean ports , including Valencia in Spain . Now , the ships go to Valencia before Piraeus , which initially contributed to a steep drop in cargo for Piraeus . <p> Traffic has largely recovered , said Angelos Karakostas , deputy CEO of Piraeus Port Authority . " Ships did n't stop coming to Piraeus -- they just took longer to get here , " he said . <p> The environment is also paying a price . <p> Deploying more ships over longer distances burns more fuel , making it harder for shipping companies to reduce their carbon emissions . Inverto , a supply chain consulting firm , calculates that the Red Sea crisis has led the industry to pump out an extra 35.7 million metric tons of carbon dioxide in the past 12 months , equivalent to the emissions of 7.8 million cars . <p> Not all shipping lines are avoiding the Red Sea completely . <p> COSCO , the Chinese shipping giant , has rerouted its vessels , but some Chinese ships use the Red Sea . CMA CGM , the French logistics company , sends most of its vessels around the Cape of Good Hope , but it runs a weekly service through the Red Sea called the Phoenician Express . <p> Jennifer Petrisko , a company spokesperson , said the ships took the route with an escort by international forces . " The group 's priorities have always been the safety of seafarers , the vessels and our customers ' cargo , " she said in a statement . <p> If shipping companies continue to shun the canal , Mercogliano said the industry would probably come up with new ways to make the route around Africa more efficient . One remedy , he said , would be to build larger container ships . The closing of the Suez Canal during another conflict , in the 1950s , helped spur the development of much larger supertankers for transporting oil . <p> " Shipping will always find a solution , " Mercogliano said . <p> Nominations for ET MSME Awards are now open . The last day to apply is December 15 , 2024 . Click here to submit your entry for any one or more of the 22 categories and stand a chance to win a prestigious award . 
@@118777942 <h> Epic photos of 2024 : 10 images that captured humanity 's spirit <p> ET Online <p> Dec 12 , 2024 , 03:38:18 PM IST <p> 1/12 <h> Top photos of 2024 <p> In 2024 , Associated Press photographers around the world captured 2024 's diverse catalogue of events , ranging from major news stories -- wars , natural disasters , and an assassination attempt -- to personal , intimate moments of quiet reflection and exuberance . <p> AP <p> 2/12 <h> Israeli soldiers posing for a photo <p> Female Israeli soldiers taking a photo in southern Israel , near the Gaza Strip border , on February 19 , 2024 . <p> AP <p> 3/12 <h> People watching Northern lights <p> In this long exposure photo , people observe the northern lights , or Aurora Borealis , in the night sky on May 10 , 2024 , in Estacada , Oregon . <p> AP <p> 4/12 <h> Elise Mertens serves against Naomi Osaka <p> Elise Mertens from Belgium serves against Naomi Osaka from Japan at the BNP Paribas Open tennis tournament on March 11 , 2024 , in Indian Wells , California . <p> AP <p> 5/12 <h> Alicia Keys performs <p> Alicia Keys takes the stage during halftime of the NFL Super Bowl 58 between the San Francisco 49ers and the Kansas City Chiefs on February 11 , 2024 , in Las Vegas . <p> AP <p> 6/12 <h> A man watches the ball after diving <p> A young man dives to watch the ball on a dusty soccer field in Abidjan , Ivory Coast , on February 6 , 2024 . <p> AP <p> 7/12 <h> American flag in a fence <p> An American flag is displayed on a fence at a farm along U.S. Highway 20 during a blizzard near Galva , Iowa , on January 13 , 2024 . <p> AP <p> 8/12 <h> An emerald miner stands inside the tunnel <p> Janeth Paez , an emerald miner , stands inside the tunnel of an informal mine near the town of Coscuez , Colombia , on February 28 , 2024 . <p> AP <p> 9/12 <h> A worker examines the foundation of a judging tower used during the Olympic Games <p> A worker examines the permanent foundations being built on the coral reef for a judging tower to be used during the Olympic Games surf competition in Teahupo'o , Tahiti , French Polynesia , on January 12 , 2024 . <p> AP <p> 10/12 <h> A 4-year-old girl rescued from the rubble <p> Emergency personnel carry a 4-year-old girl who was rescued from the rubble of her collapsed home after heavy rainfall in Petropolis , Rio de Janeiro state , Brazil , on March 23 , 2024 <p> AP <p> 11/12 <h> Jews looking at a part of an intercepted ballistic missile <p> Ultra-Orthodox Jews observe a fragment of an intercepted ballistic missile that landed in the desert near the city of Arad , Israel , on April 28 , 2024 . <p> AP <p> 12/12 <h> Members of the Abu Sinjar family <p> Members of the Abu Sinjar family grieve for their relatives who were killed in an Israeli bombardment of the Gaza Strip , at their home in Rafah , southern Gaza , on January 5 , 2024. 
@@118777945 <h> The UN General Assembly overwhelmingly voted for resolutions demanding an immediate ceasefire in the Gaza conflict and supporting the UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees ( UNRWA ) . These resolutions , passed with 158-9 and 159-9 votes respectively , call for the release of all hostages and criticize Israel 's ban on UNRWA 's activities . Israel and the US opposed the resolutions . <p> ET Bureau <p> India , along with several other UN members , have approved General Assembly resolutions , demanding an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and backing UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees that Israel is seeking to ban . <p> UNGA on Wednesday voted 158-9 , with 13 abstentions , to demand an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and 159-9 , with 11 abstentions , in support of the UN agency - UNRWA . <p> The voting was held after two days of speeches that called for an end to the 14-month war between Israel and Hamas . Israel and the US voted against the resolutions . The resolution demanded an immediate and permanent cease-fire to be respected by all parties , while also reiterating a demand for immediate and unconditional release of all hostages . <p> The other resolution backed the mandate of UNRWA , which was established by the UNGA in 1949 . It criticised laws adopted by Israel 's parliament on October 28 banning UNRWA 's activities in the Palestinian territories . 
@@118777946 <h> India and UAE 's foreign ministers convened to address the evolving situations in Syria and Gaza , examining the implications of a power vacuum and the rise of extremist groups . They also reviewed the progress of the India-Middle East-Europe Corridor project , particularly the India-UAE segment . <p> Agencies <p> External affairs ministers of India and UAE on Thursday discussed the situation in Syria and Gaza , and reviewed the progress of India-Middle East-Europe Corridor . <p> Visiting UAE foreign minister Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan and external affairs minister S Jaishankar , among other issues , focused on the power vacuum and absence of institutional governance in Syria amid pro-Al Qaeda-ISIS transition government taking over power , it is learnt . <p> The two sides are also understood to have discussed implications of the Syrian developments and ISIS-Al Qaeda gaining in strength in the region . The Gaza-Lebanon situation is also understood to have been discussed . <p> The ministers also reviewed progress on IMEEC , particularly the India-UAE leg of the project . <p> Also , the second India-Iran-Armenia consultations were held here on Thursday . During the talks , the delegations emphasised the need for fostering close cooperation under INSTC and highlighted the role of Chabahar Port in this regard . 
@@118778225 <h> The world must n't keep looking away from the environmental costs of war <p> Archana Datta 4 min read12 Dec 2024 , 12:30 PM IST <p> In 2023 alone , the world recorded 170 armed conflicts and the displacement of nearly 120 million people . This is tragic , of course . So , too , is the ecological impact of war . ( AFP ) <h> Summary <p> Military activities directly account for an estimated 5.5% of global greenhouse gas emissions , but no protocol demands their disclosure . Such emissions can be kept secret under a veil of national security . <p> This is a Mint Premium article gifted to you . Subscribe to enjoy similar stories . <p> The world is besieged with two wars raging across two continents : Ukraine in East Europe and Gaza in West Asia . Apart from leaving a trail of large-scale death and destruction , they have also perpetrated ' eco terrorism ' by damaging both the natural and human-built environment . <p> As a climate researcher observed , " Wars do have significant emission footprints , not just from the explosives being used , but also from the entire military supply chains that are extremely energy intensive ... and the process of reconstruction also has large emission implications . " <p> In 2023 alone , the world recorded 170 armed conflicts and the displacement of nearly 120 million people . This is tragic , of course . So , too , is the ecological impact of war . <p> In the modern era of warfare , World War I was extremely damaging , given its use of trench fighting , which not only destroyed vast grasslands , plants and animal habitats , but also eroded ground soil through heavy tree-felling . Then , in World War II , aerial bombardment smudged landscapes with chemical contamination , while taking a toll on flora and fauna . <p> The 1960s ' Vietnam War turned this country from a once-pristine habitat to what has been described as " an almost apocalyptic state " through the use of chemical deforestation techniques . The 1990s ' Gulf War was responsible for huge greenhouse gas ( GHG ) emissions as oil wells were targeted , with vast oil spills in the sea hurting almost every marine species . <p> The first two years of the Russia-Ukraine war are estimated to have resulted in over 175 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent of extra emissions . Even though we have no proper evaluation of the Gaza conflict , it could have added at least another 50 million tonnes , as per available reports . <p> While the Gaza hostilities involve a much smaller area and Israeli aircraft sorties burn much less fuel , the US has been flying materiel to Israel . Moreover , Gaza has experienced a near complete degradation of its soil and water , even as countless tonnes of debris with unexploded ordnance , asbestos and other hazardous substances pose its people serious health risks . <p> During the first three months of the conflict , 179,000 cases of acute respiratory infection and 136,400 cases of diarrhoea had been reported among the children under five . <p> According to the Conflict and Environment Observatory , " Military activities account for an estimated 5.5% of global GHG emissions . But , if the full impacts of the warfare activities , including manufacturing of weapons , iron and steel production and supply chains , rebuilding and reconstruction are included , it goes up to about 29% of the emissions . " <p> Unfortunately , countries are not duty-bound to report emissions from military activities , either under the 1997 Kyoto Protocol or the 2015 Paris Agreement . This data can be kept secret under a veil of ' national security . ' <p> A study on the macroeconomic impact of climate change by Adrien Bilal of Harvard and Diego K ? nzig of Northwestern University finds that a world that has already warmed by more than 1 ? Celsius since pre-industrial times means 12% less global gross domestic product ( GDP ) as a result and a shrinkage in wealth that matches the financial losses of a " continuing permanent war . " <p> A further rise to 3 ? Celsius is a possibility at the current rate of emissions , which would cause " precipitous declines in output , capital and consumption of more than 50% , " according to the study . <p> This year 's CoP-29 at Baku failed to negotiate a climate finance goal of $1.3 trillion per year , as the developed world committed only $300 billion dollars annually by 2035 to help developing countries transition to clean energy , decarbonize their economies and secure people from the impact of climate change . <p> In the meantime , several small Pacific island nations , threatened with the prospect of disappearing under rising sea waters , have gone to the International Court of Justice to hold the world 's major polluting nations accountable for it on the ' polluters pay ' principle . <p> Regardless , the world 's major economies continue to support warring countries . The US , the world 's biggest economy , has spent $60.7 billion on military assistance to Ukraine ( as per the US Bureau of Political Affairs ) and at least $17.9 billion on aid for Israel in the past two-and-a-half years ( Brown University data ) . <p> Some European countries followed suit , with the UK having spent ? 12.8 billion , Germany $61.1 billion , Denmark $7 billion and the Netherlands $5.5 billion to equip Ukraine with lethal and non-lethal weaponry . The US-led Nato alliance has allotted a ? minimum of ? ? 40 billion annually in ? military aid to ? Ukraine from 2025 and the EU has so far allocated ? 11.1 billion . <p> As for Russia , it has gone for a record defence budget of $126 billion in 2025 , almost 32.5% of its government expenditure for the year . Iran is reportedly also set to triple its military spending . <p> Donella H. Meadows , a noted environmental scientist , had proposed that human well-being should be measured through a genuine progress indicator ( GPI ) , a yardstick that values air quality , food security and environmental sustainability . This would give us a clearer view of the actual toll of war . <p> To avert an " ecological collapse " because of " misuse of power , " as prophesied by Yuval Noah Harari , it 's time for the world to work seriously towards a " more socially and financially equitable society that operates within ecological limits , " in his words . <p> The author is a former director general , Doordarshan and All India Radio ; and former press secretary to the President of India . 
@@118778951 <h> Russia-Ukraine war : Possibility of ceasefire remote , report says <h> There are too many issues-- political , legal , security and economic-- to be resolved . <h> The report speaks about the failure of the United Nations Security Council to end the conflict in Ukraine and West Asia . ( Courtesy : Reuters photo ) <p> Over 2 lakh people have lost their lives across the globe in 2024 , reveals International Institute of Strategic Studies ' The Armed Conflict Survey 2024 . An established London-based think-tank , IISS highlights the Russia-Ukraine war , Middle-East crisis that involves Israel , Iran , the Hezbollah of Lebanon , the Houthis of Yemen and of course , the people who attacked Israel on October 7 , 2023 , the Hamas in Gaza . <p> The report mentions the increasingly aggressive role played by non-state actors like the Hamas , Houthis and the Hezbollah , and like them , there were about 450 other armed groups that were causing concern . " The wars in Sudan and Gaza have been marked by violations in international humanitarian law by all sides , " it said . <p> There has been a " blatant disregard for civilian lives " leading to the forced displacement of 90 per cent of the people living in Gaza and 7.7 million in Sudan , who are internally displaced . There has been " widespread destruction of civilian infrastructure in urban areas " and the blocking of humanitarian aid , leading to food insecurity . <p> The report also highlights the failure of the United Nations Security Council to end the conflict in not only Ukraine and West Asia , but also Sudan and other places , primarily because the five permanent members have differing views-- which the IISS refers to as " geopolitical fragmentation " . The international system and the Western powers have been unable to work towards conflict resolution or even ensure ceasefires , the report added . <p> About the possibility of an end to the fighting in Ukraine , the report says that despite the election of Donald Trump as president of the United States and the setbacks the West-supported Ukrainians have had in the battlefield , the possibility of a ceasefire was " remote " . There are too many issues-- political , legal , security and economic-- to be resolved . It speaks of difficult problems relating to war crimes , the freezing of Russian assets , reparations and of Ukrainians taken to Russia . Most importantly , neither Russia nor Ukraine appear to be ready for a ceasefire . <p> Then , adding to the already grim international security situation , there is the problem of narco-deforestation , says IISS . This would be about growing cocaine by cutting down forests and also , the pollution from illegal mining in different parts of the world . Naturally , conflict restricts a nation state 's efforts to adapt to climate change and undertake mitigation efforts . <p> Advisory Alert:It has come to our attention that certain individuals are representing themselves as affiliates of Moneycontrol and soliciting funds on the false promise of assured returns on their investments . We wish to reiterate that Moneycontrol does not solicit funds from investors and neither does it promise any assured returns . In case you are approached by anyone making such claims , please write to us at **25;2533;TOOLONG or call on 02268882347 
@@118779158 <h> 54 journalists killed in 2024 , a third by Israel : media group <p> It described the number of killings as " an unprecedented bloodbath . " ( Image/X ) <p> Paris : Fifty-four journalists were killed worldwide while carrying out their work or because of their profession in 2024 , a third of them by the Israeli army , according to an annual report by Reporters Without Borders ( RSF ) published Thursday . <p> According to the press freedom NGO , Israeli armed forces were responsible for the deaths of 18 journalists this year -- 16 in Gaza and two in Lebanon . <p> " Palestine is the most dangerous country for journalists , recording a higher death toll than any other country over the past five years , " RSF said in its annual report , which covers data up to December 1 . <p> The organization has filed four complaints with the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) for " war crimes committed against journalists by the Israeli army . " <p> It said that in total " more than 145 " journalists had been killed by the Israeli army in Gaza since the start of the war there in October 2023 , with 35 of them working at the time of their deaths , RSF said . <p> It described the number of killings as " an unprecedented bloodbath . " <p> In a separate report published Tuesday , the International Federation of Journalists ( IFJ ) reported that 104 journalists were killed worldwide in 2024 , with more than half of them in Gaza . <p> The figures differ between the IFJ and RSF due to two different methodologies used in calculating the toll . <p> RSF only includes journalists whose deaths have been " proven to be directly related to their professional activity . " <p> Israel denies that it intentionally harms journalists but admits that some have been killed in air strikes on military targets . <p> " We do n't accept these figures . We do n't believe they are correct , " Israeli government spokesman David Mercer told a press conference on Wednesday . <p> After Gaza , the deadliest places for journalists in 2024 were Pakistan with seven deaths , followed by Bangladesh and Mexico with five each . <p> In 2023 , the number of journalists killed worldwide stood at 45 in the same January-December period . <p> As of December 1 , there were 550 journalists imprisoned worldwide , compared to 513 last year , according to RSF figures . <p> The three countries with the highest numbers of detained journalists are China ( 124 , including 11 in Hong Kong ) , Myanmar ( 61 ) , and Israel ( 41 ) . <p> Furthermore , 55 journalists are currently being held hostage , including two abducted in 2024 . Nearly half -- 25 in total -- are in the hands of the Islamic State group . <p> In addition , 95 journalists are reported missing , including four new cases reported in 2024. 
@@118779247 <h> Biden Unveils Strategy to Combat Anti-Muslim and Anti-Arab Hate <h> President Joe Biden has introduced a plan to tackle rising anti-Muslim and anti-Arab discrimination following the Israel-Gaza conflict . This strategy aligns with previous efforts against antisemitism and has received mixed responses , including criticism from Muslim civil rights groups for not addressing key issues like federal watchlists . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> In response to a surge in anti-Muslim and anti-Arab hatred in the wake of the Israel-Gaza conflict , President Joe Biden has revealed a new comprehensive strategy aimed at combating these prejudices . Released on Thursday , the plan underscores the administration 's commitment to addressing discrimination and bias in American society . <p> This 64-page document follows a similar initiative against antisemitism launched by the White House in September 2023 . The strategy 's release also coincides with growing concern over hate crimes and discrimination stemming from tensions between pro-Israel and pro-Palestinian groups , accentuated by the deeply troubling attack on Wadea Al-Fayoume , a six-year-old Palestinian-American boy . <p> While President Biden highlighted the pressing need for action , the Council on American Islamic Relations criticized the plan as insufficient . They urged the government to revise policies like the federal watchlist that disproportionately affect Arab and Muslim Americans . Meanwhile , former President Donald Trump 's team has yet to comment on the strategy amidst ongoing political debates on these issues . 
@@118779461 <h> India shares its vision for west asia <h> Share <h> India shares its vision for west asia <p> Friday , 13 December 2024 Kumardeep Banarjee <p> The Manama Dialogue provided India with a platform to outline its vision for regional stability <p> Even as Syria was undergoing huge regime change , with a possibility of leaving a long-lasting impact on the geo-political mix of West Asia , India 's external affairs minister was delivering a lecture on the changing dynamics of international cooperation at the Manama Dialogue . The Manama dialogue is a platform to bring policy makers , and ministers to discuss and debate the strategic defence , security and foreign challenges of West Asia . The dialogue happening against the backdrop of the fast-changing narrative in Syria provided India with a unique opportunity to weigh on its most pressing concerns in and for the region . <p> Syria has been ruled by the Assad dynasty for nearly 50 years . However , this dynastic rule converted the country , on the border of Turkey and Jordan into a brutal police state . Russia and Iran had been supportive of the Assad dynasty , for strategic reasons . Iran supported the regime , to build its axis of resistance against Israel , while Russia , has air force and naval bases in Syria . Global leaders are watching the Syria theatre closely even as Israel continues its war in the neighbourhood . The storming of Israeli troops in Gaza and Ukraine , distracted Iran and Russia , which led to the exit of Bashar Al Assad last week . However , what is of concern to many would be , the rise of rebel leader Abu Mohammed al-Jawlani , an ex-Al Qaeda member . <p> Syria despite the dynastic rule managed to maintain a secular political outlook where minorities and diverse groups did not feel any discrimination . Many fear that the rebel leader with Al Qaeda credentials , may push the state to a hardline Islamist nation . Almost every nation in the neighbourhood including Israel is watching the unfolding situation carefully . Delhi has been agnostic to the regime change , even though the Assad dynasty has been supportive of India 's position on Kashmir , and its stance with Islamabad . Any unfriendly regime in the region would weaken India 's position and could be a security concern as well . <p> Against this backdrop , the Manama dialogue , with several leaders from the West Asia and the Indo-Pacific , provided an important platform for engagement . Mentioning the ongoing conflicts impacting the region S Jaishankar said , " And this today would extend from Gaza to Lebanon and now to Syria as well . But at the same time , we have to be realistic about competing interests in this region ... The second political-diplomatic cooperation that we can think of is really at a time when the world is polarised if not downright violent , how do you prevent an escalation of tensions , how do you prevent conflict from spreading further . In recent times , for all of us , the relationship or absence of it between Israel and Iran has been particularly a source of concern , so some of our diplomatic efforts has focused on that particular aspect . There has been the situation in the Red Sea as well . On a more positive note , the third aspect of the political-diplomatic , I would say , we are also looking at certain trend lines coming out of this region . We have been a supporter of the Abraham Accords and some years ago , we started a grouping called I2U2 , which involves India , Israel , the US and the UAE . It is still at a relatively early stage and we certainly hope that in the coming days that its a group that will grow . " <p> India in the past decade , has a trade-oriented foreign policy outlook , where , it knows that nothing binds countries more than an economic partnership . Mr Jaishankar mentioned that India has nearly $170- 180 billion with the ten-member Gulf Cooperation Council and significant economic relations with countries in the Mediterranean . A new US president from January would also be a key benchmark to watch out for days to come . The relationships are most likely to be economic and based on mutual interests . 
@@118779681 <p> UNITED NATIONS , Dec 12 : India voted in favour of a UN General Assembly resolution that demanded an immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire in Gaza and reiterated the demand for immediate and unconditional release of all hostages . <p> The UN General Assembly has overwhelmingly approved resolutions demanding an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and backing the UN agency for Palestinian refugees that Israel has moved to ban . <p> The 193-member General Assembly voted Wednesday at the 10th emergency special session to adopt the draft resolution ' Demand for ceasefire in Gaza ' , introduced by Indonesia . <p> India was among the 158 nations that voted in favour of the resolution while nine member states , including Israel and the US , voted against it . Among the 13 nations that abstained were Albania and Ukraine . <p> The resolution demanded an " immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire , to be respected by all parties , and further reiterates its demand for the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages . " <p> It demanded that the parties fully , unconditionally and without delay implement all the provisions of the Security Council resolution of June 2024 regarding an " immediate ceasefire , the release of hostages , the exchange of Palestinian prisoners , the return of the remains of hostages who have been killed , the return of Palestinian civilians to their homes and neighbourhoods in all areas of Gaza , including in the north , and the full withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza . " <p> The resolution demanded immediate access by the civilian population in the Gaza Strip to basic services and humanitarian assistance indispensable to its survival , while " rejecting any effort to starve Palestinians " . <p> It further demanded the facilitation of full , rapid , safe and unhindered entry of humanitarian assistance , at scale and under the coordination of the United Nations , to and throughout the Gaza Strip and its delivery to all Palestinian civilians who need it , including to civilians in besieged north Gaza , who are in urgent need of immediate humanitarian relief . <p> It also demanded that the parties fully comply with their obligations under international law in relation to persons they detain , including by releasing all those arbitrarily detained . <p> It called upon all parties to fully comply with international law , including international humanitarian law , notably with regard to the protection of civilians , especially women and children . <p> It reiterated its unwavering commitment to the vision of the two-state solution , with the Gaza Strip as part of the Palestinian State , and where two democratic States , Palestine and Israel , live side by side in peace within secure and recognized borders , consistent with international law and the relevant United Nations resolutions . <p> The resolution rejected any attempt at demographic or territorial change in the Gaza Strip , including any actions that reduce the territory of the Gaza Strip , and stresses the importance of unifying the Gaza Strip with the West Bank under the Palestinian Authority . <p> Last week , India voted in favour of a General Assembly resolution that called for the withdrawal of Israel from the Palestinian territory occupied since 1967 , including East Jerusalem , and reiterated the call for achieving a comprehensive , just and lasting peace in the Middle East . <p> The draft resolution ' Peaceful settlement of the question of Palestine ' tabled by Senegal was overwhelmingly adopted in the 193-member General Assembly Tuesday . <p> India was among the 157 nations that voted in favour , while eight Member States -- Argentina , Hungary , Israel , Micronesia , Nauru , Palau , Papua New Guinea and the United States voted against it . Cameroon , Czechia , Ecuador , Georgia , Paraguay , Ukraine and Uruguay abstained . ( PTI ) 
@@118779778 <p> The United Nations General Assembly has once again overwhelmingly voted in favour of implementing an " immediate " ceasefire in Gaza . Along with the ceasefire , UNGA also reaffirmed its support for the UN Agency for Palestinian Refugees ( UNRWA ) . <p> Meanwhile , Israeli forces continued to attack Syria . As per the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , the IDF attacked the port of Latakia and a missile warehouse . <h> West Asia Conflict Latest Developments <h> UNGA Calls For Ceasefire <p> The United Nations General Assembly has called for an urgent ceasefire in Gaza . The resolution , calling for an " immediate , unconditional and permanent " ceasefire in Gaza , was adopted with 158 votes . Nine member states voted against the resolution , and 13 countries absented themselves from the vote . <p> Argentina , Czechia , Hungary , Israel , Nauru , Papua New Guinea , Paraguay , Tonga and the United States voted against the implementation of a ceasefire . <p> Along with the ceasefire , the UN General Assembly also adopted a resolution reaffirming its support for UNRWA and called on Israel ot lift its ban on the Palestinian agency . The resolution was adopted with 159 votes in favour . Nine countries voted against and 11 abstained . <p> #BREAKINGUN General Assembly ADOPTS resolution A/ES-10/L.32 affirming its full support for the mandate of the UN Relief and Works Agency @UNRWA and deploring the legislation adopted by the Israeli Knesset on 28 October 2024 <h> Israel Attacks Syria <p> As per the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , Israeli forces continued their attacks against Syria . Reports suggest that the Israeli military attacked the port of Latakia and a missile warehouse in Tartous . <p> Days after the fall of the Assam regime , Human Rights Watch has said over 100,000 people have fled Aleppo and are seeking shelter in Kurdish-controlled areas of northeastern Syria . <p> " The situation is exacerbating an acute and longstanding crisis , with overcrowded camps and severely damaged infrastructure and a lack of water , power , healthcare , food , and weather-appropriate shelter , " said HRW. 
@@118780100 <h> Three killed , one injured in Israeli airstrikes on Lebanon <p> Three people were killed and a fourth was injured in Israeli airstrikes on southern Lebanon , according to a source from the Lebanese Red Cross . <p> IANS New Delhi December 12 , 2024 11:37 am <p> representation image <p> Three people were killed and a fourth was injured in Israeli airstrikes on southern Lebanon , according to a source from the Lebanese Red Cross . <p> The source , who requires anonymity , told Xinhua that a Red Cross team transported the body of Amin Khsheish , one of the victims , from the town of Khiam to Marjeyoun Governmental Hospital . <p> According to the source , a unit from the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon found Khsheish 's body near his house in the northern outskirts of the southern Lebanese border town of Khiam , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> Advertisement <p> Another team from the Lebanese Red Cross transported a body and an injured person near the village of Aainata to the Bint Jbeil Governmental Hospital in southern Lebanon , the source added . <p> The source also noted that the body of a citizen named Hamza Badah was retrieved from inside a civilian car that was raided by an Israeli drone in the village of Beit Lif . The body was transferred to a hospital in the city of Tyre . <p> The latest incidents come amid the ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon , which took effect on November 27 . <p> The ceasefire , brokered by the US and France , aims to halt nearly 14 months of fighting between Israel and Hezbollah . <p> Under the agreement , Israel will withdraw from Lebanese territory within 60 days , the Lebanese army will be deployed on the Lebanese-Israeli border , and Hezbollah will retreat to north of the Litani River . <h> Related posts <p> Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar on Sunday highlighted growing tensions along the Israel-Syria border , and said that armed forces had entered the buffer zone on the Syrian side and carried out attacks against United Nations Disengagement Observer Force ( UNDOF ) . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has thanked US President-elect Donald Trump after the latter called for the hostages held in Gaza to be released by Hamas the day he takes charge as the President . 
@@118780102 <p> Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz said that he sees an opportunity to secure the release of all hostages still held in Gaza through a ceasefire deal . <p> IANS New Delhi December 12 , 2024 11:02 am <p> Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz ( photo:Wikipedia ) <p> Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz said that he sees an opportunity to secure the release of all hostages still held in Gaza through a ceasefire deal . <p> " There is currently a chance for a new deal , hopefully for the release of all hostages , including those with American citizenship , " said Katz in a phone call with US Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> According to Katz 's office , the two discussed several issues , including the renewed negotiations for a ceasefire in Gaza <p> Advertisement <p> The talks for a ceasefire in Gaza have resumed following a truce agreement that ended the fighting between Israel and Lebanon 's Hezbollah . No breakthrough has been announced yet in the brokered talks between Israel and Hamas . <h> Related posts <p> The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) said in a statement on Saturday that , based on a situational assessment , it is calling up additional forces for defensive missions in the annexed Golan Heights , adjacent to the Israel-Syria border . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has thanked US President-elect Donald Trump after the latter called for the hostages held in Gaza to be released by Hamas the day he takes charge as the President . 
@@118780195 <h> This X user predicted Assad 's fall , Bangladesh turmoil and even Adani 's crisis a year in advance <p> Hyderabad : His bio on social media platform ' X ' says he talks ' about issues long before they happen ' . For those who took the bio as some sort of self praise or even troll , one look at his timeline should be an eye-opener . <p> Aravind , who has about 50,000 followers on X , has made predictions that have hit the bull 's eye with uncanny precision , be it the fall of Bashar Al-Assad in Syria , that of Sheik Hasina in Bangladesh , and closer home , the crisis that Gautam Adani is in . His posts have warned of a mostly US-run deep state , sometimes by China , being behind most of the above mentioned developments . <p> Soon after Assad 's fall , Aravind finally posted his multiple predictions from last year in a single post on December 8 . The same predictions are now going viral on social media , with some likening his predictions to that of 16th century seer Nostradamus . <p> " Please excuse me for this " I told you so " post but humbly request you to read it . I tweeted about the overthrow of the Assad regime and a blow to Russia in Syria 1-year before it happened , " he posted on December 8 . <p> The post on Assad 's fall was in response to a post by journalist Shiv Aroor in October 2023 , where Aravind said that Bashar Al-Assad and his government in Syria would be history by the end of next year ( 2024 ) , which would be another blow to Russia . So the US , West , and Israel will get that done as well in this war , he had said about the happenings in Gaza at that time . <p> Oh , I forgot to mention that Bashar Al-Assad and his government in Syria will be the history end of next year , which will be another blow to Russia . So the US , West , and Israel will get that done as well in this war . <p> " And it happened now at the end of 2024 exactly . Similarly predicted the Bangladesh coup , including persecution of Hindus and the creation of another Pakistan at India 's border a year ago , " he said in his recent post , attaching that tweet : <p> This news means that regime change operations are in place for Bangladesh . This has nothing to do with Bangladesh per se . It is about targeting India by creating another Pakistan at our border . Russia , China , and India are the foremost that need to be destabilized . The problem is ... https : //t.co/krzGkyV612 <p> " Also warned Adani about Bangladesh too a year ago and to be careful about large investments : <p> Soon , we can see protests &amp; riots in Bangladesh for #regimechange ops . It will take an Islamic turn . Hindus may get targeted . Hasina blamed . And anti India sentiment will be unleashed . Adani may become a casualty . Hope @PMOIndia@AdaniOnline are aware of the plans . @gautamadani <p> When I post , I always feel like this is quite obvious , countries and companies will know . In fact , I think everyone will see these just like me . As they seem simple enough to be seen . But when things happen , I get a feeling that even nation states seem caught by surprise , " he said . <p> " Countries like Syria , Russia , and India with all their experts and intelligence do not see these coming and seem to be taken off-guard . And I see large companies with huge investments unprepared . My hunch is they are all not able to correctly understand the , mostly US run , deep state ( sometimes China influenced ) and its goals . Their mental model about the DS , its influencers , and their ambitions may need a bit of fine-tuning . Actually , only this year the deep state has even been acknowledged by many at higher levels and is being openly talked about without fearing being called a conspiracy theorist . Even leaders are talking about it . That 's good . Recognizing the DS is the first step . I used to be called a lunatic for talking about the DS before . But understanding the DS is even more important . Its players , influencers , their goals , the strategies they use to achieve the goals , and the time frames are crucial to know , " he said . 
@@118780679 <h> Mossad Chief Visits Doha for Gaza Hostage Deal Talks <h> The meeting in Doha is the second between Barnea and al-Thani , following discussions in Vienna in late November . <p> The director of Israel 's Mossad intelligence agency , David Barnea , met with Qatar 's Prime Minister Mohammed bin Abdulrahman al-Thani in Doha on Wednesday to discuss a potential ceasefire and hostage-release deal in Gaza . The high-stakes talks aim to break months of deadlock and finalize an agreement before President-elect Donald Trump 's inauguration in January , according to a report from Axios . <p> This marks a renewed effort to secure the release of 100 hostages , including seven Americans , still held by Hamas in Gaza . Israeli intelligence estimates that approximately half of the hostages remain alive . The meeting comes after Qatar paused its mediation efforts following stalled negotiations earlier this year . <p> The meeting in Doha is the second between Barnea and al-Thani , following discussions in Vienna in late November . <h> Progress in negotiations <p> Last week , Israel presented Hamas with an updated proposal for a phased deal that includes the release of hostages and a ceasefire . According to Israeli officials , the framework mirrors an earlier agreement from August that failed to materialize , with some adjustments aimed at easing implementation . <p> Hamas , the officials reportedly added , has shown a greater willingness to consider a partial deal to start the process . Israeli Minister of Defense Israel Katz expressed cautious optimism , telling U.S. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin , " There is a chance at the moment for a new deal that hopefully leads to the release of all hostages , including Americans . " <h> Here is what you need to know <p> The diplomatic push involves cooperation between the outgoing Biden administration and the incoming Trump team . National security adviser Jake Sullivan has met with the families of American hostages 15 times , reassuring them that both administrations are coordinating closely to secure a deal . <p> Trump 's national security adviser , Mike Waltz , also met with the families in Washington , DC , on Wednesday -- the first such meeting since Trump 's election victory . Trump 's public demands for the hostages ' release have added pressure on Hamas and regional mediators like Egypt and Qatar , as well as Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , to finalize an agreement . <p> The negotiations are a rare instance of bipartisan collaboration , with both Biden and Trump pushing for a resolution before the transition of power . Biden 's limited leverage in the region has made Trump 's demands a key factor in pressuring all parties involved . <p> The outcome of the talks in Doha could mark a significant step toward resolving the humanitarian crisis in Gaza and achieving progress in a fraught political landscape . 
@@118780704 <p> Aqaba : Top US officials were in the Middle East on Thursday , pushing for stability in Syria and an end to Israel 's 14-month war in the Gaza Strip in a last-ditch diplomatic push by the outgoing Biden administration before President-elect Donald Trump takes office in a few weeks . <p> Secretary of State Antony Blinken was in Jordan and Turkey for talks on how to ensure a peaceful transition of power in Syria following the ouster of longtime President Bashar Assad , while White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan was in Israel in a bid to wrap up a ceasefire with Hamas militants . <p> A ceasefire would give President Joe Biden a final diplomatic victory after a turbulent term in which his administration has been unable to halt a brutal war that has claimed tens of thousands of lives in Gaza and plunged the territory into a humanitarian crisis . <p> Trump has demanded the immediate release of hostages , threatening on social media that otherwise there would be " HELL TO PAY , " and has urged the US not to get involved in Syria , where some 900 troops are based to combat the Islamic State militant group . <p> Speaking to reporters in Tel Aviv , Sullivan expressed cautious optimism that conditions were ripe for halting the long-running conflict before the Biden administration leaves office . <p> " I would n't be here now if I did n't think this thing was just waiting until after January 20 , " he said . That 's when Trump will be inaugurated . <p> The war erupted with Hamas ' Oct 7 , 2023 , cross-border attack , in which militants killed some 1,200 people in Israel and took 250 others hostage . Israel 's retaliatory offensive in Gaza has killed nearly 45,000 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza health officials , caused widespread displacement and led to severe hunger across the territory . <p> US-led ceasefire efforts have repeatedly faltered throughout the war , with the warring sides blaming each other for the failure . <p> Israel has said it is seeking the destruction of Hamas ' governing and military capabilities , and at times has pressed ahead with the offensive in the face of US calls for restraint . Hamas , meanwhile , has stuck to its demands that any ceasefire include a permanent end to the fighting and full withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza . <p> The US has backed Israel with key military and diplomatic support . But at times , it also has appeared helpless in urging Israel to minimise civilian casualties and to enable the delivery of more humanitarian aid into Gaza . <p> Sullivan said the rapid-fire changes across the region have improved the chances for success . <p> He said Israel 's ceasefire with Hezbollah last month , ending more than a year of fighting , the collapse of Syria 's government and the heavy blow Israel has inflicted on Hamas have all changed the negotiating climate . <p> He also said there has been good cooperation with the incoming Trump administration , with widespread agreement between them . <p> " The surround sound of these negotiations is different today than it has been in the past , " Sullivan told reporters after meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> " I got the sense from the prime minister that he 's ready to do the deal , " Sullivan added . " We see movement from Hamas . " Sullivan is now scheduled to head to Qatar and Egypt -- two Middle Eastern powers that have served as mediators throughout the war . <p> Any deal would include the release of hostages held by Hamas , an exchange of Palestinian prisoners held by Israel and a surge in badly needed humanitarian aid into Gaza . Israel says Hamas is holding about 100 hostages -- at least one-third of whom are believed to have died . <p> As Sullivan was in Israel , Blinken was meeting with Jordanian and Turkish leaders to push for a peaceful transition of power in post-Assad Syria . <p> " We 're back in the region at a time of both real promise but also peril for Syria and for its neighbours , " Blinken told reporters in Aqaba , Jordan , after meeting with King Abdullah II . <p> He said the US was working with its partners across the region to help Syria " transition away from Assad 's brutal dictatorship " and toward a new government that is n't dominated by any single religious or ethnic group or by an outside power or the Islamic State militant group . <p> " We 're determined to do everything we can , working in close coordination with partners , to help the Syrian people realise that aspiration , " Blinken said . <p> Syria is home to an array of armed groups with competing interests and allies . <p> In northern Syria , US-backed Kurdish separatists are battling to fend off fighters supported by Turkey . In the country 's centre and northeast , the extremist Islamic State group maintains a presence that generates concern for the US . And the rebels , hailing mainly from the Sunni Muslim majority in Syria , face the daunting task of creating a transitional government for the war-ravaged country . <p> The leader of Syria 's biggest rebel faction is a former al-Qaida commander whose Hayat Tahrir al-Sham group is poised to chart the country 's future . The US and the UN have designated the hard-line Sunni Islamist group a terrorist organisation . <p> The goal of creating a free and pluralistic Syria will be a challenge given the bad blood stretching across Syria 's sectarian lines after over half a century of Assad family rule and 14 years of civil war that claimed an estimated 500,000 lives . <p> Blinken started his trip in Jordan , a close US ally whose fragile economy has been strained over the years by an influx of hundreds of thousands of Syrian refugees . Next , he was headed to Turkey -- a backer of Sunni rebels but a foe of the Kurds . <p> Israel , meanwhile , has sent troops into Syria -- its northern neighbour -- and seized a former buffer zone that had been demilitarised since a 1974 truce . Israel has described the move as defensive , meant to protect its border and to prevent armed groups from seizing weapons left behind by Assad 's army . <p> Netanyahu said Thursday that the move was temporary . But he said Israel would remain inside Syria until another party can secure the border , raising the likelihood of a prolonged and open-ended presence . <p> Sullivan tried to play down the Israeli move , noting that Assad was toppled just days ago and it is too early to jump to any conclusions . <p> But Blinken was more cautious as he called for restraint by all regional players with interests in Syria . He said the US is " already talking to Israel " and others about the future of Syria . <p> " Across the board , when it comes to any actors who have real interests in Syria , it 's also really important at this time that we all try to make sure that we 're not sparking any additional conflicts , " he said . 
@@118780708 <h> Paraguay reopened its embassy in Jerusalem , recognizing it as Israel 's capital , a diplomatic win for Netanyahu amid growing international isolation over Gaza . <p> Jerusalem : The small South American nation of Paraguay reopened its embassy in Jerusalem on Thursday , becoming the latest of just a small handful of countries to recognise the bitterly contested city as Israel 's capital . <p> The move marks a welcome diplomatic victory for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , who has watched Israel 's international isolation deepen as the devastating war in Gaza drags on . <p> Paraguay first relocated its embassy to Jerusalem in 2018 under the pro-Israel government of then-President Horacio Cartes but reversed its decision months later when a new administration came to power . <p> The decision of President Santiago Pe ? a , a prot ? g ? of Cartes who has followed in his mentor 's footsteps , to reopen the Jerusalem embassy makes Paraguay the first country to make the move since Hamas ' Oct 7 attack last year triggered the war . <p> The fate of Jerusalem is one of the most intractable disputes in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> It 's also a controversial move . Israel views the entire city as its unified capital , while the Palestinians want east Jerusalem as the capital of their future state . Israel annexed east Jerusalem , home to the Old City , with holy sites sacred to Jews , Christians and Muslims , in 1967 in a move that was not recognized by the international community . Most countries run their embassies out of Tel Aviv . <p> Paraguay now joins the United States , Honduras , Guatemala , Kosovo and Papua New Guinea as countries that have stationed their embassy in Jerusalem . <p> Spirits were high at the ceremony marking the embassy 's inauguration Thursday , with Netanyahu and Israel 's new Foreign Minister , Gideon Saar , lavishing praise on President Pe ? a . <p> " My good friend Santiago , " said Netanyahu , addressing Pe ? a . " We 're a small nation . You 're a small nation . We suffered horrible things but we overcame the odds of history ... we can win and we are winning . " " Jerusalem is the capital of Israel . It will always be the capital of Israel , " Netanyahu said . " That will never change . " The ceremony came as the humanitarian crisis in Gaza has brought a wave of condemnation on Israel , undermining its international standing . <p> The world 's top war-crimes court issued arrest warrants last month for Netanyahu and his former defense minister , accusing them of crimes against humanity during the war in Gaza . The Israeli offensive has so far killed over 44,800 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry which does not say how many are combatants . The warrants turn Netanyahu and Gallant into internationally wanted suspects , putting them at risk of arrest when they travel abroad . <p> Nevertheless , Pe ? a invited Netanyahu to visit Paraguay . Netanyahu hung a Jewish mezuzah , a small scroll containing verses from the Torah , on the doorway of the new Paraguayan embassy . <p> Israel 's top diplomat , Saar , said Israel and Paraguay shared a " friendship based not only on interests but also values and principles . " He said he would soon visit Asunci ? n , Paraguay 's capital , with a delegation from the Israeli private sector . He and Paraguayan Foreign Minister Rub ? n Ram ? rez Lezcano signed a series of bilateral agreements at the ceremony . <p> Pe ? a thanked Netanyahu and said he looked forward to future collaboration with Israel . <p> " This is very important for you . We recognize that this is a very strong statement , " Pe ? a said . " Israel is going to win , and the countries ( that ) are standing next to Israel , we are going to win . " Despite a tiny Jewish community , far smaller than neighbours Argentina and Brazil , landlocked Paraguay has become one of Israel 's closest allies in Latin America . The other countries in the region to recognize Jerusalem as Israel 's capital , Guatemala and Honduras , have similarly strong evangelical churches . <p> Evangelicals , many of whom see Israel 's existence connected to biblical prophecy , are among the Israeli government 's most hawkish supporters . In the US , conservative evangelicals have long inspired the Republican Party 's pro-Israel advocacy . <p> Paraguay 's conservative leadership has sought to curry favour with former and future US President Donald Trump by strengthening its alliance with Israel as well as Taiwan -- two causes c ? l ? bres of Republicans . <p> Paraguayan Foreign Minister Ram ? rez Lezcano was among the first foreign dignitaries to meet with Trump following his November election victory . <p> Earlier this year , Pe ? a hosted Senator Marco Rubio -- Trump 's pick to become Secretary of State -- in what marked the first visit by a US senator to the landlocked country in four decades . <p> The ascension of Pe ? a to the presidency in 2023 helped revive Paraguay 's strong ties with Israel years after his predecessor , Mario Abdo Benitez , shuttered Paraguay 's Jerusalem embassy and prompted Israel to retaliate by temporarily closing its own in Asunci ? n . <p> Under former President Cartes , a powerful cigarette tycoon sanctioned by the Biden administration for corruption , Paraguay immediately followed Trump 's move to relocate the US embassy to Jerusalem and break with decades of policy that the city 's status should be decided in peace talks . 
@@118795372 <h> Why Liberals Will Give Two Cheers for Trump <h> Share : <p> Liberals hate Trump , no question about it . He 's the definition of illiberal : authoritarian , racist , sexist , and downright nasty . Not only that , he 's a living repudiation of the liberal delusion that America runs on meritocracy . <p> But you want to know a dirty , little secret ? In back alleys , encrypted group chats , and off-the-record conversations , liberals will still support Trump on a case-by-case basis . Of course , they 'd never vote for the guy , but they 'll give two cheers for some of his policies . <p> I discovered this ugly truth during Trump 's last term while writing an article on the shift in U.S. policy toward China from lukewarm engagement to hostile decoupling . The general consensus among the foreign policy elite was that , at least in terms of relations with Beijing , Trump was a useful idiot for slowing China 's roll with harsh rhetoric and tariffs . <p> " Trump is a madman , but I want to give him and his administration their due , " one prominent liberal intellectual told me . " We ca n't keep playing on an unlevel playing field and take promises that are never delivered on . It 's really China 's turn to respond , and it 's long overdue . " <p> It was n't just China . For years , liberals and conservatives alike were , for instance , pushing the concept of burden-sharing : getting U.S. allies to cover more of the bill for their security needs . But it was only Trump who really made it happen by blackmailing NATO members and other U.S. partners into doing so . <p> Sure , few warmed to the idea of the United States actually pulling out of NATO , but even many of our European allies , though they publicly grumbled , were secretly happy about The Donald 's gaiatsu . That 's the Japanese word for outside pressure that enables a leader to force through unpopular changes by blaming it all on foreigners . The self-described liberal leader of NATO , Dutch politician Mark Rutte , even came out in the open after Trump 's reelection to praise the American president for making European countries more militarily self-sufficient . <p> It was n't just liberals who thrilled to Trump 's unorthodox foreign policy during his first term either . Some of those further to the left also embraced Trump the engager ( with North Korea 's Kim Jong-un ) , Trump the isolationist ( and his threats to close U.S. military bases globally ) , and Trump the putative peacemaker ( for concluding a deal with the Taliban to end the U.S. military presence in Afghanistan ) . <p> Trump , in other words , was not just an unanticipated crisis ; he was also an opportunity . Deep in their hearts , anyone unhappy with the status quo will support a disrupter . Quite a few Democrats disgusted with this country 's border policies , inflation , and its coastal elites even crossed over to vote for Trump in November because they wanted change , regardless of the consequences . <p> Trump 2.0 is going to be the same but worse , like a strong cheese voted out of the refrigerator only to grow ever more pungent as it moldered in a dark corner of Florida . The latest version of Trump has promised more violence and destruction the second time around , from mass deportations to mass tariffs . And he 's planning to avoid appointing anyone to his administration who might have a contrary thought , a backbone to resist him , or the least qualification to enact sensible policy . <p> In the face of such a vengeful and truculent force returning to the White House , surely , you might think , it will be impossible to find any liberals embracing such anarchy the second time around . <p> Think again . This is how American politics works , if only for liberals . The modern Republican Party routinely boycotts Democratic administrations : blocking Merrick Garland 's Supreme Court nomination , working overtime to shut down the federal government , voting en masse against legislation it would have supported if introduced by a Republican administration . The MAGA crowd has , in fact , turned noncooperation into something of an art form . <p> Liberals , on the other hand , pride themselves on bipartisanship , on getting things done no matter who 's in power . So , inevitably , there will be cooperation with the Trump team as it sets about the " deconstruction of the administrative state " ( as Trump cheerleader Steve Bannon once put it ) . Worse , there will even be some silver-lining liberals ( and a few leftists ) who pull up a seat to applaud the wrecking ball -- not perhaps for its wholesale destruction of neighborhoods but at least for its demolition of a select number of buildings that they deem irreparable . <p> Each time such destruction takes place , the self-exculpatory comment from such silver-liners will be : " Well , somebody had to come along and do something ! " If Trump is the only tool in the governing toolbox , some liberals will indeed try to use him to pound in a few nails they think need hammering . <p> Burning Bridges with China <p> In his 2024 State of the Union address , Joe Biden argued that he did a better job than Donald Trump of standing up to China . He certainly devoted more Pentagon dollars to containing China . And not only did he not roll back Trump 's tariffs on Chinese products , but he added some of his own , including a 100% tax on Chinese electric vehicles . Biden also made concrete moves to decouple the U.S. economy from China 's , especially when it came to the supply chains for critical raw materials that Beijing has sought to control . " I 've made sure that the most advanced American technologies ca n't be used in China , " he insisted , adding , " Frankly for all his tough talk on China , it never occurred to my predecessor to do any of that . " <p> Biden 's moves on China , from export controls and subsidies for chip manufacturers to closer military relationships with Pacific partners like Australia and India , received the enthusiastic support of his party . No surprise there : It 's hard to find anyone in Washington these days who has a good word to say about engaging more with China . <p> So , when Trump takes office in January , he wo n't actually be reversing course . He 'll simply be taking the baton-like stick from Biden while leaving all the carrots in the ground . <p> That said , Trump 's proposed further spike in tariffs against China ( and Canada and Mexico and potentially the rest of the world ) does give many liberals pause , since it threatens to unleash an economically devastating global trade war while boosting prices radically at home . But trade unions backed by such liberals support such measures as a way to protect jobs , while the European Union only recently imposed stiff tariffs of their own on Chinese electrical vehicles . <p> So , yes , neoliberals who embrace free trade are going to push back against Trump 's economic policies , but more traditional liberals who backed protectionist measures in the past will secretly ( or not so secretly ) applaud Trump 's moves . <p> Back to the Wall <p> On taking office , Joe Biden rolled back his predecessor 's harsh immigration policies . The rate of border-crossings then spiked for a variety of reasons ( not just the repeal of those Trump-era laws ) from an average of half a million to about two million annually . However , in 2024 , those numbers plummeted , despite Trump 's campaign claims -- but no matter . By then , many Democrats had already been reborn as border hawks . <p> That new , tougher attitude was on display in executive actions President Biden took in 2024 as well as the border security bill that Democrats tried to push through Congress earlier this year . Forget about finding a path to citizenship for the millions of undocumented immigrants who keep the American economy humming , Biden 's immigration policy focused on limiting asylum petitions , increasing detention facilities , and even allocating more money to build Trump 's infamous wall . <p> As Elora Mukherjee , director of the Immigrants ' Rights Clinic at Columbia Law School , pointed out on the eve of the November election , " What we are seeing is that the center of the Democratic Party is now adopting the same policies , the same postures , that MAGA Republicans were fighting for about six years ago . " <p> And yet such punitive policies still were n't harsh enough for MAGA Republicans and their America First followers . The bottom line was that immigration-averse voters did n't want to support Democrats pretending to be MAGA Republicans . When it came to the White House , they wanted the real thing . <p> As politics change hands in Washington next January , it 's going to be difficult to find any Democrats who will support the mass detentions and deportations Trump is promising . Yet many liberals , like the unprecedented number of Latinos who pulled the lever for Trump in 2024 , do want major changes at the border with Mexico . In Arizona , Democrat Ruben Gallego won a squeaker of a Senate election by emphasizing border security and even backing a border wall ( in certain areas ) . Such liberal border hawks will be happy when the Republican president does the dirty work so that Democrats do n't suffer the political fallout that is sure to follow . <p> Remapping the Middle East <p> On the face of it , the Abrahamic Accords were a liberal nightmare . The brainchild of Trump 's son-in-law Jared Kushner , they promised to repair relations between Israel and the major authoritarian regimes in the region : Saudi Arabia , the Gulf States , Morocco , and Sudan . The deal was a reward for illiberal leaders , particularly Israel 's Benjamin Netanyahu . The primary losers would , of course , be the Palestinians , who would have to give up their hopes for a separate state in exchange for some Saudi handouts , and the Sahrawi people who lost their claim to the Western Sahara when the United States and Israel recognized Moroccan sovereignty over the entire region . <p> Instead of shelving the Accords , however , the Biden administration pushed ahead with them . After roundly criticizing Saudi autocrat Mohammed bin Salman for , among other things , ordering the murder of a U.S.-based Saudi journalist , Biden mended ties , fist-bumping that rogue leader , and continuing to discuss how and when the Kingdom would normalize relations with Israel . Nor did his administration restrict Washington 's staggering weapons deliveries to Israel after its invasion and utter devastation of Gaza . Yes , Biden and crew made some statements about Palestinian suffering and tried to push more humanitarian aid into the conflict zone , but they did next to nothing to pressure Israel to stop its killing machine ( nor would they reverse the Trump administration 's decision on the Western Sahara ) . <p> The liberals who support Israel ( come what may ) like Pennsylvania Senator John Fetterman , New York Congressman Ritchie Torres , and the New Democrat Coalition in the House of Representatives are , of course , going to be enthusiastic about Trump 's ever tighter embrace of Netanyahu next year . But there are also likely to be quiet cheers from other corners of the liberal-left about the harder line Trump is likely to take against Tehran . ( Remember Kamala Harris 's assertion during her presidential run that Iran was the main adversary of the United States ? ) The Arab Spring is long gone and a strong man in the White House needs to both schmooze with and go toe to toe with the strong men of the Middle East -- or so many liberals will believe , even as they rationalize away their relief over Trump 's handling of a thoroughly illiberal region . <p> Looking Ahead ( Or Do I Mean Behind ? ) <p> Anyone to the left of Tucker Carlson will certainly think twice about showing public enthusiasm for whatever Trump does . Indeed , most liberals will be appalled by the new administration 's likely suspension of aid to Ukraine and withdrawal from the Paris climate accord , not to mention other possible hare-brained maneuvers like sending U.S. troops to battle narcotraffickers in Mexico . <p> Trump will attract liberal support , however quietly or even secretively , not because of his bridge-building genius -- in reality , he could n't even get a bridge-building infrastructure bill through Congress in his first term -- but because all too many liberals have already moved inexorably rightward on issues ranging from China and the Middle East to immigration . The MAGA minority has seized the machinery of power by weaponizing mendacity and ruthlessly breaking rules , in the process transforming politics much the way the Bolshevik minority did in Russia more than a century ago . In the pot that those Republicans put on the stove , the water has been boiling for more than a decade and yet the left-of-center frogs barely seem to recognize just how altered our circumstances have become . <p> In normal times , finding overlapping interests with your political adversaries makes sense . Such bedrock bipartisanship stabilizes fractious countries that swing politically from center left to center right every few years . <p> These are , however , anything but normal times and the second-term Trump team anything but center-rightists . They are extremists bent on dismantling the federal government , unstitching the fabric of international law , and turning up the heat drastically on an already dangerously overcooking planet . <p> In 2020 , I raised the possibility of a boycott , divestment , and sanction ( BDS ) movement against the United States if Trump won the elections that year . " People of the world , you 'd better build your BDS box , paint ' Break Glass in Case of Emergency ' on the front , and stand next to it on November 3 , " I wrote then . " If Trump wins on Election Day , it will be mourning in America . But let 's hope that the world does n't mourn : it organizes . " <p> Four years later , Trump has won again . Do I hear the sound of breaking glass ? <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Here , in the United States , a stance of strict non-engagement with Trump 2.0 , even where interests overlap , would not only be a good moral policy but even make political sense . When things go disastrously south , laws are broken , and the government begins to truly come apart at the seams , it 's vitally important that no left-of-center fingerprints be found at the scene of the crime . <p> Let 's be clear : the Trump administration will not be playing by the rules of normal politics . So , forget about bipartisanship . Forget about preserving access to power by visiting Mar-a-Lago , hat in hand , like Facebook 's Mark Zuckerberg or the hosts of MSNBC 's Morning Joe . " Fascism can be defeated , " historian Timothy Snyder wrote immediately after the November elections , " but not when we are on its side . " <p> In the early 1990s , doctors in Hiroshima , Japan , discovered a stress-induced syndrome they called Takotsubo cardiomyopathy , or " broken heart syndrome " -- a condition in which the heart 's left ventricle , responsible for ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118795375 <h> Israeli Attack On Gaza Aid Convoy Kills 12 Security Guards <h> Share : <p> An Israeli attack on Palestinian security guards escorting a humanitarian aid shipment in the Gaza Strip has killed at least 12 people and injured dozens . Medics and local residents told the Reuters news agency that at least 30 people were injured , including several in critical condition , following the Israeli attack on Thursday that targeted civilian guards tasked with securing the aid convoy in the southern part of the war-torn enclave . <p> Israeli occupation forces targeted aid security personnel in Rafah and Khan Younis , areas in the southern Gaza Strip , while they were facilitating the entry and movement of aid trucks via the Karm Abu Salem crossing . This crossing is a key entry point for humanitarian aid into Gaza , particularly amidst the ongoing crisis in the region , despite that Israel has repeatedly closed it . <p> The attack is only the latest by Israeli forces on humanitarian aid workers , convoys and those trying to assist the safe entry of food and other supplies into war-torn Gaza , which is gripped by food shortages and fears of famine in the north of the territory , where an Israeli military ground operation and siege have been ongoing for several weeks . <p> On Sunday night , at least 10 Palestinian people were killed while lining up to buy flour in an Israeli attack on Rafah , which is also in the south of the Gaza Strip . <p> The Israeli military has yet to comment on its latest reported attack on security guards protecting an aid shipment . <p> The latest attack on security trying to protect aid shipments entering the Gaza Strip comes after UNRWA , the UN agency for Palestinian refugees , said that it had taken the " difficult decision " to pause aid deliveries through the main crossing into the Gaza Strip at the beginning of December . <p> UNRWA chief Philippe Lazzarini said at the time that humanitarian operations had become " unnecessarily impossible " due to " the ongoing siege , hurdles from Israeli authorities , political decisions to restrict the amounts of aid , lack of safety on aid routes and targeting of local police " who secure aid convoys . <p> He called on Israel to ensure aid flowed to Gaza and said the country " must refrain from attacks on humanitarian workers " . <p> On Wednesday , Lazzarini said that a joint UN aid convoy was able to provide urgent food supplies for 200,000 people in southern and central areas of the Strip , after aid resumed to pass through the Karem Abu Salem ( also known as the Kerem Shalom ) border crossing between Gaza and Israel . <p> With the " political will " , Lazzarini said , delivering aid safely to Gaza was possible . <p> " We need to scale up our support to the people of Gaza and need all parties to continue facilitation of safe , unimpeded and uninterrupted humanitarian access to ensure aid reaches those who need it most , " he wrote in a post on social media . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Speaking to reporters in New York on Wednesday after returning from the Gaza Strip , Haoliang Xu , associate administrator of the UN 's Development Programme , said conditions in Gaza were unlike any he had seen before . <p> " I 've been to many conflicts and disaster situations or disasters themselves that I experienced , I can say that I 've never seen the kind of devastation that I 've seen in Gaza in my career , " he said . <p> " What I know is that at least for the last month , no fresh fruit and vegetables have been imported " into Gaza , he added . <h> Related Posts <p> Following yet another United States veto of a United Nations Security Council resolution calling for a cessation of hostilities in Gaza , members of the U.N . General Assembly voted overwhelmingly Wednesday in favor of ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118795376 <h> After Another US Security Council Veto , UN General Assembly Votes for Gaza Cease-Fire <h> Share : <p> Following yet another United States veto of a United Nations Security Council resolution calling for a cessation of hostilities in Gaza , members of the U.N . General Assembly voted overwhelmingly Wednesday in favor of an " immediate , unconditional , and permanent cease-fire " in the Palestinian enclave , where Israeli forces continued relentless attacks that killed dozens more Palestinians , including numerous children . <p> The veto by the United States , a permanent Security Council member , came during an emergency special session and was the lone dissenting vote on the 15-member body . It was the fourth time since October 2023 that the Biden administration vetoed a Security Council resolution on a Gaza cease-fire . <p> " At a time when Hamas is feeling isolated due to the cease-fire in Lebanon , the draft resolution on a cease-fire in Gaza risks sending a dangerous message to Hamas that there 's no need to negotiate or release the hostages , " Robert Wood , the United States ' deputy U.N . ambassador , said ahead of Wednesday 's vote . <p> The 193-member U.N . General Assembly ( UNGA ) subsequently voted 158-9 , with 13 abstentions , for a resolution demanding " an immediate , unconditional , and permanent ceasefire , to be respected by all parties , " and calling for the " immediate and unconditional release of all hostages " held by Hamas . <p> #BREAKINGUN General Assembly ADOPTS resolution A/ES-10/L.33 demanding an immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire in Gaza as well as the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages <p> The nine countries that opposed the measure are the United States , Israel , Argentina , Czechia , Hungary , Nauru , Papua New Guinea , Paraguay , and Tonga . <p> In a separate vote Wednesday , 159 UNGA members voted in favor of a resolution affirming the body 's " full support " for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East . UNRWA has been the target of diplomatic and financial attacks by Israel and its backers -- who have baselessly accused the lifesaving organization of being a terrorist group -- and literal attacks by Israeli forces , who have killed more than 250 of the agency 's personnel . <p> Nine UNGA members opposed the measure , while 11 others abstained . Security Council resolutions are legally binding , while General Assembly resolutions are not , and are also not subject to vetoes . <p> #BREAKINGUN General Assembly ADOPTS resolution A/ES-10/L.32 affirming its full support for the mandate of the UN Relief and Works Agency @UNRWA and deploring the legislation adopted by the Israeli Knesset on 28 October 2024 <p> Wednesday 's U.N . votes took place amid sustained Israeli attacks on Gaza including a strike on a home sheltering forcibly displaced Palestinians in Deir al-Balah that killed at least 33 people , including children , local medical officials said . This followed earlier Israeli attacks , including the Monday night bombing of the al-Kahlout family home in Beit Hanoun that killed or wounded dozens of Palestinians and reportedly wiped the family from the civil registry . <p> Since the October 7 , 2023 Hamas-led attack on Israel , at least 162,000 Palestinians in Gaza have been killed , maimed , or left missing by Israel 's bombardment , invasion , and siege of the coastal enclave , according to officials there . More than 2 million others have been forcibly displaced , starved , or sickened by Israel 's onslaught . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Israel 's conduct in the war is the subject of a South Africa-led genocide case before the International Court of Justice in The Hague . The International Criminal Court has also issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Israeli Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , as well as one Hamas leader , for alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity . <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118795377 <h> Brett Wilkins <p> Following yet another United States veto of a United Nations Security Council resolution calling for a cessation of hostilities in Gaza , members of the U.N . General Assembly voted overwhelmingly Wednesday in favor of ... <p> The heads of 15 humanitarian organizations operating under the United Nations umbrella on Friday accused Israel of creating " apocalyptic " conditions in northern Gaza and called on Israeli forces to stop attacking the Palestinian enclave ... <p> Israel -- which is already waging war on Gaza and Lebanon -- said its military struck targets in and near Iran 's capital Tehran early Saturday , while explosions believed to be Israeli attacks were also reported in ... <p> A devastating wave of Israeli airstrikes across the Gaza Strip on Wednesday and Thursday have killed or wounded hundreds of Palestinians , including many children , according to local and international media reports . Citing ... <p> Seasoned observers of Israeli disinformation campaigns on Wednesday responded with pointed skepticism to a claim by the country 's military that half a dozen Al Jazeera journalists are linked to militant Palestinian resistance ... <p> A Belgium-based advocacy group on Tuesday announced it " filed an unprecedented and historic complaint with the International Criminal Court against 1,000 Israeli occupation forces soldiers for war crimes , crimes against ... <p> As Israel followed up its remote bombings of communications devices in Lebanon with airstrikes on Beirut , the United Nations Security Council held an emergency session Friday during which officials urgently called for ... <p> Israeli officials are lobbying U.S. lawmakers to pressure South Africa into dropping its genocide case against Israel at the International Court of Justice , according to a report published Monday . Axios said it obtained ... <p> In an investigation focusing on a pair of Israeli massacres of forcibly displaced Palestinians in Gaza , Amnesty International on Monday urged the International Criminal Court -- whose chief prosecutor has already applied for warrants to ... <p> Following over a month of warnings , Gaza recorded its first case of polio since the highly contagious virus was eradicated there 25 years ago , prompting a Friday call by United Nations Secretary-General ... <p> Scientists on Monday underscored the urgent need to accelerate the transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy following the publication of data from the European Union 's climate change monitor showing ... <p> A doctor at an Israeli field hospital inside a notorious detention center where hundreds of Palestinian prisoners are temporarily held is sounding the alarm about torture and horrific conditions at what some ... <p> Human Rights Watch on Thursday said it has confirmed reports that Israeli military forces unleashed white phosphorus munitions during artillery attacks on targets in Lebanon and Gaza this week , including over a ... <p> Critics of a Japanese plan to release filtered radioactive wastewater from the Fukushima nuclear disaster into the Pacific Ocean intensified their opposition to the proposal on Wednesday after the United Nations agency ... <p> As the Pacific Northwest and southwestern Canada bake under what 's being described as a " once-in-a-millennium " heat dome , green groups on Monday reiterated the need for transformational change to address the climate emergency , while ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118795381 <h> Share : <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - The Director of Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , Hussam Abu Safiya , has described the situation in the area as " catastrophic " and " deteriorating , " amid an ongoing Israeli military offensive and siege that has caused widespread ruin . <p> In a statement issued on Wednesday , Abu Safiya said : <p> " The situation in northern Gaza has deteriorated significantly since Tuesday evening . The bombing has not stopped throughout the night , with more than seven explosive-laden drones targeting the area around Kamal Adwan Hospital , resulting in the destruction of entire buildings and residential blocks . " <p> " The debris and explosions have directly hit the hospital , shattering doors and windows and causing panic among the patients inside . Kamal Adwan Hospital is currently treating over 120 injured individuals . " <p> " Although we have carried out some repairs at the hospital , the continuous bombing has rendered our efforts useless . We are in urgent need of restoring oxygen , water , electricity , and storage systems . This cycle of destruction and repair has become a terrifying routine , as our facilities are subjected to daily attacks . " <p> " The home of the Abu Al-Tarabish family , located in a nearby residential area , was targeted . Over thirty people lived there . Unfortunately , no one has been reported to have reached Kamal Adwan Hospital , indicating that the entire family may have been martyred under the rubble . " <p> At least 20 civilians , including children , were brutally massacred last night in a deadly Israeli airstrike which targeted a residential building sheltering displaced people from the Abu al-Tarabish family in Beit Lahiya , northern Gaza . **26;2098;TOOLONG <p> " We received a distress call from neighbors and people trapped under the rubble , but we are unable to leave the hospital due to the ongoing danger . The bombing occurred during the night , and we lack the necessary tools and ambulances to rescue any potential survivors . " <p> " As daylight broke , the neighbors began searching for survivors , but unfortunately , they discovered that everyone had been killed in the bombing . " <p> " The current situation is catastrophic ; medical supplies are being blocked from entering northern Gaza , and we are facing a severe shortage . We even lack basic tools for plumbing , water , and electricity . We attempted to bring in supplies through ambulances regularly evacuating patients , but so far , we have not received permission to do so . " <p> " The danger is escalating , and we are witnessing massive loss of life , with many martyrs in the targeted areas . " <p> " We urgently call on the international community to intervene and stop the ongoing bloodshed against the remaining civilians in northern Gaza , as well as the healthcare system that is continuously under attack , both day and night . Our facilities and staff are being targeted , and immediate action is necessary to protect them . " <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Since October 5 , when Israel launched a new offensive on northern Gaza , believed to be part of the so-called Generals ' Plan , Kamal Adwan hospital has been under siege . Barely any humanitarian aid has been allowed to enter the north since then . <p> Israel has ordered all of the 400,000 Palestinians in northern Gaza to move south and issued evacuation orders to Kamal Adwan and the area 's two other hospitals , al-Awda and the Indonesian hospital . <h> Related Posts <p> Following yet another United States veto of a United Nations Security Council resolution calling for a cessation of hostilities in Gaza , members of the U.N . General Assembly voted overwhelmingly Wednesday in favor of ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118803168 <h> Your Regime 's Allies Are Falling : Netanyahu To Iranians WATCH <p> Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu has issued a defiant statement to Iranians that their regime 's regional allies are falling . In addressing Syria 's air defense losses and how Hezbollah has fallen , Netanyahu said Iran will remain free , and the Middle East can be a peaceful and prosperous region . <p> Israel 's military is gearing up for potential attacks on Iran 's nuclear sites , officials said Thursday . The declaration came as the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) boasted of having gained " total air superiority " after demolishing more than 85 percent of Syria 's air defense systems in a series of targeted operations . <p> The large-scale strikes by the IDF destroyed advanced weaponry , air defense systems , and military facilities across Syria . According to Israeli officials , these efforts are meant to prevent high-grade weapons from reaching Hezbollah or other adversaries . Among the destroyed assets were missiles , fighter jets , helicopters , and chemical weapons facilities . <p> While much of Syria 's air defenses have been obliterated , Israeli aircraft can now operate freely over Syrian airspace and potentially even expand surveillance and military capabilities to target Iran directly . <p> It comes at a time when the Iranian influence in the region is believed to be weakening . The collapse of Bashar Assad 's regime in Syria and the weakness of Hezbollah in Lebanon leave Tehran more isolated than ever . For the Israeli leaders , it represents a turning point in the Middle East geopolitical map . <h> Netanyahu 's Message To Iranian People <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu took the opportunity to speak directly to the Iranian public on Thursday in a video message . Speaking against the Iranian regime , Netanyahu criticized its focus on funding regional aggression through proxies like Assad and Hezbollah rather than addressing the needs of its citizens . <p> Netanyahu , speaking in English , said Israeli operations against Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon had triggered a " chain reaction " throughout the Middle East . <p> " You suffer under the rule of a regime that subjugates you and threatens us , " Netanyahu said . He emphasized how billions of dollars spent in military campaigns and proxy wars could have been spent in welfare activities for the population . <p> Emphasizing positivity about the future , Netanyahu stated , " Together , we will transform the Middle East into a beacon of prosperity , progress , and peace . " <p> The IDF 's increased efforts and Netanyahu 's direct appeal underline Israel 's commitment to countering Iran 's regional influence while signaling solidarity with the Iranian people . With Syria 's defenses crippled and Hezbollah 's power waning , Israel views this as an opportune moment to challenge Tehran 's ambitions and push for regional stability . 
@@118803180 <p> Breakthrough On Gaza Hostages ? US National Security Adviser Offers New Hope In Ceasefire Talks <h> Breakthrough On Gaza Hostages ? US National Security Adviser Offers New Hope In Ceasefire Talks <p> US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan expressed hope for a potential Gaza ceasefire and hostage release , based on good signals from Israel and Hamas . The deal remains uncertain ; however , efforts are on , with Sullivan visiting Qatar and Egypt to advance the talks . <p> US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said on Thursday that a deal on a Gaza ceasefire and the release of hostages could be in sight . Sullivan made the remarks after meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Jerusalem , indicating that both sides may be closer to a resolution . <p> There 's a chance , though not a certainty , " Sullivan said , acknowledging that while a deal may not materialize immediately , there 's a belief that with political will on both sides , a breakthrough could be possible . His statements came amidst growing speculation that talks aimed at ending the Gaza conflict are beginning to show signs of progress . <p> Sullivan said that Israel has been signaling its readiness for a deal on a ceasefire , but Hamas , the militant group controlling Gaza , has given some movement in negotiations . However , the nature of the deal is unclear as some diplomatic sources suggested a temporary truce might be in the offing . That truce could include the release of a limited number of hostages ; it would be a very small but important step in resolving the humanitarian crisis under way . <h> Diplomatic Initiatives In Qatar , Egypt <p> As part of his efforts to nudge the talks ahead , Sullivan stated that he will travel to Qatar and Egypt . The two countries have been part of efforts to bring about talks between Israel and Hamas . His intention is to further build on initiatives meant to deliver hostages as well as to facilitate humanitarian aid to Gaza , whose situation remains critical . <p> A Western diplomat in the region said a narrow deal was likely , considering the constraints of the negotiations and the need for immediate action . A comprehensive agreement is still considered unlikely at this point , with both sides holding firm on their respective demands . <h> Complicated Path To Peace <p> Sullivan also rejected the notion that Netanyahu was waiting for this new administration with President-elect Donald Trump to seal a deal : " I do not get that sense . From the prime minister , it 's clear he is ready to move forward . " <p> The negotiations , following the tragic incidents of October 7 , 2023 , where Hamas militants attacked Israeli communities , have been complicated by long-standing political and military disputes . Although Sullivan hoped that an agreement might be reached before the end of the month , he was cautious in his statement , saying , " I ca n't make promises , but I would n't be here today if I thought this was waiting until after Jan. 20 . " <p> The fate of the hostages , seven Americans among them , is what the negotiations have centered upon . Although four hostages are believed to have been killed , efforts to free those hostages have now become an international focus of diplomacy . <p> Sullivan confirmed that since the ceasefire between Hezbollah in Lebanon , those efforts have altered the direction of negotiations . He thinks that these developments have positioned negotiators in a better position to close a deal . <p> Yet , important obstacles stand in the way . Hamas has demanded a wider resolution to the conflict , requiring the end of the war before releasing all hostages . On the other hand , Israel has been adamant that the war will continue until the hostages are released and Hamas no longer poses a threat to the security of Israel . <p> Both sides have faced pressure to find common ground as Israel works to weaken Hamas and its Iranian-backed allies in the region . Military successes , such as killing key Hamas leaders , have strengthened Israel 's position , but the broader geopolitical dynamics continue to complicate the path to peace , including nations such as Iran . <p> As negotiations continue , another layer has been added with the probable influence of Donald Trump . He is scheduled to enter office on January 20 , 2025 , and has asked for hostage release before his inauguration threatens heavy consequences if the hostages are n't released . His interference , hence , is believed to play as a game-changer both in terms of leverage but also complicating the discussions . 
@@118804110 <h> Assad 's fall : The legacy of repression and foreign influence among Syrian rebels <h> Published on Dec 12 , 2024 <p> The fall of Assad 's regime opens the door to greater foreign influence over Syria 's future <p> Image Source : Getty <p> The fall of Assad 's regime , while ostensibly surprising for many , was quite predictable . Syria 's economy had been devastated by more than a decade of war , compounded by sanctions that crippled state infrastructure and left 90 percent of Syrians below the poverty line . Moreover , state subsidies on essentials such as food and fuel were slashed over the last few years , worsening the humanitarian crisis and fuelling renewed public dissent . <p> In addition , the regime 's military backbone had also been hollowed out by years of attrition . The Syrian army , depleted by the loss of over 100,000 soldiers since 2011 due to sustained combat losses , desertions , and defections , severe morale issues and resource shortages , exacerbated by constant Israeli strikes targeting its bases . This contrasted with the rebel groups that were effectively training , mobilising , and recruiting troops over the last few years before they launched their offensive . <p> The Syrian army , depleted by the loss of over 100,000 soldiers since 2011 due to sustained combat losses , desertions , and defections , severe morale issues and resource shortages , exacerbated by constant Israeli strikes targeting its bases . <p> Hezbollah , a key pillar of support for Assad during the civil war , had also been severely weakened . Even as it maintained its reputation as a capable resistance force , Hezbollah found itself overstretched , diverting resources to assist Hamas in Gaza and countering Israel 's aggressive actions . This decline underscored Iran 's diminishing ability to shield its regional allies as it contended with its own challenges amid escalating tensions with Israel and resource limitations . Meanwhile , Assad 's other primary ally , Russia , found itself embroiled in a prolonged conflict in Ukraine , which drained its military and financial resources . Yet , questions remain on the challenges of putting together a credible post-Assad government with the experience required to reconstruct and repair the war-torn nation . <h> A legacy of repression : The roots of today 's challenges <p> The violence of the Assad dynasty not only obliterated Syria 's political life for decades but also laid the groundwork for the challenges faced today . Hafez al-Assad 's legacy of systematic repression , epitomised by the 1982 Hama massacre in which 40,000 people were killed , organised dissent by groups like the Muslim Brotherhood -- the only existing political opposition to the regime was eradicated , and authoritarian control was established . His policies extended beyond violence , banning the Kurdish language and cultural expressions to enforce Ba'athist unity under the guise of Arab secular socialism . The Mukhabarat , Assad 's feared intelligence apparatus , added another layer of repression , conducting mass arrests , torture , and executions without oversight . Dissent was crushed before it could take root , as emergency laws allowed arbitrary detentions and a climate of fear to prevail . This suppression ensured a smooth transfer of power to his son Bashar in 2000 , but left Syria with no infrastructure for meaningful political opposition . <p> Today 's fractured and externally-backed Opposition is a direct consequence of nearly half a century of calculated repression by the Assad regime . By systematically dismantling all forms of political organising and expression , the regime left the Syrian people metaphorically orphaned when it comes to political movements and leadership . <p> Consequently , the Opposition that has emerged is dominated by two key groups : Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , an Islamist faction that evolved from the Al-Nusra Front , and the Syrian National Army ( SNA ) , formerly the Free Syrian Army , backed by T ? rkiye . HTS operated in northwest Syria , where it sought to consolidate its influence , while the SNA focused on combating Kurdish forces along the northern border . Despite tensions and divergent objectives , these groups have temporarily united against the regime . However , due to a lack of domestic infrastructure such as political know-how , finance and experience , any political opposition be it a political party or a rebel group is beholden to affiliating either with extremist groups or will remain vulnerable to being co-opted by international backers to survive . <h> International powers and their engagements in Syria <p> Against the backdrop , it is pertinent to examine several nations ' roles regarding how Syria may be governed in the future . <p> Firstly , T ? rkiye , being Syria 's immediate neighbour and the primary backer of the anti-Assad opposition since the start of the civil war , has announced its intention to play a role in ensuring Syria 's stability . Not only will the rebuilding of Syria give T ? rkiye new economic opportunities , but it will also allow Syrians displaced in T ? rkiye to return to their nation -- an important win for Erdogan since their presence has led to domestic tensions . Moreover , peace in Syria solves a major security problem for T ? rkiye , particularly its longstanding Kurdish issue . T ? rkiye 's motivation to address the Kurdish threat has been so strong that it even sought reconciliation with the Assad regime over the past few years , only to be rebuffed by Bashar and his government . In shaping Syria 's future , T ? rkiye may also align with Qatar , another key supporter of Arab uprisings , to back the new Syrian regime . Qatar 's history of supporting transitions away from authoritarian rule , coupled with its financial and regional influence , could bolster T ? rkiye 's efforts in stabilising Syria . <p> T ? rkiye 's motivation to address the Kurdish threat has been so strong that it even sought reconciliation with the Assad regime over the past few years , only to be rebuffed by Bashar and his government . <p> This dynamic could lead to a natural alignment between Russia and the rebels . Russia 's military bases in Syria could entice it to engage with the new Syrian government to safeguard its interests in the region while offering protection to the rebels from Israel . Iran , meanwhile , could continue arming groups resisting Israeli occupation as it did when Assad was in power . The rebels themselves , especially given their alignment with groups like Hamas , may find ideological common ground with these actors . Khaled Mishal , the leader of Hamas , was notably supportive of the Syrian revolution in its early days , further strengthening this potential connection . This would be dependent on them deciding to engage with Iran and Russia , their former enemies . Examples of the rebels forgiving compulsorily conscripted military personnel suggest that it may take a forgiving/realpolitik approach to its former enemies , including Russia and Iran , to ensure that it continues to have international military backing . <p> Russia 's military bases in Syria could entice it to engage with the new Syrian government to safeguard its interests in the region while offering protection to the rebels from Israel . <p> Thirdly , for the US and Israel , the fall of Assad presents both opportunities and risks . Israel , which celebrated the fall , may see this as an opening to target Hezbollah and Hamas supply lines , as well as to consolidate its hold over the occupied Golan Heights . However , the rebel factions now in power could pose a renewed challenge to Israel if they strengthen over the medium term . US allies , Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) are also closely watching developments . Both nations have used Syria as a cautionary tale against revolutionary change and are likely to take steps to ensure that the situation in Syria does not embolden opposition within their own borders . <p> The US ' interests in Syria itself are twofold ; first , it will want to prevent ISIS from resurging , as seen in its bombing of several ISIS bases after the fall of Assad . Second , it will want to ensure that the new government will not attack Israel , possibly preparing for retaliation if they do . On a third , additional possibility , if Russia and Iran were to re-establish their presence in Syria , then the US could potentially look at Syria as a continued challenge . <p> Clearly , historic processes beginning with Hafez al Assad in the 1970s have played a significant role in current-day rebel groups engaging in transnational alliances to survive . As the euphoria of the Syrian people winds down , they now face the dual challenges of rebuilding their nation amidst a fractured political infrastructure and ensuring that external powers do not have disproportionate influence over their future . <p> Mohammed Sinan Siyech is a Non -- Resident Associate Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation . <p> Celsabil Hadj-Cherif has an MA in Law and Politics from SOAS University of London 
@@118807288 <h> My thoughts on the world we live in <p> Newspaper reading is a reminder that man has learnt nothing from his past nor from his present situation . He seems to be repeating the same mistakes and as a consequence suffer . <p> Let me not go back to millennium past years . The World War I was devastating to mankind during the beginning of the 20th century -- 1914-1918 . At the end of the war , the map of the world was redrawn , new countries came into existence and mighty empires simply disappeared . Ottoman Empire mainly . And League of Nations formed to prevent another war . But wait till 1938 ... <p> Then the World War II ( 1939 -- 1945 ) . This was more destructive to mankind than the World War I and extended to South-East Asia , Japan , too . Again new nations were created and boundaries drawn . Countries were divided . The lesson learnt was that wars would not solve human problems . So was born the United Nations Organisation ( UNO ) with its Head Quarters in New York , America , to prevent future wars . A new Vatican of member countries was also born and it is called Security Council ( SC ) . A peaceful , war-free world in the future , one thought , was assured . <p> Soon this too began to lose credibility and became a private club of SC members working to safeguard their own individual country 's interest . Pride and prejudice pervaded the Security Council and India and Israel were the first two countries to suffer at the hands of this SC and the UN . No wonder today the UN and the SC have become irrelevant in solving the problems among nations : Look at the ongoing wars -- Ukraine and Gaza ; terrorist menace and collapse of Syria . <p> Therefore , each country should think on the lines of Donald Trump , who believes in making his country America Great and America First . Is India listening to Trump ? <p> If this is about man 's failure in external affairs , his failure in internal affairs is worse . For the good of man in a political society there are many laws , systems and institutions . Here let me touch upon only the Law Courts , Presiding Officers ( Judges , Magistrates ) and lawyers because last Tuesday the Supreme Court said that ' any complaint without specific allegation must be nipped in the bud and the law should not be allowed to be misused for arm-twisting tactics by a wife or her family . ' This was in reference to a dowry harassment case of one Atul Subhash that had led to a suicide . But this precept should apply to all Court cases . <p> The point I wish to comment upon here is about the observations made by the Supreme Court . One is ' any complaint without specific allegation must be nipped in the bud . ' The second observation is , ' The law should not be allowed to be misused , ' apparently to arm-twist or harass the defendant . <p> My personal experience with Law Courts since 1961 to this day has been rather toxic . I realised suffering injustice silently as my karma . If so , wisdom lies in avoiding going to the Court and suffer injustice with a Court stamp . But what do you do when the complainant files a case and drags you to the Court ? You must defend yourself . It is in this context the Supreme Court made its observations . It means that the Lower Courts should not take on record a case which is mischievous and untenable on the face of it . <p> However , to act according to the Supreme Court 's advice the Lower Court Judges and Magistrates should be of such learning and humanity that they should conduct themselves as human beings . As Leo Tolstoy said that is possible only if they feel others ' pain . The pain of the defendant facing a case filed only to harass him . <p> I am a victim of this kind of cases filed against me when I was the editor of Star of Mysore and Mysuru Mithra . Let me mention just one case . This is about a report published in Star of Mysore about Bonded Labour in Hunsur . <p> The Divisional Commissioner Jayakumar Anagol had got the bonded labourer freed and got a case filed . Next I get an arrest warrant from a Hunsur Court without a summons preceding it . The Police Officer was sympathetic and allowed me to go to Hunsur that same day . I engaged a lawyer M.B. Charmana , got a bail . Well , the case was not taken to its logical end . What happened ? My lawyer told me it was dismissed as the complainant did not pursue or for some reason . But the complainant had taught me a lesson ! <p> Now , justice is served in two ways -- acquittal or conviction . What happens if the defendant is acquitted ? To Atul Subhash , it may not be justice ! <p> And what was Atul 's last wish ? <p> " If my wife and harassers are not held guilty , pour my ashes in a gutter near the Court . " <p> Wah ! What a wonderful world is ours ! <p> It has been so all along and will be so in the future too . Which is why Marie Curie said : " You can not hope to build a better world without improving the individual . " Hence , our Supreme Court should put a system in place where all its subordinate Court Judges and Magistrates are enabled to " individually improve " themselves as Tolstoy 's " human beings . " <h> ABOUT <p> Mysuru 's favorite and largest circulated English evening daily has kept the citizens of Mysuru informed and entertained since 1978 . Over the past 45 years , Star of Mysore has been the newspaper that Mysureans reach for every evening to know about the happenings in Mysuru city . The newspaper has feature rich articles and dedicated pages targeted at readers across the demographic spectrum of Mysuru city . With a readership of over 2,50,000 Star of Mysore has been the best connection between it 's readers and their leaders ; between advertisers and customers ; between Mysuru and Mysureans. 
@@118810887 <h> Israel did not start the Gaza war , Hamas did : US NSA Sullivan <h> Story highlights <p> Sullivan emphasised that Hamas initiated the war and that the U.S. stands firmly behind Israel 's right to defend itself . <p> US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan held a press conference in Tel Aviv on Thursday , reaffirming U.S. support for Israel amid the ongoing conflict . Sullivan emphasised that Hamas initiated the Gaza war and that the US stands firmly behind Israel 's right to defend itself . <p> Sullivan reaffirmed that Israel did not seek nor start this war , with Hamas initiating the violence . " Israel has remained vigilant against Iran and its proxies , and Iran made a fateful choice to open a multi-front war with Israel , " he stated . <p> He highlighted the shift in the balance of power in the Middle East region , with Israeli forces successfully neutralising Hamas and Hezbollah leaders , besides the ouster of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad . " These leaders are gone , and we will make sure they do not pose a threat again , " Sullivan said . <p> Sullivan also announced that a lasting ceasefire is expected in Lebanon , and said Israel is now focused on closing the hostage deal to bring an end to the war . 
@@118810913 <h> West Asia crisis : Antony Blinken warns against triggering further conflicts in Syria <h> Story highlights <p> Blinken is currently on visits to Jordan and Turkey to discuss the ongoing situation in Syria . In Jordan , Blinken mentioned Israeli and Turkish military activity on Syrian soil in recent days . <p> United States ( US ) Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Thursday ( Dec 12 ) warned against triggering further conflicts in Syria , days after rebel factions ousted President Bashar al-Assad from the West Asian country . <p> Blinken is currently on visits to Jordan and Turkey to discuss the ongoing situation in Syria . In Jordan , Blinken mentioned Israeli and Turkish military activity on Syrian soil in recent days . <p> " When it comes to many actors who have real interests in Syria , it 's also really important at this time that we all try to make sure that we 're not sparking any additional conflicts , " he said . <p> Blinken added that Washington was working to bring home US citizen Travis Timmerman after Syria 's interim government said he had been " released . " <h> Blinken , Jordan 's king agree on need for a secure Syria <p> Earlier in the day , the US secretary of state met Jordan 's King Abdullah in the Red Sea town of Aqaba . Both called for a secure Syria , a report by the news agency AFP said . <p> During the meeting , Blinken promised US support for " the stability of Syria 's neighbours , including Jordan , during this period of transition " , State Department spokesperson Matthew Miller said . <p> Blinken called for " an inclusive transition that can lead to an accountable and representative Syrian government chosen by the Syrian people , " Miller said . <p> King Abdullah , meanwhile , " reaffirmed Jordan 's respect " for " the Syrian people 's choices , stressing the need to safeguard Syria 's security and the safety of its citizens " , a palace statement said . <h> This is Blinken 's 12 visit to West Asia since Gaza war began <p> This is Blinken 's 12th visit to West Asia since the Israel-Hamas war in the Gaza Strip began on October 7 last year . Later on Thursday , the US secretary of state arrived in Turkey . <p> His previous trips have ended in disappointment as he sought a ceasefire between US ally Israel and Hamas . Speaking on the Gaza war , Blinken said that there was an urgent need to reach a ceasefire in the Palestinian territory . <p> ( With inputs from agencies ) <p> Disclaimer : WION takes utmost care to accurately and responsibly report conflicts in West Asia involving Israel , Iran , Syria , Iraq and non-state actors like Islamic State , among others . In this context , claims and counterclaims are being made online and offline . WION can not independently verify the authenticity of all statements , social media posts , photos and videos . 
@@118810917 <h> Story highlights <p> Hamas has strictly said that it wont accept the ceasefire deal unless it has a promise to end the war and a complete withdrawal of IDF troops from the Gaza Strip . <p> After more than a year into the Israel-Hamas war , the Palestinian militant group has agreed to the Israeli demand to let the Israel Defence Force ( IDF ) remain in Gaza temporarily under a likely ceasefire deal , The Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday ( Dec 12 ) . <p> Hamas has been maintaing that it wo n't accept the ceasefire deal unless it has a promise to end the war and a complete withdrawal of IDF troops from the Gaza Strip . But the report said that not only Hamas has agreed to let IDF troops in the strip , but it has also given mediators a list of hostages it would release in the first phase of the ceasefire . <p> The list consists of US nationals , women , older hostages and those with medical conditions , the mediators told the news agency . It also has the names of five hostages who have been confirmed to be dead . <h> Updated deal <p> In the first week of December , Israel shared an updated proposal for a hostage deal with Hamas , according to an Axios report , citing two Israeli officials . <p> The updated proposal is similar to the phased plan under discussion in August , however , it is now focused primarily on getting the first phase done , as per the report . <p> In the updated proposal , Israel is now open to the option of a ceasefire that would last up to 60 days , whereas , earlier , the first stage was only 42 days . <p> According to the Axios report , all living female hostages , all living men over 50 , and people with serious medical conditions , would be released . <p> Israel has also reportedly asked for 33 living hostages from these groups , but , believes that there are not that many alive anymore . <p> Hamas has also shown a new openness to a partial deal , the Israeli officials said . <p> Meanwhile , Israel is still willing to release hundreds of Palestinian security prisoners , including some serving life sentences for deadly terror attacks . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , several other senior ministers and security chiefs approved the proposal on Sunday , the report stated . Following this , the proposal was passed to Egypt , which has been involved in the mediation efforts amid the ongoing war , and then presented to Hamas in Cairo on Monday and Tuesday . 
@@118822713 <p> Explained : Syrian Crisis and its implications for Iran and regional geopolitics <h> Explained : Syrian Crisis and its implications for Iran and regional geopolitics <h> The end of five decades of rule over Syria by the house of al-Assad represents a decisive turning point in Middle Eastern geopolitics . Perhaps the biggest impact will be on Iran , but no actor in the region will be untouched . <p> The collapse of the Bashar al-Assad regime in Syria is expected to have wide ramifications across the region , presenting in particular , a strategic challenge to Iran 's regional influence and undermining the long-standing effort by Tehran to maintain a " Shiite crescent " across the Middle East . <p> Assad was forced to flee to Russia as Damascus fell on December 8 at the end of a two-week lightning offensive by opposition forces led by the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , an armed group designated as a terrorist outfit by the United Nations , the United States , and Turkey . <h> The Iran-Syria partnership , and challenges for Tehran <p> Since the formation of the Islamic Republic in 1979 , Damascus has been Tehran 's principal strategic partner , with Syria serving as an essential corridor for Iranian influence to work throughout the Levant . The partnership facilitated Iranian access to Lebanon , and allowed Tehran to provide financial and military support to Hezbollah , the Shiite militia that the Iranian regime used to further its interests in the region . <p> Advertisement <p> The relationship , which began during the three-decade rule of Hafez al-Assad ( 1971-2000 ) , gained strength during the presidency of Hafez 's son Bashar al-Assad . The strategic alignment between the Ba'athist governments of the Assads and Iran was opposed by the predominantly Sunni Arab states in the region . Syria is part of the Arab world , but the al-Assad family is Alawite , a sect of Twelver Shiism . <p> Iran 's regional influence exerted through the " Axis of Resistance " , its strategic network of non-state militant actors , has experienced significant diminution since Israel began its military operations in the Gaza Strip in response to the October 7 , 2023 attacks . The " strategic depth " frequently emphasized by top Iranian officials including the Supreme Leader , has experienced considerable contraction . <p> Hamas , the perpetrator of the attacks on Israel and one of Tehran 's affiliated organisations , has been significantly downgraded as a military entity . In Lebanon along Israel 's northern frontier , Hezbollah , another component of the " axis " , has suffered a comparable setback , evidenced by the elimination of its supreme commander , Hassan Nasrallah on 27 September 2024 , alongside several key military personnel . And in the southern Arabian peninsula , the Houthi militias in Yemen , who receive support from Tehran , are facing mounting pressure not only from Israeli forces , but also from the military operations of the United States Central Command . However , various armed factions supported by Tehran continue to have substantial influence in Iraq , a country that has increasingly aligned itself with Iranian interests in recent years . <p> The politico-security transformation in Syria both illustrates and exacerbates the diminution of the sphere of Iranian influence . <p> Advertisement <p> Tehran had previously commenced a measured reduction of its military footprint within Syria , predicated on its strategic assessment that a degree of stability was returning to the country , where a bloody civil war broke out in early 2011 . However , the elimination by the US , in January 2020 , of General Qassem Soleimani , a pivotal figure in Iran 's Revolutionary Guard Corps , created an operational void that was sought to be filled by the deployment of Hezbollah commanders operating as Tehran 's proxies . But this tactical reconfiguration encountered significant impediments during the military engagements initiated by Israel , which resulted in the neutralization of a large number of senior Hezbollah leaders and strategists . <p> These successive operational setbacks substantially compromised Iran 's capacity to maintain its strategic position within Syria -- and the fall of the Assad regime has presented Tehran with a range of difficult challenges . To hardliners within the regime , the strategic importance of a nuclear deterrence has grown significantly . However , with the Middle East in imminent danger of exploding flames of war , such an escalation by Iran would carry very significant risks . <p> Geopolitical implications for the countries in the region <p> The collapse of the Assad regime and diminution of Iran 's influence in Syria carry profound implications for the region 's geopolitical landscape , power dynamics , and strategic alignments . <p> * Regional powers including Iran , Turkey , and the Gulf Cooperation Council ( GCC ) states will compete to fill the power vacuum in Syria , and to recalibrate their efforts to safeguard their core interests . <p> Advertisement <p> * Key Gulf actors , notably Saudi Arabia and the UAE , may seek to strengthen their diplomatic leverage through calculated engagement with the diverse Syrian political factions and reconstruction efforts , attempting to balance against Turkish and Iranian regional aspirations . <p> * Israel is expected to take more assertive positions against Iran-affiliated organizations in the region , including Lebanese resistance groups active in Syria , with the aim to prevent Tehran from reconstituting its sphere of influence in Israel 's north . <p> * The instability in Syria could also exacerbate sectarian tensions as Sunni Arab states seek to prevent Iran from regaining influence , while various militant groups , including the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria ( ISIS ) could try to rebuild their operational presence in the region . <p> * Turkey 's military footprint in northern Syria is likely to continue , primarily motivated by concerns over Kurdish autonomy movements and their broader regional implications . <p> Advertisement <p> * Iraq , which faces complex domestic and regional dynamics , may explore a strategic reassessment of its ties with Iran , even as it navigates the spillover effects of the volatility in Syria . <p> * The Western alliance , led by the US and European nations , can be expected to intensify their strategic involvement , at a later stage , if not imminently , through coordinated diplomatic channels and measured interventions . <p> Such engagement will serve the West 's dual objectives of preventing the reemergence of non-state militant organizations , while limiting Russian and Iranian strategic expansion in the Mediterranean region . <p> The upshot : watershed moment , no obvious way forward <p> The developments in Syria represent a decisive turning point in Middle Eastern geopolitics . The dramatic reduction of Tehran 's influence in Damascus signals a major reconfiguration of regional partnerships and an intensification of strategic competition . While regional powers might perceive opportunities to expand their influence , the risk of heightened volatility remains significant . <p> Advertisement <p> The success of multilateral diplomatic initiatives in reconciling divergent national interests will be crucial in determining whether the region progresses toward stability or faces further deterioration of its security architecture . Given the extraordinarily complex and fluid situation , forecasting outcomes remains precarious . <p> Dr. Alvite Ningthoujam is an Assistant Professor at the Symbiosis School of International Studies , Pune . His research interests include the geopolitics of the Middle Eastern region . 
@@118822808 <h> Israel said its target was an Islamic Jihad leader of attacks on Israeli civilians and troops and accused the militant group of exploiting civilian infrastructure and population as a human shield for its activities . <p> ReutersA child looks on following an Israeli strike at a post office in Gaza Strip 's Nuseirat where people were sheltering <p> CAIRO : An Israeli strike on a post office sheltering Gaza residents killed at least 30 Palestinians and wounded 50 , medics said , and the Israeli military said on Friday it had been targeting a senior Islamic Jihad member . <p> Families displaced by the 14-month-old conflict had sought refuge in the postal facility in the Nuseirat camp , and the strike late on Thursday brought the day 's death toll in the enclave to 66 , the medics said . <p> Israel said its target was an Islamic Jihad leader of attacks on Israeli civilians and troops and accused the militant group of exploiting civilian infrastructure and population as a human shield for its activities . <p> An Israeli military statement said it was reviewing reports on the number of casualties . It did not identify the Islamic Jihad member by name . <p> Nuseirat is one of the Gaza Strip 's eight historic camps originally for Palestinian refugees from the 1948 war around the establishment of Israel . Today , it is part of a dense urban area crowded with displaced people from throughout the enclave . <p> Earlier on Thursday , two Israeli strikes in southern Gaza killed 13 Palestinians who Gaza medics and Hamas said were part of a force protecting humanitarian aid trucks . Israel 's military said they were Hamas militants trying to hijack the shipment . <p> Many of those killed in the attacks on Rafah and Khan Younis had links to Hamas , according to sources close to the militant organisation . 
@@118822871 <h> The Biden administration 's new national strategy seeks to counter Islamophobia and anti-Arab hate through targeted actions focused on awareness , safety , and community solidarity . Released amid rising hate crimes , the initiative has been both praised as a step forward and criticised as insufficient . <p> NYT News ServiceFILE -- President Joe Biden speaks during a ceremony where he pardoned the National Thanksgiving Turkey on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington , Nov. 25 , 2024 . Regulators are working around the clock to cement four years of tech policy ahead of the inauguration of President-elect Donald J. Trump . ( Eric Lee/The New York Times ) <p> The Biden administration has announced a detailed national strategy to tackle Islamophobia and discrimination against Muslim and Arab Americans , outlining over 100 specific actions . This strategy , launched five weeks before President Biden 's departure from office , builds on a similar plan released earlier to combat antisemitism . The initiative reflects the administration 's response to escalating hate crimes and discrimination , particularly in the wake of the Israel-Gaza conflict . <p> The strategy 's release comes amid heightened concerns over anti-Muslim and anti-Arab hate . The October 2023 killing of Wadea Al-Fayoume , a six-year-old Palestinian-American boy in Illinois , was cited as a tragic example of the growing threats faced by these communities . In a foreword to the strategy , President Biden called the attack and others like it " heinous acts " and stated , " Muslims and Arabs deserve to live with dignity and enjoy every right to the fullest extent along with all of their fellow Americans . " <p> The White House highlighted that the plan 's importance has grown due to a noticeable rise in hate crimes , discrimination , and bullying directed toward these groups . Data indicates a significant uptick in incidents , particularly following the recent Israel-Gaza war , which has intensified tensions globally and domestically . <h> Key Objectives and Focus Areas <p> The strategy focuses on four main pillars : <p> Raising Awareness : Enhancing public understanding of anti-Muslim and anti-Arab hate and recognising the contributions of these communities to American society . <p> The plan includes enhanced data collection efforts and educational initiatives aimed at fostering awareness . It calls for sharing best practices for hate crime reporting and clarifies that discrimination against Muslim and Arab Americans in federally funded programs is illegal . Additionally , it urges state , local , and international partners , along with non-governmental organisations , to adopt similar measures . <p> While the strategy has been lauded by some as a necessary step , it has also faced criticism from advocacy groups . The Council on American-Islamic Relations ( CAIR ) commented , " The White House strategy lays out some positive recommendations related to anti-Muslim bigotry , but it has been released too late to make an impact . " CAIR also pointed to the strategy 's failure to address what it termed systemic issues , such as federal watchlists and broader U.S. policies that perpetuate discrimination . <p> Jim Zogby , founder of the Arab American Institute , welcomed the inclusion of anti-Arab hate in the strategy but expressed scepticism about its longevity , predicting that the incoming Trump administration might disown the plan . <p> The strategy mirrors a September 2023 plan to combat antisemitism , marking a continued focus on addressing hate in its various forms . However , its timing -- coinciding with the transition of power to President-elect Donald Trump -- raises questions about its future . Trump 's previous policies , including a travel ban targeting Muslim-majority countries , have been criticised for fostering Islamophobia . In recent statements , Trump pledged to ban entry to individuals questioning Israel 's right to exist and revoke visas of foreign students deemed " antisemitic . " <p> The strategy 's release comes during heightened activism on U.S. college campuses and elsewhere , where pro-Israel and pro-Palestinian groups have clashed following the October 7 Hamas attacks in Israel . Human rights advocates have warned of a troubling rise in antisemitism , Islamophobia , and anti-Arab hate . <p> With tensions escalating and political transitions underway , the effectiveness and sustainability of this strategy remain uncertain . Advocacy groups continue to call for broader systemic reforms to address the root causes of discrimination and hate . 
@@118822989 <p> New Delhi : India and the United Arab Emirates(UAE) on Friday discussed implementation of the ambitious India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor ( IMEEC ) and resolved to shore up ties in areas of energy including long-term supplies and collaboration in upstream and downstream projects . Ways to further deepen bilateral relations in areas of energy , connectivity and trade figured prominently at the 15th India-UAE Joint Commission Meeting ( JCM ) that was co-chaired by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his UAE counterpart Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan . <p> The meeting was held in New Delhi . <p> The two foreign ministers also deliberated on expanding strategic partnership between the two countries in areas of defence , emerging technologies , nuclear energy , polar research , critical minerals and renewable energy at a meeting of the India- UAE Strategic Dialogue held last night . <p> At the JCM , Jaishankar and Al Nahyan welcomed the signing and entry into force of the India-UAE bilateral investment treaty , according to the Ministry of External Affairs ( MEA ) . <p> It is understood that the two foreign ministers also delved into the situation in Gaza as well as developments in Syria . <p> Following the landmark visit of Prime Minister Modi to the UAE in August 2015 , bilateral relations between the two countries were elevated to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership . <p> The bilateral trade and investment ties witnessed a major upswing after the sides inked the CEPA in 2022 . <p> The two foreign ministers commended the strong bilateral cooperation in the fintech sector , and the development of public digital infrastructure , including Central Bank Digital Currencies ( CBDC ) , instant payments , and card schemes , the MEA said . <p> " Both sides also discussed the India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor ( IMEEC ) , a major initiative aimed at improving maritime connectivity and trade between India , the UAE , and Europe , " it said in a statement . <p> Billed as a pathbreaking initiative , the IMEEC envisages a vast road , railroad and shipping networks among India , Saudi Arabia , the United States and Europe with an aim to ensure integration among Asia , Middle East and West . <p> The IMEEC was firmed up on the sidelines of the G20 Summit in September last year in Delhi . An agreement was signed by India , Saudi Arabia , the European Union , the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) , the US and some other G20 partners for the corridor . <p> Jaishankar and Al Nahyan also welcomed the recent launch of the work on the Virtual Trade Corridor ( VTC ) between the two countries and the MAITRI interface ( Master Application for International Trade and Regulatory Interface ) . <p> The MEA said the two sides acknowledged that VTC and MAITRI will streamline trade processes through a data exchange system that facilitates paperless transactions between the two countries . <p> " The two ministers appreciated the robust cooperation in the energy sector between the two countries , including the desire to deepen ongoing collaboration in areas such as long-term supply agreements , collaboration in upstream and downstream projects , mutual investment in strategic reserves etc , " it said . <p> The two sides also appreciated the expansion of cooperation in new areas of partnership such as nuclear energy , critical minerals and green hydrogen . <p> The MEA said Jaishankar and Al Nahyan expressed satisfaction over the active and growing exchanges between the two countries in the defence and security sector . <p> The two sides also commended the functioning of the IIT-Delhi Abu Dhabi campus , which was inaugurated by Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Sheikh Khaled Bin Mohamed on September 2 . <p> The MEA said the ongoing work to establish the overseas campus of Indian Institute of Management , Ahmedabad and Indian Institute of Foreign Trade in Dubai was reviewed . <p> Nominations for ET MSME Awards are now open . The last day to apply is December 15 , 2024 . Click here to submit your entry for any one or more of the 22 categories and stand a chance to win a prestigious award . 
@@118823703 <h> world <h> On December 12 , an Israeli airstrike targeted the Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza , killing at least 20 Palestinians , including several children . The attack hit a postal facility where displaced families had sought shelter , damaging nearby homes . Nuseirat , one of Gaza 's eight historic refugee camps , was established for Palestinians displaced during the 1948 Arab-Israeli war and has since become a densely populated urban area . Earlier in the day , two Israeli airstrikes in southern Gaza killed 13 Palestinians , who Gaza medics and Hamas claimed were part of a group protecting humanitarian aid trucks . The Israeli military countered , stating that those killed were Hamas militants attempting to hijack the aid . The conflict , now in its 14th month , continues to cause widespread destruction and loss of life in Gaza . As of now , there has been no response from the Israeli military to requests for comment regarding the Nuseirat airstrike . <h> Watch and Follow our leading shows <p> Advisory Alert:It has come to our attention that certain individuals are representing themselves as affiliates of Moneycontrol and soliciting funds on the false promise of assured returns on their investments . We wish to reiterate that Moneycontrol does not solicit funds from investors and neither does it promise any assured returns . In case you are approached by anyone making such claims , please write to us at **25;673;TOOLONG or call on 02268882347 
@@118824215 <h> U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan emphasize continued efforts against Islamic State resurgence in Syria , while discussing the need for a Gaza ceasefire with Hamas . Their talks underscore the strategic partnership between the U.S. and Turkey in addressing regional threats and political stability . <p> In a significant diplomatic engagement , U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan reaffirmed their commitment to counter any Islamic State resurgence in Syria . Their discussions also highlighted the pressing need for a Palestinian militant group , Hamas , to agree to a ceasefire in Gaza . <p> As Blinken tours the Middle East , he is working to unify Arab and Turkish allies under shared principles for Syria 's political transition . Recognizing the potential threat of an Islamic State resurgence during this period , Blinken assured that the United States remains vigilant in preventing the group from regaining power . <p> Talks between Blinken and Fidan also focused on the ongoing tensions between U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces and Turkish-backed rebels in northern Syria . While accomplishing different objectives during the Syrian civil war , both nations agreed on the need for stability and the importance of the SDF 's continued efforts against Islamic State remnants . 
@@118824227 <h> UCLA Police Chief Departs Amid Campus Protests Controversy <h> The UCLA Police Chief , John Thomas , left the campus department amid criticism over handling a violent attack on pro-Palestinian activists in May . The incident sparked broader tensions across U.S. campuses concerning Israel 's war in Gaza . An interim police chief has been appointed as investigations continue . <p> Amid escalating tensions at U.S. campuses concerning Israel 's war in Gaza , the police chief of the University of California , Los Angeles , has stepped down following criticism over his department 's handling of a violent protest attack . John Thomas , who served as UCLA 's Police Chief , was criticized for the campus department 's response to a violent assault on pro-Palestinian activists encamped at the university in May . <p> The UCLA Police Department announced that Thomas ' last day was on December 10 , 2024 , without elaborating on the specifics of his departure . In his place , UCLA Police Captain Scott Scheffler will assume the role of interim police chief pending the appointment of a permanent replacement , the department revealed . Thomas had been temporarily reassigned shortly after the May incident while security processes were examined . <p> The protest at UCLA became a focal point of conflict when masked individuals , labeled as ' instigators ' by authorities , attacked the activists ' encampment . This resulted in critical discussions about campus safety , law enforcement 's response , and broader geopolitical tensions , especially in light of nearly 45,000 casualties reported in Gaza over the past 14 months . 
@@118824357 <h> Just In <h> A pathway to sustainable peace <h> What Israel and Palestine need are people that care about the things that they care -- about the status of Jerusalem that should be equally important ... <p> What Israel and Palestine need are people that care about the things that they care -- about the status of Jerusalem that should be equally important to Christians , Muslims and Jews worldwide as it is to locals . They need people who understand the grief of losing a homeland , to understand that the divisions have an equal claim on that land and have had for centuries . Peace is possible when emotional issues are resolved because when peo-ple feel that they are being heard and their values respected they have no incentive to harm <p> " Is peace in the West Bank and Gaza strip possible ? " One must define what peace really means . Is it absolute zero problems ? Hatred , disagreements and differences but no physical harm ? Civil and political tensions but no outright war ? We can not figure out a solution until we fully understand what it is we want to end . I define peace as hatred , disagreements and differences but no physical harm and that can only be achieved through conflict transformation . <p> For peace to exist in the West Bank and Gaza strip , we must not seek to create treaties and agree-ments but address the underlying historical injustices , inequalities and religious and territorial sen-timents that exist . I see agreements , especially , those based upon centuries of conflict as coverups and not solutions , maybe temporary solutions but not ones which will guarantee peace and harmo-ny for decades to come . The Israel Palestine conflict is rooted in historical and religious beliefs , feelings and differences . To solve such a complex problem by signing a treaty with a list of condi-tions is to simply put it , foolish . <p> In the book " From pacification to peacebuilding " by peace activist Diana Francis , the shift from traditional approaches focused on pacifying conflict through military means to peacebuilding strat-egies that address root causes and promote reconciliation is emphasized . <p> This applies perfectly to the question at hand . As brutal and chaotic this conflict is , the efforts to meet common ground and establish stability can not be denied . In 1947 , the UN proposed a parti-tion plan for Israel and Palestine to become two separate sovereign states , an idea that the world loves today and looks up to it as perfection . But when the plan was proposed many despised it just like they will in the future ; in fact , the plan is what started the conflict in the first place . The Jews were delighted at sight of finally returning to their homeland and being free of persecution , but Ar-abs who made up 90% of the population were furious that 55% of most fertile land was declared Israel . <p> The plan was rejected and fighting went on till May 4 of 1948 when Israel captured more territory and declared itself independent . The war had just begun . Horrifying death tolls from that day on-wards , counting the Suez Canal , Six-day war , Munich Olympics attack , Yon Kippur and first inti-fada . There was a glimmer of hope when the Oslo Accords were introduced . Oslo 1 and 2 were agreements between the PLO and Israel that seemed very practical and agreeable . Although back-lash , many conditions of the accords such as redeployment of Israeli forces from the Gaza strip , right of self-governance in Gaza strip and west bank , the division of area a , b and c in West Bank and the fight against terrorism in Palestine were objectives that seemed perfect at the time . Problem is these were agreed upon by two parties , even more literally two persons , who simply wanted less of their people to die and to please the international community . Many civilians on both sides op-posed it , which proves right after the assassination of Prime minister Yitzhak Rabin by a right-wing extremist . <p> Why did they oppose it ? It seemed like almost everyone got what they wanted . But they did n't . It was just a sophisticated version of the UN plan . Yes , less people would die and that is appealing but people knowingly or not they prioritize patriotism , pride and religion . <p> A solution that would possibly bring peace is like Johan Gaultang said , " Sustainable peace can not be achieved through mere ceasefire agreements ; it requires addressing the deep-seated grievances and fostering inclusive development . " What Israel and Palestine need are people that care about the things that they care -- about the status of Jerusalem that should be equally important to Christians , Muslims and Jews worldwide as it is to locals . They need people who understand the grief of los-ing a homeland , to understand that the divisions have an equal claim on that land and have had for centuries . Gaultang talks in his book called ' Sustainable Reconciliation In Divided Societies ' that peace is possible when emotional issues are resolved because when people feel that they are being heard and their values respected they have no incentive to harm . Anger only comes when once feels unimportant or ridiculed for their sentiments . <p> Yes , peace in the Gaza strip is possible when Gazans revolt against the greed of Hamas and realise that it is their land that Israel does not seek to claim , land that they must socially , economically and politically develop . And yes , peace in the West Bank is possible when Israel realises that their claim over Jerusalem is righteous , and it should focus on developing their hope of 2000 years to claim the holy land where Judaism was the first religion . It is possible when they prioritise collabo-rating on a land that is holy to 3 faiths over expanding settlements to showcase military might . 
@@118824647 <h> Tensions in the Middle East have been boiling over for nearly two years now . Since the war between Israel and Hamas began on October 7 , 2023 , the Biden administration has been in support of Israel 's self-defence and objective of eliminating the threat posed by Hamas . Speaking to CNBC-TV18 , Arwa Damon , founder and president of the International Network for Aid , Relief , and Assistance ( INARA ) , accused the Biden administration of either failing to grasp the on-ground realities in Gaza or , worse , deliberately allowing Israel to act with impunity . <p> Arwa Damon , founder and president of the International Network for Aid , Relief , and Assistance ( INARA ) , lambasted the Biden administration 's Middle East policy , calling it " abysmal , " particularly in light of its handling of the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict . <p> Speaking to CNBC-TV18 , Damon accused the US of either failing to grasp the on-ground realities in Gaza or , worse , deliberately allowing Israel to act with impunity . <p> " Frankly , they are doing as abysmally as they have been doing all along , " Damon stated . " There 's no way you spend even a day in Gaza and walk away thinking this is self-defence . The bombs being dropped and the continuous obstruction of humanitarian aid paint a different picture entirely . " <p> Damon emphasised that the people of Gaza are desperate for peace and an end to violence but remain caught in an escalating conflict that the US could influence but chooses not to . <p> Beyond Gaza , Damon 's criticism extended to decades of US involvement in the Middle East . She pointed out the region 's deep mistrust of American intentions , citing historical examples like the Iraq War and the US 's consistent support for Israel as cornerstones of a policy that has fostered scepticism . <p> " This is not a region that trusts the United States , nor does it want the US guiding its future , " Damon remarked , adding that attempts by past administrations , whether Democratic or Republican , have often resulted in disastrous outcomes . <p> Edited Excerpt : <p> Q : How do you think the Biden administration is doing in its final phase and the last-ditch attempt by the Biden administration to restore peace and normalcy in the Middle East ? <p> Damon : Frankly , they are doing as abysmally as they have been doing all along , especially when it comes to what has transpired in Gaza , because either the Biden administration is unwilling to see reality on the ground or , and this is perhaps even worse , willing to allow Israel quite literally to get away with murder . <p> There is no way that you spend any amount of time in Gaza . I was there for a month , and it was my fourth trip on a humanitarian mission with my charity . There 's no way you spend even a day in Gaza and walk away thinking that this is self-defence . And that 's in the size of the bombs that are being dropped , the locations that they 're being dropped on , but also in humanitarian organisations continuously and consistently being blocked by Israel from delivering aid . Hamas is not stealing the aid . <p> All Gazans want right now is for this to end . And yet the US , despite its ability to , in theory , put pressure on Israel , has been unwilling or unable to do so . <p> When it comes to the broader region , you have to realise that this is a region that is justifiably extraordinarily sceptical when it comes to US intentions . One needs to turn to the war in Iraq , even before that . This is not a region that trusts the United States , and this is not a region that necessarily wants the United States to be guiding a way forward . <p> When it specifically comes to what 's been happening in Syria , interestingly , when incoming President Donald Trump put out his tweet saying that his Syria strategy was going to be to stay out of it , I was actually with a number of very active Syrian opposition members , very active in the political circles . And their first reaction to that was , thank God , we do not want the US involved in our business . <p> Q : Do you feel that the Trump administration may be better at handling things as Trump has been signalling and messaging that he does not want to get involved in more wars in the Middle East ? Syria is not our business . Do you think that will put the US in a better position ? <p> Damon : Not necessarily . We need to remember that whether it 's a Republican administration or a Democratic administration , US policy towards the Middle East does not change . And the central cornerstone of US policy in the Middle East has been supporting Israel no matter what . So , in that sense , there is n't a lot of optimism that things will change . Plus , we have to remember what Donald Trump did in his first term in office , which set off thunderstorms across the region when he moved the US embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem . But at the same time , when it comes to countries like Syria , for example , there is perhaps a sense of relief that the US is not going to at least attempt to meddle in Syria 's internal affairs because all of its past attempts have effectively fallen flat on their face . And , again , it goes back to this reality where US intentions are not trusted , US actions are not trusted , and very few who actually observe the region and know it well believe that the US truly has a rich enough understanding of how the dynamics here work to be able to take the right kinds of decisions . I mean , if we look at Iraq , it 's a clear-cut example of what happens when America is in charge . <p> Q : What , according to you , led to the fall of the Assad regime in Syria ? And how can the situation in Syria further complicate matters in the Middle East ? <p> Damon : I have been covering Syria since 2011 , since the get-go , and the speed with which the rebels were able to take over , I mean , it shocked me , just like everybody else . And I think it 's a combination of things . First of all , many lessons have been learned over the last 13 years , militarily speaking , when it comes to these rebel forces , and there was an awareness that this can not just be a one-faction offensive . Yes , it was led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , but this was definitely coordinated . They had joint operation rooms , and as more rebel entities joined in the fight , they also continued absorbing them into this coordinated mechanism . <p> The other reality is that Iran significantly weakened , obviously highly focused , losing its foothold with Hamas , losing its foothold in Lebanon with Hezbollah , and numerous Israeli strikes against Iran . But the key in all of this , though , is not necessarily Iran , it 's Russia . What really stopped the rebels from taking over back in 2012 , 2013 , was how Russia dominated the skies , and Russia did not do that this time . Russia has been highly preoccupied with Ukraine , but there 's also a lot of speculation as to whether or not a deal was cut . I sense that once the rebels pushed through , quickly took over Aleppo , and began moving towards Hama and Homs , that is probably the moment when a deal would have been cut between Russia and rebel forces . <p> Remember , Russia 's key interest in Syria is not necessarily propping up the regime of Bashar al-Assad but rather , wanting to maintain its foothold in the Middle East . So that 's going to be something quite interesting to watch . We also need to remember that what we 're looking at right now is a much more politically savvy opposition , whether the opposition inside Syria or opposition members outside Syria who continuously have been working and planning for this day after . And so we have seen quite a bit of maturity in actions taken until now . Not to forget also that Syrians have been watching what happened in Iraq , they 've been watching what happened in Libya , and those lessons have been learned as well . 
@@118825133 <h> Israel and Turkey Work Closely With Al Qaeda <h> Bring the Al Qaeda genie out of the bottle <p> Iran and Russia are the two big losers in the ouster of Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad on Sunday by the Sunni Islamist groups affiliated to al-Qaeda . Assad fled in the nick of time after giving orders that there be a peaceful handover of power . At any rate , a rollback of the Islamist takeover in Syria is out of the question . <p> The Arab oligarchies of the Gulf region are full of trepidation over the surge of a variant of political Islam that may potentially pose an existential challenge . <p> Unsurprisingly , they have gravitated toward Iran , whom they see as a factor of regional stability , reciprocating Tehran 's call on regional States to circle their wagons to ward off the challenge of ' Takfiri ' groups ( codename for al-Qaeda and Islamic State in the Iranian narrative . ) <p> Israel and Turkey are the biggest winners , having established links with the al-Qaeda groups . Both are all well-set to project power into Syria and carve out their respective spheres of influence in Syrian territory . <p> Turkey has demanded that Syria belongs to the Syrian people alone -- a thinly covered call for vacation of foreign military presence ( Russian , American and Iranian ) . <p> Equally , the Biden administration can derive satisfaction that the Russian military presence will not henceforth remain unchecked and an untenable situation of dramatic loss of influence surrounds Moscow 's military bases in the western Syrian province of Latakia . <p> There is no question that the lame duck administration in Washington will draw vicarious pleasure that the incoming presidency of Donald Trump will have to grapple with prolonged instability and uncertainties in West Asia , an oil-rich region which generates petrodollars that is the underpinning of the Western banking system -- the American dollar , in particular -- that is crucial to the ' America First ' axis of the new administration 's foreign policies . <p> To be sure , lurking beneath the surface of the big picture , there are several sub-plots , some of whom at least are of contrarian disposition . <p> First of all , the renewed calls that are heard jointly from the Astana group ( Moscow , Tehran and Ankara ) and the regional capitals for intra-Syrian dialogue leading to a negotiated settlement have a ring of unreality stemming out of primeval fear over the manifestation of an extremist variant of political Islam that the region had never experienced before in their history . <p> Certainly , the current international climate virtually rules out any such prospects of ' dialogue ' in the foreseeable future . On the contrary , the entire region is likely to be convulsed by the tremors out of Syria . <p> The US must be pleased with the regime change in Damascus and will follow up with efforts seeking the closure of Russian bases in Syria . It has declared its intention to continue with the occupation of Syria , which is important if it is to remould the region to meet its geopolitical interests . <p> Second , Turkey has special interests in Syria in relation to the Kurdish problem . The weakening of the Syrian State , especially the incoming security apparatus in Damascus , provides Turkey for the first time a free run in the northern border provinces where Kurdish separatist groups are operating . The Turkish military and intelligence presence in Syria will expand by leaps and bounds . <p> Suffice to say , Turkish occupation of Syrian territory may assume a permanent character and even a quasi-annexation of the regions is within the realms of possibility . <p> Make no mistake , the Treaty Lausanne ( 1923 ) , which Turkey regards as a national humiliation , has just expired and the hour of reckoning has come for reclaiming Ottoman glory . The present Turkish leadership is committed to the geo-strategy of Neo-Ottomanism . <p> In all probability , therefore , what is at stake is the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Syria and the disintegration of the country as a State . It has been reported that Israeli tanks have crossed the border into southern Syria . No doubt , Israel aims at grabbing much more than Syrian territory beyond the Golan Heights . <p> The dream of Greater Israel has taken a giant step toward realisation . <p> Next follows Lebanon which Israel can not but aspire to control if it is to be the dominant regional power in the Levant and an influencer in the politics of the Eastern Mediterranean . <p> According to the Israeli media , Tel Aviv has direct contacts with the Islamist groups operating in southern Syria . It is no secret that these groups were being mentored by the Israeli army for over a decade . <p> Thus , at best , a truncated Syria , a rump State , is to be expected with large-scale outside interference continuing , and in a worst case scenario , Turkish revanchism and Israeli aggression taken together -- plus the American occupation of eastern Syria and a weak central authority in Damascus -- the country in its present shape , founded in 1946 , may altogether vanish from the map of West Asia . <p> In fact , the Gulf States and Egypt have reason to worry about an Arab Spring 2.0 -- oligarchies being overthrown and replaced by home-grown militant Islamist groups reflecting the will of the people . Their comfort level with Tehran has perceptibly deepened . But , of course , the US will counter this regional trend which would otherwise isolate Israel in the region . <p> Russia has a notoriously pragmatic mindset and a foreign ministry statement on Sunday strongly hinted that Moscow is finessing a plan B already to shore up its military presence in Syria in the near term at least . <p> Interestingly , the statement pointed out that Moscow is in touch with all Syrian Opposition groups . The statement scrupulously avoided using the word ' terrorist ' , which Russian officials had been freely using in its shrill rhetoric to characterise the Syrian groups who have taken over Damascus . <p> Moscow has reason to fear the resonance of Political Islam as a seductive ideology in its restive Muslim republics of North Caucasus . <p> The Russian embassy in Damascus is not in any danger . It is entirely conceivable that Russian intelligence which is traditionally very active in Syria -- for obvious reasons -- had already begun sensitising Moscow on a power transition in Damascus being in the cards and kept contacts with the Opposition Islamist groups , the strident public rhetoric notwithstanding . <p> In comparison , Iran suffers a serious setback from which it is difficult to recover any time soon , as the ascendancy of the extremist Sunni groups subscribing to the al-Qaeda ideology will lead to a new power calculus in Syria , which is viscerally hostile towards Tehran . <p> The evacuation of diplomats followed by the storming of the Iranian embassy in Damascus speaks for itself . Indeed , Israel will spare no effort to ensure that Iranian influence is exorcised from Syria . <p> The heart of the matter is that Iran 's regional influence significantly diminishes as the resistance groups ( which are largely Shi'ite ) become rudderless and disillusioned . <p> This not only works to the advantage of Israel but also triggers a profound shift in the balance of forces regionally , which will have resonance for the current conflicts in the Greater Middle East as a whole in a long term perspective -- Gaza , Lebanon and even as far away as Central Asia and South Asia . <p> The bottom line is that the genie of al-Qaeda is out of the bottle , finally , and there is no stopping its pan-Islamic agenda . <p> The amazing part is that Iran failed to anticipate the turn of events . Incredibly enough , on Friday , December 6 , Ali Larijani , the advisor to the Supreme Leader , actually visited Damascus and met with Assad to reiterate Tehran 's full backing to stop the tidal wave of Islamist forces that was already nearing the city gates . <p> Ambassador M K Bhadrakumar retired from the Indian Foreign Service . The views expressed here are the writer 's own . 
@@118825439 <h> Turkey , US discuss Syria 's stability , Gaza ceasefire <p> Ankara , December 13 ( IANS ) Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken held a meeting on Friday on combating terrorism and achieving stability in Syria , calling for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . <p> " Our priorities include ensuring stability in Syria and preventing the dominance of terrorist organisations such as IS ( Islamic State ) and the PKK ( Kurdistan Workers ' Party ) , " Fidan said at a joint press conference with Blinken in the capital , Ankara . <p> Fidan stressed the alignment between the two nations in addressing key challenges in the region and said their talks focused on exploring solutions to Syria 's ongoing crisis and broader regional issues , reports Xinhua news agency . <p> " We agreed that a ceasefire in Gaza should be reached as soon as possible , " Fidan said . <p> Blinken , for his part , acknowledged Turkey 's role in influencing Hamas to reach a hostage ceasefire agreement , adding that there 's broad agreement on expectations for the interim government in Syria -- one that is inclusive , protects minority rights , rejects extremism , and poses no threats to its neighbours . <p> The two officials also reiterated their commitment to ongoing counter-IS efforts . <p> Blinken arrived in the Turkish capital on Thursday following a visit to Jordan . Upon his arrival , Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan held a meeting with him on the situation in Syria . <p> The visit comes as Syria navigates a critical juncture , with a newly formed transitional government assuming power after al-Assad 's departure to Russia for asylum . <p> Turkey has long expressed concerns over the role of Kurdish groups in Syria . Ankara views the US-backed Syrian Kurdish People 's Protection Units as an extension of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers ' Party , which it has battled for decades . <p> Blinken 's regional tour will also include a stop in Jordan , where he is expected to meet officials in Aqaba to build consensus on Syria 's future and address other pressing issues across the Middle East , the US State Department said on Wednesday . <h> Weekly Poll Question <h> Connect with us <h> Intro footer <p> The Morung Express <p> The Morung Express is a people-oriented alternative newspaper based in Nagaland that was conceived from the Naga people 's historical realities and is guided by their voices and experiences . It emerged from the well-recognized concept that the core of a free press is based on " qualitative and investigative " journalism . Ensuring this is essential for contributing to an informed Naga public that makes sound decisions on issues that affect all spheres of life . 
@@118825451 <h> 27 Palestinians killed in Israeli attacks in Gaza <p> Gaza , December 13 ( IANS ) At least 27 Palestinians were killed and dozens of others injured in Israeli attacks at residential houses in the refugee camp of al-Nuseirat in central Gaza Strip , Palestinian sources said . <p> Rescue operations are still ongoing amid a lack of equipment and heavy overflight by Israeli warplanes , Basal said , adding that the death toll could rise as many of the injured are seriously wounded , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> There was no immediate comment from the Israeli military on the attacks . <p> Earlier on Wednesday at least 10 Palestinians were killed in an Israeli drone attack on a gathering in central Gaza City , said the Palestinian civil defence in the Gaza Strip . <p> Civil defence spokesperson Mahmoud Basal said in a press statement that the victims include children and women , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> The Israeli army has not commented on this incident yet . <p> The Israel Defense Forces said in a statement on Sunday that its troops recently completed a targeted operation to dismantle underground militant infrastructure in the Jabalia area in the northern Gaza Strip . <p> Israel has been conducting a large-scale offensive against Hamas in the Gaza Strip to retaliate against a Hamas rampage through the southern Israeli border on October 7 , 2023 , during which about 1,200 people were killed and about 250 taken hostage . <p> The Palestinian death toll from ongoing Israeli attacks in the Gaza Strip has risen to 44,835 , Gaza-based health authorities said in a statement on Thursday . <h> Weekly Poll Question <h> Connect with us <h> Intro footer <p> The Morung Express <p> The Morung Express is a people-oriented alternative newspaper based in Nagaland that was conceived from the Naga people 's historical realities and is guided by their voices and experiences . It emerged from the well-recognized concept that the core of a free press is based on " qualitative and investigative " journalism . Ensuring this is essential for contributing to an informed Naga public that makes sound decisions on issues that affect all spheres of life . 
@@118839716 <h> Share : <p> Israeli airstrikes targeted a residential block in the al-Nuseirat camp in central Gaza on December 12 , 2024 . <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - At least 33 people were killed , and more than 84 others were injured or are still missing under the rubble following " barbaric " Israeli airstrikes on a residential block in the al-Nuseirat camp in central Gaza last night . <p> Gaza 's Government Media Office condemned the Thursday attack as a " barbaric and heinous massacre , " adding that most of the victims were members of the al-Sheikh Ali family . <p> Most of the victims are women , children , and elders , the office added . <p> A father , Fadi al-Bayoumi , and his little kid , Ali , are among the victims of the horrific Israeli massacre in Nuseirat refugee camp last night . **26;1556;TOOLONG <p> Local sources said Israeli fire struck a postal office in al-Nuseirat sheltering displaced Palestinian families , as well as nearby houses . <p> New footage from the site of the horrific massacre carried out last night by Israeli occupation forces in the Nuseirat camp , resulting in 33 innocent civilians killed and many others injured . Many are also trapped under the debris . **26;1584;TOOLONG <p> by Asa Winstanley and Ali Abunimah Israeli tanks were reportedly on the outskirts of Damascus early on Tuesday , as Israel launched airstrikes across the country that are being called " the heaviest in the history of Syria . " ... <p> Following yet another United States veto of a United Nations Security Council resolution calling for a cessation of hostilities in Gaza , members of the U.N . General Assembly voted overwhelmingly Wednesday in favor of ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118839717 <h> Northern Gaza 's Only Orthopaedic Surgeon Killed by Israeli Drone <h> Share : <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - A Palestinian doctor was shot and killed by an Israeli drone while traveling in an ambulance between Kamal Adwan and al-Awda hospitals in northern Gaza , which has been under relentless Israeli assault and military siege for 70 days . <p> Gaza 's Ministry of Health confirmed Dr Saeed Joda , the only orthopaedic specialist in northern Gaza , was shot in the head by an Israeli quadcopter . According to the sources , Joda habitually traveled between the two hospitals due to staff shortages in order to treat patients . <p> Joda 's 24-year-old son Majd was killed a week ago while trying to rescue his cousins from under the rubble of a house targeted by an Israeli strike in Jabalia refugee camp . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The Israeli military has repeatedly targeted doctors and healthcare workers across Gaza with 1,057 health workers killed since the start of Israel 's genocidal war in Gaza , according to the ministry . <p> Northern Gaza has been under relentless Israeli assault and complete military siege since October 4 , 2024 , with no humanitarian aid -- medical supplies , water , or life-sustaining resources -- available to people there because of the ongoing deliberate prevention by the Israeli military . <p> by Asa Winstanley and Ali Abunimah Israeli tanks were reportedly on the outskirts of Damascus early on Tuesday , as Israel launched airstrikes across the country that are being called " the heaviest in the history of Syria . " ... <p> Following yet another United States veto of a United Nations Security Council resolution calling for a cessation of hostilities in Gaza , members of the U.N . General Assembly voted overwhelmingly Wednesday in favor of ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118839721 <h> Share : <p> On Friday 6 December 2024 in an utterly deplorable act the Adass Israel Synagogue in the significantly Jewish suburb of Ripponlea in southeastern Melbourne was rapidly set ablaze by 3 unknown criminals using accelerant . The Zionists , the pro-Zionist Mainstream media , and the fervently pro-Zionist , pro-Apartheid Israel and pro-Apartheid Coalition Opposition and Labor Government all immediately blamed terrorism and demanded human rights constraints and strong action under draconian anti-terrorism laws . <p> Fortunately the building survived albeit damaged , and nobody was killed or injured . The nature of the criminal assailants is not yet known . Indeed they could quite conceivably be fanatical Zionists hoping to garner support for International Law-violating , serial war criminal and grossly human rights-violating Apartheid Israel that is presently involved in invasion , devastation , occupation and killing in 3 countries , namely Palestine ( 340,000 killed by year 's end ) , Lebanon ( 8,000 killed ) and Syria ( goodness how many killed in the ongoing , and massive Apartheid Israeli and US bombing . Key aspects of the response to the synagogue arson are sketched below . <p> ( A ) . Weaponizing and politicizing of the synagogue arson by genocidally racist and mendacious Zionists . <p> Benjamin Netanyahu ( PM of Apartheid Israel , a genocidal racist , pathological liar , presently subject to arrest warrants from the International Criminal Court ICC ) and charged with corruption in Apartheid Israel ) made the following egregiously false statement on X : " The burning of the Adass Israel synagogue in Melbourne is an abhorrent act of antisemitism . I expect the state authorities to use their full weight to prevent such antisemitic acts in the future . Unfortunately , it is impossible to separate this reprehensible act from the extreme anti-Israeli position of the Labor government in Australia , including the scandalous decision to support the UN resolution calling on Israel " to bring an end to its unlawful presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , as rapidly as possible " , and preventing a former Israeli minister from entering the country . Anti-Israel sentiment is antisemitism " 1 . <p> Netanyahu 's lies are readily exposed : ( i ) in the absence of an identified perpetrator of the arson , it was not necessarily antisemitism ; ( ii ) the Labor Government is a fervent supporter of Apartheid Israel , is complicit in the Gaza Genocide in 20 ways 2 , and lies for Australia-violating Apartheid Israel in 35 ways 3 -- it is hardly " anti-Israel " ; ( iii ) the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) has ordered Apartheid Israel to cease the illegal Occupation 4 , 5 ; ( iv ) former Israeli Minister Ayelet Shaked was excluded from Australia because she said Palestinian children were " little snakes " and advocated the flattening of Gaza 6 , 7 ; and ( v ) there is a large body of anti-racist Jews critical of Apartheid Israel -- they can hardly be anti-Semitic , and indeed the assertion that they are is false , defamatory and antisemitic 8 , 9 . <p> Peter Dutton ( fervently pro-Zionist Australian Coalition Leader of the Opposition ) adopted the position of the Zionists and Netanyahu : " An act of terrorism , plain and simple ... Albanese 's response to antisemitism deplorable ... act a tragedy and national disgrace ... synagogue fire should never have happened , and nobody should be surprised by the fact that it has happened , which is part of the tragedy ... This is an act of terrorism , pure and simple , and I think the Prime Minister 's deliberate decision to seek political advantage over the course of last 12 months on this issue and play to a domestic audience of Green voters , I think , has been deplorable and one of the worst things I 've ever seen in public life " 10 . Peter Dutton ( commenting on the newly-released 2023-2024 Antisemitism Report of the Executive Council of Australian Jewry ( ECAJ ) 11 ) : " Antisemitism is not just a threat to the Jewish community -- it is a stain on the values we hold as a nation ... Under the Albanese government 's watch , antisemitism has spiralled out of control . Their failure to act decisively has allowed hatred to fester and spread , leaving the Jewish community exposed to this wave of hostility ... This is not just a Jewish issue -- it is a national crisis , and it demands urgent action . Enough is enough " 12 . <p> Chris Minns ( pro-Zionist New South Wales ( NSW ) Labor Premier ) in responding to the Melbourne synagogue arson and pro-Palestinian protests outside Sydney 's Great Synagogue , said he would tighten laws to prohibit disrupting activities near places of worship . Peter Dutton praised this move as evidence that Labor state premiers were attempting to " distance themselves " from the Federal Labor Government 12 . <p> Anthony Albanese ( Australia 's fear-mongerng Labor Prime Minister ) has rightly decried antisemitism but concluded that the Melbourne synagogue arson was " terrorism " : " Terrorism is something that is aimed at creating fear in the community and the atrocities that occurred in the synagogue in Melbourne clearly were designed to create fear in the community and therefore from my personal perspective certainly fulfil that definition of terrorism . The protocols are that the state jurisdictions , who have the lead on this through Victoria Police , will make an assessment and a recommendation " 12 . The Victoria Police and the Australian Federal Police ( AFP ) indeed finally concluded that the arson was terrorism , noting that this has big implications for the severity of police actions and of judicial punishments . <p> ( B ) . Australia 's pro-Zionist , pro-Apartheid Israel and hence pro-Apartheid and pro-genocide governments are exploiting anti-Israel graffiti and several instances of deplorable but injury-free arson to move rapidly to curb human rights in the interests of traitorous Zionists and an Australia-violating , genocidal , child-killing , Zionazi Apartheid Israel . <p> ( i ) . Australian moves to prohibit protests in the vicinity of places of worship will curb peaceful anti-genocide protests . <p> The Federal Labor Government backs moves by the NSW and Victorian State Labor Governments to prohibit protests in the vicinity of places of worship , ostensibly in the name of " religious freedom " 13 , 14 . This sounds " reasonable " in the " present circumstances " as hysterically reported by racist and mendacious Australian Mainstream journalist , editor , politician , academic and commentariat pressttitutes but will severely constrain those protesting the ongoing Gaza Massacre and Gaza Genocide . <p> To put the present car and building arson atrocities ( no deaths or significant injuries ) in context , based on published mortality data from the top medical journal The Lancet and from Professor Devi Sridhar ( global health , University of Edinburgh ) it is estimated that violent and non-violent deaths in Gaza in the first year of the Gaza Massacre total 194,499 ( children ) , 24,588 ( women ) and 53,861 ( men ) for a total of 273,000 Gaza deaths 15 . Despite the great eminence and humanity of Professor Devi Sridhar her estimates have been overwhelmingly ignored by silent and hence genocide-complicit , racist and mendacious Australian Mainstream journalist , editor , politician , academic and commentariat pressttitutes . Silence is complicity and the Labor , Government , the Coalition Opposition and Mainstream presstitutes have utterly trashed Australia 's reputation ( such as it was 16 , 17 ) by making it complicit in the Gaza Genocide ( 335,500 killed by genocidal Jewish Israeli Zionazis by year 's end 15 ) and the century-long Palestinian Genocide ( 2.5 million Palestinians killed by violence , 0.1 million , and imposed deprivation , 2.4 million ) that is of similar magnitude to the WW2 Jewish Holocaust ( 5-6 million Jews killed through violence and imposed deprivation by the German Nazis ) 18 . <p> For 14 months of the Gaza Massacre , of 227 Federal MPs ( Labor , Coalition , One Nation , Teals and some other Independents ) all but 19 have refused to back an immediate and permanent Ceasefire in Gaza . The 19 Federal MPs voting for an immediate and permanent Ceasefire included 15 Greens , ex-Green Senator Lidia Thorpe , ex-Labor Senator Fatima Payman , Dr Helen Haines and Andrew Wilkie 19 , 20 . However worried about losing the votes of anti-racist Jews , Palestinians , Arabs and Muslims , Labor recently changed its contemptible position on the illegal Occupation by Zionazi Apartheid Israel as reported by The Guardian : " Australia has split with the US and voted with 156 other countries at the UN to demand the end of Israel 's " unlawful presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as rapidly as possible " . The vote marks Australia 's return to the position for the first time in more than two decades ... A total of 157 UN member countries , including Australia , the UK and Canada , voted to support the resolution . Eight , including Argentina , Israel and the US , voted against it . Seven others abstained ... In another major shift on Australia 's voting record on the issue in the UN , Australia abstained on a resolution relating to resources given to an office for Palestinian rights within the UN . Australia has voted against the resolution since 2003 " 21 . The fervently pro-Zionist Coalition and traitorous Zionists condemned Labor 's new opposition to the Occupation as " anti-Israel " and hence in their perverted minds as " antisemitic " . Further , Australia has just voted for a UNGA Resolutions demanding an immediate and permanent Ceasefire in Gaza ( something it has opposed for 14 months ) and life-saving UNRWA entry into Gaza 22 <p> The bipartisan moves to prohibit protests in the vicinity of places of worship will curb anti-genocide protests that upset the racist Zionists . Thus anti-genocide activists notably Free Palestine Melbourne ( FPM ) and the Australia Palestine Advocacy Network ( APAN ) and others have organized huge and peaceful weekly Sunday Rallies for Gaza ( 12 noon , Victorian State Library , Melbourne CBD , every Sunday since the Palestinian Breakout from the Gaza Concentration Camp on 7 October 2023 ) . The rallies ( 5,000-40,000 people ) have been peaceful , have often had anti-racist Jewish speakers , warmly applaud Jewish attendees , and strongly and repeatedly condemn hatred and violence ( this being most strongly articulated by Nasser Mashni , president of the Australia Palestine Advocacy Network ( APAN ) ) . <p> On a personal note , notwithstanding 5 hospital admissions , I have attended most of the Sunday Rallies as a decent human being ( DHB ) , founding member of FPM , and as an anti-racist Jewish Australian with a sole allegiance of Australia and a family history punctuated by imposed genocide and ethnic cleansing : the 18th -- 19th century Scottish Clearances ; the 18th -- 19th century Prussian persecution and expulsion of Polish Jews ; the WW2 Jewish Holocaust in Hungary ( 28.2% of the pre-war Hungarian Jewish population killed 18 ) ; the UK-imposed and Australia-complicit WW2 Bengali Holocaust ( that impacted my dear late wife 's Bengali and Bihari people and killed 6-7 million people 19-21 ) , and the substantial ethnic cleansing of my wife 's Indian people via the US- , Australia- and Apartheid Israel-complicit Fiji coups in 1987 and 2000 23-30 . <p> APAN : " The Australia Palestine Advocacy Network ( APAN ) condemns the recent harmful rhetoric from Australia 's antisemitism envoy Jillian Segal , Liberal Senator Dave Sharma , and former Treasurer Josh Frydenberg . Their inflammatory comments over recent days smear peaceful Palestine solidarity protests as hateful , distorting the truth and vilifying those calling for an end to Israeli apartheid and genocide . They deflect attention from Israel 's crimes , including genocide -- confirmed last week in a meticulously researched Amnesty International report -- while stoking division and emboldening hate . These leaders ' prioritisation of defending the genocidal apartheid state of Israel over tending to the delicate social fabric of the Australian community and modelling inclusion , justice , equality and care only deepens the fractures in our society . Palestine solidarity protests across Australia have been overwhelmingly peaceful and inclusive , grounded in justice and human rights . Segal and Frydenberg betray their roles as leaders by misrepresenting these protests and undermining the fight against racism " 31 . <p> However the Sunday Gaza Rallies in Melbourne are held opposite a Christian church and the Rally march routes all pass major Christian churches . This move by the pro-Zionist Victorian Labor Government may conceivably terminate this weekly bearing witness to genocide . The key moral messages of the WW2 Jewish Holocaust and indeed of all genocide and holocaust atrocities are " zero tolerance for racism " , " zero tolerance for lying " , " bear witness " and " never again to anyone " . <p> Thus the ABC ( the Australian equivalent of the UK BBC ) reports : " As Syrians expressed obvious relief at the end of 54 years of one of the most brutal dictatorships of modern times , their neighbour Israel reacted in a very different way : a campaign of saturation bombing , launching an estimated 480 strikes in 48 hours . At the same time , Israeli soldiers moved into Syria to seize a significant swathe of land , extending what had been a buffer zone between the two countries . The scale of Israel 's bombing raises the question of how , longer-term , Israel sees its place in its neighbourhood . It led to many in the Arab world condemning Israel , including Saudi Arabia , Iraq and Qatar . The Qatari Foreign Ministry described Israel 's sending of soldiers to take land inside Syria as " a dangerous development and a blatant attack on Syria 's sovereignty and unity as well as a flagrant violation of international law " 32 . Apartheid Israel and the US have been bombing Syria for over a decade with the Syrians unable to defend themselves for fear of massive reprisals . The current invasion and saturation bombing of Syria by US-backed Apartheid Israel was defended by the Zionazis on the basis that " terrorists " might attack Israel -- Orwellian lying and massive war criminality . However peaceful city protests against these latest atrocities are likely to be banned in Zionist-subverted Australia . <p> In response to the Melbourne synagogue arson , corrupt crook and ICC-sought genocidal war criminal Benjamin Netanyahu declared that " anti-Israel sentiment is antisemitism " and ( despite no knowledge of the perpetrator ) that the attack was " antisemitic " . The Zionist-subverted and Zionist-perverted Labor , Coalition , Teal , One Nation and other Independent Federal Australian MPs have blindly adopted war criminal Netanyahu 's false assertions . In addition to excluding Occupied Palestinians from all the human rights set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights ( UDHR ) 33-36 and subjecting Israeli Palestinians to 65 racist , Nazi-style , discriminatory laws 37 , 38 , the Zionazis and their Zionist and pro-Zionist Australian supporters want to violate the human rights of Australians . <p> Months before the synagogue arson famous former SBS News presenter , Mary Kostakidis , was subject of a complaint to the Human Rights Commission for saying certain things . However her defence was that she was only acting as a responsible journalist in quoting what particular people had said 39 . Prominent Australian journalist Paul Barry used his ABC " Media Watch " TV program to expose mal-reportage of the ongoing Gaza atrocity -- 2 weeks later he was sacked . Australia already has a nasty litigious environment in which free speech is heavily constrained . In my informed and humane perspective Zionism is genocidal racism and Nazism without gas chambers but with massive repeated ethnic cleansing , a world -leading high technology military and weapons technology industry , and 90 nuclear weapons . There is a long list of 52 Zionist- and Apartheid Israeli-Nazi Germany comparisons 40 . Just 1 example : it is estimated that many of the 1,139 Israelis killed in the Palestinian Breakout from the Gaza Concentration Camp on 7 October 2023 were killed by the huge high explosive tank shelling and missile firepower of the responding IDF under its " Hannibal Directive " ( prevent hostage taking even if it means killing Israeli hostages ) 41 , 42 . However , ignoring this , the Occupied/Occupier Reprisals Death Ratio after 1 year of killing was 273,000/1,139 = 240 or 24 times greater than the Reprisals Death Ratio of 10 ordered by Nazi leader Adolph Hitler and effected in the 1944 Ardeatine Massacre in Rome 43 . Neo-Nazi is as neo-Nazi does . Nazi is as Nazi does . It is notable that the Reprisals Death Ratio in Gaza from 2008 to 6 October 2023 was 7,077 Palestinian deaths/340 Israeli deaths = 21 44 only 2 times greater than the 10 advocated by Hitler and pointing to horrific genocidal Zionazi intent in the present Gaza Massacre . <p> According to Benita Kolovos of The Guardian : " The Victorian anti-vilification bill creates two new criminal offences . The first will be to " incite hatred , serious contempt , revulsion or severe ridicule against another person or group based on their protected attribute " , with a penalty of up to three years ' imprisonment . The second will be to " threaten physical harm or property damage against a person or a group based on their protected attribute " , which carries up to five years ' imprisonment . These offences will apply in any context -- private , public or online . The existing serious vilification offence requires proof that a person has incited hatred and threatened physical harm or property damage . According to the government , proving both elements made prosecutions difficult . The bill also removes the requirement for police to seek consent from the director of public prosecutions to pursue offences , except when the accused is under 18 " 45 . Will reporting Australian- and Zionist-backed genocidal atrocities such as the ongoing Gaza Genocide " incite hatred , serious contempt , revulsion or severe ridicule against another person or group based on their protected attribute " ? Such reportage is the moral obligation of all decent people . Indeed as a Jewish Holocaust-impacted , anti-racist , anti-Zionist , Jewish Australian scientist , scholar and writer I am inescapably obliged to follow the key moral messages of the WW2 Jewish Holocaust ( and indeed of all holocaust and genocide atrocities ) to whit , " zero tolerance for racism " , " zero tolerance for lying " , " bear witness " and " never again to anyone " . <p> ( iii ) . Zionist-perverted Australian governments officially denoting deplorable but injury-free arson and graffiti actions targetting Jewish Australians as " terrorism " and " hate speech " means draconian fines and imprisonment for graffiti and free speech as well as for criminal arson . <p> In recent years there has been a spate of over 105 dreadful arson attacks on Melbourne tobacco shops that has been dubbed the Tobacco Wars . Similar arson attacksoccurred elsewhere in Australia , including in Western Australia , South Australia and Queensland . Draconian penalties were applied to people selling illicit tobacco or vapes . These attacks no doubt caused fear , destroyed businesses and threatened lives and property , but they were not declared " terrorist acts " 46 , 47 . However after the fire-bombing of a Palestinian-owned Burgertory chain restaurant in the significantly Jewish Melbourne suburb of Caulfield the Victoria Police have continued to deny that it was religiously or politically motivated . However the Burgertory eatery chain is owned by Palestinian Hash Tayeh who thinks otherwise and is a strong critic of the crimes of Apartheid Israel . The accused arsonist said it was linked to Palestine and he was paid $20,000 for the job . When a spontaneous pro-Palestine protest was held in a Caulfield park it was attacked by Zionist thugs , and police arrived in response to fears of Jewish worshippers in a nearby synagogue ( the protest organizers were unaware of this and politely apologized ) 46-50 . <p> In contrast several instances of car burnings and anti-Israel graffiti in the wealthy and significantly Jewish eastern Sydney suburb of Woollahra were regarded as " antisemitic " , " hate crimes " and " terror " incidents , with the NSW premier promising a massive police response 51 . The Australian Federal Police ( AFP ) established an antisemitism taskforce after the Melbourne synagogue attack and similar state measures have been taken in Victoria and NSW 52 . However when the school bus of an Islamic school was set on fire in Adelaide , South Australia , there was negligible national media coverage and the SA police said that they had no evidence that it was racially or politically motivated 53 , 54 . Ex-Labor Independent Senator Fatima Payman : " Islamic school bus torched yet there is no outrage . Two acts of arson , two acts of hate , but two very different responses " 55 . Bernard Keane ( Crikey ) has commented on this double standard applied to Muslim Australians : " Dutton 's kowtow to Netanyahu splits Australians into two classes : ordinary people and Muslims " 56 . <p> As evidenced in ( iii ) above , Zionist -- subverted and Zionist-perverted Australian governments , Labor , Coalition , Teal and One Nation politicians , and Mainstream media apply a double standard to anti-Arab anti-Semitism ( Islamophobia ) and anti- Jewish anti-Semitism . Indeed the very term " anti-Arab anti-Semitism " is absent from public discussion and reportage which takes " antisemitism " to exclusively mean " anti- Jewish anti-Semitism " . Yet while Arabs are Semitic , the Ashkenazi Jews ( Central and Eastern European Jews ) that rule Apartheid Israel , all of Palestine and slabs of Lebanon and Syria and have subverted the US and the West , are not ethnically Semitic , deriving from non-Semitic Turkic Khazar converts to Judaism in the 9th century CE 57-64 . A personal note : I come from a very famous Jewish Hungarian family ( ask any mathematician or surgeon ) and have had my DNA analysed -- I am 57% Ashkenazi Jewish , 24% British Celtic and with zero Middle Eastern Semitic , this being in accord with several centuries of recorded family history and living proof of the sheer falsehood of genocidal Zionism . <p> Outstanding anti-racist Jewish American scholar Professor Bertell Ollman : " Politically , this anti-Zionism means avoiding any association with this " rogue state " whatsoever ( as we did with South Africa earlier ) , boycotting it economically and otherwise ( keeping it out of the Olympics , for example ) , bringing pressure on our politicians to stop all U.S. aid ( private as well as public ) to Israel , supporting various sanctions ( including trade sanctions ) against it , calling for the strongest possible resolutions at the U.N . and in all other available forums denouncing Zionist human rights abuses , and , of course , confronting head-on the Zionist lobby that would oppose all this . Similar steps should be taken in Europe and elsewhere , but , given America 's power in the world in general and in Israel in particular , it is in our country that the fate of the Palestinian people -- and ultimately that of Judaism and what 's left of the Jewish people -- will be decided ... An all out struggle against Zionism by Jews , therefore , is also the most effective way to fight against real anti-Semitism . Furthermore , if Zionism is indeed a particularly virulent form of nationalism and , increasingly , of racism and if Israel is acting toward its captive minority in ways that resemble more and more how the Nazis treated their Jews , then we must also say so . For obvious reasons , the Zionists are very sensitive about being compared to the Nazis ( not so sensitive that it has restrained them in their actions but enough to bellow " unfair " and to charge " anti-Semitism " when it happens ) . Yet , the facts on the ground , when not obscured by one or another Zionist rationalization , show that the Zionists are the worst anti-Semites in the world today , oppressing a Semitic people as no nation has done since the Nazis " 57 . <p> Similarly , Moshe Menuhin ( scholarly father of famed musician and anti-Zionist Jew Yehudi Menuhin ) : " Jews should be Jews -- not Nazis " 57 . Likewise , famed Jewish Canadian writer Naomi Klein : " There is a debate among Jews -- I 'm a Jew by the way . The debate boils down to the question : " Never again to everyone , or never again to us ? ... Some Jews even think we get one **27;1345;TOOLONG card ... There is another strain in the Jewish tradition that says , " Never again to anyone " " 57 . <p> The Australian Labor Government fervently and despicably supports Apartheid Israel and its past and present genocidal crimes by adopting ( together with the Coalition , several Australian state governments and several Australian universities ) the racist and fraudulent International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance ( IHRA ) Definition of anti-Semitism.The IHRA Definition of anti-Semitism is anti-Jewish anti-Semitic ( by falsely defaming anti-racist Jewish humanitarians opposed to genocidally racist Zionism as anti-Semitic ) , anti-Arab anti-Semitic ( by falsely defaming anti-racist Palestinians , Arabs and Muslims opposed to Israeli Apartheid and the ongoing Palestinian Genocide as anti-Semitic ) and near-comprehensively holocaust denying by ignoring all WW2 holocausts other than the WW2 Jewish Holocaust ( 5-6 million Jews killed by Nazi Germany and its allies through violence and deprivation ) namely ( people killed by violence and deprivation in brackets ) the WW2 European Holocaust ( 30 million Slavs , Jews and Roma killed ) , the WW2 Chinese Holocaust ( 35-40 million Chinese killed under the Japanese , 1937-1945 ) , the WW2 Bengali Holocaust ( WW2 Indian Holocaust , WW2 Bengal Famine ; 6-7 million Indians deliberately starved to death for strategic reasons by the British with food-denying Australian complicity ) , and the Polish Holocaust ( 6 million Poles killed by Nazi Germany ) . Indeed the IHRA Definition ignores about 70 other genocide and holocaust atrocities including 30 involving Australia ) , this making the IHRA the most egregious holocaust-ignoring organization in the world . Not surprisingly the IHRA has been condemned by scholars around the world and by over 40 anti-racist Jewish organizations 2 , 3 , 65-75 . <p> The Zionist-subverted , Zionist-perverted , anti-Arab anti-Semitic and Gaza Genocide-complicit Australian Labor Government is facing a Federal election in about May 2025 and is worried about losing the election ( over major cost of living , housing , poverty , and inflation concerns ) , about losing support from Jews , Palestinians Arabs , Muslims and from both racist and anti-racists Jews , and about seats to the decent , humane and pro-Palestinian human rights Australian Greens . It has repugnantly ignored the Gaza Massacre as a major issue and instead has hysterically claimed massive anti-Jewish anti-Semitism and danger to " social cohesion " in multicultural Australia . It appointed an Antisemitism Envoy who is a member of the fanatically Zionist Executive Council of Australian Jewry , an organization that has falsely and damagingly defamed me ( an anti-racist Jewish Australian ) for a dozen years ( for details see 57 ) and after a long delay appointed an Islamophobia Envoy ( who like the Australian Labor Government is fervently pro-Israel 76 , an Apartheid rogue state that is presently occupying and devastating 3 mainly Muslim countries , namely Palestine , Lebanon and Syria ) . Words are cheap , and faced with community anger over the Gaza Genocide , the Australian Labor Government has recently voted with most of the world at the UNGA for an immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire in Gaza after 14 months of refusing to do so , and for life-saving UNRWA protected entry into Gaza21 , 22 . <p> The fervently pro-Zionsit and pro-Israel Coalition has gone so far as to deny the existence of Islamophobia in Australia . Thus NSW Coalition Senator Dave Sharma , responding to Melbourne synagogue arson , stated : " Any time any senior minister mentioned antisemitism in the last 12 months , they also mentioned a fictitious Islamophobia which was not going on " , a claim that was rejected by Muslims 77 . Thus the Islamophobia Register reported a 6-fold increase in Islamophobic attacks since 7 October 2023 77 . Islamophobia has been entrenched in Australia since 2001 78 . Likewise Peter Dutton ( Coalition Leader of the Opposition ) offensively stated : " I think the Labor prime minister stands condemned ... it 's for votes . He sold the Jewish community out for ' green ' votes . They have been prepared to sacrifice the wellbeing of the Jewish community here in Australia to do so " 79 . <p> The Australia Palestine Advocacy Network ( APAN ) has commented forcefully : " The Australia Palestine Advocacy Network ( APAN ) condemns the recent harmful rhetoric from Australia 's antisemitism envoy Jillian Segal , Liberal Senator Dave Sharma , and former Treasurer Josh Frydenberg . Their inflammatory comments over recent days smear peaceful Palestine solidarity protests as hateful , distorting the truth and vilifying those calling for an end to Israeli apartheid and genocide . They deflect attention from Israel 's crimes , including genocide -- confirmed last week in a meticulously researched Amnesty International report -- while stoking division and emboldening hate . These leaders ' prioritisation of defending the genocidal apartheid state of Israel over tending to the delicate social fabric of the Australian community and modelling inclusion , justice , equality and care only deepens the fractures in our society . Palestine solidarity protests across Australia have been overwhelmingly peaceful and inclusive , grounded in justice and human rights . Segal and Frydenberg betray their roles as leaders by misrepresenting these protests and undermining the fight against racism . Meanwhile , the Australian government 's silence on rampant Islamophobia and anti-Palestinian racism is deafening , especially in response to Sharma 's denial of Islamophobia as " fictitious . " This erases the lived experiences of Muslims and Palestinians facing daily hostility , oppression and violence , including death threats , fire bombings , bomb scares . A weekend arson attack on an Islamic school bus in Adelaide is just one example of hate that has been met with disturbing media and political indifference . Where is the call for justice ? Where is the government 's protection for Muslim communities ? It is clear that the antisemitism envoy role is being used to divide communities , rather than confront the true scourge of racism . APAN calls for the scrapping of this role and its equivalent , and a shift towards genuine , holistic and evidence-based action against all forms of racism " 80 <p> The Antisemitism Envoy Jillian Segal stated : " The internationally accepted definition of anti-Semitism makes it clear that criticism of Israel in a form that you would normally criticise another country , like its policies , is fine . But criticism of Israel , which damns it as a country that should be abolished , that should no longer exist , that all the Jews should disappear -- that is anti-Semitic " 55 . However that is an incorrect and inflammatory " straw man " argument . Anti-racism , anti-Apartheid , and anti-genocide , Jewish and non-Jewish anti-Zionists do not want " that all the Jews should disappear " because that is genocide -- in fact in the words of APAN they are " calling for an end to Israeli apartheid and genocide " 80 . <p> I have published a huge book entitled " Free Palestine . End Apartheid Israel , Human Rights Denial , Gaza Massacre , Child Killing , Occupation and Palestinian Genocide " that advocates a unitary state in Palestine for Jews and Arabs involving all human rights for all , secular democracy , peace , justice , economic justice , compensation , return of all refugees , reconciliation , zero tolerance for racism , total security guaranteed internationally with initial retention of present armed forces , and all citizens free to go anywhere in Palestine . It could happen today with acceptance of all human rights for all 81 , 82 . Should this book be banned because some Zionists Jews might feel intimidated ? <p> According to SBS News : " Australia 's antisemitism envoy has called for pro-Palestinian protests to be banned from city centres , saying they have become " intimidatory " to the Jewish community " 81 . The envoy stated : " The cities should not be utilised for that . SBS News . There should be places designated away from where the Jewish community might venture , where people can demonstrate . That is not to in any way attack the right of people to express their views , but at some point , holding protest every single week becomes intimidatory in the city " 83 . As a pro-peace , anti-racist Jewish Australian scientist , scholar and humanitarian I have attended most of the Sunday Gaza Rallies that have been held every Sunday since the 7 October 2023 Palestinian Breakout from the Gaza Concentration Camp ( 12 noon , Victorian State Library , every Sunday ) and carry a highly visible , 20-sided placard that reads WORLD:END PALESTINIAN GENOCIDE , ZIONISM and on the other side BOYCOTT APARTHEID ISRAEL , LABOR , LIBS ( for a photo see 84 ) . I and other anti-racist Jews felt perfectly safe among 5,000-40,000 mostly Palestinian , Arab and Muslim protesters . The Rallies were impeccably peaceful , the speakers often included anti-Zionist Jews , anti-Zionist Jewish attendees felt perfectly safe in identifying themselves as Jews and were routinely warmly applauded by the speakers and the Rally attendees . Indeed violence , hate and antisemitism were routinely and specifically condemned . <p> ( v ) . Horrific disproportionality of Zionist concerns and in Zionist-subverted government actions . <p> There is extraordinary disproportionality in Zionist and Labor-Coalition Duopoly concerns over zero killed or injured in nevertheless deplorable Israel-linked arson and graffiti attacks ( denoted as " terrorism " by Zionists and Zionist-subverted Australian governments ) versus the ongoing Gaza Genocide involving 273,000 Gazan killed in year 1 of the Australia-complicit and Jewish Israeli-imposed Gaza Massacre including 194,499 children , 24,588 women and 53,861 men ( overwhelmingly ignored by Australian and Western Mainstream media ) 15 , 85-104 . For the latest assessment of Gaza deaths after 1 year of the Gaza Massacre see 95 . <p> While those responsible for the synagogue arson , and the torching of cars and anti-Israel graffiti in Sydney will be sought and punished under draconian terrorism laws , those responsible for torching the bus of an Islamic school in Adelaide and the arson of a Palestinian restaurant in Melbourne will not . The Coalition Opposition will not act on ICC arrest warrants for war criminals Benjamin Netanyahu and Yoav Gallant ( responsible for the killing in the last 14 months of about 340,000 Palestinians , 8000 Lebanese and an unknown number of Syrians ) and indeed is thinking of quitting the ICC . The Labor Government makes noises about International Law but has n't yet said what it will do 105 . <p> There is silence from the anti-Arab anti-Semitic Labor Government- Coalition Duopoly over the Apartheid Israeli invasion of Syria and the massive bombing of Syria that renders the now only lightly armed new Syrian authorities utterly incapable of defending themselves from the genocidally racist Zionazi invaders . For the Zionist-subverted , Zionist-perverted and US lackey Liberal-Labor Duopoly reality is what the traitorous Zionists and Zionist-subverted Americans say it is . Thus it has ignored a 2010 report to MPs and the AFP listing 50 ways racist Zionists violate Australia 106. 4 and possibly all of 5 detailed Submissions about massive corruption and war criminality sent to the National Anti-Corruption Commission ( NACC ) have been rejected ( the possibly 1 surviving Submission concerns the cowardly and traitorous Australian Labor Government lying for Australia-violating Apartheid Israel 107 . Will the Australian Establishment reactions to the deplorable Melbourne arson do to human rights in Australia what exploitation of the Reichstag fire did to human rights in Germany ? Zionazi-subverted Australia needs de-Nazification . <p> I sent the following Letters to major Australian Mainstream media ( so they ca n't say they did n't know ) : <p> 12 December 2024 . Labor , Coalition and Teal politicians have been subverted by Zionists to accept war criminal Netanyahu 's false assertions that " anti-Israel sentiment is antisemitism " and that saturation bombing of Gaza , Lebanon and now of recently liberated Syria is warranted because of " terrorism " . However this Orwellian perversion threatens human rights of Australians : ( i ) moves to prohibit protests in the vicinity of places of worship will curb peaceful anti-genocide protests like the weekly Sunday Gaza Rallies in Melbourne ; ( ii ) promised tougher laws against asserted " hate speech " and " antisemitism " threaten the free speech of pro-human rights and anti-genocide Australians ; ( iii ) officially denoting deplorable but injury-free actions as " terrorism " means draconian fines and imprisonment for graffiti and free speech as well as for criminal arson and conspiracy ; ( iv ) Zionist perverted Australian governments ignore deadly US , US Alliance , Australian and Apartheid Israeli anti-Arab anti-Semitism ( against Arabs and Muslims ) and false and damaging anti- Jewish anti-Semitism ( against anti-racist Jews falsely defamed as assertedly " antisemitic " ) ; and ( v ) horrific perceptional disproportionality e.g. zero killed or injured in Israel-linked arson and graffiti denoted as " terrorism " versus 273,000 Gazan killed in year 1 of the Australia-complicit and Jewish Israeli-imposed Gaza Massacre , this including 194,000 children , 25,000 women and 54,000 men . <p> 13 December 2024 . Australia 's Antisemitism Envoy advocates a ban on pro-Palestinian protests in Australian cities : " The cities should not be utilised for that . There should be places designated away from where the Jewish community might venture , where people can demonstrate . That is not to in any way attack the right of people to express their views , but at some point , holding protests every single week becomes intimidatory in the city " ( SBS ) . I strongly disagree with this proposed censorship . <p> As a pro-peace , anti-racist Jewish Australian scientist , scholar and humanitarian I have attended most of the Melbourne Sunday Gaza Rallies that have been held every Sunday since the 7 October 2023 Palestinian Breakout from the Gaza Concentration Camp ( 12 noon , Victorian State Library ) and carry a highly visible , 2-sided placard that reads WORLD:END PALESTINIAN GENOCIDE , ZIONISM and BOYCOTT APARTHEID ISRAEL , LABOR , LIBS ( see The Age 8/12 ) . I and other anti-Zionist Jews feel absolutely safe among 5,000-40,000 mostly indignant Palestinian , Arab and Muslim protesters . The Rallies are peaceful , speakers often include anti-Zionist Jews , Jewish attendees feel perfectly safe and are routinely warmly applauded by the speakers and the Rally attendees . Violence , hate and antisemitism are extremely strongly condemned by the organizers . <p> The following Submission re the Melbourne synagogue arson atrocity has been made in the public interest to the Victorian Police , the Australian Federal Police ( AFP ) , the National Anti-Corruption Commission ( NACC ) , Federal and Victorian State MPs and to others ( notably media ) . <p> SUBMISSION . Dear etc , <p> I have personally addressed a Letter re the Melbourne synagogue arson atrocity ( below ) to the editors of major Australian Mainstream media under the Subject heading " Zionists benefit enormously from the synagogue arson " ( cc Federal and Victorian State MPs , NACC , AFP , Victoria Police ) . <p> Mainstream media reports have revealed that Apartheid Israel has been involved in the following crimes against Australians : threatening , bullying , defaming , deceiving , censoring , subverting , perverting , kidnapping in international waters , illegal detention , robbing , tasering , shooting , large-scale bombing , large-scale larceny , large-scale forging of Australian passports , torturing , killing and perversion and subversion of Australian individuals , Australian institutions and Australian governments . Apartheid Israel grossly violates the human rights of both Palestinian Australians and their captive relatives in Palestine , robbing them of human rights , property , and indeed a homeland . A detailed report listing 50 ways racist Zionists violate Australia has been sent to MPs and the Australian Federal Police in 2010 ( Gideon Polya , " Racist Zionism and Israeli State Terrorism threats to Australia and Humanity " , Palestinian Genocide , 2010 : https : **39;1374;TOOLONG ... ) . <p> To put the present arson atrocity ( no deaths or significant injuries ) in context , based on published mortality data from the top medical journal The Lancet and from Professor Devi Sridhar ( global health , University of Edinburgh ) it is estimated that violent and non-violent deaths in Gaza total 194,499 ( children ) , 24,588 ( women ) and 53,861 ( men ) for a total of 273,000 Gaza deaths in the first year of the Australian Labor Government-complicit Gaza Genocide ( Gideon Polya , " Estimated 273,000 Gazans Killed In the First Year Of Oxford Union-Perceived Gaza Genocide By Apartheid Israel " , Countercurrents , 6 December 2024 : https : **39;1415;TOOLONG ... ) . Silence is complicity . <p> LETTER . Like all decent Australians the anti-racist , anti-Apartheid , anti-Zionist and pro-Palestinian human rights Jewish Council of Australia , Australian Palestinian Advocacy Network , Australian Greens and Australian Socialists have unequivocally condemned the deplorable arson attack on a Melbourne synagogue . However while the core ethos of Humanity is Kindness and Truth , ICC-sought war criminal and liar Netanyahu has falsely accused the Labor Government of being " extreme anti-Israel " , stating that " anti-Israel sentiment is antisemitism " . The Zionist-perverted Coalition Opposition and racist Zionists ( a ) likewise attribute the arson to Labor 's UNGA vote for an end to the Occupation , " terrorism " , " hate speech " , and pro-human rights protesters supposedly damaging " social cohesion " , and ( b ) together with Zionist-subverted Labor , propose further severe constraints on Australian freedom of speech in the interests of an Australia-violating , Australian-killing and International Law-violating Apartheid Israel . Ex-CIA Philip Agee in " Inside the Company . CIA Diary " describes how his CIA colleagues bombed Ecuador churches to excite anti-Communism while his unexciting job was to bribe Ecuador government , opposition and trade union " assets " ( this immediately indicating Australian CIA " assets " like the CIA-praised " two Bobs " ) . CIA-backed Gladio did likewise in Europe . Cui bono ? Traitorous Zionists benefit enormously from the synagogue arson ( cc MPs , NACC , AFP , Victoria Police ) . END LETTER . <h> Related Posts <p> by Asa Winstanley and Ali Abunimah Israeli tanks were reportedly on the outskirts of Damascus early on Tuesday , as Israel launched airstrikes across the country that are being called " the heaviest in the history of Syria . " ... <p> Following yet another United States veto of a United Nations Security Council resolution calling for a cessation of hostilities in Gaza , members of the U.N . General Assembly voted overwhelmingly Wednesday in favor of ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118839722 <h> Educating For Adaptive Change Beneath A Darkening Sky <h> Share : <p> Prefatory Note : This is a revised text of my presentation at the 4th Istanbul Education Summit made on December 7 , 2024 , held under the auspices of the Maarif Foundation in Turkey that is responsible for a network of schools and universities present in 134 countries . About 11k were registered online for the conference . I found it difficult to address in what was listed in the program as the ' keynote ' to such an unseen , large , disparate audience . The conference theme was ' Education for a Fair and Equitable Society : For a Sustainable Future . ' <p> As a result , my remarks were overly rooted in my experience in Western , especially US , higher education and exhibited broader interests in lending support to efforts to ground foreign policy on respect for international law , itself flawed , and the imperatives of peace , equity , justice , and non-theocratic spirituality . Despite my faltering efforts , educational reform should be near the top of the policy agenda of those seeking a brighter future for humanity , which can only come into being by trusting the imagination to overcome the disasters attributable to reason-based instrumental knowledge that lacks compassion for suffering , including of non-human species . <p> EDUCATING FOR ADAPTIVE CHANGE BENEATH DARKENING SKIES <p> I thank the Maarif Foundation for inviting me to speak at the 4th Istanbul Education Summit and for orienting our sense of vocation as educators toward a future that will test the capacities of every national society to address the distinctive blend of social , economic , cultural and ecological threats that currently cast dark shadows over the human future . I will do my best to adopt a hopeful standpoint , although my rational self believes the conference theme is probably articulating a mission impossible . Such rationality accepts guidance from the evidence of world conditions combined limits on the autonomy of many educators , faculty and administrators , and even students to heed their ' better angels . ' <p> My more inspirational guidance is borrowed from Nelson Mandela , whose life embodied ' the politics of impossibility ' emerging from prison after 27 years to lead South Africa to a peaceful post-apartheid future . In Nelson Mandela 's judgment : " Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world . " This uplifting affirmation of the importance of education by Mandela leaves open the haunting question of how this may be done in the highly diverse academic institutions responsible for education throughout the world . It also leaves open the question of ' change for what ? ' While acknowledging obstacles , my answer to such questions is the same as those who set the 2024 Summit theme in relation to societal equity and developmental sustainability . <p> In facing the darkness of the time , highlighted by the inability of the international system of norms present in the UN Charter and the refusal of leading political actors to take steps to stop Israel 's genocide in Gaza , and even worse these UN members facilitated the continuation of the Genocide carried on with undiminished fury by Israel these past 14 months . It would be easy to succumb to despair given such a horrifying reality . We must struggle against all temptations and pressures to surrender to these evil forces . My hopeful sensibility continues to believe that if we can find the techniques and deploy the wisdom to manage prudently and empathetically this time of global transition a bright future could surprise us . We need to act as if the mobilized humanistic energies of civil society and the peoples of the world retain an ability to bestow on coming generations a world far more peaceful , just , and resilient than what currently exists . This is a challenge of global scope . It presupposes robust responses to mounting threats to the sustainability of the natural habitat . This condition of ecological jeopardy is new . It a worrisome set of circumstances that have never in world history menaced the whole of humanity . A scenario of hope calls for new thinking , new values , and adaptive visions of how to live together in ecologically durable and ethically fulfilling ways . It place trust in the moral imagination of the populace , and doubts the competence or good will of self-interested economic and political elites that run the world we all live in . <p> For us today , however situated we are on the planet , this current crisis agenda raises crucial questions about the nature of desired effects on the educational experience of youth . The practical concern is whether it is feasible to adapt teaching/learning approaches in various concrete circumstances that give priority to overcoming the injustices and environmental crimes that now obscure horizons of hope . <p> For education to play this emancipatory role , existing framework of learning , researching , and envisioning is itself in need of radical repair . The objective is to make the range of educational experiences more responsive to the values of an equitable society and the adjustments that need to be made to ensure the pervasive inclusion of sustainability dimensions in all pedagogical settings . <p> The deepest educational responsibility and opportunity is to prepare students of ages to live in a world facing drastic change and profound challenges to traditional ways of knowing , believing , and acting . This goes against the current of mainstream proposals for educational reform , which devote their attention to techniques helpful for the efficient manipulation of material reality for the sake of profits , growth , and contentment . Such an emphasis suggests that the highest educational priority should clearly be to teach skills and understandings appropriate to the digital age , and making digital literacy the test of whether educational institutions can pass the test of imparting digital literacy . While practically responsive to changes brought about by technological innovations , this emphasis evades the more fundamental challenges that might help society withstand the gathering storm . <p> In my opinion , what is most needed are types of learning that equip students when they finish their education to be positive contributors to a better future by way of their social engagements relating to the future . This means no longer being content to be passive spectators in a world they have been led to believe is beyond their capacity or disposition to alter . For education to be relevant functionally and normatively , there is a need for receptivity to innovative pedagogies that might be developed and applied so that citizens of the future could more become committed to a lifetime of support for adaptive change . <p> The Global Context . All forms of traditional education that I am familiar with , starting with high school , concentrates its energies on the mastery of distinct subject matters . I mean by these separated silos of knowledge such as math , various sciences , economics , history , and literature . Such an education seeks to prepare students through in depth teaching of various strands of knowledge and skill sets useful for later employment or for a more appreciative humanistic sense of culture , generally emphasizing national or civilizational perspectives . Most teaching takes the natural setting of human activity for granted , there to be exploited for the benefit of various national societies and aggressive commercial entrepreneurs . Such an approach served the modern world quite well until recently . It encouraged a sense of reality and knowledge as fragmented and specialized , the educational goal being gaining command of a knowledge silo , that is , with a distinct part with little relevance accorded to the whole . This orientation tended to be insensitive to the stark reality that societies could no longer safely assume the sustainability of their natural habitat that has allowed individual and collective life to flourish for several centuries without taking notice of externalities such as remote environmental harms . Fragmentation of knowledge also mirrored the global reality as divided into parts , predominantly sovereign states with little sense of responsibility for the stability of other states , and even less for the sustainability of the whole . <p> Our cultural learning experiences beyond the domains of technical knowledge , by and large nurtures love of country , its history , culture , language along with the distinct ethnicities that give national identities to the sovereign states that we live in . I think these ways of breaking up reality , whether political , societal , or educational are practical accommodations to our experience of living , doing , and being , reflecting the enclosures that shape and condition our lives , especially since the rise of science-oriented approaches to useful knowledge . These enclosures are part of who we are , and should not be rejected , but rather enlarged , merged , and adapted . This expresses the growing need to supplement traditional ideas about the role of higher education as imparting knowledge mostly as specialized and fragmented units . This would adapt the world we are accustomed to inhabit to this broader , growing awareness of wholeness , interactivity and interdependence , as well as otherness . To a much greater extent than in earlier periods of history , what is done in one place impacts elsewhere . <p> This sense of a global context for human activity underlies recommended partial reorientations of education for the future of the sort envisioned by the Summit theme . It is what I believe will produce more fulfilled lives for present and future generations of students . Hopefully it will also give rise to a social and ethical consciousness in greater harmony with emergent realities and challenges . However much this adaptive approach to education seems persuasive it will if pursued face formidable obstacles , including from special interests that benefit from the existing order and from entrenched beliefs resistant to change . Economic elites often resist equitable and ecological adaptations , whether due to their perceived short-run negative effects on profitability or economic growth as when energy giants oppose environmental protections or regulations of carbon emissions . This opposition is reinforced by the tendency of dominant political classes to oppose changes that displace national security by appeals to human security that is widely regarded as subversive of military spending and societal safety in relation to foreign threats . Nationalist and fundamentalists , whether secular or religious , tend to be protective of beliefs that privilege the part over the whole within as well as without their enclosures . And thus , if we take this Summit theme seriously as generating normative guidelines for educational adaptation it will confront stiff opposition and resistance . Nevertheless , reality has its way of forcing itself upon social consciousness sooner or later , and education helps explain why . <p> Oddly , perhaps the best way of learning to face a challenging future is to consider the past . From diverse pre-modern ways of being in the world we can learn the importance of living-with-nature , communal identity , and more equitable ways of living together . While from the early modern liberation of law , politics , and ethics we can learn the benefits of emancipation from the tyranny of superstition and certain constraints on educational freedoms deriving especially from institutionalized religion . Modernity brought especially to industrializing societies in the West a sense of progress based on technological and material progress that freed many millions of people from poverty , illiteracy , dangerous work , and short life expectancies enabling more satisfying lives . Modernity led to educational adaptations to meet the needs and beliefs of a science and knowledge-based new order . Similarly , the destructiveness of religious rivalries and its connections with the imperial expansionism of the Global West led to widespread colonialism in the Global South , generating over time nationalist , anti-colonial movements of self-determination and resistance . The point I am trying to make is that the critical study of history helps students realize that the challenges of the present that are now so threatening were always fused in troublesome ways with the life experience of the human species for as long as humans have inhabited the earth . True the emergent future we now face is both radical and novel in substance and scope , expressive of an unmanageable and uniquely dangerous period of history . Current challenges can be made less menacing if tempered by sensitive portrayals of past historical analogues , and the efforts of contemporary storytellers to narrate the dilemmas of change versus tradition over time in human relations and in the broader dynamics of organized society , which is best captured by a dialectical sense of history . <p> More specifically , we can now ask in this hyper-modern atmosphere , ' where is this likely to lead society ? ' I offer three focal points of the tensions between benevolent and adaptive change as opposed by mal-adaptive forces associated with capitalism and state-centric global self-interested resistance to change : wholeness , fairness , otherness . <p> -- wholeness : the sense that in addition to national , ethnic , religious , cultural , class , and gender identities we are now in need of developing what can be called ' a human identity ' or ' a species identity ' ; what is declared is a condition of mutual dependence when it comes to addressing climate change , biodiversity , ocean resilience , and global security . It is time for civil society to nurture sensitivities associated with citizenship in the world with displacing the positive sides of national citizenship . To surmount and survive we need new patriotisms to the earth and to humanity . <p> A way of conceiving this abstract issue is to select a concrete instance where global security shifted from a reliance on military superiority to one of bonded interests for even the most hostile confrontations between enemy states . <p> The use of atomic bombs at the end of World War II against Japanese cities signaled the onset of this break in the dynamics of global security that led to divergent responses : nuclear disarmament and a strong UN ; a nuclear arms race ; the Cold War ' balance of terror ' domesticated as ' mutual deterrence , ' and global governance a oligopoly of the principal nuclear states . <p> The Great Power structure of global governance with respect to global security given the existence of nuclear weapons is illustrative -- it involved the appearance of an equitable treaty bargain in which states not possessing the weapons would give up the right to develop and possess such weaponry . In exchange states possessing the weapons pledged their good faith in the form of a commitment to denuclearize by disarming stages , and accept accompanying abridgements of national sovereignty in the form of intrusive international inspection to verify compliance and detect cheating . This path to a world without nuclear weapons was cynically endorsed by the nuclear weapons states , but in practice treated as a ' useful fiction , ' operationalizing claimed to be eliminating , that is , the permanent possession and development of nuclear weapons . This geopolitical fakery went unchallenged for more than half a century , to be nominally challenged by a coalition of governments from the Global South , awakened from their long sleep , and putting before the world a treaty in 2021 Treaty of Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons . The three NATO nuclear weapons states expressed their opposition to this denuclearizing inititiative , acknowledging their unconvincing belief that the world was safer if it continued to rely on the guardianship of the weaponry by way of the unregulated deterrence as geopolitically managed . <p> What has been operationalized over the decades includes discriminatory tolerance and coercive denial of proliferation options to non-nuclear states ( compare Israel and Iran ) coupled with the refusal of nuclear states to disarm or become transparent about their currently secretive doctrines of nuclear use . This reality reflects living with what I would identify as the primacy of geopolitics . In my language it accepts living indefinitely with negative wholeness . It also entails foregoing the opportunity to build a peace and security system on the basis of positive wholeness that relied on respect for law and morality and recognized that retaining nuclear weapons meant living permanently with the menace of a nuclear war that could occur at any moment , likely destroying all that has been built over the centuries . It also meant weakening the authority of international law by entrapping non-nuclear states in a treaty bargain that they largely kept , while the nuclear states consolidated their control of geopolitics . <p> Underneath retaining this capability to destroy civilization was the holistic realization that a major war fought with nuclear weapons would destroy not only the warring states but spill its lethal effect over to neutral states , potentially putting modern life on the entire planet at risk . In this sense the negative wholeness of a possible nuclear war remains an abiding danger that has failed to cause sufficient pressure to bring about conditions of positive wholeness . We seem doomed to live indefinitely with the awareness that life under the shadow of nuclear weapons is a catastrophe waiting to happen . Such a prospect has been given a frightening plausibility by recent escalations in the Ukraine War . Ukraine being given permission by the US Government to shoot long-range weaponry deep into Russian territory and Moscow threatening to use nuclear weapons in retaliation against NATO weapons supplying countries . How should educators treat this defining reality of the last 80 years ? Or should such a reality be outside what we want young people to learn about ? Do we want to shield students from grim features of the present human condition or we have the courage to expose these dangers in ways that include the presentations of ways to surmount such catastrophic threats ? <p> This same logic even more clearly pertains to ecological challenges of our time , most notably climate change . Global warming endangers social wellbeing , even our physical survival , throughout the planet , but it can not be solved without a strong turn toward positive wholeness , and a cooperative approach that requires sacrifice and commitment . Because ecological challenges are somewhat more openly addressed and acknowledged by the established order , the possibility of education-driven adaptations are greater , offering a variety of teaching , training , and learning given practical relevance in the everyday the everyday encounters with polluted air , poisoned soil , and acidic oceans . This ecological concreteness contrasts with the abstractness of the issues posed by nuclear weaponry . <p> -- Fairness : in addressing ecological challenges it is necessary to induce cooperation among grossly unequal states with respect to responsibility for the buildup of carbon emissions that is the main cause of global warming . Unlike the situation with respect to nuclear weapons there is a consensus among governments that a positive adaptation to climate change requires an unprecedented cooperation in reducing carbon emissions that will only be forthcoming if fairness prevails and the richer , earlier industrialized countries help poorer ones reduce emissions without slowing development . The late developing countries are far less benefitted than the highly developed economies of Europe and North America by industrial development that was dependent fossil fuels and hence , the buildup of emissions than the late developing Global South . <p> Although this dynamic was largely innocent , it allowed Western industrialization to proceed for many decades without paying the true costs of development . There is an abstract recognition of a vital equity component in an effective policy of ecological adaptation , but little agreement as to how to calculate the level of subsidy and the allocations of amounts to be paid and received . Also more recently developed countries are not willing to accept levels of supervision needed to ensure that the funds received as subsidies were being used to reduce carbon emissions rather than to accelerate industrial development or to enrich corrupt elites in government and the private sector . <p> Another dimension of the ecological challenge involves preserving tropical rainforests , currently under threat from private developers and ranchers , as in Brazil and elsewhere . These rainforests absorb large quantities of carbon and function as valuable repositories of biodiversity . Here the adaptation issue is quite different than in relation to climate change . It involves encroaching upon the territoriality of sovereign rights to safeguard the global public good . It involves respecting the wholeness of perspective while reconciling constraints with fairness . This leaves space for social conflict and political paralysis that sidetracks adaptive behavior , and increases the watchdog responsibilities of civil society . <p> -- Otherness . Identity politics , both negative and positiv at all levels of social and political consciousness stress and privilege differences and overwhelmingly viewing others with suspicion , hostility , and a sense of rivalry . Only recently has negative otherness been countered by resistance and the assertion positive claims by subjugated others . in world affairs , aligned civilizational identities confront collectivities of otherness . The ultimate expressions of hostile otherness occurs in the context of war , whether giving rise to opposing alliances internationally or to internal struggles or civil wars between adversary formations , typically challenges of social movements to existing elites controlling identity formations be the state . <p> Samuel Huntington at the end of the Cold War followed by the collapse of the Soviet Union predicted not a peaceful sequel , but rather a new wave of conflict in the form of ' a clash of civilizations , ' and most specifically , of the Global West against a rising Global Islam situated in the Middle East . Huntington believed the faultlines of post-Cold War conflict would center on securing favorable Western access to energy reserves and upholding the security of Israel against regional identities shaped by resurgent post-colonial identities that sought to exclude the West . <p> The historical context featured the collapse of the European colonial system which was a form of otherness that involved domination by colonial powers and unabashed subjugation of indigenous populations in the Global South . The apartheid structure of racist domination in South Africa exploiting the black African indigenous majority as the other to the white settler minority is a prime instance of the repression of the other . Ending colonizing and racist otherness has been internationally affirmed in adaptive changes in international law . This positive flow of history that liberated many peoples suffering from abusive forms of othernessvertically arranged in master/slave or white/black hierarchies of domination , but it far from cleared the agenda of negative otherness . <p> Negative patterns are also evident in societal contexts as exhibited by the hostile othering of deviant life styles as expressed over the centuries by such behavioral patterns as homophobia and xenophobia . Positive patterns of resistance from below are manifest in such slogan as ' black is beautiful ' or Jews as ' a chosen people . ' <p> The most extreme form of negative otherness involves the total dehumanization of the other has sadly not disappeared even in the creative centers of hypter-modernity . It has been labeled and outlawed as ' genocide ' since the Nazi Holocaust a Jew-hating slaughter that featured death camps and mass killing , even extending its lethality beyond ethnicity to gypsies and to left political activists and intellectuals . <p> We live now at a time where Israel has conducted a genocidal campaign against the entire population of 2.3 million Palestinians living in the Gaza Strip . It recalls a line of poetry from W.H. Auden : " Those to whom evil is done , do evil in return . " It has been proclaimed by Israeli leaders in chillingly forthright language of total dehumanization and operationalized by a daily spectacle of horrifying atrocities . It has repeatedly assaulted the eyes and ears of the peoples of the world in real time , an educative experience made possible by the TV journalism of the digital age . Unfortunately , despite this unavoidable awareness the genocide is continuing and spreading beyond the borders of Gaza in ways that threaten regional war further magnified by global proxy participants . <p> The UN and the Great Powers have been either unable or unwilling to stop this genocide . Shamelessly , the liberal democracies of the Global West led by the United States along with profit making corporate have refused to exert their leverage to restrain Israel , or hold it to legally permissible action . Instead they have been complicit in direct violation of the Genocide Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide by lending active support through supplying weaponry , financial assistance , diplomatic support , and even military intelligence . Seen in from a broader civilizational perspective , the governments supportive of Israel are all from the Global West of North America and Europe , although Ireland and Spain have stood apart from the Western consensus . In contrast , the most dedicated support for the Palestinian resistance is from Islamic majority states and political movements , especially Hezbollah and the Houthis . It is a reminder that clashes of civilization and ethnicities are part of the historical present , resulting in instances of genocide in settings other than Gaza , such as Myanmar and Sudan where the dehumanization of the other leads to genocidal politics often intertwined with and obscuring strategic ambitions relating to land and resources . <p> It is my contention these psychological , political and economic motivational patterns that contradict the premises of positive wholeness , fairness , and positive otherness are indicators of educational failures , reflective of non-adaptive practices , policies , and values , a situation that reinforces the argument for educational reform . I am trying to convince you that these features of our world are dangerously inhibiting adaptation to the ethical , economic , and ecological imperatives of the wellbeing of future generations . Our students deserve to learn how to have useful lives that are responsive to these concerns . There is a folk saying that imparts wisdom : " If it 's not broken do n't fix it . " But there is a secondary insight bearing on the malfunctioning of the global security system and poor capabilities to provide urgently needed stability and sustainability : " If it is badly broken , do everything possible to fix it . " I think there are many fix-it approaches worth pondering in classrooms without presupposing a sophisticated view of the complexities of the contemporary world and its challenges . Let me venture two lines of educational opportunity . <p> Civic Engagement . It seems clear that the current leadership of both governments and corporations are not positively oriented toward implementing wholeness , fairness , and otherness in creative and ethically meaningful ways . Governments are preoccupied with the pursuit of national interests , with governing performances judged in terms of short-term results when what is most needed is long-term policies . Psychologically important is whether the quality of economic and political life for the national citizenry was being widely regarded as improving . The dominant logic of such styles of governance is to disregard wholeness and to conceive of fairness as a matter of how the national population is being treated . Naturally distancing themselves to varying degrees from alien forms of otherness is treated as though it was a natural element of the human condition . Creative pedagogy would teach a greater appreciation of and contact with others as connected with living and acting effectively in the world . <p> The corporate outlook , shared with banks and mechanisms of finance , is preoccupied with the profitable manipulation of money and maximizing the growth of GNP . It is not concerned with fair distribution of wealth and income , or with facilitating the costly process of replacing a precarious framework even if its purpose is to enable a sustainable existence . In fact , the prevailing economic logics of both capitalist and socialist orientations is to minimize interferences with profits and economic growth by being adopting various postures of denial with respect to harmful ecological dimensions of this late modernist ethos of efficiency and growth . As such the main justification for modern economic activity is associated with the embedded belief ' that more and bigger is better , ' eventual for all . Contrary pro-capitalist mythmaking ' all boats do n't rise , ' especially in the rough waters of competition or monopolistic markets . <p> The educational opportunity is to present ' small is beautiful ' views of benevolent political and economic life . Instead of a worldview that instructs us that the world works by reference to win/lose outcome it would be helpful to investigate situations where a win/win approach is viable for all participants . Games and stories that illustrate win/win outcomes could be drawn from history . Ideas of ' human security ' and ' common security ' based on a cooperative view of the sort pioneered in regional communities such as European Union or in the elaborate Chinese Road and Belt Project where the rewards of cooperation and mutual benefit mitigate the one-sided patterns exploitation between winners and losers . The costly and menacing militarism of current international relations needs replacing by vastly cheaper , safer , and less destructive frameworks of peace-building and mutual tolerance . <p> Similar narratives can be developed to support for the Rule of Law as a replacement for the Rule of the Gun . Internationally it can be shown that respect for the constraints of international law frees resources for constructive uses in relation to the demands of fairness as well as to facilitate greater investment in ecological sustainability . If not globsl wholeness , then communities of states acting regionally , can solve common regional problems of security and sustainability and thereby provide the framing of better lives and more benevolent governance during a transition to a condition of true globality . It is almost self-evident that the US would be much better off it is had shaped its foreign policy in conformity with the constraints of international law . Existing global arrangements , including the UN , would work more effectively and much less expensively , leaving increased funds available for sustainability and better lives through a reliance on the guidelines of international law rather than , as has been the practice of Great Powers , by engaging in futile unlawful interventions and destabilizing arms races costing trillions while increasing risks of acute catastrophe . The remarkable rise of China for over the course of the last half century without relying on conquest or exploitation , despite certain deficiencies , offers a model of an extremely successful alternative path . Also instructive would be a comparative study of US and China in relation to these three signposts on a path leading to rational sustainability in the 21st century -- wholeness , fairness , otherness . A comparison of the negative treatment of the poor , vulnerable , and internal others ( or minorities , refugees , and immigrants victimized by informal hostility and formal discrimination ) . <p> A look at the experience of the last several decades would confirm this line of policy reform . It has not yet happened because the established order resists with all the policy instrument and brainwashing propaganda at its disposal . Special interests have been increasing their influence on the behavior of governmental institutions working day and night for higher military budgets and on behalf of profit/growth oriented policies . This critique applies to lucrative arms producers that have a vested interest in exaggerating security threats and the dangers of diverse ideologies or energy giants keep carbon fuels flowing without concern for climate change while suppressing evidence that their activities are causing harm . <p> Education does have the capacity to shape minds , transform societies , and help discover and explore pathways to a sustainable , just , peaceable , and more enjoyable future . As educators we should commit to making education a catalyst for fairness , equity , and sustainability . In the process nurturing a sense of wholeness and overcome relevant enmities toward otherness . <p> Citizen Engagement . As suggested , beyond skills lies a broad range of enlightening approaches to learning that can teach us to live adaptively in ways that take due account of 21st century realities . Aside from family influences on opinions and values , as well as the educational tropes of social media habits in the homes and neighborhood of students , the greatest influence resides with charismatic educators in halls of learning if sufficient academic freedom exists for teachers and students to put forward their own ideas and understandings of the unmet requirements of fairness and sustainability communally , nationally , and globally . I am unsure as to whether state propaganda and reactionary monitoring of school curricula and libraries will allow the educational sectors to play positive adaptive roles with popular and institutional encouragement in countries with great variations in state/society relations with respect to formal education . We in the United States are feeling strong pushback in academic life from ultra-right enemies of open minds both in government and well-funded reactionary enclaves in civil societies . The rise of an activist billionaire caste eager to monitor teaching and learning is marginalizing adaptive education <p> Ideally , education at all levels should prepare students for active societal roles as participants organizing to shape public policy , and not be passive spectators in the face of developments and challenges that threaten their future and that of future generations . Public pressures from below can potentially make political leaders , as well as mainstream media and social media platforms take account of demands for reforms carried out within a more globalist way of interpreting and understanding than what now prevails in most societies , including those that have free elections and independent political parties , but are guided by outmoded gepolitical belief and predatory forms of economic behavior . <p> In the past , I have argued in favor of an adaptive form of citizenship , what I have labeled as ' citizen pilgrims , ' drawing on the tradition of pilgrims as those persons among us who are searching based on faith and belief , for a better future . Citizen pilgrims embark on a personal journey that envisages collective transformations responsive to humane values and adaptive imperatives . Can the educational systems around the world be entrusted to go beyond specialized training in useful skills to give students the kind of knowledge and ethical commitment to progressive civic responsibility as the core obligation of citizenship , superseding the minimalism of electoral politics . <p> Technological Innovation . From an educational perspective of both preparation for a professional career and for benign citizen engagement , it seems essential to prepare students for technological innovations on the horizon . It is obvious that AI will exert a growing influence in all phases of future life in ways that are liberating and patterns that may cause educators and society a bundle of dangerous troubles . In the educational process , the management of immediate access to knowledge that undercuts the value of writing assignments and tests poses fundamental issues that will become more complex as AI is on a trajectory of rapid and continuous improvement . Perhaps , creative educators will rely more on dialogic methods of learning that rest on placing confidence in subjective learning experiences . Robotics is also relevant from the perspective of progress and employment choices and opportunities . There is a need to evolve courses and study programs that take account of job markets and changing societal priorities , as well as the collective challenges . <p> What educators need to think about is how to create courses assuring that students achieve digital literacy even if they are not inclined to seek a career directly related to such transformative technologies that will strain existing societal ideas of fairness and equity . Beyond this , is the social regulation of innovative technology that endangers safety or has provocative capacities to disrupt cyber security within and among states . In other words , new technologies can also endanger social peace within societies by making many forms of work obsolete , creating labor crises . Technological innovation can also cause havoc in international relations by introducing variants of stealth and remote weaponry , of which attack drones and exploding pagers are illustrative , that can disrupt existing patterns of security . Unlike nuclear weapons , there is no way to control the proliferation of drones . More that 20 years ago , a technologist named Bill Joy wrote a provocative article entitled " Does the Future Need Us ? ' In other words , is human ingenuity generating uncontrollable dangers in relation to conflict while rendering most learned skills , and hence jobs , superfluous ? It seems that creative and ethical innovations to keep pace with technologies would have to become equally innovative , reinventing roles for body and mind . <p> Political Realism . Among the obstacles to innovative education is the unconscious consensus among societal elites of ideas and values that are resistant to the prerequisites of adaptive , fair , and sustainable present and future life experiences . These are asserted here as wholeness , fairness , and otherness . Educators might devise courses and readings that include utopian visions of a peaceful , more eqitable , worldwide coexistence of diverse peoples striving for sustainability . In the words of the World Social Forum , ' another world is possible . ' The ambitious objective of education in this era is to give students confidence that different versions of reconfigured realism need to guide behavior at all levels of decision-making . This alone would make ' the possible ' become ' the attainable . ' <p> Conclusions : As stressed , educational endeavors are challenged everywhere but under a variety of diverse conditions involving cultural norms , political structures . economic practices , and spiritual aspirations . Of course , diversities of experience exist within national and civilizational boundaries , as well as within regional and global spheres of human activity with different perceptions of appropriate responses . This will likely give rise to a bewildering variety of responses , not all in keeping with the theme of this Istanbul Educational Summit . Hopefully , some will , and that may embolden others . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Present and prospective concerns associated with excessive fragmentations of identity , technological innovation , unfair distributions of material benefits and career opportunities , non-sustainable patterns of economic development , and out of date political beliefs and practices challenge the diverse missions of education . This atmosphere encourages educational reinterpretation , dialogue , and experimentation . Benevolent pathways to the future will be more likely to be taken if more students are oriented toward the urgencies facing humanity . Silos of learning experience need to be replaced by inter-cultural dialogues and by increasing exchange opportunities for students and faculty so that the world and its problems can be experienced away from homelands . <p> As is so often the case , the insights of great men and women are fertile sources for those of us who have chosen to be educators at this hour of ferment . Despite these turbulent times of relentless change , Mahatma Gandhi remains a guide for all humanity , whether viewed individually , or as a collective edict : " Learn as if you will live forever ; live as if you will die tomorrow . " as borrowed from Bishnu Patel <p> Richard Anderson Falk ( born November 13 , 1930 ) is an American professor emeritus of international law at Princeton University , and Euro-Mediterranean Human Rights Monitor 's Chairman of the Board of Trustees . He is the author or coauthor of over 20 books and the editor or coeditor of another 20 volumes . In 2008 , the United Nations Human Rights Council ( UNHRC ) appointed Falk to a six-year term as a United Nations Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Palestinian territories occupied since 1967 . Since 2005 he chairs the Board of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation . <h> Related Posts <p> A significant number of residents of Bhaggupurva hamlet in Nagnedi panchayat ( Banda district ) of Uttar Pradesh ) migrate regularly from the village as they can not earn their subsistence in the village .... <p> In recent years , India 's higher education system has witnessed considerable growth and transformation . However , along with these advancements , challenges such as predatory journals have emerged , undermining the academic and professional ... <p> The Aligarh Muslim University ( AMU ) administration 's decision to enforce the mandatory 75% attendance rule for students has sparked an outcry . On November 21 , 2024 , students protested in large numbers against ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118839723 <h> Syria 's Assad Has Fallen -- Just As The Pentagon Planned 23 Years Ago <h> Share : <p> The long-harboured aspirations of the US , Turkey and Israel to topple the Syrian government , mainly through their rebranded al-Qaeda allies , succeeded at lightning speed . <p> Damascus fell days after Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) forces under Abu Mohammad al-Jolani surprised observers by breaking out of their small north-western enclave in Syria and seizing the country 's second city , Aleppo . <p> Bashar al-Assad 's government and his army , it turned out , were paper tigers . Or they were , once their chief allies -- Russia , Iran and Hezbollah in Lebanon -- had been forced onto the back foot . Preoccupied with troubles closer to home , they could no longer offer the military support Assad depended on . <p> Israel 's rampage across Lebanon and its military intimidation of Iran -- as well as Nato 's increasing efforts to pin Russia down in Ukraine -- unfroze the main battle lines in Syria , arrived at several years ago between Assad 's army , al-Qaeda 's franchise in Syria and Kurdish forces in the north-east . <p> Backed by Turkey , a member of Nato -- and more covertly by the CIA and MI6 -- HTS and the so-called Syrian National Army ( SNA ) were able to drive south unhindered . <p> HTS is proscribed as a terrorist group by both the US and Britain . The CIA has placed a $10m bounty on Jolani 's head . <p> Strangely , amid the excitement , the BBC and the rest of the western media forgot to mention HTS 's status as a proscribed organisation -- as they do in kneejerk fashion every time the Palestinian resistance group Hamas is referred to . <p> Notably , the very western politicians and media now celebrating the " liberation " of Syria by HTS are the same ones insisting that the eradication of the " terrorists " of Hamas in Gaza is so important it justifies the bombing and starvation of the enclave 's two million-plus Palestinian population . <p> There are difficult questions that any rational observer ought to be pondering right now . <p> How are we to believe that the same ideological groups who are head-chopping , women-abusing , minority-oppressing terrorists when they operate in US-occupied Iraq , are now " moderate " , " diversity-friendly rebels " when they operate next door in Syria ? <p> How are opponents of western complicity in Israel 's " plausible " genocide in Gaza , as the World Court describes it , supposed to feel about the West helping to shatter the " axis of resistance " , which stood alone in offering material support to try to stop it ? <p> Is HTS pursuing a nationalist agenda that is truly about liberating Syrians from western imperialism , or is western imperialism -- wielding both the stick of an Israeli attack dog and the carrot of the rich Gulf lapdogs -- once again in the driving seat in Syria ? <p> How much of what we see is the reality of the situation and how much perception management ? <p> Iran in cross-hairs <p> There are plenty of clues to help us answer these questions if we go looking for them . <p> Wesley Clark , a former US Army general , recalled a moment weeks after the 9/11 attacks on the Twin Towers in 2001 when he visited the Pentagon . <p> He was shown a classified document that set out how the US was going to " take out seven countries in five years , starting with Iraq , then Syria , Lebanon , Libya , Somalia , Sudan and finishing off with Iran " . <p> https : **33;1456;TOOLONG ? si= ... of these states had any obvious connection to the events of 9/11 . The one that did have such a connection -- Saudi Arabia -- was not on the list and has remained one of the United States ' most favoured client states . <p> The order of targets prioritised by Washington had to be modified -- and the timeline was way off -- but the realisation of that 2001 blueprint is closer than ever . <p> The invasion of Iraq in 2003 by the US and UK , on false pretences , led to the removal of dictator Saddam Hussein and the collapse of the Iraqi state . The country was plunged into a devastating sectarian war from which it is still struggling to recover . <p> Nato meddling in Libya , again on false pretences , led to the removal of dictator Muammar Gaddafi and the collapse of the Libyan state in 2011 . It has been a failed state run by warlords ever since . <p> Sudan and Somalia -- the latter subject to a US-backed Ethiopian invasion in 2007 -- are both basket cases , riven by all-consuming , horrifying civil wars that the US helped to stoke rather than resolve . <p> The destruction of these various states created the space for new ultra-violent , intolerant Islamist groups such as al-Qaeda and the Islamic State ( IS ) group to flourish . <p> Turkey 's open backing of the rebels in Syria -- plus more concealed support from the CIA and MI6 -- led to the removal of Syrian dictator Assad at the weekend and the collapse of what was left of the Syrian state . It is hard to imagine a unified authority emerging there . <p> Meanwhile , the terms of surrender foisted on Beirut to end Israel 's savage bombing of Lebanon do not look designed to hold . The already fragile sectarian arrangements barely glueing the Lebanese state together are almost certain to come unstuck in the coming months . <p> Iran , the last target on the Pentagon 's list , is now fully in the cross-hairs . Deprived of allies in Syria , and now largely cut off from its Hezbollah allies in Lebanon , Tehran is as vulnerable as it has ever been . <p> Bigger picture <p> None of this is accidental . <p> Were western publics not so deeply influenced by years of disinformation from their politicians and media , they might by now be starting to see a bigger picture gradually coming into focus . <p> One in which the fates of Syria , Lebanon , Palestine and Iran hang in the balance together . One in which the western powers , led from Washington , are once again meddling , in violation of international law , to destroy the territorial integrity of each of them . One in which Israel and the West 's geostrategic interests are paramount , not the freedoms or welfare of the region 's people . <p> Dictators are bad . Killing civilians is bad . But these truisms , selectively prioritised by our feckless media class , have been weaponised to obscure the wider picture . <p> When westerners see " enemy " governments fall , as Assad 's has just done , or civil wars break out in far-off lands , they are led to assume that these are the geopolitical equivalent of a natural event . <p> The unexamined premise is that the world is ultimately heading , in fits and starts , towards a liberal democratic order . That is why HTS is repackaging itself , ably assisted by the western media , as newly pragmatic and moderate . <p> " Moderate " , presumably , in the sense that Saudi Arabia is considered " moderate " in western coverage . <p> When the West intervenes , so this narrative goes , it is simply to assist the laggards on their path to a final utopia : something akin to the United States , but without Donald Trump , gun crime , opioid and mental health crises , and nearly half of working-age adults deprived of proper healthcare . <p> Such changes of power , westerners are encouraged to believe , only ever rise from the bottom up , signalling a dictator 's illegitimacy , or maybe the incremental trajectory of political systems from backwardness to greater enlightenment . <p> Sadly , world events -- especially in circumstances where there is only one military superpower , the US , with some 750 bases around the globe -- rarely follow such a straightforward path . <p> Access to oil <p> The 2001 Pentagon memo shown to Clark was , in fact , a reworking of a military blueprint for the Middle East that had been circulating in Washington for even longer -- and had nothing to do with responding to 9/11 or terrorism . <p> It was all about securing Israel 's place as a forward base for US interests in the oil-rich region . <p> The champions of this idea were an increasingly influential group called the neoconservatives -- or neocons for short . <p> By 1996 , they had formalised their plan for " remaking " the Middle East into a document called A Clean Break . It proposed that Israel should tear up the Oslo Accords and any moves towards peacemaking with the Palestinians -- the title 's " clean break " -- and instead go on the offensive against its regional foes , with US backing . <p> What did that mean ? Israel had to be helped to begin " weakening , containing , and even rolling back Syria " , observed the authors , and then " removing Saddam Hussein from power in Iraq " . The next stage would be to " wean the south Lebanese Shia away from Hizballah , Iran and Syria " . <p> Four years before A Clean Break , the neocons explained that the primary aim of US foreign policy in the Middle East was to " preserve US and western access to the region 's oil " . A close second was easing Israel 's path to ridding itself of the so-called " Palestinian problem " . <p> Later , in a document published in 2000 titled Rebuilding America 's Defenses , they clarified that the US must ensure it retained " forward-based forces " in the Middle East to maintain military dominance there " given the longstanding American interests in the region " . Those interests primarily being , of course , oil . <p> The ultimate concern , the paper explained , was stopping China from developing closer ties to key oil states such as Iran . <p> The authors of these documents would soon be holding key positions in the George W Bush administration that took office in January 2001 . <p> Ensconced in the Pentagon and State Department , they were only too ready to exploit 9/11 as the pretext to fast-track their pre-existing agenda , as Clark understood from the Pentagon memo . <p> Bloody nose <p> Syria was viewed by the neocons and Israel as the lynchpin , the supply line , between Iran and Hezbollah , Tehran 's critically important military ally in Lebanon . Severing that link was a priority . <p> It was chiefly Hezbollah 's well-fortified and concealed positions in south Lebanon , as well as its large stockpile of rockets delivered by Iran , that kept Israel in check militarily . <p> Israel received an unexpected , bloody nose when it tried to reoccupy south Lebanon in 2006 . It was forced to beat a hasty retreat within weeks . Israel also had to abandon plans to expand that same war into Syria -- a failure that infuriated Washington 's neocons at the time . <p> Hezbollah 's rocket arsenal was also a brake on Israel 's ambitions to ethnically cleanse -- or worse -- the Palestinians from their lands in Gaza , the West Bank and East Jerusalem , as current events have demonstrated . <p> Ultimately , Israel realised there was no way to complete its genocide of Gaza without neutralising Hezbollah and Syria , and containing Iran . <p> So how involved in practice was Washington in Assad 's fall ? <p> There are plenty of clues marking the way . <p> After Israel 's 2006 failure , the US looked for a new route to reach the same destination . Operation Timber Sycamore was born in secret shortly after the Arab Spring erupted in 2011 . <p> The CIA , supported by Britain 's MI6 , began working in secret to topple Assad . Saudi Arabia was intimately involved too , presumably because of its deep ties to extreme jihadist groups across the region , including al-Qaeda and Islamic State , that would soon become central to the regime-change operation . <p> Jake Sullivan , now Joe Biden 's national security adviser , was clear about who was going to help . In an email in late 2012 , as Timber Sycamore was being put together , he wrote to then Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to avoid any confusion about Washington 's allies : " AQ al-Qaeda are on our side in Syria . " <p> An email sent to Clinton earlier , in spring 2012 , had laid out the emerging thinking in the State Department . <p> " US diplomats and Pentagon can start strengthening the opposition . It will take time , " the email asserted . " The payoff will be substantial . <p> " Iran would be strategically isolated , unable to exert its influence in the Middle East ... Hezbollah in Lebanon would be cut off from its Iranian sponsors since Syria would no longer be a transit point for Iranian training , assistance and missiles . " <p> The chief beneficiary was clear too : " America can and should help them Syrian rebels -- and by doing so help Israel . " <p> Building the rebels <p> According to US officials , the CIA had trained and equipped nearly 10,000 fighters by summer 2015 , at an annual cost of $100,000 per rebel . <p> Riyadh supplied yet more money and weapons , drawing in Islamist fighters and mercenaries from the wider region . Jordan hosted the training bases . The CIA and the Saudis jointly supplied the rebels with the intelligence needed to guide their operations in Syria . <p> Israel , which had long been lobbying Washington for such a covert programme against the Syrian government , took a leading role , too . It supplied weapons , and dropped thousands of bombs on Syrian infrastructure to keep Assad under pressure . <p> In 2012 , Ehud Barak , then Israeli defence minister , explained Israel 's thinking to CNN : " The toppling down of Assad will be a major blow to the radical axis , major blow to Iran ... and it will weaken dramatically both Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas and Islamic Jihad in Gaza . " <p> After the CIA operation finally came to light in 2016 , Washington formally shut it down . <p> But the effectiveness of Operation Timber Sycamore had already been severely hampered by the Russian military entering Syria in late 2015 , at Assad 's invitation . <p> Eventually the battle fronts hardened into stalemate . <p> ' We love Israel ' <p> Now , years later , the battle lines have suddenly come undone . As Washington envisioned 23 years ago , Assad is the latest Middle Eastern dictator not to Israel 's liking to be overthrown . <p> HTS is eager to reassure Washington that it poses no threat to Israel -- or its continuing genocide in Gaza . <p> Interviews on Israeli TV showed rebel commanders praising Israel 's air strikes on Syria , citing them as among the factors in helping the rapid advances made by HTS . <p> Channel 12 interviewed an unnamed commander who also noted Israel 's ceasefire with Hezbollah had been critical to the timing of the HTS attack on Aleppo . <p> " We looked at the ceasefire agreement with Hezbollah and understood that this is the time to liberate our lands , " he said , adding : " We will not let Hezbollah fight in our areas and we will not let the Iranians take root there . " <p> In a separate interview with Israel 's Kan TV , a fighter said : " We love Israel and we were never its enemies . " <p> Both the US and Britain , caught by surprise by the speed of the rebels ' success , are scurrying to remove the $10m CIA bounty off Jolani 's head and take HTS off their terror lists . <p> Israel lost no time overrunning -- and effectively annexing -- swaths of Syrian territory to add to the areas of the Golan it seized in violation of international law in 1967 . Contrast the West 's muted response to this Israeli invasion of Syria with the West 's outrage at Russia 's invasion of Ukraine in 2022 . <p> At the same time Israel launched hundreds of air strikes across Syria , bombing the country 's military infrastructure to ensure the next government -- if such a government ever emerges -- will have no means to defend itself . Israel wants Syria as impotent and vulnerable as Palestine , where it is committing a genocide . <p> According to Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu , Israel is " changing the face of the Middle East . " <p> The giant chessboard <p> Rather than viewing the world in simplistic terms as a battle between good and evil -- one in which the evil ones suddenly become good guys , if the BBC says so -- analysts of international affairs have traditionally used a different framework . <p> They understand world affairs as taking place on a global , geostrategic chessboard , in which the great powers of the day try to checkmate their rivals , or avoid being checkmated . <p> Surprises happen , as they do in chess , when a player does n't foresee , or ca n't evade , the next move of its opponent . <p> Syria , very obviously , is not a great power . It is a pawn . But a critically useful one , nonetheless . As critically useful as Ukraine . The battlefields may look separate , but they are , of course , on the same chessboard . <p> And the players -- the US , Russia and China , and to a lesser extent Iran , Israel and Turkey -- must each use these pawns wisely to advance their strategic goals . <p> Ordinary people have agency . But the job of great powers is to limit , tame , and recruit that agency to advance their own interests and damage the interests of rivals . <p> Israel is the big winner of this round . Syria emerges broken from its long years of a proxy civil war and western sanctions . Either it will collapse into further sectarian discord , consuming all its energies -- Israel can readily meddle to inflame such tensions -- or its new government will seek rehabilitation from the West . A peace accord with Israel would doubtless be the entry requirement . <p> With Syria removed from the " axis of resistance " , Hezbollah in Lebanon has been severed from Iran , leaving both Israel 's surviving , main regional foes isolated and weaker . And in the process , Israel has opened the way to completing its genocide of the Palestinian people undisturbed . <p> Turkey 's interests in Syria do not conflict with Israel 's or Washington 's . It wants to return to Syria the millions of refugees it currently hosts and to eliminate any base for Kurdish factions in Syria to ally with , and assist , its own Kurdish resistance groups . <p> Avoiding checkmate <p> The losing side will now have to rethink their strategy . <p> Stripped of its Syrian ally , Russia is now more exposed on the chessboard . Unless it can win over the new government in Damascus , it risks losing its strategically important Mediterrranean naval port at Tartus , on the Syrian coast . <p> It was the threatened loss of its other warm-water naval port , on the Black Sea , at Sebastapol in Crimea -- after Washington 's meddling to help overthrow Ukraine 's Moscow-friendly government in 2014 -- that led to Russia annexing the peninsula . <p> It was Washington 's tearing up of missile treaties and the threat of Ukraine being recruited into Nato 's fold so that the West 's nuclear arsenal could be placed on Moscow 's doorstep that led to Russia 's invasion in 2022 . <p> The events of the last few days in Syria underscore how much the western narrative about Russia 's actions being entirely " unprovoked " is self-serving rather than explanatory . <p> Nato is working behind the scenes to move its pieces . And so is Russia to avoid a checkmate . <p> In this " game " , there are no good guys . There are only power plays . And the US has far more pieces on the board : 750 military bases encircling the globe to impose by force a policy of " full-spectrum dominance " . <p> Russia 's new advanced missile systems , the hoped-for deterrence of its nuclear arsenal , its alliances of convenience with others threatened by the undeclared US empire -- chiefly China and Iran -- are its remaining strengths . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Iran , now isolated from allies in Syria and Hezbollah in Lebanon , will have to think what other resources it can bring to the game . The voices calling for it to forego religious scruples and develop a nuclear weapon , to neutralise Israel 's existing arsenal , will grow much louder . <p> And , finally , China is only too aware that , in seeking to weaken and isolate Russia and Iran , the US is ultimately gunning for it . There can be no " full-spectrum global dominance " until China is cornered -- until Washington can declare , " checkmate " . <p> Jonathan Cook is a British independent journalist , who has covered issues of Palestine and Israel for much of his over 20-year career . He formerly wrote for the Guardian and Observer newspapers and is a winner of the Martha Gellhorn Special Prize for Journalism . <p> by Asa Winstanley and Ali Abunimah Israeli tanks were reportedly on the outskirts of Damascus early on Tuesday , as Israel launched airstrikes across the country that are being called " the heaviest in the history of Syria . " ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118839724 <h> The Roads to Damascus <h> Share : <p> None but a few corrupt cronies will be shedding tears at the tyrant 's departure . But there should be no doubt that what we are witnessing in Syria today is a huge defeat , a mini 1967 for the Arab world . As I write , Israeli land forces have entered this battered country . There is not yet a definitive settlement , but a few things are clear . Assad is a refugee in Moscow . His Baathist apparatus did a deal with the Eastern NATO leader , Recep Tayyip Erdogan ( whose brutalities in Idlib are legion ) , and offered up the country on a platter . The rebels have agreed that Assad 's Prime Minister , Mohammed Ghazi al-Jalali , should continue to oversee the state for the time being . Will this be a form of Assadism without Assad , even if the country is about to pivot geopolitically away from Russia and what remains of the ' Resistance Axis ' ? <p> Like Iraq and Libya , where the US has a lock on the oil , Syria will now become a shared American -- Turkish colony . US imperial policy , globally , is to break up countries that can not be swallowed whole and remove all meaningful sovereignty in order to assert economic and political hegemony . This may have started ' accidentally ' in the former Yugoslavia but it has since become a pattern . EU satellites use similar methods to ensure that smaller nations ( Georgia , Romania ) are kept under control . Democracy and human rights have little to do with any of this . It 's a global gamble . <p> In 2003 , after Baghdad fell to the US , the exultant Israeli Ambassador in Washington congratulated George W. Bush and advised him not to stop now , but to move on to Damascus and Tehran . Yet the US victory had an unintended but predictable side-effect : Iraq became a rump Shia state , enormously strengthening Iran 's position in the region . The debacle there , and subsequently in Libya , meant that Damascus had to wait for more than a decade before receiving proper imperial attention . Meanwhile , Iranian and Russian support for Assad upped the stakes of routine regime change . <p> Now , Assad 's ousting has created a different type of vacuum -- likely to be filled by NATO 's Turkey and the US via the ' ex-al-Qaida ' Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( the rebranding of its leader Abu Mohammad al-Jolani as a freedom fighter after his stint in a US prison in Iraq is par for the course ) , as well as Israel . The latter 's contribution was enormous , having disabled Hezbollah and wrecked Beirut with yet another round of massive bombing raids . In the wake of this victory , it is difficult to imagine that Iran will be left alone . Though the ultimate aim for both the US and Israel is regime change there , degrading and disarming the country is the first priority . This wider plan for reshaping the region helps to explain the unstinting support given by Washington and its European proxies to the continuing Israeli genocide in Palestine . After more than a year of slaughter , the Kantian principle that state actions must be such that they can become a universally respected law looks like a sick joke . <p> Who will replace Assad ? Before his flight , some reports suggested that if the dictator made a 180-degree turn -- breaking with Iran and Russia and restoring good relations with the US and Israel , as he and his father had done before -- then the Americans might be inclined to keep him on . Now it is too late , but the state apparatus that abandoned him has declared its readiness to collaborate with whomever . Will Erdogan do the same ? The Sultan of Donkeys will surely want his own people , nurtured in Idlib since they were child soldiers , in charge and under Ankara 's control . If he succeeds in imposing a Turkish puppet regime , it will be another version of what happened in Libya . But he is unlikely to have it all his own way . Erdogan is strong on demagogy but weak on actions , and the US and Israel might veto a cleansed al-Qaida government for their own reasons , despite having used the jihadis to fight Assad . Regardless , it is unlikely that the replacement regime will abolish the Mukhabarat ( secret police ) , illegalize torture or offer accountable government . <p> Prior to the Six Day War , one of the central components of Arab nationalism and unity was the Baath Party that ruled Syria and had a strong base in Iraq ; the other , more powerful one was Nasser 's government in Egypt . Syrian Baathism during the pre-Assad period was relatively enlightened and radical . When I met Prime Minister Yusuf Zuayyin in Damascus in 1967 , he explained that the only way forward was to outflank conservative nationalism by making Syria ' the Cuba of the Middle East ' . Yet Israel 's assault that year led to the speedy destruction of the Egyptian and Syrian armies , which paved the way for the death of Nasserite Arab nationalism . Zuayyin was toppled and Hafez-al Assad was propelled to power with tacit US support -- much like Saddam Hussein in Iraq , whom the CIA supplied with a list of the top cadres of the Iraqi Communist Party . The Baathist radicals in both countries were discarded , and the party 's founder Michel Aflaq resigned in disgust when he saw where it was headed . <p> These new Baathist dictatorships were supported by certain sections of the population , however , as long as they provided a basic safety net . Iraq under Saddam and Syria under the Assad p ? re et fils were brutal but social dictatorships . Assad Senior hailed from the middle-strata of the peasantry , and passed several progressive reforms to ensure that his class was kept happy , reducing the tax burden and abolishing usury . In 1970 , a vast majority of Syrian villages had only natural light ; peasants woke up and went to sleep with the sun . A couple decades later , the construction of the Euphrates dam enabled the electrification of 95% of them , with energy heavily subsidized by the state . <p> It was these policies , rather than repression alone , which guaranteed the stability of the regime . Most of the population turned a blind eye to the torture and imprisonment of citizens in the cities . Assad and his coterie firmly believed that man was little more than an economic creature , and that if needs of this type could be satisfied , then only a small minority would rebel ( ' one or two hundred at the most ' , Assad remarked , ' were the types for whom Mezzeh prison was originally intended ' ) . The eventual uprising against the younger Assad in 2011 was triggered by his turn to neoliberalism and the exclusion of the peasantry . When it calcified into a bitter civil war , one option would have been a compromise settlement and power-sharing deal -- but the apparatchiks who are currently negotiating with Erdogan advised against any such arrangement . <p> During one of my visits to Damascus , the Palestinian intellectual Faisal Darraj confided that the Mukhabarat agent who gave him permission to leave the country for conferences abroad always laid down a condition : ' Bring back the latest Baudrillard and Virilio . ' Always nice to have educated torturers , as the great Arab novelist Abdelrahman Munif -- a Saudi by birth and leading intellectual of the Baath Party -- might have said . Munif 's 1975 novel Sharq al-Mutawassit ( East of the Mediterranean ) is a devastating account of political torture and imprisonment , which the Egyptian literary critic Sabry Hafez described as a book of ' exceptional power and ambition , aspiring to write the ultimate political prison in all its variations ' . When I spoke with Munif in the nineties he said , with a sad look on his face , that these were the themes that dominated Arabic literature and poetry : a tragic commentary on the state of the Arab nation . Today , this shows little sign of changing . Even if the rebels have freed some of Assad 's prisoners , they will soon replace them with their own . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The US and most of the EU have spent the past year successfully sustaining and defending a genocide in Gaza . All US client states in the region remain intact , while three non-clients -- Iraq , Libya and Syria -- have been beheaded . The fall of the latter removes a crucial supply line linking a number of anti-Zionist factions . Geostrategically , it is a triumph for Washington and Israel . This must be recognized , but despair is worthless . How an effective resistance will reconstitute itself depends on the coming clash between Israel and a besieged Iran , which is engaged in direct underground talks with the US and certain members of Trump 's entourage , while also speeding up the development of its nuclear plans . The situation is fraught with danger . <p> Tariq Ali is a Writer , journalist and film-maker Tariq Ali was born in Lahore in 1943 . He owned his own independent television production company , Bandung , which produced programmes for Channel 4 in the UK during the 1980s . He is a regular broadcaster on BBC Radio and contributes articles and journalism to magazines and newspapers including The Guardian and the London Review of Books . He is editorial director of London publishers Verso and is on the board of the New Left Review , for whom he is also an editor . He writes fiction and non-fiction and his non-fiction includes 1968 : Marching in the Streets ( 1998 ) , a social history of the 1960s ; Conversations with Edward Said ( 2005 ) ; Rough Music : Blair , Bombs , Baghdad , London , Terror ( 2005 ) ; and Speaking of Empire and Resistance ( 2005 ) , which takes the form of a series of conversations with the author . <h> Related Posts <p> The long-harboured aspirations of the US , Turkey and Israel to topple the Syrian government , mainly through their rebranded al-Qaeda allies , succeeded at lightning speed . Damascus fell days after Hay'at Tahrir ... <p> by Asa Winstanley and Ali Abunimah Israeli tanks were reportedly on the outskirts of Damascus early on Tuesday , as Israel launched airstrikes across the country that are being called " the heaviest in the history of Syria . " ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118839732 <p> The Israeli prime minister also announced he was unilaterally ending the 1974 disengagement agreement between Syria and Israel , claiming that the UN-endorsed arrangement had " collapsed . " <p> Insurgent blitzkrieg <p> The downfall of Syria 's government comes after an 11-day blitzkrieg , launched out of the northern enclave of Idlib , where the armed insurgents maintained a stronghold bordering Turkey since a 2016 truce brokered by Russia and Turkey . <p> In late November , the insurgents stormed south out of Idlib through successive Syrian cities -- Aleppo , Hama , Homs and finally Damascus . <p> Although backed by regional and international allies , the Syrian army surrendered most of its positions without any fighting , an indication that there had been a deal assuring Assad 's exit . <p> Outgoing US President Joe Biden asserted on Sunday that the failure of Russia , Iran and Hizballah to defend the Syrian government was " the direct result of the blows that Ukraine and Israel have delivered " with the " unflagging support of the United States . " <p> Israel is destroying Syrian air bases , military and defense systems , intelligene , military &amp; government structures . <p> Some analyses suggest that Iran and Russia , the Syrian government 's chief backers , concluded that the government under Assad was too hollowed out and could not be saved . <p> Following years of a war that caused horrific death , displacement and destruction , Assad 's leaving without a fight spared additional bloodshed on a massive scale -- at least for now . <p> His departure has been followed by scenes of jubilation as Syrians have reunited with loved ones from formerly cut off parts of the country or newly released from prisons . <p> But in a deeply divided society , many will remain in fear of what the new rulers , with their notorious record of atrocities , might bring . <p> In episodes reminiscent of the US invasion of Iraq in 2003 , there has been looting and revenge killings of fleeing Syrian soldiers . <p> Libya , whose leader was toppled and killed in the US-backed 2011 insurgency , is a cautionary tale : Initial hope and jubilation were quickly dashed . Thirteen years later , the country remains in a dire state and many people fear civil war . <p> The US would far prefer a chaotic Syria broadly under its control to a unified country that opposes Israel . <p> Keeping Syria in rubble <p> Since 2014 , the US has maintained a direct military occupation of large parts of Syria , primarily in the oil-rich northeastern region , where it is aided by local proxy militias . <p> When Donald Trump was president for the first time , he withdrew some of the US troops but a reported 900 remain . <p> Dana Stroul , then a fellow at the AIPAC-affiliated Washington Institute for Near East Policy , co-chaired the bipartisan " Syria Study Group " setting out goals for US policy . She explained its recommendations in 2019 and how the US would aim to weaken the Syrian state and immiserate its people . <p> The first goal , Stroul said , was to maintain the US military occupation of the most " resource rich " one-third of Syrian territory , encompassing its oil fields and its " agricultural powerhouse . " <p> In addition to " diplomatic and political isolation of the Assad regime , " Stroul emphasized the importance of US economic sanctions and preventing the war-torn country from rebuilding . <p> The commission she co-chaired recommended , as she put it , that the United States use its enormous international leverage to " hold the line on preventing reconstruction aid and technical expertise from going back into Syria . " <p> From 2021-2023 , she had a direct hand in implementing these policies as deputy assistant secretary of defense for the Middle East -- the Pentagon 's top civilian official for the region . <p> Human Rights Watch investigated rebel atrocities in the coastal region around the city of Latakia and in a 2013 report stated that al-Nusra and its allied groups carried out " premeditated and organized " war crimes , including " the systematic killing of entire families . " <p> Nor did such abuses stop with the rebranding to Hayat Tahrir al-Sham . <p> Human Rights Watch says it has documented severe abuses by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham in the Idlib enclave it has controlled in recent years . <p> " Hayat Tahrir al-Sham 's crackdown on perceived opposition to their rule mirrors some of the same oppressive tactics used by the Syrian government , " Lama Fakih , the human rights group 's deputy Middle East director said in 2019 . " There is no legitimate excuse for rounding up opponents and arbitrarily detaining and torturing them . " <p> In March , VOA reported that protests erupted over several days in about 20 locations in the Idlib enclave . <p> " Protesters chant slogans against HTS leader Abu Muhammad al-Julani , demanding the release of prisoners held by the extremist group and an end to its security grip on the enclave , " the US government-funded media network said . <p> Another uprising broke out in May against Hayat Tahrir al-Sham 's " increasingly dictatorial " rule , including allegedly torturing prisoners to death . <p> In a statement on Sunday following the fall of the Damascus government , Human Rights Watch accused Assad of " countless atrocities , crimes against humanity , and other abuses during his 24-year presidency . " It also said that Hayat Tahrir al-Sham and other " non-state armed groups " that " launched the offensive " from Idlib on 27 November , are responsible " for human rights abuses and war crimes . " <p> It even seems likely that al-Julani has been groomed to lead Syria , as Western media are working hard to whitewash his image with sympathetic interviews and coverage . <p> These rebranding efforts rely on assertions that al-Julani and Hayat Tahrir al-Sham have left their past behind . <p> But that was n't always the view . The US government itself asserted in 2017 that " HTS is a merger and any group that merges into it becomes part of al-Qaida 's Syrian network . " <p> It was on that basis that the United States placed a $10 million bounty on al-Julani -- whose real name is Ahmed al-Shara -- a reward that officially remains available to anyone who can help the FBI locate him . <p> Biden admits funding of al-Qaida-linked groups <p> Over the last 13 years , the various armed groups working together to overthrow the Syrian government have been backed by the US , Gulf states , Turkey and Israel itself . <p> In a rare moment of honesty -- one he later had to apologize for -- then US Vice President Joe Biden admitted in 2014 that the surge of funding had aided groups the US considers extremists . <p> Biden said that Turkey , Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates , Qatar and others " were so determined to take down Assad and essentially have a proxy Sunni-Shia war ... that they poured hundreds of millions of dollars , tens , thousands of tons of weapons into anyone who would fight against Assad . " <p> " Except that the people who were being supplied were al-Nusra and al-Qaida and the extremist elements of jihadis coming from other parts of the world , " Biden added . <p> Biden on Syria , 2014 : US allies " poured hundreds of millions of dollars &amp; tens ... thousands of tons of weapons into anyone who would fight against Assad . Except that the people who were being supplied were ... Al-Qaeda and the extremist elements of jihadis. " **26;2215;TOOLONG <p> What Biden did not mention is Operation Timber Sycamore , the massive amount of US funding and training that the CIA , under President Barack Obama , also poured into the multibillion dollar Syria proxy war . <p> In 2017 , The New York Timescalled this " one of the costliest covert action programs in the history of the CIA . " <p> The logic was well summed up by Jake Sullivan , currently Biden 's national security adviser , in a 2012 email to then Secretary of State Hillary Clinton . <p> Netanyahu on Sunday signaled the revival of that policy . He said that Israel would pursue " the same approach we maintained when we set up a field hospital here that treated thousands of Syrians injured during the civil war . Hundreds of Syrian children were born here in Israel . " <p> Since Syria was for decades the backbone of the Axis of Resistance to US hegemony and Israeli settler-colonialism , many in the region view Assad 's downfall as a major strategic win for Israel and the US . <p> Syria was a vital link in the military supply chain -- a land bridge between Iran and its regional ally Hizballah . That Lebanese resistance faction ousted Israeli occupation forces from South Lebanon in 2000 and repelled the attempted Israeli ground invasion which began at the start of October this year . <p> In September 2018 , Foreign Policy magazine reported that Israel had funded " at least 12 rebel groups in southern Syria " , based on reports from " more than two dozen commanders and rank-and-file members of these groups . " https : //t.co/zrvWY7xWy9 <p> The Israeli ground offensive concluded at the end of November with an uneven truce which Israel has already violated more than 100 times , according to the UN . <p> Israel was reportedly desperate for a ceasefire with Hizballah , since its invasion was unable to proceed more than a few kilometers from the border and its military was unable to hold any territory . <p> Its troops were simply beaten by superior Lebanese fighters . <p> Only hours after Damascus fell to the insurgents , Israel launched a new incursion into Syria , Israeli media reported on Sunday . <p> Israeli tanks and soldiers occupied new Syrian land in the Golan Heights , calling it a " buffer zone . " Israel has occupied most of Syria 's southwestern Golan region since its invasion of 1967 -- expelling most of the Syrian population there . <p> Israel unilaterally annexed the occupied Syrian territory in 1981 and has colonized the land with about 20,000 settlers . <p> Pro-Israel insurgents ? <p> Assad 's opponents are celebrating what they hope will be a new dawn for Syria . But many people in the region view the insurgents ' offensive as deliberately timed to aid Israel . <p> Netanyahu 's claim of responsibility for the fall of Damascus to the insurgents on Sunday morning will only reinforce that view . <p> Former al-Qaida leader al-Julani , for his part , sounds almost like a pro-Israel lobbyist . In one recent video he made reference to what he termed " Iran 's wars against the region " -- echoing language frequently used by Netanyahu since October 2023 . <p> Al-Qaida and other similar groups tend to view the region through an extremist Sunni Muslim sectarian lens , considering Shia Muslim-majority Iran and the Shia Muslim group Hizballah as mortal enemies . Whether tacitly or openly , that allows such groups to make common cause with Israel and the United States -- as US official Jake Sullivan acknowledged in his notorious 2012 email . <p> " We were very happy when you attacked Hizballah , " one " opposition activist " recently told an Israeli journalist who aired his comments on TV . " We are happy to help you , " the activist added . " We love the state of Israel and we have never been its enemy , because it does n't harm anyone if no one harms it . " <p> In another interview with The Times of Israel , one " rebel commander " told the news site that his US-backed Free Syrian Army were ready to normalize relations with Israel -- despite the ongoing Israeli genocide against the Palestinians and the decades-long illegal Israeli occupation of Syrian territory . <p> " We will go for full peace with Israel , " the commander said . " Since the outbreak of the Syrian civil war , we have never made any critical comments against Israel , unlike Hizballah , who stated they aim to liberate Jerusalem and the Golan Heights . " <p> The insurgent commander speaking to the Israeli news site also hinted that he may already have been in contact with Israeli officials . <p> Israel took control of the Syrian side of Mount Hermon&amp;the buffer zone . Netanyahu said that the 1974 disengagement agreement with Syria sanctioned by UNSC which ended Yom Kippur war crumbles and is no longer in place . Let 's wait and see if its a temporary step or a new annexation <p> Even if these unidentified figures are not speaking officially , such whitewashing of the genocidal Israeli regime will not fill Palestinians with hope , especially those in Gaza . <p> Speaking to an Israeli TV channel , Israeli military intelligence officer Mordechai Kedar said that he is " in constant contact with the leaders of the Syrian opposition factions ... They are ready for a peace agreement with Israel , only if they get to control Syria and Lebanon . " <p> Such statements will alarm people in Lebanon as a warning that their country could be the next target , part of an effort to draw Hizballah into a civil war . <p> " Leaders of Syrian opposition factions have conveyed to Tel Aviv that they are planning to open an Israeli embassy in Damascus and Beirut , " Kedar claimed . <p> Reporting on the comments of another " rebel commander " to Israeli government broadcaster Channel 12 , The Times of Israelnoted last week that the " offensive was launched just as a ceasefire went into effect " between Israel and Hizballah . <p> According to this commander , the timing was no coincidence . <p> " We looked at the ceasefire agreement with Hizballah and understood that this is the time ... We will not let Hizballah fight in our areas and we will not let the Iranians take root there , " he said . <p> The commander said his goal was to replace the Syrian government with one that has good relations with Israel , the news site reported . <p> Some of this might be spin , wishful thinking or outright fabrication . But given more than a decade of US backing for these groups , their sponsors clearly consider them much preferable to groups whose declared goal is resistance to Israel . <p> Sectarian plots <p> The newly dominant insurgents have longstanding grudges against the resistance . <p> Hizballah intervened in Syria in 2013 after the US proxy war against the country that began two years earlier came close to toppling the government in Damascus . <p> The group and its Axis of Resistance ally Iran -- along with Russia , which has military bases in the country -- prevented the government from being overthrown . <p> With the militias that have taken over Syria now in a position to dominate the country , the future of the resistance axis is uncertain . <p> Some Israeli planners are plotting to carve up Syria into warring ethnic and sectarian cantons -- a classic colonial divide and rule strategy . <p> In an interview published by The Times of Israel on Monday , Israeli military intelligence colonel Wahabi Anan Wahabi laid out his plan for what the news site described as " a loose confederation of four ethnic substates . " <p> Wahabi said that " the country is already divided into four cantons . The next step is to make this division official . " <p> " The modern nation-state has failed in the Middle East , " he claimed . <p> " American-Israeli emergency plan " <p> The US closely coordinated the Idlib offensive with Israel . <p> An informed source toldSaid Arikat , the respected Washington correspondent of the Palestinian newspaper Al-Quds , that the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham offensive was planned in coordination with the US , Israel and Turkey . <p> It " came as a result of an American-Israeli ' emergency plan ' coordinated by the administration of President Joe Biden with Turkey " and that it " was implemented according to an American vision for the day after the ceasefire agreement between Lebanon and Israel . " <p> Arikat wrote that his source had previously trained insurgents including the al-Qaida affiliate Jabhat al-Nusra and its successor Hayat Tahrir al-Sham in bases in Jordan and Turkey until 2021 . <p> The Israeli invasion on Sunday appears to have been in preparation for some time . <p> Only one week before the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham offensive was launched , Israeli media reported that the chief of the Shin Bet , Israel 's secret police , had been in Turkey for a meeting with the head of a Turkish intelligence agency . <p> Also one week before the offensive , Israel began new illegal construction in the demilitarized zone between the Syrian-controlled and the Israeli-occupied sectors of the Golan Heights in violation of the 1974 disengagement agreement . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> According to UNDOF , the United Nations peacekeeping force which monitors the ceasefire , these were " severe violations . " <p> Syrians , regardless of their political outlook , will want to see their country back on its feet , united and independent as soon as possible . No supporter of Palestinian liberation has anything to fear from a truly sovereign Syria . <p> That is precisely why there are many powerful outside forces , principally Israel and the United States , who want Syria to remain weak and become subservient to their agenda . If division , dependency and chaos are the only ways to achieve that , then that is what they will foster and foment . <p> Israel , for its part , is wasting no time capitalizing on the tumultuous and historic events to seize more land and consolidate its genocidal grip on the region . <p> Asa Winstanley is an associate editor with The Electronic Intifada and Ali Abunimah is executive director of The Electronic Intifada . <p> The long-harboured aspirations of the US , Turkey and Israel to topple the Syrian government , mainly through their rebranded al-Qaeda allies , succeeded at lightning speed . Damascus fell days after Hay'at Tahrir ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118839733 <h> Finland : After racist scandals hit govt , it must take a stand against racial discrimination and xenophobia to ensure the respect of CERD <h> Share : <p> Protesters rallied against racism outside the Parliament building in Helsinki during a demonstration , July 2023 ( Image : Susanna Pesonen -- Yle ) <p> Geneva -- Following subtle and overt incidents of discrimination and recent racist scandals rocked the Finnish government , it must take urgent action against harmful policies , hate speech , and misleading narratives that fuel negative perceptions of migrants and refugees and risk the impairment of their rights . Since the Finns party took control of the government in 2023 and especially in the past few months , Finland has grappled with issues of racism and xenophobia , particularly concerning the reduction of refugee quotas from Muslim-majority countries . <p> Regarding UNHCR 's resettlement programme of 2025 , which will determine the numbers and nationality of refugees to admit to the territory , Interior Minister Mari Rantanen and Acting Interior Minister Lulu Ranne allegedly directed officials to exclude quota refugees from Muslim-majority countries and increase the quota for those from Christian-majority nations . This led to Finland 's Non-Discrimination Ombudsman issuing a warning that such a move would likely be discriminatory on religious grounds . <p> The final decision on the 2025 refugee quota is still under review , but it seems that Interior Minister Rantanen has proposed to accept refugees mainly from Afghanistan , the Democratic Republic of the Congo , Syria , and Venezuela , as well as refugees displaced from Libya to Rwanda . <p> Finnish Parliament will make the final decision in December , but the investigation by the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman into whether Minister Rantanen and Acting Minister Ranne sought to favor refugees from Christian-majority countries during the planning process is ongoing . <p> Because of her handling of the refugee quota process , the opposition ( Left Alliance and Green Party ) filed a motion of no confidence in Interior Minister Rantanen . <p> The proposal should be based on the estimate of global needs concerning refugee resettlement prepared by UNHCR each year , and on the scheme submitted to Finland by UNHCR , but it is ultimately the government that determines the quota for refugees allowed to be admitted . <p> Minister Rantanen has refused to comment on the matter , but she and her government are not new to this type of serious and unsettling scandal . According to Finnish media , in February the Interior Minister used a hashtag related to the far-right 's " replacement theory " when sharing a post concerning demographic changes in Espoo , Southern Finland . Moreover , her website was recently updated to remove the sentence : " We must n't be so blue-eyed that soon we wo n't be blue-eyed " , resting on the false idea that immigration and multiculturalism pose a fundamental threat to the Finnish white population . <p> Similarly , Minister of Justice Leena Meri stated in February that the National Coalition 's proposal to double the number of work permits granted to non-EU citizens indicates a readiness to replace the population . <p> After a series of similar scandals rocked the current administration , including racist comments made by different ministers , the response of the current government has consisted only of a campaign to tackle racist violence , harassment , and discrimination among civilians , titled " Me puhumme teoin " , which translates to " Action , not only words " . <p> " Declarations and intentions in the political arena , especially when tackling migration and encouraging threats , are like weapons , for the starkness and the strength with which they shape public opinion means they must therefore be handled with great care , especially considering that hate crimes have increased in Finland and most are racist crimes according to the Ministry of the Interior itself , " commented Michela Pugliese , researcher at Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor . <p> " It 's racial discrimination when we observe any exclusion , restriction , or preference based on colour , religion , or national or ethnic origin , " she continued , " whose purpose or effect is the impairment of the enjoyment or exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms . It 's illegal and must have not the slightest place at all in public discourses and policies , in Europe or elsewhere . " <p> Hand-in-hand with discriminatory intentions , inflammatory language in politics often forgoes the facts . <p> During the years 2001 -- 2019 , the refugee quota for Finland was 750 persons per year . The quota was 850 persons in 2020 ; 1,050 persons in 2021 ; 1,500 persons in 2022 ; and 1,050 persons in 2023 . Since 2023 there has been a significant reduction , as for 2024 and 2025 the number of individuals from refugee camps who will reach Finland 's airport in Vantaa each year is only 500 . <p> Moreover , the current government continues to propose stricter immigration laws , including extending the period of residence required for Finnish citizenship from five to eight years , reducing financial support for asylum seekers , and issuing shorter residence permits . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Euro-Med Monitor calls on the government of Finland to respect and fulfill the obligations outlined in international human rights instruments , notably the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination , ratified by Finland in 1970 ; to respond to occurrences of xenophobia , discrimination , and stigmatisation against migrants and refugees that drive negative public perceptions and fuel anti-immigration discourses ; to ensure inclusivity and consistency in regional approaches to the reception and protection of migrants and refugees , without discriminating against individuals based on nationality , ethnicity , or religion ; and to adopt all necessary measures for swiftly eliminating racial discrimination in all its forms and manifestations . <p> Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor is a Geneva-based independent organization with regional offices across the MENA region and Europe <h> Related Posts <p> Palestinian territory - Israel is systematically closing hospitals in northern Gaza through direct military targeting , a suffocating siege , and the killing , injuring , and arresting of patients , wounded individuals , and medical personnel .... <p> Palestinian Territory - More than 70 Palestinian civilians were killed in an Israeli massacre last November , the majority of whom were women , children , and elderly individuals who belonged to a single ... <p> Palestinian Territory -- Euro-Med Monitor strongly condemns the Israeli parliament 's two new laws banning UNRWA from operating in Israel and barring Israeli authorities from interacting with the organisation . These laws represent ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118839734 <h> How the US and Israel Destroyed Syria and Called it Peace <h> Share : <p> A boy carries an unexploded Rocket Propelled Grenade ( RPG ) at the site of the previous evening 's Israeli airstrike that targeted shipments of weapons that belonged to Syrian government forces in Qamishli , in mainly Kurdish northeastern Syria , on December 10 , 2024 . The UN special envoy for Syria called on Israel on December 10 to halt its military movements and bombardments in Syria , after a war monitor reported 300 air strikes since the fall of president Bashar al-Assad . ( Photo by DELIL SOULEIMAN/ ( Photo by Delil Souleiman / AFP via Getty Images ) <p> In the famous lines of Tacitus , Roman historian , " To ravage , to slaughter , to usurp under false titles , they call empire ; and where they make a desert , they call it peace . " <p> In our age , it is Israel and the U.S. that make a desert and call it peace . <p> The story is simple . In stark violation of international law , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his ministers claim the right to rule over seven million Palestinian Arabs . When Israel 's occupation of Palestinian lands leads to militant resistance , Israel labels the resistance " terrorism " and calls on the U.S. to overthrow the Middle East governments that back the " terrorists . " The U.S. , under the sway of the Israel Lobby , goes to war on Israel 's behalf . <p> The fall of Syria this week is the culmination of the Israel-U.S. campaign against Syria that goes back to 1996 with Netanyahu 's arrival to office as Prime Minister . The Israel-U.S. war on Syria escalated in 2011 and 2012 , when Barack Obama covertly tasked the CIA with the overthrow of the Syrian Government in Operation Timber Sycamore . That effort finally came to " fruition " this week , after more than 300,000 deaths in the Syrian war since 2011 . <p> Syria 's fall came swiftly because of more than a decade of crushing economic sanctions , the burdens of war , the U.S. seizure of Syria 's oil , Russia 's priorities regarding the conflict in Ukraine , and most immediately , Israel 's attacks on Hezbollah , which was the key military backstop to the Syrian Government . No doubt Assad often misplayed his own hand and faced severe internal discontent , but his regime was targeted for collapse for decades by the U.S. and Israel . <p> Before the U.S.-Israel campaign to overthrow Assad began in earnest in 2011 , Syria was a functioning , growing middle-income country . In January 2009 , the IMF Executive Board had this to say : <p> Executive Directors welcomed Syria 's strong macroeconomic performance in recent years , as manifested in the rapid non-oil GDP growth , comfortable level of foreign reserves , and low and declining government debt . This performance reflected both robust regional demand and the authorities ' reform efforts to shift toward a more market- based economy . <p> Since 2011 , the Israel-U.S. perpetual war on Syria , including bombing , jihadists , economic sanctions , U.S. seizure of Syria 's oil fields , and more , has sunk the Syrian people into misery . <p> In the immediate two days following the collapse of the government , Israel conducted about 480 strikes across Syria , and completely destroyed the Syrian fleet in Latakia . Pursuing his expansionist agenda , Prime Minister Netanyahu illegally claimed control over the demilitarized buffer zone in the Golan Heights and declared that the Golan Heights will be a part of the State of Israel " for eternity . " <p> Netanyahu 's ambition to transform the region through war , which dates back almost three decades , is playing out in front of our eyes . In a press conference on December 9th , the Israeli prime minister boasted of an " absolute victory , " justifying the on-going genocide in Gaza and escalating violence throughout the region : <p> I ask you , just think , if we had acceded to those who told us time and again : ' " The war must be stopped " -- we would not have entered Rafah , we would not have seized the Philadelphia Corridor , we would not have eliminated Sinwar , we would not have surprised our enemies in Lebanon and the entire world in a daring operation-stratagem , we would not have eliminated Nasrallah , we would not have destroyed Hezbollah 's underground network , and we would not have exposed Iran 's weakness . The operations that we have carried out since the beginning of the war are dismantling the axis brick by brick . <p> The long history of Israel 's campaign to overthrow the Syrian Government is not widely understood , yet the documentary record is clear . Israel 's war on Syria began with U.S. and Israeli neoconservatives in 1996 , who fashioned a " Clean Break " strategy for the Middle East for Netanyahu as he came to office . The core of the " clean break " strategy called for the Israel ( and the US ) to reject " land for peace , " the idea that Israel would withdraw from the occupied Palestinian lands in return for peace . Instead , Israel would retain the occupied Palestinian lands , rule over the Palestinian people in an Apartheid state , step-by-step ethnically cleanse the state , and enforce so-called " peace for peace " by overthrowing neighboring governments that resisted Israel 's land claims . <p> The Clean Break strategy asserts , " Our claim to the land -- to which we have clung for hope for 2000 years -- is legitimate and noble , " and goes on to state , " Syria challenges Israel on Lebanese soil . An effective approach , and one with which American can sympathize , would be if Israel seized the strategic initiative along its northern borders by engaging Hizballah , Syria , and Iran , as the principal agents of aggression in Lebanon ... " <p> In his 1996 book Fighting Terrorism , Netanyahu set out the new strategy . Israel would not fight the terrorists ; it would fight the states that support the terrorists . More accurately , it would get the US to do Israel 's fighting for it . As he elaborated in 2001 : <p> The first and most crucial thing to understand is this : There is no international terrorism without the support of sovereign states .... Take away all this state support , and the entire scaffolding of international terrorism will collapse into dust . <p> Netanyahu 's strategy was integrated into U.S. foreign policy . Taking out Syria was always a key part of the plan . This was confirmed to General Wesley Clark after 9/11 . He was told , during a visit at the Pentagon , that " we 're going to attack and destroy the governments in seven countries in five years -- we 're going to start with Iraq , and then we 're going to move to Syria , Lebanon , Libya , Somalia , Sudan and Iran . " Iraq would be first , then Syria , and the rest . ( Netanyahu 's campaign for the Iraq War is spelled out in detail in Dennis Fritz 's new book , Deadly Betrayal . The role of the Israel Lobby is spelled out in Ilan Papp ? ' s new book , Lobbying for Zionism on Both Sides of the Atlantic ) . The insurgency that hit U.S. troops in Iraq set back the five-year timeline , but did not change the basic strategy . <p> The U.S. has by now led or sponsored wars against Iraq ( invasion in 2003 ) , Lebanon ( U.S. funding and arming Israel ) , Libya ( NATO bombing in 2011 ) , Syria ( CIA operation during 2010 's ) , Sudan ( supporting rebels to break Sudan apart in 2011 ) , and Somalia ( backing Ethiopia 's invasion in 2006 ) . A prospective U.S. war with Iran , ardently sought by Israel , is still pending . <p> Strange as it might seem , the CIA has repeatedly backed Islamist Jihadists to fight these wars , and jihadists have just toppled the Syrian regime . The CIA , after all , helped to create al-Qaeda in the first place by training , arming , and financing the Mujahideen in Afghanistan from the late 1970s onward . Yes , Osama bin Laden later turned on the U.S. , but his movement was a U.S. creation all the same . Ironically , as Seymour Hershconfirms , it was Assad 's intelligence that " tipped off the U.S. to an impending Al Qaeda bombing attack on the headquarters of the U.S. Navy 's Fifth Fleet . " <p> Operation Timber Sycamore was a billion-dollar CIA covert program launched by Obama to overthrow Bashar al-Assad . The CIA funded , trained , and provided intelligence to radical and extreme Islamist groups . The CIA effort also involved a " rat line " to run weapons from Libya ( attacked by NATO in 2011 ) to the jihadists in Syria . In 2014 , Seymour Hersh described the operation in his piece " The Red Line and the Rat Line " : <p> " A highly classified annex to the report , not made public , described a secret agreement reached in early 2012 between the Obama and Erdogan administrations . It pertained to the rat line . By the terms of the agreement , funding came from Turkey , as well as Saudi Arabia and Qatar ; the CIA , with the support of MI6 , was responsible for getting arms from Gaddafi 's arsenals into Syria . " <p> Soon after the launch of Timber Sycamore , in March 2013 , at a joint conference by President Obama and Prime Minister Netanyahu at the White House , Obama said : " With respect to Syria , the United States continues to work with allies and friends and the Syrian opposition to hasten the end of Assad 's rule . " <p> To the U.S.-Israeli Zionist mentality , a call for negotiation by an adversary is taken as a sign of weakness of the adversary . Those who call for negotiations on the other side typically end up dead -- murdered by Israel or U.S. assets . We 've seen this play out recently in Lebanon . The Lebanese Foreign Minister confirmed that Hassan Nasrallah , Former Secretary-General of Hezbollah had agreed to a ceasefire with Israel days before his assassination . Hezbollah 's willingness to accept a peace agreement according to the Arab-Islamic world 's wishes of a two-state solution is long-standing . Similarly , instead of negotiating to end the war in Gaza , Israel assassinated Hamas ' political chief , Ismail Haniyeh , in Tehran . <p> Similarly in Syria , instead of allowing for a political solution to emerge , the U.S. opposed the peace process multiple times . In 2012 , the UN had negotiated a peace agreement in Syria that was blocked by the Americans , who demanded that Assad must go on the first day of the peace agreement . The U.S. wanted regime change , not peace . In September 2024 , Netanyahu addressed the General Assembly with a map of the Middle East divided between " Blessing " and " Curse , " with Lebanon , Syria , Iraq , and Iran as part of Netanyahu 's curse . The real curse is Israel 's path of mayhem and war , which has now engulfed Lebanon and Syria , with Netayahu 's fervent hope to draw the U.S. into war with Iran as well . <p> The U.S. and Israel are high-fiving that they have successfully wrecked yet another adversary of Israel and defender of the Palestinian cause , with Netanyahu claiming " credit for starting the historic process . " Most likely Syria will now succumb to continued war among the many armed protagonists , as has happened in the previous U.S.-Israeli regime-change operations . <p> In short , American interference , at the behest of Netanyahu 's Israel , has left the Middle East in ruins , with over a million dead and open wars raging in Libya , Sudan , Somalia , Lebanon , Syria , and Palestine , and with Iran on the brink of a nuclear arsenal , being pushed against its own inclinations to this eventuality . <p> All this is in the service of a profoundly unjust cause : to deny Palestinians their political rights in the service of Zionist extremism based on the 7th century BCE Book of Joshua . Remarkably , according to that text -- one relied on by Israel 's own religious zealots -- the Israelites were not even the original inhabitants of the land . Rather , according the text , God instructs Joshua and his warriors to commit multiple genocides to conquer the land . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Against this backdrop , the Arab-Islamic nations and indeed almost all of the world have repeatedly united in the call for a two-state solution and peace between Israel and Palestine . <p> Instead of the two-state solution , Israel and the U.S. have made a desert and called it peace . <p> Jeffrey D Sachs is a University Professor and Director of the Center for Sustainable Development at Columbia University , where he directed The Earth Institute from 2002 until 2016 . He is also President of the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network and a commissioner of the UN Broadband Commission for Development . He has been advisor to three United Nations Secretaries-General , and currently serves as an SDG Advocate under Secretary-General Antonio Guterres . Sachs is the author , most recently , of " A New Foreign Policy : Beyond American Exceptionalism " ( 2020 ) . Other books include : " Building the New American Economy : Smart , Fair , and Sustainable " ( 2017 ) and " The Age of Sustainable Development , " ( 2015 ) with Ban Ki-moon . <h> Related Posts <p> The long-harboured aspirations of the US , Turkey and Israel to topple the Syrian government , mainly through their rebranded al-Qaeda allies , succeeded at lightning speed . Damascus fell days after Hay'at Tahrir ... <p> by Asa Winstanley and Ali Abunimah Israeli tanks were reportedly on the outskirts of Damascus early on Tuesday , as Israel launched airstrikes across the country that are being called " the heaviest in the history of Syria . " ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118839761 <h> Sovereignty , Modernization , and Cooperation Championed at Global South Academic Forum in Shanghai <h> Share : <p> Panelists and attendees championed the cause of sovereignty , modernization , and South-South cooperation at the Global South Academic Forum in Shanghai from December 5 -- 6 . Over 250 guests from 35 countries and regions attended the forum , whose theme was " Global South and Global Modernization . " <p> The forum was hosted by East China Normal University ( ECNU ) and organized by the institution 's School of Communication and Fudan University 's Institute for Global Communication and Integrated Media . Co-organizers included Fudan University 's School of Journalism and Shanghai Jiao Tong University 's School of Media and Communication . <p> The forum kicked off with a performance of ' The Internationale ' in Urdu , Chinese , English , and Spanish , symbolizing the spirit of internationalism that provides vitality to the mood in the Global South . <p> Participants at the forum expressed appreciation for the opportunity to connect diverse voices from the Global South . Participants also emphasized the importance of sharing practical experiences , countering Global North narratives , and fostering mutual understanding between countries , institutions , and social movements of the Global South . There was a common consensus on the importance of building South-South academic and grassroots collaboration independent of Global North-dominated platforms to build a more inclusive world order . <p> The forum featured 51 speakers including well-known scholars , government representatives , and media professionals from 27 countries and regions , including Argentina , Brazil , China , Cuba , Ethiopia , Ghana , Russia , South Africa , Turkey , and Venezuela . <p> Many speakers were members of progressive social movements and political parties , including Zambian Socialist Party Chairman Fred M'membe , Morocco 's Workers Democratic Way Party Deputy General Secretary Abdallah El Harif , and Convenor of the Accra Collective of the Socialist Movement of Ghana Blaise Diboro Kanzonuba Tulo . <p> Representatives from the Landless Workers Movement ( MST ) National Coordinator the Labor Party of Taiwan , South Korea 's People 's Democratic Party , and the National Affairs Bureau of the Asia-Wide Campaign Against U.S.-Japanese Domination and Aggression of Asia also spoke . <p> The New Mood in the Global South <p> Deputy Secretary of the Party Committee of ECNU Meng Zhongjie made opening remarks , emphasizing that China would always be a member of the Global South . " Promoting the development of the international order in a more just and reasonable direction is a sacred historical mission shouldered by the countries of the Global South , and it is also a common contemporary issue faced by the academic community and media of the Global South , " Meng Zhongjie said . <p> Executive Director of Tricontinental : Institute for Social Research , Vijay Prashad , delivered the first keynote address in which he outlined the emergence of " a new mood in the Global South " which he argued was brought about by the Global North 's financial crises , irresponsible warmongering in countries like Libya , and the use of unilateral coercive sanctions on countries like Venezuela . The emergence of BRICS in 2009 signified a push towards greater South-South cooperation , while China 's Belt and Road Initiative provided critical infrastructure for this , he said . Prashad noted that the popular demand for sovereignty and development was what underpinned the new mood in the Global South . <p> Former Deputy Prime Minister of Nepal Narayan Kaji Shrestha delivered the second keynote address which cautioned that countries in the Global South could not copy the exploitative path of modernization pursued by the Global North . Instead , the Global South should develop a model which addresses the needs and aspirations of the people , while taking into account inclusivity and sustainability , he said . Shrestha said that countries in the Global South should pursue regional integration and establish an order that promotes justice , solidarity , and cooperation . <p> The discussion panels at the forum touched on a broad range of topics including hot wars in Ukraine , Gaza , and the Sahel , and the New Cold War in the Taiwan Straits . Speakers also discussed in depth the challenges in developing new strategies for economic development in the Global South , reforming the global financial system , building state capacity , and constructing a new world information and communication order . <p> Learning From China 's Modernization <p> Several speakers discussed the experience of China 's modernization and the lessons that may be derived for governments and social movements in the Global South . Professor of Asian Studies at the University of Adelaide Gao Mobo emphasized the radical restructuring of China 's social relations starting in 1949 and the creation of an egalitarian society as the fundamental foundation for China 's modernization . British economist and Senior Fellow at the Chongyang Institute for Financial Studies at Renmin University , John Ross , highlighted that China has pursued a path of investment-led growth which has resulted in rapid industrialization and vast improvements in life expectancy . <p> Delegates from Gannan in Jiangxi Province , the starting point of the Long March , and Rongjian in Guizhou Province , an ethnic minority village that was one of the last regions in China to escape absolute poverty , explored the experiences and lessons learned from China 's poverty alleviation and rural revitalization programs . Guests from the Global South learned about the experiences of social leaders and party cadres in these regions and the importance of grassroots organization in overcoming backwardness and underdevelopment . <p> The forum also saw the launch of the Global South Book Series which is co-published by ECNU 's International Communication Research Institute , Palgrave Macmillan Publishers , and the Orient Publishing Centre . The book series includes four sub-series including , Global South : Fieldwork in China , Global South : Academic Series , Global South : Academic Translation Series , and Palgrave Series in Global South Studies . <p> A Socialist Path out of the New Cold War <p> In the closing remarks for the forum , Lyu Xinyu , President of the Global South Academic Forum and President of ECNU 's International Communication Research Institute , called for a radical re-examination of the legacy of the Cold War in order to understand the crises of the present . Lyu argued that Western binaries such as " democracy vs. authoritarianism , " which are used to demonize foreign countries , have historically excluded the significance of capitalist crises in fuelling instability and conflict . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Lyu linked the struggles of the Global South to the domination of agriculture , rural areas , and peasants by bourgeois nations . " Whether 21st-century socialist development theories and practices , including development communication , can transcend this logic will determine the shared fate of Global South nations , including China . " <p> Lyu concluded that socialism was critical to transcending racial and cultural barriers and to guarantee sovereignty and solidarity among nations . " Without socialism , independence movements among weaker nations during the imperialist era can not address issues of new and old colonialism . " <p> Shiran Illanperuma is a Sri Lankan political economist and writer . He is a researcher and editor at Tricontinental : Institute for Social Research . He holds an MSc in economic policy from SOAS University of London . His research interests include industrial policy and structural transformation . <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118842982 <h> Iran has been left alone after the weakening of Hezbollah and the fall of the Assad government in Syria . <p> New Delhi : The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) is in the process of attacking Iran 's nuclear bases . Israeli officials said on Thursday , November 12 that this is the right time to strike its nuclear bases after the weakening of Iran-backed rebel groups in West Asia . Military officials are looking for the right opportunity . <p> IDF officials believe that Iran has been left alone after the weakening of Hezbollah in Lebanon and the fall of the Assad government in Syria . In such a situation , it can pursue its nuclear programme and can also make nuclear bombs to increase its firepower . <p> On the other hand , the Israeli army is continuously targeting military bases in Syria by air strikes . <p> Israeli attacks have been going on in Syria since the overthrow of the Bashar al-Assad government . Israel is targeting Syrian military bases and weapons . So far , more than 85% of the air defense system has been destroyed in Israeli attacks . <p> In the attacks , 107 air defense components and 47 radars have been destroyed . Earlier on Sunday and Monday ( November 8 and 9 ) , Israel targeted Syrian airbases and weapons depots . Hundreds of missiles , 27 fighter jets , and 24 helicopters were destroyed in these attacks . <p> Apart from this , Israel also targeted naval bases in Syria 's Latakia area . At least 15 Syrian naval ships were destroyed in the attacks . Israel used more than 1,800 weapons to carry out the attacks . <p> Israel targeted several Hezbollah militants in an airstrike in southern Lebanon on Friday , 13 December 2024 . Israel alleged that the militants posed a threat to Israeli citizens . Apart from this , they were violating the ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon . <p> On the other hand , Israeli attacks continue in the Gaza Strip . Israel targeted several Hamas militants in airstrikes in southern Gaza on Thursday , November 12 . According to Israeli intelligence officials , they were looking to hijack trucks carrying humanitarian aid in Gaza . <p> In Syria , rebel fighters have burned the grave of Assad 's father and former President Hafez al-Assad in Qardaha , Latakia in northwestern Syria . 
@@118843805 <h> Are Western Powers Repeating the Iraq Playbook in Syria ? <p> The dramatic overthrow of Bashar al-Assad 's regime by rebel forces this weekend could reshape Syria 's future and redefine global and regional dynamics , potentially echoing the Iraq saga orchestrated by Western powers . <p> Syria 2014 , portrait of a civil war <p> Over the past fortnight , rebel forces led by the Islamist militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) carried out a lightning-fast offensive across Syria , seizing key cities along the way . The faction finally claimed the capital Damascus at the weekend ( December 7 ) , prompting President Bashar al-Assad to flee and seek refuge in Russia . <p> The overthrow of Assad was greeted cautiously by Western nations who are wary of the potential for further bloodshed and of a power vacuum in Syria if a chaotic and contested transition of leadership takes place . But it would not be wrong to say that these Western powers themselves will make decisions which may lead Syria to further chaos . <p> An example of this was evident when despite American president-elect Donald Trump claiming on social media that ' It 's NOT our war ' , the Biden administration and Israel started aerial pounding to eliminate alleged chemical weapons in Syria . It reminds one of the Iraq story , and the future events might be duplicates of it yet again . <p> The US Central Command ( CENTCOM ) stated that it has struck more than 75 targets , including ISIS leaders , operatives , and camps , to ensure that the group does not take advantage of the chaotic situation following the end of Assad 's rule . Al Jazeera reported Israel carried out 480 air strikes in just two days ( 9-10 December ) across Syria . <p> Israeli troops have already moved into the buffer zone on the edge of the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights . This was a longstanding Israeli dream , and in strategic terms , it means that whosoever controls Golan Heights , could be a threat to Israel , as from the western Golan , it is only about 60 miles -- without major terrain obstacles -- to Haifa and Acre , and Israel 's industrial heartland . A UN spokesman described this as " constituting a violation " of the 1974 disengagement agreement between Israel and Syria . Additionally , Israel 's military offensive in Syria could well be part of the pro-western plan to tame the rebels from day one . <p> The bigger question here is , who gave the right to the US and Israel to bomb Syria , a sovereign state ? They do not have the UN mandate or wider acceptance by other Western powers . So how could they act as the international militia ? <p> Regional Winners <p> At the geopolitical level , the Syrian saga has not yet ended , but it has just begun . After the installation of any caretaker government , the Western powers led by the US and Israel will continue to interfere in the country 's political process besides undermining its defence capabilities , in the name of countering ISIS or al-Qaeda . <p> Meanwhile , Syria 's old supporters Russia and Iran will try to carve out a more robust engagement with the new government . Though for the moment , Al Jolani aka Sharra has indicated his animosity towards Iran , but real-politick and pressure from the Iranian proxies in Syria may make him change his tune . <p> For now , however , the fall of the Assad dynasty after over 50 years in power has more immediate global ramifications , with Russia and Iran seen as " losers " after the ousting of the Syrian dictator , while the US , Turkey and Israel are viewed among the main beneficiaries from the regime change . <p> Europe could also be a beneficiary of the regime change in Syria , if it means fewer displaced refugees entering the region -- a development that has fuelled anti-immigrant sentiment and the rise of populist right-wing parties in recent years , accompanied by a rise in Islamophobia . <p> Two Winners <p> The major immediate geopolitical " winners " are Israel and Turkey , with the former seeing its regional nemesis Iran weakened further , thanks to Assad 's downfall -- while Ankara could emerge as " the most influential " foreign actor in the country . <p> Turkish President Erdogan , Israeli President Herzog and Chief Rabbi Haleva of Turkey at the private dinner hosted in Ankara to celebrate Turkey -- Israel rapprochement in March 2022 <p> Israel is seen as a beneficiary of Assad 's fall because of its impact on Iran , which has used Syria as a supply route to its proxy in Lebanon , Hezbollah . Israel has looked to severely weaken this supply chain as part of its military campaign against Iranian proxies in Lebanon and the Gaza Strip . <p> Besides , there is no doubt that Russia will be concerned over the quantum of influence -- and goodwill -- it can expect from a new leadership in Syria . Moscow has a vested interest in keeping the new government on its side , as it operates an air base in Hmeimim , along with a naval base in Tartus that gives it access to the Mediterranean Sea . <p> Reuters reported citing Russian news agencies that though the rebel forces have given the Kremlin assurances that they would guarantee the safety of Russian military bases and diplomatic institutions in Syria , but Russia 's long-term military presence in the country is seen as far from certain . <p> The Rebellion <p> However , the events of the last 15 days have taken many by surprise . And it may seem like taking another page out of the Arab Spring saga . Just like the Arab Spring , it was a simple act of rebellion . A teenager , a spray can , and a wall . But what happened next would change the course of history , leaving a nation in ruins and a dictator fighting for survival . <p> This is the story of Mouawiya Syasneh , a 14-year-old whose graffiti lit the fuse of the Syrian Civil War . A conflict that has now come full circle as Bashar al-Assad 's grip on power has been crushed . But how did a teenager spark a revolution , and where does Syria stand today ? <p> Let 's take you back to 2011 , to the dusty streets of Daraa in southern Syria . Alex Croft , in his article in The Independent , writes that Mouawiya Syasneh and his friends were like any other teenager -- curious , mischievous , frustrated with the world around them . But Syria was n't just any place . It was a nation ruled with an iron fist , where dissent was dangerous and silence was survival . Armed with nothing but a spray can , Mouawiya sprayed a message on a school wall . The message was a warning which read Ejakel door , ya doctor , which means Now it 's your turn , Doctor . <p> The doctor in the message was President Bashar al-Assad , whose background as an ophthalmologist had earned him the nickname . The graffiti was n't just a jab . It was a spark of defiance against a regime that had held Syria in a chokehold for decades . What happened next was brutal . Mouawiya and his friends were arrested by Syria 's secret police , the notorious Mukhabarat . For 26 days , they were held in captivity , tortured , and humiliated . <p> Asad Mirza <p> When their parents and neighbours demanded their release , the regime responded with violence -- tear gas , bullets , and bloodshed . But instead of silencing the people , the regime 's actions ignited something unstoppable . On March 15 , 2011 , Syrians organised the first Day of Rage . Inspired by the Arab Spring that had toppled dictators in Tunisia and Egypt , Syrians from all walks of life took to the streets , demanding freedom , justice , and the downfall of the Assad regime . <p> However , the fast-paced developments also lead one to wonder whether the Western powers led by the US and in this instance helped by Israel are trying to replay the Iraqi story once again in Syria . The realities are simple to understand , first , create a conflict , then sell arms to the victim country , and thirdly destroy its infrastructure . All for the sake of profit-making , first through arms sale and then reconstruction of that country by Western companies , once the so-called aims of these powers have been allegedly attained or due to increasing international ostracism . <p> ( Asad Mirza is a senior journalist based in New Delhi . In his career spanning more than 20 years , he was also associated with BBC Urdu Service and Khaleej Times of Dubai . Views are personal. ) 
@@118843814 <p> SRINAGAR : India has reiterated its commitment to a peaceful resolution of the Palestine issue amidst ongoing conflict in the Gaza region . In response to questions raised by Members of Parliament Aga Syed Ruhullah Mehdi and Raja A in the Lok Sabha , the Ministry of External Affairs outlined India 's diplomatic and humanitarian efforts , as well as its stance in international forums . <p> The Government expressed concern over the humanitarian crisis in Gaza and emphasised the importance of ensuring " safe , timely , and sustained delivery of humanitarian assistance to the people of Palestine . " Since the outbreak of the conflict , India has provided 70 metric tonnes of humanitarian aid , which includes 16.5 metric tonnes of medicines and medical supplies . Financial support totalling US $10 million has been provided over the last two years to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) . Additionally , 65 tonnes of medicines were dispatched to UNRWA and the Palestinian Ministry of Health in October and November this year . <p> India 's longstanding policy supports a two-state solution , envisioning " the establishment of a sovereign , independent , and viable State of Palestine within secure and recognised borders , living side by side in peace with Israel . " The statement reiterated India 's backing of Palestine 's membership in the United Nations , reinforcing its consistent position on the issue . <p> The government also addressed concerns over the escalation of violence , condemning the terror attacks on Israel on October 7 , 2023 , and expressing regret over the loss of civilian lives in the ongoing conflict . The government has called for " a ceasefire , the release of all hostages , and peaceful resolution of the conflict through dialogue and diplomacy . " <p> Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Minister of External Affairs have been actively engaging with global leaders , including the President and Prime Minister of Israel and the President and Foreign Minister of Palestine , to facilitate dialogue . India has raised its position at various international forums , including the United Nations , BRICS , the Non-Aligned Movement ( NAM ) , and the Voice of Global South . <p> During the Summit of the Future held in New York on September 22 , 2024 , Prime Minister Modi met with the Palestinian President . The discussion reiterated India 's support for a ceasefire and a return to diplomacy as the only viable path forward . <p> India has thus balanced its historical support for the Palestinian cause with its broader diplomatic engagements , seeking to mediate through humanitarian aid , dialogue , and advocacy for peace . 
@@118843820 <h> " As bombs hit the Middle East , poisonous and biased propaganda against the Muslims in India goes about uncontrolled , revealing that the ground realities are turning bleaker and darker and worrying . " <p> Humra Quraishi <p> The year is ending in an extremely worrying scenario . What with bombardments and killings and havoc ongoing in the Middle East . Mind you , Israel 's targeted attacks are spreading out from Gaza and around , now on to Syria . <p> The destruction is peaking , and together with that , an obvious expansionist design seems to unfold . Where and how will this end ? And above all , when will it end ? Hundreds and thousands of Palestinians , Lebanese , and Syrians are already ruined ! Many more were affected . The destruction continues and there are no signs of halting this bloody destruction . Blood and bloodshed spread out . <p> Commentators relay that the situation in Syria is compounding as Israel and its allies quickly intrude into its territory , along with expansionist strategies . I 'm reminded of what Noam Chomsky told me during an earlier interview over two decades back when he was visiting New Delhi . His comments were of much significance . <p> During that interview , when I 'd asked Chomsky what changes he could foresee or apprehend in the changing world order , he detailed the havoc that superpower America along with its allies could be furthering its strategies . <p> To quote Chomsky from that interview : <p> " The threat of terrorism is not the only abyss into which we peer ... an even greater threat is posed by the expansion of arms race ... the term ' race ' is inappropriate because the USA is , for now , competing alone . Its goal is to achieve ' full spectrum dominance ' . <p> These plans have been available in government documents for some years , and the projects outlined are being developed . They were expanded in the first months of the Bush administration and again after 11 September in a crude exploitation of the fear and horror engendered by these crimes ... it is conventional everywhere for the attack to be ' defense ' and this case is no exception . <p> The plans for the militarization of space are disguised as ' Ballistic Missile Defense ' ( BMD ) . And it is well understood that BMD , even if technically feasible , must rely on satellite communication . Destroying satellites is far easier than shooting down missiles . <p> This is one reason why the USA must seek full spectrum dominance , such overwhelming control of space that even the poor man 's weapons will not be available to an adversary ... the goal of militarization of space extends far beyond . The Clinton era publications announce the primary goal prominently -- ' Dominating the space dimension of military operations . <p> " To protect US interests and investment . ' Armies were needed ' during the westward expansion of continental United States ' ! Of course , in self-defense against the Indigenous population ! " <p> And if one were to focus attention on our country , the communal situation is more than worrying . The recent utterances of a sitting judge of the Allahabad High Court could be termed alarming . Yes , alarming ! Blatantly communal and along the typical Hindutva strain . One can well imagine the trickle-down effect of such widespread bias and communal attitude against the minority Muslim community in the country . <p> Communally surcharged obnoxious comments , together with abusive language , have accelerated in recent years . Several right-wing parliamentarians have used gutter-abusive language in the context of the Muslims of the country . And they seem to have gotten away with all their utterances . Even the political rulers of the day , who came up with hate speeches , giving one hate speech after another , have gone about unapologetic ! <p> It would n't be incorrect to say that there stands a definite pattern to target the Muslim community and their faith . Propaganda is ongoing . Made to take off along various alibis , from many platforms and forums . <p> Such is the extent of the negativities spread out about the Muslims of the country that it seems there exists a well-planned strategy of the right-wing to target the Muslims in a very systematic way . Heap all possible blame on them . Hit them along the economic , financial , and social strain . Target their places of worship . Unleash fear in them . Spread out myths and misconceptions about them ... And the gullible are fed on this anti-Muslim diet , as the political mafia continues to flourish on the lethal combination of hate and hatred . <p> And as this poisonous and biased propaganda against the Muslim community goes about uncontrolled , the ground realities are turning bleaker and darker and worrying . <p> Leaving you with these lines of Sahir Ludhianvi ... <p> These lines of Sahir Ludhianvi from his poem ' Khoon phir khoon hai ' ( Blood , however , is blood ) tucked in the volume ' A Celebration of Progressive Urdu Poetry -- Anthems of Resistance ' ( IndiaInk/Roli Books ) by Ali Hussain Mir and Raza Mir : <p> Tyranny is but tyranny ; when it grows it is vanquished <p> Blood , however , is blood ; if it spills it will congeal <p> It will congeal on the desert sands , on the murderer 's hand <p> On the brow of justice and chained feet <p> On the unjust sword , on the sacrificial body <p> Blood is blood ; if it spills it will take root <p> Let them hide all they want , skulk in their lairs <p> The track of spilled blood will point out the executioners ' abode <p> Let conspiracies shroud the truth with darkness <p> Each drop of blood will march out , holding aloft a lamp <p> Say this to tyranny 's worthless and dishonoured Destiny <p> say this to Coercion 's manipulative intent <p> say this to Laila , the darling of the assembly <p> Blood is wild , it will splatter and stain your garment <p> It is a rapid flame that will scorch your harvests <p> That blood which you wished to bury in the killing fields <p> has risen today in the streets and courts <p> Somewhere as a flame , somewhere as a slogan . Somewhere else as a flung stone 
@@118852131 <h> Support peaceful Syrian political transition : Blinken urges nations <p> Jerusalem , Dec 13 : US Secretary of State Antony Blinken is pressing ahead with efforts to unify Middle East nations in support of a peaceful political transition in Syria . On Friday he met Turkiye 's foreign minister after talks with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to try to bring Turkiye into a consensus to prevent Syria from collapsing into wider turmoil . It 's Blinken 's 12th trip to the Mideast since the Israel-Hamas war erupted in Gaza last year but first since the ouster of Syrian President Bashar Assad . The outgoing Biden administration is particularly concerned that a power vacuum in Syria could exacerbate already heightened tensions in the region and create conditions for the Islamic State group to regain territory and influence.US and Turkiye on Syria 's future Blinken said Friday there was " broad agreement " between Turkiye and the United States on what they would like to see in Syria following the ouster of President Assad . " There 's broad agreement on what we would like to see going forward , starting with the interim government in Syria , one that is inclusive and non-sectarian and one that protects the rights of minorities and women " and does not " pose any kind of threat to any of Syria 's neighbours , " Blinken said in joint statements with Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan . The insurgent groups that toppled Assad in Syria have not made clear their policy or stance on Israel , whose military in recent days has bombed sites all over the country , saying it is trying to prevent weapons from falling into extremist hands . Blinken also said it was crucial to keep the Islamic State group under control . " We also discussed the imperative of continuing the efforts to keep ISIS down . Our countries worked very hard and gave a lot over many years to ensure the elimination of the territorial caliphate of ISIS to ensure that that threat does n't rear its head again , " Blinken said . The Turkish foreign minister said the two discussed ways of establishing prosperity in Syria and ending terrorism in the country . " Our priority is establishing stability in Syria as soon as possible , preventing terrorism from gaining ground , and ensuring that IS and the PKK are n't dominant , " Fidan said , in a reference to the banned Kurdistan Workers Party . Blinken said : " We 're very focused on Syria , very focused on the opportunity that now is before us and before the Syrian people to move from out from under the shackles of Bashar al-Assad to a different and better future for the Syrian people , one that the Syrian people decide for themselves . " Blinken and Fidan said they had also discussed a ceasefire for Gaza . " We 've seen in the last couple of weeks more encouraging signs that ( a ceasefire ) is possible , " Blinken said.Turkiye to reopen embassy in Syria Turkiye has appointed a temporary charge d'affaires to reopen its embassy in Syria , Turkiye 's state-run news agency reported . The Turkish Embassy in Damascus had suspended operations in 2012 due to the escalating security problems during the Syrian civil war and embassy staff and their families were recalled to Turkiye . The Anadolu Agency said late Thursday that Turkiye appointed Burhan Koroglu , its ambassador in Mauritania , to the post.UN aid convoys attacked in Gaza Two UN aid convoys were violently attacked in Gaza , making it virtually impossible for humanitarian agencies to operate without putting staff and civilians at risk , the UN food agency says . On Wednesday , a 70-truck convoy from Kerem Shalom was waiting for personnel to safeguard the food and other aid destined for central Gaza when there were reported attacks by Israeli forces in the nearby humanitarian zone , the UN World Food Programme said Thursday . More than 50 people are now estimated to have died in the attacks , including civilians and local security personnel who had been expected to ensure the convoy 's safety , WFP said . The Rome-based agency said the convoy was forced to proceed from Kerem Shalom to central Gaza without any security arrangements , using the Philadelphi corridor , an Israeli-controlled route that had been recently approved and successfully utilised twice . On the way , WFP said , conflict and insecurity led to a loss of communications with the convoy for more than 12 hours . " Eventually , the trucks were found but all food and aid supplies were looted , " the UN agency said . In a second incident , Israeli soldiers approached a WFP convoy moving out of the Kissufim crossing into central Gaza , fired warning shots , conducted extensive security checks , and temporarily detained drivers and staff , the agency said . " As the trucks were delayed , four out of the five trucks were lost to violent armed looting , " WFP said.UN chief urges Israel to stop attacks on Syria The United Nations chief has a message for Israel : Stop the attacks on Syria . Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres is particularly concerned about several hundred Israeli airstrikes on several Syrian locations and stresses " the urgent need to de-escalate violence on all fronts throughout the country , " UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric told reporters Thursday . The Israeli military said Tuesday it carried out more than 350 strikes in Syria over the previous 48 hours , hitting " most of the strategic weapons stockpiles " in the country to stop them from falling into the hands of extremists . Israel also acknowledged pushing into a buffer zone inside Syria following last week 's overthrow of President Assad . The buffer zone was established after Israel seized the Golan Heights from Syria in the 1973 war . Dujarric said Guterres condemns all actions violating the 1974 ceasefire agreement between the two countries that remains in force . And the UN chief calls on the parties to uphold the agreement and end " all unauthorised presence in the area of separation " and refrain from any action undermining the ceasefire and stability in the Golan Heights , the spokesman said . ( AP ) <h> Follow us <h> About Us <p> The Shillong Times first appeared as a tabloid weekly on 10th August 1945 under the editorship of Late Sudhindra Bhusan Chaudhuri . In 1958 it was converted to a Daily . Owing to financial constraints , within six months it reverted back to a weekly . 
@@118854025 <p> Consultation on the proposed ban will run until March 31 next year and includes a separate future outlawing of " other extremist symbols " . <p> As elsewhere in Europe , antisemitic incidents have surged in Switzerland in recent years particularly after the start of Israel 's war against Hamas in the Gaza Strip sparked by the militants ' attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 . <p> Last year , the Intercommunity Coordination Against Anti-Semitism and Defamation recorded 944 antisemitic incidents in French-speaking Switzerland -- 70 per cent more than in 2022 . <p> " This considerable increase is largely due to the Israel-Hamas conflict which has served and continues to serve as a pretext for the surge in anti-Semitism , " the group said in its annual report . <p> In German- and Italian-speaking areas of Switzerland , the increase was less marked , increasing from 910 incidents in 2022 to 1,130 last year , according to the Swiss Federation of Jewish Communities and the Foundation Against Racism and Anti-Semitism ( GRA ) . <p> Disclaimer : This story has been published from a news agency feed with minimal edits to adhere to WION 's style guide . The headline may have been changed to better reflect the content of the story or to make it more suitable for WION audience . 
@@118863573 <p> The talks focused on a critical hostage deal that could mark a turning point in the prolonged crisis . After the meeting , Sullivan expressed optimism : " I got the sense from the Prime Minister that he is ready to do a deal . " <p> advertisement <p> Sullivan added , " We ca n't rest until it ( hostage deal ) actually happens . It might not happen , but I believe it can happen with political will on both sides . The Israeli Government has indicated they would like to see this done , including the Prime Minister ( Netanyahu ) . We see movement from Hamas . We see a commitment from the mediators . And , I will go to Doha and Cairo to ensure the final impetus is there to bring this all together . " <p> " We 've been close before and have n't gotten there , so I ca n't make any promises or predictions to you . But I would n't be here today if I thought this was waiting until after January 20th ( Trump 's inauguration ) . I am here today because I believe every day matters , and we will use every day we have to try to close the deal as soon as we possibly can , " Sullivan said . <p> Netanyahu 's readiness to negotiate has raised hopes for the release of hostages still held by Hamas . <p> The urgency is clear . Families of hostages in both the US and Israel have been pleading for action , especially after a failed truce earlier this year left some hostages killed . <p> Sullivan emphasized the need for immediate progress , dismissing claims that Netanyahu might be stalling for political reasons , saying , " We want to close this deal this month . " <p> Recent reports suggest a shift in Hamas ' stance , with the group reportedly agreeing to key Israeli demands . This includes allowing IDF forces to remain in Gaza during a fighting pause and dropping its demand for a permanent halt to Israeli operations . <p> A list of hostages , including Americans , has reportedly been handed over , but questions remain about how many will be released and their identities . <p> International pressure is mounting . This week , the UN General Assembly overwhelmingly called for an immediate , unconditional ceasefire and the release of all hostages . While not binding , the resolution reflects global consensus on the situation 's urgency . <p> Sullivan will travel to Qatar and Egypt , key players in mediating these negotiations . The stakes could n't be higher as the world watches for a breakthrough in this deeply complex and heartbreaking crisis . 
@@118863670 <h> The Assads were an abomination , but the unidimensional world of Islamist ' rebels ' does not bode well for Syria either <p> Syrian Kurds , fleeing their homes in the outskirts of the northern city of Aleppo after they were seized by Islamist-led rebels , arrive with their belongings to Tabaqah , on the western outskirts of Raqa . ( IMAGE : AFP ) <p> The replacement of the much-reviled Bashar al-Assad regime in Syria by a so-called " rebel force " that is actually just an Islamist offshoot of al-Qaeda and ISIS -- which , remember , was headquartered in the Syrian city of Raqqa from 2014 to 2017 -- once again underlines how the turbulent history of that region is painted in countless shades of grey . As if the ongoing war between Israel and the equally Islamist Hamas left you in any doubt about that , of course . <p> The Assads had ruled Syria with a mix of fear and murderous brutality for over 50 years . But that family , their Ba'ath Party and that general cohort were not religious fanatics . In fact , they professed the sort of secular socialism which evolved into the crony **30;449;TOOLONG seen in many countries ruled by similarly inclined people and parties . Even India and the Congress Party of the mid-1970s were not unlike Syria during that same period . <h> related stories <p> The difference , of course , is that the Emergency in India marked the apogee and also the end of authoritarianism . India never degenerated into a single-party rule -- which appears to be the main cause of the rise of the Islamist factions all over West Asia today . Ironically , authoritarian secularism ( and in Syria 's case , also minority rule by the Shia Alawite tribe of the Assads ) has led to the ascent of doctrinaire Sunni Islam and power being captured by its adherents . <p> As the news channels broke the news of the fall of Assad 's government in Syria , I saw London 's Oxford Street become an impromptu victory procession of cars with young men honking , shouting and hanging out of windows brandishing their homeland 's distinctive opposition flag . It continued for well over an hour without any of London 's uniformed finest visible . Maybe the Metropolitan Police were just relieved it was not yet another fraught pro-Gaza demonstration . <p> But having lived in Syria during the regime of this just-ousted socialist dictator 's father , I had mixed feelings . How would those fashionably puffer-jacket-clad Syrians cheering in London fare under the country 's new rulers whose roots are in the Salafi-jihadist school although they profess to have " moved " to a more accommodating position ? Do Syrians not know what 's happening in Afghanistan , whose Taliban rulers mouthed similar lines and then recanted ? <p> When my father was India 's ambassador to Syria , the then President Hafez al-Assad ordered the Hama massacre in 1982 , triggered by a long-brewing uprising in that city 200km north of Damascus by the Muslim Brotherhood , an avowedly religious grouping . As the Ba'athists rammed through their One-Party agenda , the One-God-ists coalesced too . It was evident that the stage was being set for a cataclysmic clash , if not of civilisations but certainly of cultures . <p> In the middle , ordinary Syrians in Damascus and elsewhere tried to get on with their lives . The streets bustled with quotidian commerce , youngsters of both sexes noisily swarmed out of schools and colleges , foreign tourists soaked in the sun and the civilisational ethos of Syria . Even the smiling locals working in the Indian embassy all hailed from good families ; the moustachioed ( but beardless ) men wore suits and the women wore short dresses and makeup to work . <p> Now , 42 years later , a former IS affiliate Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham has stormed to power and is promising an egalitarian ( if Islamic ) future . Their leaders , including the charismatic Ahmed al-Sharaa , have spoken of amnesty for Syrian soldiers and fair play for religious and ethnic minorities including Christians and Alawites . There are already far more scarves and beards now in Syria than when I roamed , awestruck , through Umayyad Square and the old city in the 1980s . <p> The Indian ambassador 's residence in Damascus for the longest time had Hafez al-Assad 's official palace as an unwanted neighbour . My father ensured that India House finally shifted to a more salubrious area , but it was hard to ignore the presence of the Assads . Especially Bassel , the handsome but goonish elder son of President Assad , and his trigger-happy praetorian guard . The First Family was feared -- just like in those in communist Eastern Europe of that time . <p> But it was the weak-chinned , ophthalmologist second son Bashar who finally surpassed even his father 's record of brutal suppression : hundreds of thousands of Syrians were arrested , imprisoned , tortured , maimed and killed , particularly since 2011 , leading to huge numbers of their kith and kin fleeing the country to Europe and North America . However , what ISIS " fighters " were doing in their strongholds -- to Syrians too , among others -- was also precisely that . <p> So whether Assad or the Islamists , ordinary Syrians are stuck between a rock and a hard place . It 's rather unfair because they also have had to weather 400 years of Ottoman rule followed by a League of Nations ' mandated quasi-colonial period of French control under a series of inept ( figure ) heads of state and then musical chairs by Syrian politicians from elite families . Then events in the past century appear to have conspired to lead up to this arrival of the Islamists . <p> Dictators do n't get good press ; " rebels " invariably do . Unfortunately , this rule , when applied to the operating arenas of Islamist uprisings , does not always have pleasant outcomes . Right now the media ( and even sections of social media ) are showing that same willingness to believe the assurances of the HTS in Syria as they were of the " moderate " Taliban . Soon the " terrorist " status of HTS will also be withdrawn . What lessons will other jihadi groups learn from that ? <p> Meanwhile , does the world know or care about what has happened to other Arab countries whose " secular " dictators ( who kept a tight rein on religious life ) were ousted earlier -- Saddam Hussein in Iraq and Muammar Gaddafi in Libya ? Both countries have Islamist movements and are prone to permanent strife as various groups jostle for power . And the turmoil has led to the spread of jihadi ideology and networks to their neighbouring nations in Africa and Arab Asia . <h> top videos <p> That does not bode well for Syrians , although they are well rid of the Assads . Syria has always been a centre of culture and civilisation , capitalising on its prime location within the Fertile Crescent . If the Assads were an abomination , the unidimensional world of Islamist ' rebels ' , no matter how glibly spindoctored as egalitarian and " technocratic " , will not gel with Syria 's legacy either . I ca n't see the new dawn that Syrians are proclaiming right now -- just grey skies . <p> The author is a freelance writer . Views expressed in the above piece are personal and solely those of the author . They do not necessarily reflect News18 's views . 
@@118863730 <h> The framework that ended Lebanon 's war in 2006 could help end this one too , says Tarek Mitri <h> Lebanon 's former foreign minister says any Israeli plan to reshape the country is a recipe for more chaos <p> The Economist <p> Published14 Dec 2024 , 06:05 PM IST <p> This picture shows the destruction in the southern Lebanese village of Khiam on December 13 , 2024 , after Israel withdrew from the area as Lebanon 's army deployed under a ceasefire deal with Hezbollah . ( Photo by AFP ) <p> FOR ISRAEL , Lebanon is once again a killing field . Air strikes and now an ever-growing ground incursion have exacted an enormous price from Lebanese civilians . But to see Israel 's stated goal of the complete destruction of Hizbullah as a way toward peace is misguided , because it views Hizbullah through too narrow a lens . Instead there is hope , conditional on American pressure , for a durable ceasefire drawing on the plan that put an end to the war with Israel in 2006 and embodied in UN Security Council Resolution 1701 . <p> A conservative government estimate suggests that in the current conflict 1.2m Lebanese people -- nearly a quarter of the population -- have been displaced . As targeted air strikes decimated military and political leaders of Hizbullah , more than 2,000 have been killed and 10,000 injured . Never in any war in Lebanon have military operations killed so many rescue workers , firefighters and paramedics . In southern Lebanon several villages have been emptied and flattened . As in Gaza , the Israeli army has proved its disregard for international humanitarian law , specifically the notions of proportionality and distinction between combatants and civilians . <p> What , at this stage , remains of Hizbullah and its capabilities ? Its leadership is probably disorientated and facing debilitating communication and co-ordination problems . But it is not just a military organisation , and thus in any event it will not disappear . It has been a grave mistake for Israel and other enemies of Hizbullah to cast it as merely a part of Iran 's surrogate network . In addition to its military structure , it is a strong Lebanese party with a highly influential political representation . It runs a constellation of civil and community efforts , such as a large web of educational and health institutions . Its considerable popular following -- crucially , not only among the country 's Shia Muslims -- is undeniable . <p> Many Lebanese therefore do not think that the defeat of Hizbullah is necessarily a gain for them . To be clear , plenty of people , perhaps a majority , disputed the group 's decision to risk dragging Lebanon into all-out war . They now blame it for drawing Israel 's fury . Nevertheless , most Lebanese do not see the Israelis as their liberators . <p> The rhyming of history matters here . An Israeli invasion in 1982 aimed at Palestinian militants led to war and an 18-year occupation in the country 's south , and the creation of a buffer zone in the border area . This occupation was the crucible in which Hizbullah was formed : militants mostly from southern towns and villages fought relentlessly , achieving a total Israeli withdrawal in 2000 . <p> No less a rhyme is the war in 2006 . Israel 's objective , then as now , was to degrade Hizbullah 's capabilities . But the wider destruction was severe . Fierce resistance , Lebanese diplomatic efforts and the belated displeasure of America helped prevent even more devastation . What formally ended the war was Resolution 1701 , which called for a cessation of hostilities and Israeli withdrawal ; for respect of the " Blue Line " , a provisional border ; and for UN troops , alongside the Lebanese Armed Forces , to deploy south of the Litani river , about 30km north of the border . <p> For 17 years , the resolution was largely respected . Although Hizbullah did not pull out of the area south of the Litani , its presence was not visible , and the cessation of hostilities was not significantly violated . That changed in October last year , and I believe that today the implementation of Resolution 1701 by all parties is a necessary condition -- but perhaps not a sufficient one -- for a durable ceasefire . <p> Peace in southern Lebanon is inseparable from the restoration of Lebanon 's state sovereignty over its territory . It will require the establishment of an area between the Blue Line and the Litani river , free of any armed personnel , assets and weapons other than those of the Lebanese government . The UN force must be enhanced and affirm its authority to " take all necessary action " where it is deployed . Most importantly , the national army must play a more robust role in exerting the authority of the Lebanese government . That will require considerable international support to the Lebanese Armed Forces -- beyond limited American assistance , which is often vulnerable to American domestic politics and Israeli wishes . <p> Israel 's declared military objectives may , as they were in Gaza , be revised on the ground , foreshadowing an absolute war of annihilation . However , a total defeat of Hizbullah , like a total victory over Hamas , will remain elusive ; for now , there are no clear political objectives in sight . Even if many Lebanese have not supported Hizbullah and its military activity against Israel , they are almost unanimously appalled by the collective punishment imposed on them . They are united in their call for an end to this war . <p> The Israeli illusion of building a new Lebanon and reshaping the Middle East , exemplified by many declarations of officials and opposition figures , sparks memories . It evokes the deceit that became apparent after the war on Iraq in 2003 , and the talk , during the 2006 war in Lebanon , of the " birth pangs of a new Middle East " . But since that time , we have seen nothing but more violence , more desolation , more anarchy . It is time for a ceasefire and diplomacy , and ultimately for securing the strict implementation of the international resolution already on the table -- for the good of not just Lebanon . <p> Tarek Mitri was a foreign minister of Lebanon in 2006 and held several ministerial posts between 2005 and 2011 . He is the president of St George University of Beirut . 
@@118863864 <p> Every year so many books hit our shelves but only few of them get the attention of the readers . While bestsellers dominate discussions , many fascinating works remain un-appreciated . <p> This year a collection of such titles with a blend of numerous genres , challenge standards and truths of life . Whether it 's Sally Rooney 's Intermezzo or Miranda 's quirky plots , these books improves our understanding of the world and deserve to be celebrated . Here are 10 underrated books of 2024 that promises to inspire everyone . <p> Credits : Instagram <h> 1 . Intermezzo by Sally Rooney <p> Peter is a successful , capable , and seemingly unbeatable barrister in his thirties from Dublin . Following their father 's passing , however , he is taking medication to fall asleep and is finding it difficult to control his relationships with two very different women : Naomi , a college student who views life as one big joke , and Sylvia , his enduring first love . <p> Ivan is a competitive chess player who is twenty-two years old . He has always viewed himself as the opposite of his witty older brother -- socially uncomfortable and a recluse . <p> Now , during the first few weeks following his loss , Ivan meets Margaret , an elderly woman coming out of her own difficult history , and their lives quickly and deeply entwine . <p> This is a new pause for two bereaved brothers and the people they care about -- a time of longing , hopelessness , and opportunity -- a chance to discover how much one life can contain without shattering . <p> Credits : Instagram <h> 2 . All Fours by Miranda July <p> A well-known artist declares that she will be traveling from Los Angeles to New York by car . After leaving her husband and child at home , she unexpectedly leaves the freeway , checks into a bland motel , and embarks on a brief reinvention that ultimately marks the beginning of a whole new trip . <p> Miranda July 's second book demonstrates the genius of her own style of writing . All Fours presents the tale of a woman 's search for a new sort of freedom with July 's sarcastic voice , flawless comic timing , unbridled curiosity about human closeness , and obvious joy in pushing boundaries . <p> All Fours defies expectations while revealing our assumptions about what it means to be a woman . It is a combination of ridiculous amusement and a gentle reimagining of the sexual , romantic , and home life of a 45-year-old female artist . Once more , July takes the familiar and transforms it into something fresh , exciting , and incredibly vibrant . <p> Credits : Instagram <h> 3 . The Burning Earth by Sunil Amrith <p> Since agricultural breakthroughs have increased the supply of food energy staples , our incredible accomplishments in modifying nature have resulted in an overwhelming increase in the opportunities for billions of people to live fulfilling lives . <p> However , every technical advancement has also given people the ability to brutally and destructively exploit one another and the planet , twinning the tales of empire , genocide , and ecocide . Examples of this include British gold mining in South Africa and Spanish silver mining in Peru . <p> New nations rushed to regain lost territory after the period of empire , extending human freedom at the terrible expense of the environment . <p> Amrith 's environmental lens offers a crucial new perspective on how the globe is being drastically reshaped by the worldwide mobilization of natural resources , including people . <h> 4 . On the Calculation of Volume ( Book I ) by Solvej Balle <p> The journal entries of a woman for whom time has stopped passing comprise this intellectual fiction . The antiquarian bookseller Tara Selter wakes up in her hotel room the following morning after what appears to be a routine afternoon in Paris , only to discover that the same day has returned . <p> Tara plays with variants , mulls over potential reasons , tells her husband about her predicament , and writes as she relives the day -- November 18th . Balle 's book is a surprising examination of important issues about language , human connection , and time . <p> It is also a meditation on climate change ( as Tara 's calendar never turns , neither does the weather ) and an experiment with fictional form . <p> Credits : Instagram <h> 5 . Challenger by Adam Higginbotham <p> This detailed history of NASA 's Challenger space shuttle , which exploded in 1986 shortly after taking off on its tenth voyage , skillfully strikes a balance between a celebration of the engineers and astronauts who served on the mission and a detailed analysis of the events leading up to the catastrophe . <p> The most agonizing sections here demonstrate how political scheming and cost-cutting crippled the shuttle program from the outset ; instead of the fourteen billion dollars it had originally requested , NASA accepted a five and a half billion dollar offer from Congress , which Higginbotham refers to as " the first of many fatal compromises . " <p> The excellence of the crew members , such as Christa McAuliffe , the teacher who aspired to be the first " average citizen " in space , contrasts sharply with the bureaucratic incompetence and negligence . <h> 6 . The Empusium by Olga Tokarczuk <p> Mieczyslaw Wojnicz , a little boy growing up in Galicia at the turn of the century , is forced to prove his manliness by his father and uncle , who believe that " the blame for both national disasters and educational failures lay with a soft upbringing that encouraged girlishness , mawkishness , and passivity . " His mother has passed away , and he is frequently taken to enigmatic doctor 's appointments . <p> Years later , as a young man , Mieczyslaw recovers from tuberculosis at a mountainside " health resort , " where eerie and weird things begin to happen . <p> Mieczyslaw eventually learns the truth about himself and the community he is in . A passage from the book was initially published in a magazine . <h> 7 . Everyone Who Is Gone Is Here by Jonathan Blitzer <p> Blitzer chronicles the history of the humanitarian catastrophe at the U.S.-Mexico border by piecing together a number of intensely intimate portrayals . It 's a complex story that spans several generations of lawmakers and migrants in Central America as well as Washington , D.C. <p> Blitzer devotedly and eloquently documents the undeniable cause of what has become a regional quagmire : the individual right and unwavering drive to survive . He does not pretend to give simple policy remedies . <p> Credits : Instagram <h> 8 . Forest of Noise by Mosab Abu Toha <p> The poems in this eerie anthology arrive as dispatches from the wreckage of Gaza , shadowed by the specter of Israeli drones , bombs , and jets . Notable Palestinian poet Abu Toha describes the dead and the besieged in a tone that skillfully , and frequently cruelly , switches between the lyrical and the straightforward : " In Jabalia Camp , a mother collects her daughter 's / flesh in a piggy bank , / hoping to buy her a plot / on a river in a faraway land . " <p> He speaks about his own family throughout , including his late grandfather , whose " oranges / no longer grow / in his weeping groves , " and his deceased brother , whose tomb was in a cemetery " razed by / Israeli bulldozers and tanks . " Poetry in this incisive book is an elegy , not a salve. <h> 9 . The Freaks Came Out to Write by Tricia Romano <p> Former staff writer Howard Blum calls the Village Voice " a precursor to the internet " in the first few pages of Romano 's boisterous oral history of the publication . In its coverage of everything from City Hall to CBGB to the odd foreign revolution , The Voice showed a radical embrace of the subjective , of lived experience over expertise . <p> The Voice was founded in 1955 , when the persistence of silence and constraint seemed more realistic than a world full of personal truths . Writers discuss the paper 's heyday , their favorite editors , and the times and reasons why everything seemed to go wrong in Romano 's book . <p> The plot develops like the kind of grand , multi-room party that summons the spirits of past gatherings and their enduring ghosts . <p> Credits : Instagram <h> 10 . Health and Safety by Emily Witt <p> Witt , a staff writer , hauntingly documents a period in her life and the life of the country by documenting her employment as a journalist , her drug and altered consciousness experimentation in the rave scene , and the devastating events of the pandemic and subsequent lockdown . <p> This captivating narrative of a romance ending was taken from the magazine 's original sections about the resurgence of New York 's club culture , Beto O'Rourke 's presidential campaign , a gun-rights rally in Virginia , and the rise of young activism . <p> To conclude , These ten books highlights the beauty of discovery , finding our inner voices and stories that will get overlooked . As we are coming to an end of 2024 , let us celebrate these authors ' innovation and connection , making sure that their words are reaching the audience all over the world . 
@@118864566 <p> Amid the ongoing crisis in Gaza , the UAE has stepped forward with Operation Chivalrous Knight 3 , a significant initiative aimed at bolstering local water and sanitation infrastructure . The program has delivered essential equipment including four water tankers and two sanitation trucks , to support the local authorities in managing the dire situation . <p> In a press conference , Mohamed Rabie , the Operations Coordinator , emphasized the urgency of the project as a response to the infrastructural collapse impacting over 1.5 million displaced residents . Rabie reiterated the UAE 's commitment to supporting Gaza by mobilizing every possible resource to assist municipalities that are struggling under the pressure of current circumstances . <p> Omar Shatat , the Director-General of the Coastal Municipalities Water Utility , praised the UAE 's indefatigable support , highlighting the critical importance of these tankers given the deterioration of existing municipal services . This vital support from the UAE ensures the uninterrupted delivery of essential water and sanitation services , easing the burden on local authorities and mitigating environmental health risks . 
@@118864576 <h> Blinken 's Final Push : Shaping Syria after Assad 's Ouster <h> U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken concluded his Middle East trip , aiming to stabilize Syria post-Assad . He garnered support for a new government respecting minority rights . The mission included deterring ISIS resurgence and addressing regional concerns about the incoming Trump administration 's Middle East strategy . <p> U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has completed a pivotal visit to the Middle East , possibly his last as America 's chief diplomat . His primary objective was to prevent Syria from descending into chaos after the dramatic ousting of President Bashar Assad . The trip comes amid significant uncertainty both in Washington and abroad about Donald Trump 's impending presidency and his approach to Middle East policy , set to commence on January 20 , 2025 . <p> Blinken convened with leaders in Jordan , Turkey , and Iraq to discuss the future of Syria post-Assad . He sought consensus among regional allies whose interests frequently differ . " We know that developments within Syria can have profound consequences beyond its borders , from mass displacement to terrorism , " Blinken emphasized in a statement in Aqaba , Jordan . Takeaways from this diplomatic mission include establishing a new trajectory for Syria , despite hopes for a Gaza ceasefire before President Biden 's tenure concludes . <p> Blinken departed Washington shortly after Assad fled to Russia , a staunch supporter . His goals included persuading Middle Eastern nations to align with the U.S. vision for Syria 's governance post-Assad . This effort secured backing from key international figures , including Arab League ministers and representatives from Turkey , the European Union , and the United Nations . They collectively agreed on principles for a new Syrian government , focusing on minority and women 's rights and combating terrorism . Blinken assured U.S. recognition for any government adhering to these principles . 
@@118864910 <h> CENTCOM head visits Israel , meets Chief of Staff Halevi <p> WASHINGTON , Dec 14 : The head of the US Central Command ( CENTCOM ) , Gen. Michael Erik Kurilla , has visited Israel to hold a meeting with Israeli Chief of General Staff Lt. Gen. Herzi Halevi and other defence officials , CENTCOM said on Saturday . " On Dec. 11-13 , Gen. Kurilla visited Israel at the invitation of LTG Herzi Halevi , Chief of Staff of the Israel Defence Forces ( IDF ) . In addition to meeting with LTG Halevi and his staff , Gen. Kurilla met with the Israeli Minister of Defence Israel Katz , Maj Gen Ori Gordin , the Commander of the IDF 's Northern Command , and Maj Gen Tomar Bar , the Israeli Air Force Commander , " the central command said on X. The discussions focused on the regional security issues , including the ongoing situation in Syria , and preparedness against other strategic and regional threats , the statement said . Kurilla visited Northern Command headquarters " to gain a deeper understanding " of the current situation in Lebanon and ongoing efforts toward a lasting cessation of hostilities between Israel and Lebanon , the statement added . Israel 's security cabinet approved a US-brokered ceasefire with Lebanese movement Hezbollah in late November . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu explained that the truce was needed to focus on the alleged Iranian threat and isolate Hamas in the Gaza Strip . He emphasised that Israel would resume hostilities if Hezbollah violated the deal . Syria 's armed opposition captured the Syrian capital of Damascus on December 8 . Russian officials have said that Syrian President Bashar Assad stepped down as president after holding negotiations with participants of the Syrian conflict and left Syria for Russia , where he was granted asylum . Mohammed al-Bashir , who ran an Idlib-based administration formed by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham and other opposition groups , was named interim prime minister on December 10 . He announced later that the interim government had been formed and would remain in place until March 2025 . ( UNI ) 
@@118876067 <h> Share : <p> Amsterdam ( Quds News Network ) - A groundbreaking study has revealed the staggering psychological toll of the Gaza genocide on children . Conducted by the Community Training Centre for Crisis Management ( CTCCM ) with support from the War Child Alliance and the Dutch Relief Alliance , the assessment found that 96% of children feel their death is imminent , and nearly half have expressed a desire to die . <p> The study surveyed 504 families , each with at least one child who is disabled , injured , or unaccompanied . The data , collected in June , paints a grim picture of the mental health crisis in Gaza , which experts believe has worsened in the months since . <p> Children Trapped in Trauma <p> The findings expose the depth of the crisis : <p> * 96% of children fear imminent death. * 49% have expressed a wish to die. * 92% are " not accepting of reality . " * 79% suffer from recurring nightmares. * 73% display signs of aggression . <p> The trauma manifests in other ways , including anxiety , fear , social withdrawal , and difficulty concentrating . Many children also report physical symptoms , such as pain , linked to their mental health struggles . <p> Helen Pattinson , CEO of War Child UK , called the report " one of the most horrifying insights into children 's mental well-being anywhere in the world . " She stressed that Gaza 's children are enduring the worst effects of a war they did not create , with both their physical and emotional well-being under attack . <p> " For children in Gaza , nowhere is safe , " said Rob Williams , CEO of War Child Alliance . " They have seen homes destroyed , loved ones killed , and schools turned to rubble . The constant fear of death and displacement is devastating their mental health . " <p> Long-Term Consequences <p> Over 60% of the surveyed children experienced at least one traumatic event , with many exposed to repeated violence , including airstrikes , displacement , and separation from their families . An estimated 17,000 children in Gaza are unaccompanied . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Dr. Yasser Abu Jamei , a leading Palestinian psychiatrist , warned of the lasting impact . " The scars of this trauma could affect generations , " he said , urging international support for psychological first aid . <p> The report highlights the urgent need for global intervention . Advocacy groups are calling for a ceasefire and unrestricted delivery of humanitarian aid , including mental health support for children . <p> The world 's foremost monitor of civilian harm caused by aerial bombardment published a report Thursday calling the first 25 days of Israel 's ongoing U.S.-backed annihilation of Gaza the worst assault on noncombatants it has ... <p> It was bound to happen . With continuing operations in Gaza , and increasingly violent activities being conducted against Palestinians in the occupied territories , human rights organisations are making increasingly severe assessments ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118876069 <h> Share : <p> Palestinian Territory -- As part of its genocide against Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , Israel routinely targets medical teams in the north in an effort to destroy the health system and impose intolerable living conditions on civilians while denying them access to life-saving care . <p> The Israeli occupation army targeted Dr Saeed Joda today , on the afternoon of Thursday 12 December , as he was travelling from Kamal Adwan Hospital to Al-Awda Hospital to treat patients . He was killed when a Quadcopter fired at him , striking him in the head and demonstrating that his killing was premeditated and deliberate , especially given that he was the only orthopaedic physician in the northern Gaza Strip . <p> Israel has attacked Kamal Adwan Hospital , located in the Beit Lahia project , more than 20 times in the past 10 days , injuring several patients , medical personnel , and their companions . An Israeli drone targeted and killed Ali Al-Qar'a , a paramedic working in the Kamal Adwan area , on Sunday night ( 8 December ) . <p> The few medical teams that have remained in northern Gaza are being targeted by the Israeli occupation army in a methodical , obvious , and recurring pattern . This makes it extremely difficult to provide medical care to the 10s of thousands of residents who have been under siege for 69 days , and continues to prevent ambulance and civil defence crews from working for 51 days now . <p> In addition to the cycle of killing that has affected 10s of thousands of Palestinian civilians in the northern section of the Strip , Euro-Med Monitor 's review of the Israeli military 's targeting records and victim lists reveals a systematic , widespread policy of killing and assassinating Palestinian elites and those with competencies in various sectors . <p> The number of Palestinian medical personnel who have been killed since 7 October 2023 is 1,057 , and more than 135 scientists and academics have also been killed . Professor Abdel Salam Abu Zaida is the latest of these victims , having been killed along with six other Palestinians in an Israeli raid on Gaza City 's Al-Malash building yesterday evening ( Wednesday , 11 December ) . <p> The lists of targeted elites also include journalists , 193 of whom have been killed since 7 October 2023 , as well as people with knowledge of computer engineering , programming , and information technology , plus other influential people in these crucial spheres of society . <p> Israel 's crimes , which include the targeted and intentional killing of Palestinian intellectual elites and talents as well as the widespread and intentional destruction of businesses and infrastructure , are likely to impede the advancement of Palestinian society in the Gaza Strip overall ; threaten its scientific , educational , and economic system ; and deprive its vital sectors of prestigious and specialised cadres that will be difficult to replace in the near future . The killings are also bound to instill fear among the remaining talents . <p> These crimes occur in the context of overt Israeli policies that seek to render the Gaza Strip uninhabitable by eradicating basic life structures and individuals with valuable competencies . Given the magnitude and breadth of Israel 's efforts , its crimes could immoblise Palestinian society in the Strip by preventing it from developing , building , or recovering from this genocide . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The United Nations and all nations must therefore carry out their international legal duties to prevent the continuation of Israel 's crime of genocide in the Gaza Strip ; impose a comprehensive arms embargo on Israel ; hold it responsible and punish it for all of its crimes ; take all necessary steps to protect Palestinian civilians in the Strip ; defend medical personnel and health facilities in the enclave from any further targeting ; and act swiftly , without hindrance , and in a way that satisfies the needs of all residents of the Gaza Strip , especially those in the northern areas . The complete withdrawal of the Israeli occupation army from the entire Gaza Strip must be ensured . <p> Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor is a Geneva-based independent organization with regional offices across the MENA region and Europe <h> Related Posts <p> Amsterdam ( Quds News Network ) - A groundbreaking study has revealed the staggering psychological toll of the Gaza genocide on children . Conducted by the Community Training Centre for Crisis Management ( CTCCM ) with support from ... <p> The world 's foremost monitor of civilian harm caused by aerial bombardment published a report Thursday calling the first 25 days of Israel 's ongoing U.S.-backed annihilation of Gaza the worst assault on noncombatants it has ... <p> It was bound to happen . With continuing operations in Gaza , and increasingly violent activities being conducted against Palestinians in the occupied territories , human rights organisations are making increasingly severe assessments ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118876070 <h> Share : <p> An aerial photography taken October 10 , 2023 shows a neighborhood of Gaza City destroyed by Israeli bombardment . ( Photo : Al Araby/Wikimedia Commons ) <p> The world 's foremost monitor of civilian harm caused by aerial bombardment published a report Thursday calling the first 25 days of Israel 's ongoing U.S.-backed annihilation of Gaza the worst assault on noncombatants it has ever seen . <p> U.K.-based Airwars -- which over its decadelong existence has meticulously and painstakingly documented civilian casualties in various campaigns of the U.S.-led so-called War on Terror , Russia 's bombing of Ukraine and Syria , Turkish attacks on Syria and Iraq , and other conflicts -- published a " patterns of harm analysis " examining the first few weeks of Israel 's retaliatory assault on Gaza following the Hamas-led attack of October 7 , 2023 . <p> " By almost every metric , the harm to civilians from the first month of the Israeli campaign in Gaza is incomparable with any 21st century air campaign , " Airwars said in a summary of the report . " It is by far the most intense , destructive , and fatal conflict for civilians that Airwars has ever documented . " <p> Gaza is by all measures and standards a ' war ' against civilians , a war of depopulation , with no precedents in this century . <p> At least 5,139 civilians were killed in Gaza in 25 days in October 2023 , nearly four times more civilians reported killed in a single month than in any conflict Airwars has documented since it was established in 2014 ; <p> In October 2023 alone , Airwars documented at least 65 incidents in which a minimum of 20 civilians were killed in a particular incident , nearly triple the number of such high-fatality incidents that Airwars has documented within any comparable timeframe ; <p> Over the course of 25 days , Airwars recorded a minimum of 1,900 children killed by Israeli military action in Gaza , nearly seven times higher than even the most deadly month for children previously recorded by Airwars ; <p> Families were killed together in unprecedented numbers , and in their homes , with more than 9 out of 10 women and children killed in residential buildings ; and <p> On average , when civilians were killed alongside family members , at least 15 family members were killed -- higher than any other conflict documented by Airwars . <p> " The international community has raised grave concern about Israeli military practice and the unprecedented scale of civilian harm , " the report notes . " The United Nations has repeatedly warned that Israel is breaching international law and even United States President Joe Biden , a staunch ally of Israel , eventually labeled the military response ' over the top . ' In January 2024 , South Africa brought a claim of genocide against Israel at the International Court of Justice . " <p> As of Friday , Gaza officials say that at least 44,875 Palestinians have been killed and 106,464 have been wounded in Gaza . At least 11,000 others are missing and believed to be dead and buried beneath the rubble of hundreds of thousands of bombed-out buildings . <p> Throughout the new report , Airwars compares Israel 's bombardment of Gaza to two other campaigns it has extensively analyzed , the battles for Mosul , Iraq and Raqqa , Syria during the U.S.-led coalition war against the so-called Islamic State . Airwars concluded that more Palestinian civilians were killed by Israeli forces during the first 25 days of the Gaza campaign than were slain in Raqqa during the entire four-month period studied and the deadliest month in Mosul -- combined . <p> The report also pushes back on claims that Israel " does everything possible to avoid harming civilians , " and that " the level of civilian harm in Gaza is broadly consistent with , and even favorable to , other comparable conflicts in recent decades . " <p> Save this for the next time you hear that the Israeli military does everything possible to avoid harming civilians , and that the level of civilian harm in Gaza is less that other comparable conflicts ... **30;2478;TOOLONG **323;2510;p Name : <p> Email : <p> Airwars leaves readers with the ominous prospect that , while it is " expecting the overall trends to remain , magnitudes of difference -- where measures of civilian harm in Gaza outpace those from previously documented conflicts -- are expected to grow . " <h> Related Posts <p> Amsterdam ( Quds News Network ) - A groundbreaking study has revealed the staggering psychological toll of the Gaza genocide on children . Conducted by the Community Training Centre for Crisis Management ( CTCCM ) with support from ... <p> It was bound to happen . With continuing operations in Gaza , and increasingly violent activities being conducted against Palestinians in the occupied territories , human rights organisations are making increasingly severe assessments ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118876072 <p> After the fall of Syria 's Bashar al-Assad , Israel has been encroaching on its neighbour 's territory . Israel has attacked Syria more than 400 times and , despite UN protests , launched a military incursion into the buffer zone that has separated the two countries since 1974 . Israel has attacked its neighbour Lebanon and has continued to wage a war condemned as genocide on the beleaguered population of Gaza . It tries to reassure the international community that it is actually to limit Iranian presence in Syria . Iran denies any military presence in Syria . That was the initial claim . But it stays glued in Syria with the extended pretext that it has to see Syrian military infrastructure dismantled lest they land in the hands of several active fighters most recently Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , the primary Syrian opposition group that led the operation to overthrow al-Assad . But the attacks continue and are widespread and savage . 480 sites , fighter jets , naval defence , and anything of strategic value to Syria . <p> Israel 's justification for this latest attack is that it is acting in its defence . Benjamin Netanyahu swears that the former Syrian territory along the Golan Heights , which has been classed as a demilitarised zone since 1974 , would remain part of Israel " for eternity " . Israel 's Foreign Minister is selling the line that Israel 's intention had been solely to target suspected chemical weapons sites and long-range rocket sites -- to prevent their seizure by armed groups opposed to Israel 's ongoing offensives on its neighbours . <p> Israeli leaders seem to have a unified view that this is " an opportunity of historic proportion " for Israel . They believe that this situation presents an ideal opportunity to build coalitions with the Druze , Kurds and other groups in Syria " , suggesting that this alliance could collectively Israel oppose the coalition of armed opposition that deposed al-Assad . <p> Israel is reaching for the skies given its standing in the region as anti-Arab and that any inch ceded to Israel to make inroads will turn out to be yards and years of brutal occupation . In any case , Israel 's ambitions are far too stretched . They have not come close to defeating Hamas . It must deal with Iran , Hezbollah , Yemen , and other forces that will not countenance handing Israel an upper hand . For example , if Israel dares an attack on Iran 's energy sites , the backlash could well be an Iranian retaliation that might hold back global supplies . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The coming days will reveal more . Nothing in war is static . The fall of Assad is unlikely to restore peace to the country in the short term , especially given that the forces now in control are the fundamentalist versions . <p> The long-harboured aspirations of the US , Turkey and Israel to topple the Syrian government , mainly through their rebranded al-Qaeda allies , succeeded at lightning speed . Damascus fell days after Hay'at Tahrir ... <p> by Asa Winstanley and Ali Abunimah Israeli tanks were reportedly on the outskirts of Damascus early on Tuesday , as Israel launched airstrikes across the country that are being called " the heaviest in the history of Syria . " ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118876076 <h> A Syrian Earthquake <h> Share : <p> Arab history witnessed the rise and fall of states . This was most notably the Umayyad state , taking Damascus as its capital and from there on reaching Andalusia . It finally collapsed at the hands of its Abbasid oppressors , who moved the seat of the Umayyad caliphate to Baghdad as led by Abu al-Abbas al-Saffah . <p> The Abbasids inturn did not learn from the lessons of the Umayyads and do away with the struggles between themselves until their Arab feature faded and dominated by the Seljuks until the arrival of Saladin , who led the Battle of Hattin in 1187 and broke the power of the Crusaders . After this victory , Saladin regained Jerusalem . <p> What is happening in the occupied Gaza Strip and the West Bank , Lebanon and Syria is not the last . Today , and now , Israel occupying Mount Hermon and the buffer zone despite an international decision and a 1974 agreement , proving the chain of Zionist expansion and foreign interference in Arab affairs to weaken and subjugate them one after the other . <p> As for the extended past , Syria rejected normalization according to Israeli whims and strategic interests that may be achieved after the earthquake of 8 December , 2024 . <p> During my meeting with the late President Hafez al-Assad , his attention was drawn to a large copper plaque hanging on the wall of his office depicting the Battle of Hattin . He said : " The Arabs fought the Crusaders for more than 100 years until they expelled them from Jerusalem and other Arab countries , and that the fate of Israel will be like the fate of the Crusades . " <p> He then spoke about an offer made to him by the also late Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin , which included withdrawing from the Golan while keeping Lake Tiberias , which he said the Israelis " like to wet their feet in its waters , " in exchange for recognizing the Zionist entity . Al Assad rejected this offer and stressed that the Israeli flag would not be raised in the skies of Damascus except by establishing a Palestinian state with Jerusalem as its capital . <p> Israel incursions <p> The Golan , which Hafez al-Assad refused to be a deal at the expense of the Palestinian cause , today witnesses an incursion by the Zionist enemy into its buffer zone at the ceasefire line and the enemy 's prime minister 's renewed declaration that the Golan Heights will remain Israeli forever . <p> Not content with that , Israel launched more than 480 raids that destroyed military sites , strategic weapons depots , surface-to-air missiles , fighter jet squadrons , dozens of helicopters , airports , air defense batteries , and the military infrastructure of the Syrian army , which was founded on 1 August , 1946 . At the same time , the Israeli navy carried out large-scale strikes to destroy the Syrian naval fleet , including coastal defense systems and ships containing sea-to-sea missiles . <p> What is shameful for both the Syrian and Arab sides is that paralyzing the role of the Syrian army does not serve the interests of Syria and the Arab nation , its security , dignity , and national role . The army was actually dissolved without a declared decision , as happened in occupied Iraq in 2003 by America , which made it easy for Israel to achieve a golden goal that it had never dreamed of . <p> These strategic national gains belong to the Syrian people , not to any regime , regardless of its identity , and they are irreplaceable , which requires the Syrian people and their new government to be deeply aware of the ambitions of the Zionist entity and its allies in the region , which have no end unless Syria 's security and sovereignty are not a priority . Therefore , it has become necessary to work quickly and seriously to preserve what remains of the military establishment , which was and still is the pillar of Syrian power and which has no alternative unless foreign agendas hide something else . <p> Syria 's recovery from its deep wounds and its strong and majestic return to the Arab arena , in a manner befitting its Arab role and national interests , requires distinguishing the enemy from the friend and clinging to the national interest in addition to unity of ranks , overcoming divisions and the short-sighted policy of revenge . <p> Our history teaches us that major challenges can only be faced by the will of a unified people and a conscious leadership that realizes that Syria 's strength is a guarantee for the stability of its people and the region and for repelling any aggressive projects that threaten its present and future and the future of the Arab nation . <p> Today , this nation is in dire need of an Arab project to get it out of the circle of conflicts , wars and sectarianism that undermines the rights of others to draw a better future for the present and the future . <p> However , this requires vision , will , and insightful and patriotic leadership . Otherwise , Syria and the Arabs will enter a phase of decline , fragmentation and civil wars , and no one will escape this fate from the ocean to the Gulf . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> We hope that the Syrian people , who are looking forward to their freedom , independence and sovereignty , will overcome this difficult historical stage in the life of the Syrian state and will be able to achieve their aspirations at the hands of their sons and youth . This is what the Syrian people , with their history and civilization extending deep into history , have accustomed us to . <p> Ali Nasser Mohammed is a former President of South Yemen before the country was united in 1990 . He wrote this article for the Arabic Al Rai Alyoum and is reprinted in www.crossfirearabia.com . <h> Related Posts <p> After the fall of Syria 's Bashar al-Assad , Israel has been encroaching on its neighbour 's territory . Israel has attacked Syria more than 400 times and , despite UN protests , launched a military incursion into ... <p> The long-harboured aspirations of the US , Turkey and Israel to topple the Syrian government , mainly through their rebranded al-Qaeda allies , succeeded at lightning speed . Damascus fell days after Hay'at Tahrir ... <p> by Asa Winstanley and Ali Abunimah Israeli tanks were reportedly on the outskirts of Damascus early on Tuesday , as Israel launched airstrikes across the country that are being called " the heaviest in the history of Syria . " ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118879173 <p> Speaking from central Gaza , Louise Wateridge , Senior Emergencies Officer with the UN Palestine refugee agency UNRWA , described the aftermath of recent airstrikes in the central region , which reportedly killed 30 Palestinians overnight on Friday . " We 've seen absolutely horrific images from the scene . Parents are looking for their children , and children , covered in dust and blood , are searching for their parents . People are still buried under the rubble , " she said . <p> Ms Wateridge condemned the suffering as " absolutely sickening " and highlighted that Gaza now has the highest per capita number of child amputees worldwide . She explained that many children are undergoing surgeries without anaesthesia due to overwhelmed hospitals and severe shortages of medical supplies , including insulin and cancer treatments . " Doctors at Nasser Hospital , the largest semi-functioning hospital in Gaza , are absolutely beside themselves , " she said . <p> UNRWA reported that nearly 26,000 people in Gaza have sustained life-changing injuries over the past 14 months , requiring extensive rehabilitation for amputations and spinal injuries . Food insecurity is also escalating , with the Integrated Phase Classification Famine Review Committee issuing an alert about imminent famine in northern Gaza . " People here are surviving on bread , lentils , and canned food . In the past four months alone , nearly 19,000 children were hospitalised due to acute malnourishment , " Ms Wateridge noted . <p> Humanitarian aid efforts are increasingly obstructed . Following a successful UN aid convoy earlier in the week , attacks on a subsequent convoy on Thursday resulted in the deaths of several guards and left only one truck out of 70 able to deliver supplies . Looting and insecurity have further hampered relief efforts . " The suffering just continues . The sadness continues . It 's very difficult to keep operating under these circumstances , " Ms Wateridge said , emphasising the toll on humanitarian workers , many of whom have lost colleagues and family members . <p> The UN Humanitarian Coordinator for the Occupied Palestinian Territory , Muhannad Hadi , expressed deep concern over the rapidly deteriorating security and humanitarian situation in Gaza . He stressed the importance of respecting international humanitarian law , including the principles of distinction and proportionality , and called for unimpeded passage of aid and the protection of civilians . <p> In northern Gaza , the situation is particularly dire , with thousands of Palestinians facing what the UN described as " apocalyptic conditions " after nearly 10 weeks under siege . The UN humanitarian affairs office , OCHA , reported that 124 out of 137 humanitarian missions to northern Gaza have been outright denied since October 6 . Of the 13 approved , all faced impediments . OCHA reiterated its call for the facilitation of humanitarian movements across all areas of Gaza . <p> Despite attacks on its premises and staff , UNRWA continues to provide critical services , delivering 6.7 million medical consultations since the conflict began in October 2023 . However , Ms Wateridge warned that the situation remains unsustainable without significant international support and access to aid . ( The news item is based on UN News-dispatch ) 
@@118881154 <p> Hezbollah leader Naim Qassem confirmed the loss of the group 's vital weapons supply route through Syria following the collapse of Bashar al-Assad 's regime . This disruption is a significant setback , but Hezbollah remains hopeful for future solutions and cooperation . <p> Hezbollah 's Deputy Secretary-General Naim Qassem , reported on December 14 , the Lebanese militant group now loses its critical supply route through Syria . This means it is losing its connection as a result of an outcome from a series of attacks by rebel forces upon the regime of President Bashar al-Assad . The loss of this supply route , which has proven very crucial for Hezbollah 's military operations , raises great concern over the group 's capacity to transport weapons and other equipment from Iran into Iraq and Syria into Lebanon . <p> Hezbollah had long relied on Syria as a key conduit of its military supplies , but was severely impacted by this lost route . In a televised address , Qassem acknowledged the loss but downplayed its significance in the broader context of Hezbollah 's operations . " Yes , Hezbollah has lost the military supply route through Syria at this stage , but this loss is a detail in the resistance 's work , " he said . He further indicated that the loss might be transient , adding , " A new regime could come and this route could return to normal , and we could look for other ways . " <h> Fall Of Assad 's Regime <p> The breakdown happened after anti-Assad fighters took the border with Iraq on December 6 and two days later , Islamist rebels who were led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham captured Damascus , Syria 's capital . This resulted in the end of over five decades of rule for the Assad family and ushered in a transitional government under Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , an organization that was earlier affiliated with al-Qaeda . <h> Hezbollah 's Role In Syria And Its Future Plans <p> Hezbollah has significantly played a role in bolstering Assad 's regime since 2013 , dispatching fighters to help him defeat the rebels . After rebels advanced towards Damascus , Hezbollah allegedly dispatched officers to manage the withdrawal of its fighters . <p> Although the supply route was lost , Qassem expressed hopefulness over the development : " We also hope that this new ruling party will consider Israel an enemy and not normalize relations with it . " Much will depend on how Syria 's new government situates itself with respect to Israel in order to define the nature of Hezbollah 's relation with Syria . <p> Hezbollah 's reliance on Syria has been a cornerstone of the group 's operations against Israel . The recent blow to this route comes at an already tense time for relations between Hezbollah and Israel , particularly along Lebanon 's southern border . <p> These tensions have been exacerbated by the conflict in Gaza , which precipitated months of cross-border exchanges of fire . Conflict culminated in September into a major Israeli offensive in which much of Hezbollah 's high command was decimated . <p> Qassem remained optimistic about the future of Lebanon-Syria relations under the new regime , despite the setbacks . However , he admitted that Syria 's political future was uncertain . He also said that the group would not judge Syria 's new rulers until their stance on key issues , such as relations with Israel , becomes clear . 
@@118881954 <h> Global Dynamics in a Year of Domestic Contestation and Political Shifts <h> Global Dynamics in a Year of Domestic Contestation and Political Shifts <h> Foreword <p> In 2024 , two devastating conflicts intensified : the war in Ukraine , and the escalating crisis in Gaza . In Ukraine , the conflict reshaped global alliances , with NATO reclaiming a pivotal role as Europe reexamined and bolstered its defence and security strategies . In the Middle East , the crisis in Gaza expanded to involve Lebanon , exacerbating an already dire humanitarian situation as blockades and military operations worsened civilian suffering . Both conflicts underscored the fragility of international norms , the challenges to achieving lasting resolutions , and the interplay between local grievances and broader geopolitical rivalries . Together , they emphasise the urgent need for diplomatic engagement , humanitarian relief , and sustainable frameworks for peace . <p> The year also marked the largest election year in modern history , with millions of people across Africa , Asia , Europe , and the Americas going to the polls to elect their representatives and leaders . In Latin America , at least six countries have voted in 2024 , while in Africa , nearly 17 nations have already held or are about to hold elections at the time of writing . <p> In the African continent , these high-stakes elections have been accompanied by a troubling resurgence of military coups . While some nations achieved peaceful democratic transitions , others grappled with contested outcomes and coups d ' ? tat amid ongoing security crises , economic hardships , and climate challenges . <p> In India , home to the world 's largest electorate , the elections resulted in a broad continuity of leadership , albeit with a diminished mandate for the ruling party . In neighbouring Bangladesh , widespread post-poll protests overthrew Sheikh Hasina 's regime and upended the country 's stability . In the United Kingdom , elections ended 14 years of Conservative reign and brought the centre-left Labour Party to power . In France , the elections resulted in a closely contested outcome , leaving the ruling government with a fragile parliamentary majority and the daunting task of navigating a fragmented political landscape . <p> Meanwhile , Donald Trump 's decisive election victory in the United States threatens to undermine multilateral governance structures that are already under immense strain . Just as the US election results poured in , Germany 's coalition government collapsed , leaving a complex political situation that will likely take months to resolve . As the West looked on , the expanded BRICS grouping , fraught with internal divisions , held its 16th summit in October . Amid these shifts , regional actors are stepping in to reshape global governance by addressing critical gaps , both nationally and collectively . Morocco 's Atlantic initiatives and Africa 's broader cooperation schemes exemplify the rising impact of complementary frameworks in driving innovative solutions to global challenges . <p> Such domestic shifts will impact policymaking across the globe , in areas ranging from climate change to trade and security policy . With protectionist tendencies in vogue and the imposition of tariffs dominating the economic toolkits of nations , new leaderships are slated to recalibrate trade policies . At the same time , key global actors such as India , the US , and the EU are working to reduce their dependencies on the Chinese market . In Europe , far-right surges are impacting mainstream parties , which are tempted to adopt parts of the far-right agenda to appeal to voters , in the process potentially compromising sections of the ambitious European Green Deal . The advent of digital technologies , while increasing citizen engagement , has also exacerbated the threat of disinformation undermining elections . Meanwhile , migration remains a pivotal issue for many regions , including Europe and Africa , frequently used as a convenient scapegoat for deeper socio-economic and political challenges as countries navigate the complex implications . <p> Against this challenging global backdrop , the Italian Institute for International Political Studies ( ISPI , Italy ) , the Observer Research Foundation ( ORF , India ) , and the Policy Center for the New South ( PCNS , Morocco ) combined their efforts to produce the second edition of their Annual Trends Report . This report , framed in the overarching theme of ' Global Dynamics in a Year of Domestic Contestation and Political Shifts ' , aims to encapsulate the consequences of electoral outcomes and domestic contestations and what these might mean for the delivery of key global public goods -- whether combating trends of disinformation , bringing peace in Ukraine and Gaza , advancing global climate action , or pursuing economic growth . <p> This edition divides these global public goods into five areas : global governance ; security ; economy and development ; energy and climate change ; and new technologies and digital transition . Each of these policy areas is examined by scholars from the three institutes , offering their diverse perspectives from three different continents . As countries adapt to fresh domestic ( and global ) realities , it is our hope that this collaborative effort will shed light on how political shifts across continents are impacting key policy areas , and enable policymakers to better navigate and prepare for their impact . <p> On a broader note , the ISPI-ORF-PCNS tripartite initiative aims to propose solutions to pressing global challenges through joint research , strategic deliberations , and engagement , supported by the pooled expertise of over 400 experts across three continents . To this end , our partnership involves a range of initiatives , from cooperation during our Flagship Forums to annual inter-staff dialogues and Young Fellows Exchange Programs that aim to shape the leaders of tomorrow . <p> In a world beset by divisions and competition , we hope that our effort epitomises a revival of international collaboration and connection . <p> We extend our deepest gratitude to Dr. Harsh V. Pant , Vice President , Studies and Foreign Policy at ORF and to Antonio Villafranca , Vice President for Research at ISPI for their scientific leads on the first two editions of this report . We also thank Shairee Malhotra , Deputy Director , Strategic Studies Programme at ORF , for her critical contribution and Oussama Tayebi and Nassim Hajouji at PCNS and Matteo Villa at ISPI for their vital efforts in coordinating the 2024 edition . This report reflects the strength of our partnership and shared mission . 
@@118882058 <h> Also Read <p> There was no immediate comment from the Israeli military . Israel has been waging a renewed offensive against Hamas militants in northern Gaza since early October . <p> Hospital records show that a family of eight were among those killed , including four children , their parents and two grandparents . <p> The war began when Hamas-led militants stormed into Israel October 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 people , including children and older adults . Around 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's retaliatory offensive has killed over 44,000 Palestinians in Gaza , according to local health officials . They say women and children make up more than half the dead but do not distinguish between fighters and civilians in their count . Israel says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . 
@@118887207 <h> Story highlights <p> US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan further stated in his interview , " Israel negotiated hard to defend and justify its position in this negotiation . He added that the Palestinian militant group " has been deeply intransigent . <p> US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan on Friday ( Dec 13 ) said that " for many months , ( Palestinian militant group ) Hamas has not been prepared to even do the basic things of coming to the table with the names of hostages , " amid the talks of a ceasefire deal to end the war in Gaza . <p> Sullivan 's comments in the interview with Channel 13 came after Hamas gave a list of hostages to mediators that it has planned to release in the first phase of the agreement , according to a report by the Wall Street Journal . However , WSJ 's claim was later denied by an Arab diplomat , the Times of Israel reported . <p> Sullivan further stated in his interview , " Israel negotiated hard to defend and justify its position in this negotiation " . He added that the Palestinian militant group " has been deeply intransigent " . <p> " We have seen Hamas repeatedly , time and again , when the opportunity was there to do something , not be prepared to step up and do it , " he said . <p> " But we have also seen Israel and the Israeli government choose to drive a negotiation where it had its perspective on what was required to get the hostages home and ensure Israel 's security , " Sullivan further added . <p> " We judge that trying to proceed in phases and getting this thing ( hostage deal ) started so people start coming out -- that is the best way to get to the end of the process , " he said . <h> Did Hamas give the list of hostages ? <p> On Thursday ( Dec 12 ) , the Wall Street Journal reported that more than a year into the Israel-Hamas war , the Palestinian militant group agreed to the Israeli demand to let the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) remain in Gaza temporarily under a likely ceasefire deal . <p> This comes as Hamas has been maintaining that it wo n't accept the ceasefire deal unless it promises to end the war and includes a complete withdrawal of IDF troops from the Gaza Strip . But the report said that not only Hamas has agreed to let IDF troops to stay in the Palestinian enclave , but it has also given mediators a list of hostages it would release in the first phase of the ceasefire . <p> ( With inputs from agencies ) <p> Disclaimer : WION takes utmost care to accurately and responsibly report ongoing developments on the Israel-Palestine conflict after the Hamas attacks . However , we can not independently verify the authenticity of all statements , photos and videos . 
@@118887225 <h> ' Do n't normalise ties with Israel ' : Hezbollah to Syria 's new rulers after Assad 's ouster <h> Story highlights <p> We hope that this new party in power will see Israel as an enemy and not normalise relations with it , Qassem said in a televised speech , his first public remarks since Islamist-led rebels toppled Assad , who had Hezbollahs military support during the civil war that began after a 2011 crackdown on anti-government protests . <p> Hezbollah leader Naim Qassem said on Saturday that Syria 's new rulers , who ousted the Lebanese armed group 's ally , Bashar al-Assad , should not establish ties with neighbouring Israel . <p> " We hope that this new party in power will see Israel as an enemy and not normalise relations with it , " Qassem said in a televised speech , his first public remarks since Islamist-led rebels toppled Assad , who had Hezbollah 's military support during the civil war that began after a 2011 crackdown on anti-government protests . <p> The rebel forces launched their offensive on November 27 , the same day that a ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah took effect . On Sunday , they declared Damascus had fallen , with Assad having fled the country . <p> Iran-backed Hezbollah has suffered major blows during more than a year of cross-border fighting with Israel , which the Lebanese group had initiated over the Gaza war . <p> In his speech on Saturday , Qassem maintained that the ceasefire agreement does not mean Hezbollah is required to lay down its weapons . <p> The deal stipulates that over 60 days , the Lebanese army and UN peacekeepers would deploy in southern Lebanon . At the same time , Israeli military forces as well as Hezbollah militants withdraw from the border area -- Hezbollah to the north , and Israeli troops back to their country . <p> Hezbollah was the only Lebanese armed group that refused to surrender its weapons after Lebanon 's 1975-1990 civil war , vowing to keep fighting Israel . <p> Disclaimer : This story has been published from a news agency feed with minimal edits to adhere to WION 's style guide . The headline may have been changed to better reflect the content of the story or to make it more suitable for WION audience . 
@@118887231 <h> At least 18 killed in Israeli Gaza strikes : Palestinian medics <h> Story highlights <p> At least 10 people were killed in an airstrike near the municipality building in Deir Al-Balah in the central Gaza Strip where people gathered to receive aid , medics said . <p> At least 18 Palestinians were killed in Israeli airstrikes in Gaza on Saturday , medics said , while the Israeli military said it targeted gunmen operating from shelters and aid storages . <p> At least 10 people were killed in an airstrike near the municipality building in Deir Al-Balah in the central Gaza Strip where people gathered to receive aid , medics said . <p> Casualties were being carried by foot , on rickshaws and private cars from the site of the attack to the hospital , medics said . The strike killed the head of the Hamas-run administrative committee in central Gaza , a Hamas source said . <p> The Israeli military was looking into the report , a spokesperson said . Earlier , Israeli aircraft struck militants and weapon caches near an aid warehouse , the military said , after gunmen had fired rockets into Israel from there . <p> Watch Iranian Singer Faces Prison For Her Performance <p> A separate strike in Gaza City on a former shelter housing displaced people targeted Hamas fighters , the military said . At least seven people were killed in that attack , Palestinian medics said , including a woman and her baby . <p> It was unclear whether any of the other people killed were fighters . The military said it had taken precautions to reduce the risk of harm to civilians . <p> A separate strike in Gaza City killed a local journalist , medics said . The military was looking into the report , a spokesperson said . <p> The war in Gaza began when the Palestinian militant group Hamas stormed into Israel on October 7 , 2023 , killing 1,200 , mostly civilians , people and taking more than 250 hostages back to Gaza , according to Israeli authorities . <p> Israel then launched an air , sea and land offensive that has killed at least 44,000 people , mostly civilians , according to authorities in the Hamas-run Gaza Strip , displaced nearly the entire population and left much of the enclave in ruins . <p> A fresh bid by Egypt , Qatar and the United States to reach a truce has gained momentum in recent weeks . <p> Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi on Saturday discussed with visiting US officials efforts to reach a ceasefire in Gaza and a hostages-for-prisoners deal in the Palestinian enclave , Sisi 's office said . <p> Disclaimer : This story has been published from a news agency feed with minimal edits to adhere to WION 's style guide . The headline may have been changed to better reflect the content of the story or to make it more suitable for WION audience . 
@@118896332 <h> Israeli forces clashed with Palestinians in Gaza , resulting in 22 Palestinian deaths . Israel stated the targets were militants preparing attacks . Airstrikes hit houses and a school sheltering displaced people . Israel reported seizing weapons and capturing militants . Truce efforts by Egypt , Qatar , and the US remain unresolved . The conflict continues following Hamas 's October attack on Israel . <p> Reuters <p> Israeli troops killed at least 22 Palestinians , most of them in the northern Gaza Strip , on Sunday in airstrikes and other attacks on targets that included a school sheltering displaced Gazans , medics and residents said . <p> They said at least 11 of the dead were killed in three separate Israeli airstrikes on Gaza City houses , nine were killed in the towns of Beit Lahiya , Beit Hanoun and Jabalia camp and two were killed by drone fire in Rafah . <p> Residents said clusters of houses were bombed and some set ablaze in the three towns . The Israeli army has been operating in the towns for over two months . <p> The Israeli military said the three Gaza City houses belonged to militants planning imminent attacks . It said steps were taken to mitigate the risk of harming civilians beforehand , including the use of precise munitions and aerial surveillance . <p> The military issued a photo showing the weapons it said were seized in Beit Lahiya that included explosives and dozens of grenades . <p> In Beit Hanoun , Israeli forces besieged families sheltering in Khalil Aweida school before storming it and ordering them to head towards Gaza City , the medics and residents said . <p> Medics said several people were killed and wounded during the raid on the school while the army detained many men . The number killed was not immediately clear . <p> The military said it struck down dozens of militants from the air and on the ground and captured others in Beit Hanoun . <p> Separately , Israel said its air force struck a command and control center in a compound in the Abu Shabak clinic in northern Gaza used by Hamas to store weapons and plan attacks . The Gaza health ministry said the medical center , which also included a mental health clinic , was destroyed . <p> Palestinians accuse Israel of carrying out ethnic cleansing to depopulate the areas at the northern edge to create a buffer zone . Israel denies it and says the campaign targets Hamas militants and aims to prevent them from regrouping . The military says it has instructed civilians to evacuate battle zones for their own safety . <p> The war began when the Palestinian militant group Hamas stormed into Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking more than 250 hostages back to Gaza , according to Israeli authorities . <p> Israel then launched an air , sea and land offensive that has killed almost 45,000 people , mostly civilians , according to authorities in the Hamas-run Gaza Strip , displaced nearly the entire population and left much of the enclave in ruins . <p> A bid by Egypt , Qatar and the United States to reach a truce has gained momentum in recent weeks , yet there has been no news of a breakthrough . 
@@118896638 <h> Why Israel Closed Its Embassy In Ireland Explained <p> Israel shuttered its embassy in Dublin , claiming that Ireland 's " extreme anti-Israeli policies " were the reason behind the country 's support for international law when it sponsored a petition at the ICJ accusing Israel of genocide . This decision intensifies already tense ties because of Ireland 's strong pro-Palestinian views , which include condemning Israel 's actions in Gaza and recognizing a Palestinian state . <p> Israel announced the closure of its embassy in Dublin following Ireland 's decision to back a petition at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) accusing Israel of genocide . The action was a reaction to Ireland 's " extreme anti-Israeli policies , " according to Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar . <p> Given that Ireland has been one of the most outspoken European states in favor of Palestinian rights , the decision signaled a major increase in tensions between the two countries . One important aspect , according to Sa'ar , was Ireland 's backing of South Africa 's ICJ appeal under the Genocide Convention , which he saw as a component of " antisemitic actions " against Israel . He charged Dublin of smearing the Jewish state and using unfair treatment . <p> The Irish government justified its position by claiming that it was based on upholding international law and human rights . Simon Harris , the Irish Taoiseach , denied any anti-Israel feeling while calling Israel 's decision to close the embassy " deeply regrettable . " Harris reaffirmed Ireland 's commitment to regional peace and support for a two-state solution . <h> Longstanding Strains in Bilateral Relations <p> Ireland 's pro-Palestinian position has long caused tensions in relations between Israel and Ireland . Ireland 's unilateral acceptance of a Palestinian state has already prompted Israel to remove its ambassador from Dublin . These tense interactions are still present in the most recent events . <p> Shortly after Irish T ? naiste Miche ? l Martin stated that Ireland 's government has authorized legal participation in South Africa 's ICJ case , Israel made its declaration . The lawsuit seeks to expand international law 's definition of genocide . Martin maintained that Israel 's military operations in Gaza , which resulted in millions of people being displaced and tens of thousands of deaths , amounted to collective punishment . <p> Sa'ar outlined intentions to refocus Israel 's diplomatic efforts on countries with better relations . Declaring Moldova to be a nation seeking closer connections with Israel , he announced plans to build a new embassy there . <h> Wider Implications Amid Gaza Conflict <p> Ireland 's special situation was further highlighted by Israel 's decision to refrain from taking comparable diplomatic action against other countries who supported the ICJ case , such as Spain , Mexico , and Egypt . According to critics , the action would widen already-existing rifts over Middle East policy in Europe . <p> Reports of increasing violence in Gaza were made at the same time as the announcement . Health officials in the region said that more than 45,000 people had died in the fighting as of Sunday . At least 15 people were killed by Israeli airstrikes that struck many locations over the weekend , including a school in Beit Hanoun. 17 people , including women and children , were killed in attacks on private dwellings in Gaza City . <p> The violence did not spare journalists . An attack on a civil emergency facility in Nuseirat killed Ahmed Al-Louh , a video journalist for Al Jazeera . The incident claimed the lives of five more people . <h> Legal and Diplomatic Fallout <p> The diplomatic split occurred as Israel faced further legal difficulties . In November , the ICC issued arrest warrants for former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . Alleged war crimes , such as famine and crimes against humanity , were included in the warrants . Since then , Israel has appealed the warrants . <p> Ireland 's legal stance , according to observers , was part of a larger movement to reinterpret governmental responsibility for genocide . Martin emphasized the need for further protections for civilians and said that limited definitions of genocide lead to impunity . <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from World and around the world . 
@@118897080 <h> On the Shelf : Dive into these compelling new releases <h> India turns 100 in 2047 . Will it be a wealthy nation by then ? If you choose to believe the statements of leaders and optimists , India will be a paradise for all . Unfortunately , the reality is that a few decades from now , while the country will be among the top three economies , it will struggle to ... <p> On October 7 , 2023 , Hamas launched a surprise attack on Israel that claimed many lives and has led to a devastating , retaliatory war in Gaza . Even as the death toll mounts every day , the world remains divided in its support of Israel or Palestine . Based on his multiple reporting visits to the region and dozens of interviews , Stanly Johny traces the roots of the conflict and unpacks the complex geopolitical systems that are involved . <p> From the holy town of Somnath , steeped in incense and distorted histories , to the high-octane corporate boardrooms of Mumbai , down the bustling avenue of Hovenierstraat , the heart of Belgium 's diamond trade , to lonely American highways dotted with Patel-owned motels , Salil Tripathi dissects the Gujarati presence in India and across the world and observes the strengths and weaknesses of the community . <p> 3 . Will India Get Rich Before It Turns 100 ? <p> Prosenjit Datta <p> Aleph Book Company <p> Pp 144 , Rs 499 <p> India turns 100 in 2047 . Will it be a wealthy nation by then ? If you choose to believe the statements of leaders and optimists , India will be a paradise for all . Unfortunately , the reality is that a few decades from now , while the country will be among the top three economies , it will struggle to join the ranks of what are termed the ' high income ' or ' developed ' countries , even if it maintains its current growth rate . <p> 4 . Chocolate <p> Sarah Moss &amp; Alexander Badenoch <p> Pan Macmillan <p> Pp 160 , Rs 599 <p> Chocolate is synonymous with indulgence , filling dessert menus and millions of hearts with ecstasy all over the world . Since Spanish explorers first encountered the magical cocoa beans in 16-century South America , it has cast its spell at a global level , becoming an addictive and powerful force to be reckoned with . In Chocolate , Sarah Moss and Alec Badenoch guide readers through the remarkable evolution of this near-universal obsession . <p> 5 . Myth , Memory &amp; Folktale of the Wancho Tribe of Arunachal Pradesh <p> Tara Douglas &amp; Jatwang Wangsa <p> Niyogi Books <p> Pp 188 , Rs 595 <p> Where do stories come from ? Is it about people making sense of their past , their history , and the world around them ? For the Wancho tribe of Arunachal Pradesh , stories are part of the texture of their life , passed down from generation to generation . The Wancho people have lived in seclusion in the remote upper Wancho area nestled in the verdant green Patkai hills bordering Myanmar . These stories are fascinating in their diversity , variety and scope . 
@@118897224 <h> Escalating Conflict : Israeli Airstrikes and The Gaza Crisis <h> Israeli strikes in the Gaza Strip have resulted in the death of at least 53 Palestinians , including a journalist . The strikes targeted militants , but civilian casualties were also reported . The conflict , which began in October 2023 , has seen escalating violence , with minimal progress in truce negotiations . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> In a recent wave of conflict , Israeli airstrikes in Gaza have resulted in the death of at least 53 Palestinians , including a journalist and rescue workers . The strikes were reportedly aimed at militants in the region , although civilian casualties were significant , as reported by medics on the ground . <p> The ongoing violence in the Gaza Strip was ignited when Hamas conducted an incursion into Israel on October 7 , 2023 . In retaliation , Israel launched a comprehensive air and land offensive targeting Hamas militants , but resulting in heavy civilian casualties and widespread devastation in the enclave . <p> The international community , including Egypt , Qatar , and the United States , has been working towards negotiating a truce that involves a hostage release . Despite these efforts , no agreements have been reached , with Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu stressing the importance of securing the release of hostages in discussions with U.S. President-elect Trump . 
@@118897294 <h> Netanyahu Engages with Trump on Syria and Hostage Crisis <h> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu discussed the situation in Syria and efforts to release hostages held by Hamas in Gaza with U.S. President-elect Donald Trump . Netanyahu emphasized Israel 's lack of interest in conflict with Syria and described its actions as preventive measures against terrorism . <p> In a conversation with U.S. President-elect Donald Trump , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed pressing issues in the Middle East , specifically developments in Syria and the urgent push to free hostages held by Hamas in Gaza . <p> Netanyahu confirmed that the discussion took place on Saturday evening , highlighting the strategic importance of their dialogue . <p> The Israeli leader reiterated that while Israel holds no desire for conflict with Syria , its military actions are aimed at preventing potential threats and a terrorist takeover near its border . 
@@118897312 <h> Escalation in Gaza : Lives Lost in the Crossfire <h> Israeli strikes in Gaza have resulted in the deaths of at least 48 Palestinians , including a journalist and rescue workers . The Israeli military claims to have targeted militants , while Hamas denies these assertions . Civilians are heavily affected , as airstrikes hit various locations including a shelter for displaced families . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> In a tragic escalation of violence , Israeli airstrikes in Gaza have claimed the lives of at least 48 Palestinians , according to local medics . Among the victims are a journalist for Al Jazeera and several rescue workers , as the conflict intensifies between Israeli forces and militants in the enclave . <p> The strikes , described by the Israeli military as targeting Hamas and Islamic Jihad fighters , have also prompted severe civilian casualties . A direct hit on a civil emergency centre resulted in the death of Ahmed Al-Louh , a video journalist , leading to widespread condemnation from media outlets , though Israeli officials allege he was part of Islamic Jihad . <p> The international community has voiced concern over the humanitarian impact , particularly as strikes on residential areas have left shelters destroyed and families displaced . Tensions remain high , with ongoing calls for a ceasefire amid stalled diplomatic efforts involving Egypt , Qatar , and the United States . 
@@118897682 <p> Top diplomats from the United States , the Arab League , and Turkey convened in Jordan on Saturday to discuss the future of Syria following the fall of Bashar al-Assad 's government just a week ago . <p> The focus of the meet was on shaping the country 's transition in the aftermath of the Assad family 's more than 50-year rule , which has left the region in turmoil . There was , however , no representative from Syria . <p> The sudden collapse of the Assad regime has sparked fresh concerns about regional instability in West Asia which is already facing the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict in Gaza and the continuing hostilities between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon . While a fragile ceasefire between Hezbollah and Lebanon , these developments have made the Middle East 's security situation more precarious than ever . <h> West Asia Latest Developments <p> US Secretary of State Blinken wraps up regional tour in Jordan <p> During a regional tour , US Secretary of State Antony Blinken stressed the need for a " Syrian-led transition " and said that the United States has been in direct communication with the Syrian insurgent group that led the overthrow of Assad . However , Blinken clarified that this group remains classified by the US as a " foreign terrorist organization . " <p> Blinken , wrapping up the tour , reaffirmed a broad consensus among his counterparts in Jordan , Iraq , and Turkey that Syria 's future government must be inclusive , respect human rights , and prioritize the dismantling of chemical weapons stockpiles from the Assad era . " The new Syrian government must be one that is inclusive , respects the rights of all citizens , including minorities , and ensures that state institutions are restored and secure , " he said during a press conference in Aqaba . <p> During a meeting with UN Special Envoy for Syria , Geir Pedersen , Blinken discussed the challenges of Syria 's transition and the essential role the United Nations would play in providing humanitarian assistance . <p> In a joint statement issued after the meeting , diplomats from multiple countries , including the United States , Turkey , and several Arab nations , voiced their support for a Syrian-led transitional process aimed at achieving a peaceful resolution and the restoration of Syria 's sovereignty and territorial integrity . The statement also condemned Israel 's recent military actions in Syria , particularly the seizure of a buffer zone in the Golan Heights , which the diplomats labeled as a " heinous occupation . " <p> A separate statement issued by Arab foreign ministers called for UN-supervised elections based on a new constitution approved by Syrians . <p> Meanwhile , situation remains worse in Gaza as Israeli airstrikes continued to target Hamas positions , resulting in significant civilian casualties . On Saturday , at least 11 people were killed in airstrikes across Gaza , including a deadly attack in Deir al-Balah that claimed four lives . Palestinian officials also reported that an airstrike hit Gaza City 's Majda Wasilla school , a shelter for displaced families , killing at least seven , including a woman and her two-day-old baby . <p> The Israeli military confirmed the strikes , stating they targeted Hamas fighters at a compound , but the mounting toll on civilians raises concerns over the humanitarian crisis in Gaza , which has already left over 2 million Palestinians suffering in dire conditions . <h> Syria 's New Leadership Focuses on Reconstruction , Not Conflict <p> In Syria , the newly established leadership , led by the insurgent group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , has faced significant challenges in navigating both internal and external relations . Syria 's de facto leader , Ahmad al-Sharaa , also known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani , has made it clear that his group is not seeking further conflict despite Israel 's aggressive actions . " We are not seeking further conflict but are focused on rebuilding our country , " al-Sharaa told Syrian TV . <p> He stated that the focus should be on rebuilding Syria , which has been ravaged by years of war . He further stressed that " uncalculated military adventures " are not in Syria 's interest and that diplomatic engagement is the key to ensuring the country 's security and stability . <p> Israel has launched hundreds of airstrikes targeting Syrian military assets and strategic weapon stockpiles since Assad 's fall , with no signs of de-escalation . While Israel maintains that its presence is temporary and aimed at securing its borders , it has faced condemnation from several Arab nations , including Saudi Arabia , the UAE , and Jordan . <h> Hezbollah says it lost key supply line in Syria <p> Hezbollah , a long-time ally of the Assad regime , has also been affected by the political shift in Syria . The group 's leader , Naim Kassem , confirmed that the fall of Assad had severed Hezbollah 's main supply line through Syria . <p> In his first public comments in the week since Assad 's fall , Hezbollah leader Naim Kassem in a televised speech Saturday said Hezbollah has lost the military supply line through Syria but the new authority there might reinstate the route . Otherwise , he said , " we might find other ways , " AP reported . <h> Palestinian refugees return to Yarmouk <p> In the refugee camps surrounding Damascus , the return of displaced Palestinians , particularly to the Yarmouk camp , has sparked uncertainty about their future under the new leadership . Once a thriving hub for Palestinians , Yarmouk was devastated during the Syrian civil war . With Assad 's government dismantled , many displaced Palestinians are hopeful about returning but are unclear about their role in Syria 's future . <p> Palestinian leaders are keen to establish a dialogue with the new authorities to safeguard their community 's rights and security . 
@@118897766 <p> Advocates-on-Record can mark the appearances of only those advocates who are authorized to appear and argue the case on a particular day of hearing . Bhagwan Singh v. State of U.P. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 722 <p> Legal professionals are not immune from prosecution for criminal misdeeds . Bhagwan Singh v. State of U.P. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 722 <p> Strict compliance with online appearance marking protocols for advocates - Certain respondents were found absent both in person and online , despite having marked his presence through the online portal . The Court criticized this practice , emphasizing that marking presence without actual participation undermines the integrity of proceedings . The Court referenced a Supreme Court Registry circular dated 30th December 2022 , which allows online presence marking only for advocates genuinely participating in hearings . To uphold procedural sanctity , the Court ordered that only advocates who are present in person or through video conferencing should be marked as attending . The Supreme Court Bar Association and the Advocates-on-Record Association were requested to ensure compliance and inform their members of this directive . Baidya Nath Choudhary v. Dr. Sree Surendra Kumar Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 645 <p> The Court expressed its concern over the increasing number of false statements in cases involving premature release , urging the legal community to uphold the integrity of the judicial process . Virender Singh v. State , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 695 <p> The Court underscored the duty of Public Prosecutors handling cases involving Members of Parliament and Members of Legislative Assembly in Special Courts , stating that these Prosecutors should fully recognize the responsibilities of their role , which includes acting as officers of the Court . The Court found no basis , as of the present date , to question the competence of the appointed Public Prosecutor and thus denied the request to appoint a special Public Prosecutor . Y. Balaji v. Assistant Commissioner of Police , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 652 <p> The legal profession has an important role to play in the process . Any proceeding or application which prima facie lacks merit should not be instituted in a court . We are constrained to observe this because of late we notice that pleadings/petitions with outrageous and ex facie unbelievable averments are made with no inhibition whatsoever . This is especially so in some family law proceedings , both civil and criminal . Reading some of the averments therein , we are left to wonder whether at all the deponents were conscious of what has been written purportedly on their behalf , before appending their signatures . These misadventures directly impinge on the rule of law , because they add to the pendency and the consequential delay in the disposal of other cases which are crying for justice . It is time that such frivolous and vexatious proceedings are met with due sanctions in the form of exemplary costs to dissuade parties from resorting to such tactics . ( Para 46 ) K. Vadivel v. K. Shanthi , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 757 <p> The Supreme Court allows all final year law students to appear in All India Bar Exam 2024 . Nilay Rai v. Bar Council of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 734 <p> The Supreme Court ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation to carry out a probe into a case where the petitioner denied filing any special leave petition and claimed ignorance of advocates who represented him . Bhagwan Singh v. State of U.P. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 722 <h> All India Tourist Vehicles ( Permit ) Rules , 2023 <p> Object -- The 2023 Rules have primarily two objects : Firstly , to make the movement of such tourist vehicles across the country through different States seamless and smooth ; and secondly , the revenue to be generated by the Centre to be proportionately shared with the State Governments , also taking into account their previous revenue generation , and also , keeping in mind that their earlier revenue income was not reduced in any manner . The Rules , 2023 superseded the All-India Tourists Vehicles ( Authorization/Permit ) Rules , 2021 . After the coming into of the Rules , 2023 , the power of levying/collecting Border Tax/Authorization Fee by the State Governments at various border check posts from vehicles carrying All India Tourists Permit was to be done away with . ( Para 4 ) Muthyala Sunil Kumar v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 450 : AIR 2024 SC 3496 <h> Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act , 1958 <p> Monument of national importance - Protection of a structure known as the Gumti - The petitioner challenged the dismissal of his writ petition by the Delhi High Court , which followed the Archaeological Survey of India 's ( ASI ) report that changes made by the Defence Colony Welfare Association ( DCWA ) to the Gumti resulted in its loss of originality , thereby negating its protected status . The Court expressed concerns regarding the decision-making process of the ASI and the Central Government in initially recommending the Gumti 's protection and later opposing it based on modifications made by the DCWA . In light of these findings , the Court ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation ( CBI ) to conduct a preliminary inquiry into various aspects related to the Gumti 's status , including the circumstances surrounding its occupation by the DCWA , the authority behind the alterations made , and the lack of preventive measures against unauthorized changes . The CBI was directed to report back within two months , while the Court prohibited any changes to the Gumti until further orders , underscoring the need for protecting heritage sites . Rajeev Suri v. Archaeological Survey of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 627 <h> Arbitration and Conciliation Act , 1996 <p> An arbitration agreement is not necessarily non-binding on a non-signatory party . Such a party , though not a signatory , may have intended to be bound through its conduct or relationship with the signatory parties . A referral court must determine the issue from a prima facie perspective ; although , ultimately , it is the arbitral tribunal which shall decide the same based on evidence . Ajay Madhusudan Patel v. Jyotrindra S. Patel , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 727 : AIR 2024 SC 4648 <p> Arbitral Tribunal is not empowered to grant interest upon interest while passing an arbitral award as the Arbitration Act , 1940 does not specifically provide for the grant of interest on interest . D. Khosla and Company v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 558 : AIR 2024 SC 3937 <p> Courts and arbitral tribunals have the duty to examine the contract clauses in proceedings concerning arbitration . Pam Developments v. State of West Bengal , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 613 <p> Section 11(6) - While deciding a Section 11(6) petition for an appointment of an arbitrator , the referral courts must not conduct an intricate evidentiary enquiry into the question of whether the claims raised by the applicant are time-barred and should leave that question for determination by the arbitrator . The referral court should limit its enquiry to examining whether the Section 11(6) application has been filed within the period of limitation of three years or not . ( Para 131 ) SBI General Insurance Co . Ltd. v. Krish Spinning , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 489 <p> Section 19(1) -- Applicability of Civil procedure Code , 1908 in arbitral proceedings -- The legislature 's intention is reflected in Section 19(1) of the Arbitration Act , which provides that an Arbitral Tribunal is not bound by the provision of the CPC . Hence , the provisions of the CPC have not been made applicable to the proceedings under Sections 34 and 37(1) ( c ) . ( Para 18 ) Bombay Slum Redevelopment Corporation v. Samir Narain Bhojwani , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 445 : AIR 2024 SC 3427 : ( 2024 ) 7 SCC 218 <p> Section 29A ( 4 ) r/w. ( 5 ) - Application for extending the time for passing of an arbitral award can be filed even after the expiry of the twelve-month or the extended six-month period . Rohan Builders v. Berger Paints , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 693 : AIR 2024 SC 4369 <p> Section 31(7) and 34 - Award of interest - Arbitrator awarded pre-reference interest at 12% per annum from the date of breach to the date of the Award ) , and post-award interest at 9.25% per annum . The District Judge upheld this decision under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act . However , the High Court modified the Award , disallowing pre-reference interest based on its interpretation that the contract prohibited it , and allowed interest only for the pendente lite and post-award periods . Upon appeal , the Supreme Court reinstated the Arbitrator 's award of pre-reference interest , holding that the Arbitrator had the discretion to award interest under Section 31(7) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act , 1996 , and that the contract between the parties did not explicitly prohibit such an award . Interference with an arbitrator 's decision on interest is unwarranted unless there is a clear violation of the contract or statutory provisions . ( Para 9 ) Pam Developments v. State of West Bengal , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 613 <p> Section 34(3) and Limitation Act of 1963 ; Section 2(j) &amp; 4 -- Bar of limitation -- Three months from the date of receiving the arbitral award -- Held , the prescribed period of limitation started from 1st July , 2022 and ended on 30th September . The three months provided by way of limitation expired a day before the commencement of the pooja vacation , which commenced on 1st October 2022 . Therefore , the appellants were not entitled to take benefit of Section 4 of the Limitation Act which states that if the ' prescribed period ' of limitation expires on the day court is closed , the limitation period can be extended to the day the court re-opens . Further , as per Section 34(3) , the period of limitation was extended by a maximum period of 30 days which expired on 30th October , 2022 on which date the court was closed . The benefit of section 4 of Limitation Act is only applicable on the ' prescribed period ' and not applicable on the extended 30 days . Section 2(j) of the Limitation Act makes it amply clear that the ' prescribed period ' for making an application for setting aside an arbitral award is three months . Hence , even when the period of extended limitation expired on 30th October when the court was closed , the benefit of Section 4 for the extension of limitation to the day the court re-opens is not applicable . Held , as the petition was filed on 31st October 2022 , the High Court was right in holding that the petition filed was beyond the period specified under Section 34(3) . Hence , there is no merit in the appeal , and it is , accordingly , dismissed . ( Para 10 &amp; 11 ) State of West Bengal v. Rajpath Contractors and Engineers Ltd. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 454 : AIR 2024 SC 3252 : ( 2024 ) 7 SCC 257 <p> Section 34 and 37 - Unless the arbitral award suffers from the illegality mentioned under Section 34 of the Act , no award can be interfered with or set aside by the Appellate Courts under Section 37 of the Act . The award can not be set aside merely for the reason that the view of the Appellate Court is a better view than the one taken by the arbitral tribunal . The award as such can not be touched unless it is contrary to the substantive provision of law ; any provision of the Act or the terms of the agreement . Punjab State Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd. v. Sanman Rice Mills , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 754 <p> Section 34 and 37 -- Jurisdiction of the Appellate Court dealing with an appeal under Section 37 -- Jurisdiction during appeal under Section 37 against the judgment in a petition under Section 34 is more constrained than the jurisdiction of the Court dealing with a petition under Section 34 . It is the duty of the Appellate Court to consider whether Section 34 Court has remained confined to the grounds of challenge that are available in a petition under Section 34 . The ultimate function of the Appellate Court under Section 37 is to decide whether the jurisdiction under Section 34 has been exercised rightly or wrongly . While doing so , the Appellate Court can exercise the same power and jurisdiction that Section 34 Court possesses with the same constraints . ( Para 16 ) Bombay Slum Redevelopment Corporation v. Samir Narain Bhojwani , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 445 : AIR 2024 SC 3427 : ( 2024 ) 7 SCC 218 <p> Section 34 and 37 -- Object of arbitral proceedings -- The court directed the members of the Bar to show restraint by incorporating only legally permissible grounds in petitions under Section 34 and the appeals under Section 37 . Held , arbitration must become a tool for expeditious , effective , and cost-effective dispute resolution . When members of the bar take up so many grounds in petitions under Section 34 , which are not covered by Section 34 , there is a tendency to urge all those grounds which are not available in law and waste the Court 's time . The proceedings under Sections 34 and 37 are being treated as if the same are appeals under Section 96 of the CPC , making the arbitral procedure inefficient and unfair . Further held , everyone associated with the arbitral proceedings must remember that brevity will make the arbitral proceedings and the proceedings under Sections 34 and 37 more effective . ( Para 23 ) Bombay Slum Redevelopment Corporation v. Samir Narain Bhojwani , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 445 : AIR 2024 SC 3427 : ( 2024 ) 7 SCC 218 <p> Section 34 and 37 -- Power of the Appellate Court dealing with the appeal under Section 37(1) ( c ) of the Arbitration Act to pass an order of remand to Section 34 Court . Order of remand passed directing the learned Single Judge to hear the petition under Section 34 afresh is challenged -- The remedy of an appeal will not be effective unless there is a power of remand vesting in the appellate authority . In the Arbitration Act , there is no statutory embargo on the power of the Appellate Court under Section 37(1) ( c ) to pass an order of remand . However , looking at the scheme of the Arbitration Act , the Appellate Court can exercise the power of remand only when exceptional circumstances make an order of remand unavoidable . Held , while deciding the petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act , the learned Single Judge has made a very elaborate consideration of the submissions made across the Bar . Hence , the finding of the Appellate Bench that the impugned judgment of the learned Single Judge does not address several issues raised by the parties can not be sustained at all . Further held , the remand was completely unwarranted , as the learned Single Judge has elaborately dealt with the merits of the challenge in the Section 34 petition . ( Para 7 , 17 , 18 &amp; 20 ) Bombay Slum Redevelopment Corporation v. Samir Narain Bhojwani , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 445 : AIR 2024 SC 3427 : ( 2024 ) 7 SCC 218 <p> Section 34 and 37 - Loss due to idle labor , machinery , etc. - Arbitrator awarded Rs. 5,80,500 to the appellant , relying on the Hudson 's formula for on-site establishment expenses . The District Court , under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act , upheld the award , stating that the Arbitrator 's findings were not irrational or in conflict with public policy . However , the High Court , exercising its jurisdiction under Section 37 , examined the contractual provisions and found that the claim was impermissible under the " Special Terms and Conditions " of the contract , which explicitly prohibited claims for idle labor or machinery . The High Court overruled the Arbitrator 's decision , stating that the contract terms should have been properly considered , and its conclusions were upheld by the higher court . The Supreme Court agreed with the High Court 's decision , affirming that the contract terms must guide the award and that no amount can be granted for idle labor or machinery in violation of the contract . ( Para 7 ) Pam Developments v. State of West Bengal , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 613 <p> Section 37 - Interest on delayed payments of running account ( RA ) bills - Arbitrator awarded Rs. 54,84,024 with an interest rate of 12% p.a. to the appellant , holding that the delay in payments led to " blocked capital , " entitling the claimant to compensation . The District Court upheld the Award . However , the High Court , under Section 37 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act , set aside the Award , questioning the Arbitrator 's analysis of the payment timelines and contract terms . The High Court held that the Arbitrator failed to address key issues such as the timing of bill preparation and entitlement to interest . Upon appeal , the Supreme Court restored the Arbitrator 's Award , finding no fault in the Arbitrator 's reasoning and ruling that the High Court 's interference was unwarranted . The Court reiterated that the scope of interference under Section 37 is limited and found that the Award was neither perverse nor in conflict with public policy . ( Para 8 ) Pam Developments v. State of West Bengal , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 613 <p> The initiation of arbitration and criminal proceedings under Section 138 are separate and independent proceedings that arise from two separate causes of action . Therefore , the institution of the proceedings under Section 138 does not imply a ' continuing cause of action ' for the purpose of initiating arbitration . ( Para 9 ) Elfit Arabia v. Concept Hotel BARONS Ltd , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 494 <h> Atomic Energy Act , 1962 <p> The petitioner , a physicist and Indian citizen residing in the US , sought a license for his technology designed to trigger nuclear fission for clean energy production with reduced radioactive waste compared to traditional fusion reactors . The petitioner contended that the Atomic Energy Act , 1962 , unduly restricts the involvement of private entities in the licensing process for nuclear power . The relevant provision , Section 14 of the Act , prohibits the acquisition , production , possession , use , or disposal of prescribed substances and equipment related to atomic energy without a license , which is generally granted only to government bodies or institutions . Held , the provisions of the 1962 Act were enacted for the welfare of the people of India and to ensure strict control over nuclear energy to prevent misuse and accidents . These provisions were not arbitrary and did not infringe upon the petitioner 's fundamental rights . Sandeep T.S . v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 711 <h> Bail <p> Accused need not furnish multiple sureties against multiple bail orders - Courts can do away with the condition of local surety if its insistence delays the release of the accused from jail and renders the bail order ineffective . Girish Gandhi v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 593 : AIR 2024 SC 4396 <p> An order granting a stay to the operation of the order granting bail during the pendency of the application for cancellation of bail should be passed in very rare cases . ( Para 11 ) Parvinder Singh Khurana v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 502 : AIR 2024 SC 3572 : 2024 CriLJ 3652 <p> If an accused approaches the High Court directly without first seeking relief from the Trial Court , it is generally appropriate for the High Court to redirect them to the Trial Court at the threshold . Nevertheless , if there are significant delays following notice , it may not be prudent to relegate the matter to the Trial Court at a later stage . Bail being closely tied to personal liberty , such claims should be adjudicated promptly on their merits , rather than oscillating between courts on mere procedural technicalities . ( Para 45 ) Arvind Kejriwal v. Central Bureau of Investigation , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 694 <p> Imposition of a condition for the petitioner to close his YouTube channel as a prerequisite for bail which involved allegations under the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act , 2002 , and the Information Technology Act , 2000 . The Court found this condition to be unwarranted and extraneous to the bail decision . Felix Jerald v. State , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 761 <p> Liberty granted to an accused under the order granting bail can not be lightly and causally interfered with by mechanically granting an ex ? parte order of stay of the bail order . ( Para 13 ) Parvinder Singh Khurana v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 502 : AIR 2024 SC 3572 : 2024 CriLJ 3652 <p> Matrimonial Disputes - Condition that the husband must fulfill all the physical and financial requirements of the wife . Held , Such an impracticable requirement infringes on personal liberty and the right to dignity . Bail conditions should be reasonable and proportionate , particularly in matrimonial disputes , to allow the accused to comply and foster reconciliation between the parties . ( Para 8 ) Sudeep Chatterjee v. State of Bihar , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 540 <p> Once a court concludes that an accused is entitled to bail , the implementation of the bail order can not be postponed . Such a postponement would violate the accused 's fundamental rights under Article 21 of the Constitution of India . Jitendra Paswan Satya Mitra v. State of Bihar , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 655 <p> Pre-trial process itself shall not become a punishment - the Supreme Court set aside a bail condition to the effect that the bail bonds be furnished by the accused after completion of 6 months in custody from the date of the order . The condition in effect put on hold the implementation of the bail order for six months . Vikash Kumar Gupta v. State of Bihar , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 688 <p> The Court dealing with the application for cancellation of bail can always ensure that notice is served on the accused as soon as possible and that the application is heard expeditiously . An order granting bail can be stayed by the Court only in exceptional cases when a very strong prima facie case of the existence of the grounds for cancellation of bail is made out . The prima facie case must be of a very high standard . ( Para 12 ) Parvinder Singh Khurana v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 502 : AIR 2024 SC 3572 : 2024 CriLJ 3652 <p> The High Court took notice of the fact that the petitioner had been in custody since 11th May 2022 , and only one witness had been examined so far . In such circumstances , the High Court deemed it fit to order the release of the petitioner on bail , but only for a period of two months . Held , it is an incorrect order . If the High Court was of the view that the petitioner 's right to a speedy trial had been infringed , then the High Court should have ordered the release of the petitioner on bail pending the final disposal of the trial itself . There was no good reason for the High Court to limit the period of bail . ( 2 - 5 ) Kishor Karmakar v. State of Odisha , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 436 <p> The High Court ordered the release of the petitioner on bail , but subject to the condition that the surety shall be the victim . It is the case of the petitioner that it was practically impossible to ask the victim to stand as a surety . In such circumstances , the petitioner preferred an application seeking modification of the condition . The modification application was rejected by the High Court . In such circumstances , the petitioner is before the Supreme Court . Held , it is very unfortunate to note that because of such an absurd condition imposed by the High Court , the petitioner , although ordered to be released on bail way back in July 2023 , is still languishing in jail . The condition imposed by the High Court requiring the victim to stand as a surety is stayed from its operation . The petitioner is ordered to be released on bail subject to the terms and conditions that the trial court may deem fit to impose . ( Para 2 - 9 ) Sharwan Kumar Yadav @ Sharwan Yadav v. State of Bihar , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 435 <p> The maxim lex non cogit ad impossibilia ( the law does not compel a person to do the impossible ) emphasized in relation to onerous bail conditions . A court should not impose conditions that are impracticable or impossible for the accused to comply with , particularly in cases of anticipatory bail . ( Para 1 ) Sudeep Chatterjee v. State of Bihar , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 540 <p> The Supreme Court granted bail to Trinamool Congress ( TMC ) leader Anubrata Mondal in the case registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation ( CBI ) in relation to an alleged India-Bangladesh border cattle smuggling scam stating that the " trial is unlikely to commence soon " . However , Mondal will remain in jail as he was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate ( ED ) which is also investigating the matter along with CBI . Anubrata Mondal @ Kesto v. Central Bureau of Investigation , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 528 <p> Travesty of justice if a prisoner ca n't get benefit of bail order due to inability to furnish local surety . Ramchandra Thangappan Aachari v. State of Maharashtra , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 715 <p> When an application for cancellation of bail is filed , the High Court or Sessions Court should be very slow in granting drastic interim relief of stay of the order granting bail . ( Para 10 ) Parvinder Singh Khurana v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 502 : AIR 2024 SC 3572 : 2024 CriLJ 3652 <h> Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita , 2023 <p> Section 72(1) - Unauthorized dissemination of the identity and graphic content related to a murder and alleged rape case - The Court reiterated its directives established in Nipun Saxena v. Union of India , ( 2019 ) 2 SCC 703 emphasizing the necessity to protect the identity of victims of sexual violence and the prohibition against media exposure of such identities . In light of these violations , the Court issued an injunction ordering the immediate removal of all references , photographs , and video clips of the deceased from social media and electronic platforms . Kinnori Ghosh v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 590 <p> Section 479 - Maximum period for detaining undertrial prisoners - Implementation of - Inhuman conditions in prisons - The Court directed that this provision , which allows for the release of first-time offenders who have served one-third of the maximum imprisonment period , shall apply to all undertrials regardless of when their cases were registered . The Court mandated the Superintendents of Jails across India to expedite the processing of applications for bail based on this new legislation within two months . Additionally , it ordered State Governments and Union Territories to submit comprehensive affidavits detailing the number of undertrials eligible for release , applications made , and actual releases . Re-Inhuman Conditions in 1382 Prisons v. Director General of Prisons , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 632 <p> Section 483(3) - Bail - Cancellation of - As a normal rule , the ex- ? parte stay of the bail order should not be granted . The said power can be exercised only in rare and very exceptional cases where the situation demands the passing of such drastic order . Where such a drastic ex ? -parte order of stay is passed , it is the duty of the Court to immediately hear the accused on the prayer for continuation of the interim relief . When the Court exercises the power of granting ex- ? parte ad interim stay of an order granting bail , the Court is duty bound to record reasons why it came to the conclusion that it was a very rare and exceptional case where a drastic order of ex- ? parte interim stay was warranted . ( Para 20 ) Parvinder Singh Khurana v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 502 : AIR 2024 SC 3572 : 2024 CriLJ 3652 <p> Section 483(3) - Bail - Cancellation of - In an application made under Section 439(2) of the CrPC or Section 483(3) of the BNSS or other proceedings filed seeking cancellation of bail , the power to grant an interim stay of operation of order to bail can be exercised only in exceptional cases when a very strong prima facie case of the existence of the grounds for cancellation of bail is made out . While granting a stay of an order of grant of bail , the Court must record brief reasons for coming to a conclusion that the case was an exceptional one and a strong prima facie case is made out . ( Para 20 ) Parvinder Singh Khurana v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 502 : AIR 2024 SC 3572 : 2024 CriLJ 3652 <h> Bifurcation <p> Employees of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation ( APSRTC ) , who were appointed at regional levels in areas which formed part of the State of Telangana , will continue as employees of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation ( TSRTC ) , which is the successor corporation following the bifurcation of the State of AP . Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation v. V.V. Bramha Reddy , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 665 <h> Building <h> CBI Investigation <p> The High Court while exercising its powers under Article 226 of the Constitution can entrust investigation to the CBI . However , for doing so , it has to come to a reasoning as to why it finds that investigation by State police is not fair or is partisan . Merely , on the basis of some letters , such exercise is not warranted . Such an exercise of entrusting the investigation by the High Court has to be done in very rare cases . A perusal of the order passed by the learned single judge would reveal that there is not even a whisper as to why it finds the investigation by the state to be unfair or impartial so as to find it necessary to direct an enquiry to be conducted by CBI . For the very same reasons , the order passed by the learned Division Bench is also not sustainable in law . State of West Bengal v. Jashimuddin Mondal , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 759 <p> The petitioners , mother and brother of the deceased , who died in 2016 under suspicious circumstances , contended that her death was not a simple case of suicide , as initially reported by the local police . They alleged that respondent No. 7 , her husband and a senior judicial officer , influenced the investigation to avoid the registration of an FIR . The appellants sought a fresh investigation , citing six ante-mortem injuries on the deceased 's body and suggesting the respondent 's influence compromised the initial inquiry . The High Court had dismissed their plea , directing them to pursue alternate remedies under Section 156(3) of the Cr.P.C . However , the appellants argued that , given respondent No. 7 's judicial position , they had no hope of an impartial inquiry if overseen by a subordinate magistrate . The Supreme Court , recognizing the serious nature of the allegations and the need to maintain public confidence in judicial impartiality , allowed the appeal . It ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation ( CBI ) to conduct an independent and thorough investigation , including filing an FIR if warranted , and to submit its report expeditiously . The Court clarified that it had not commented on the merits but emphasized that its observations should not influence the CBI 's investigation . The appeal was allowed . Mandakini Diwan v. High Court of Chhattisgarh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 672 <h> Citizenship Act , 1955 <p> Bail for non-citizens - Supreme Court finds fault with view that accused can be denied bail merely on account of being a foreigner . Onyeka Samuel v. State of Himachal Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 630 <p> Section 7A - Whether the physical or virtual presence of the estranged husband is mandatory for processing an application for an Overseas Citizen of India ( OCI ) card . The respondent , an Iranian citizen , applied for an OCI card based on her marriage to an Indian citizen . Due to the estranged relationship between the couple , the husband refused to appear for the required personal interview during the OCI application process . The Delhi High Court , both at the Single Judge and Division Bench levels , dispensed with the need for the husband 's presence for the processing of the OCI application . The Supreme Court allowed the appeal filed by the Union of India , setting aside the High Court 's orders . Held , the physical or virtual presence of the Indian spouse is mandatory for the personal interview as per Clause 21.2.5(vi) of the Visa Manual and the checklist for processing OCI card applications . This requirement was necessary to ascertain the genuineness of the marriage and compliance with statutory provisions under Section 7A of the Citizenship Act . The application must be processed in accordance with the notified procedures , and the High Court 's order to dispense with the requirement was legally unsustainable . However , the Court left it open for the Central Government to consider whether the respondent 's case fell under " special circumstances " under Section 7A(3) of the Citizenship Act , which could allow the government discretion to waive the requirement . The appeals were allowed , and the High Court 's judgments were set aside . Union of India v. Bahareh Bakshi , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 638 <p> Section 7A(1) ( d ) - Physical or virtual presence of the Indian spouse is mandatory to process the application of a foreign national for an Overseas Citizen of India ( OCI ) card . Union of India v. Bahareh Bakshi , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 638 <h> Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 <p> Courts can not prepone the date of hearing without giving notice to the other party . Ranjit Singh v. State of Uttarakhand , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 737 <p> Defendant can cross-examine plaintiff even if suit is proceeding ex-parte against him and written statement is n't filed . Ranjit Singh v. State of Uttarakhand , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 737 <p> Section 11 -- Bar of res judicata -- Object of the principle of res judicata is to avoid parties to litigate on the same issue which has already been adjudicated upon and settled . The matter which is directly and substantially in issue in the previous litigation ought not to be permitted to be raised and adjudicated upon in the subsequent suit . Title and possession over the disputed land is claimed -- Held , the judgment and order of the previous suit which is final and conclusive , in no specific terms adjudicates upon the right , title and interest of the suit land . The suit , was dismissed simpliciter without adjudication of any rights of the plaintiff-appellant over the suit land vis- ? -vis the Cantonment Board . Hence , the principle of res judicata would not be attracted as the issue in the present suit was neither directly or indirectly in issue in the previous suit . The suit is not barred by res judicata . ( Para 21 , 23 , 25 ) Har Narayan Tewari v. Cantonment Board , Ramgarh Cantonment , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 446 <p> Section 11 -- Applicability of res judicata between co-defendants -- It is a settled law that the principle of res judicata is applicable not only between the plaintiff and the defendants but also between the co-defendants . In applying the principle of res judicata between the co-defendants , primarily three conditions are necessary to be fulfilled , namely , ( i ) there must be a conflict of interest between the co-defendants ; ( ii ) there is necessity to decide the said conflict in order to give relief to plaintiff ; and ( iii ) there is final decision adjudicating the said conflict . Once all these conditions are satisfied , the principle of res judicata can be applied inter se the co-defendants . Held , there was no conflict of interest between the co-defendants in the earlier Suit . None of the above stated conditions between co-defendants stood fulfilled for applying res judicata . Hence , the principle of res judicata would not be attracted as the there was no conflict of interest between the co-defendants in the said previous suit which if any never came to be adjudicated upon . The suit is not barred under Section 11 CPC . ( Para 23 &amp; 25 ) Har Narayan Tewari v. Cantonment Board , Ramgarh Cantonment , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 446 <p> Section 100 -- Second appeal -- Whether substantial question of law is involved ? -- Held , the substantial question of law arising in the second appeal was - Whether the suit as setup by the plaintiff-appellant was barred by principle of res judicata in view of the decision in the earlier Suit . ( Para 17 ) Har Narayan Tewari v. Cantonment Board , Ramgarh Cantonment , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 446 <p> Order 2 Rule 2 -- Bar to subsequent suit on same cause of action -- Observing that the suit for recovery of possession is different from the suit for arrears of rent and damages , the Supreme Court held that there 's no bar to file a separate suit for arrears of rent and damages after a suit for possession . Held , a plea of a bar under 0 . 2 . R. 2 , Civil Procedure Code can be established only if the defendant files in evidence the pleadings in the previous suit and thereby proves to the Court the identity of the cause of action in the two suits . Hence , both the causes of action being separate , the second suit was clearly maintainable . ( Para 17 ) Uniworld Logistics Pvt . Ltd . V. Indev Logistics Pvt . Ltd ; 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 469 <p> Order 6 - Delay of 17 Years in filing Written Statement -- The respondent delayed filing the Written Statement , which led to procedural complications , including the suit being mistakenly marked as disposed of on the High Court 's website - Held , Procedural rules should not obstruct substantive justice , particularly when confusion caused by the court 's own administrative errors contributed to the delay . ( Para 15 ) PIC Departmentals Pvt . Ltd. v. Sreeleathers Pvt . Ltd. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 580 <p> Order 6 Rule 1 and 2 - Written Statement - A party whose right to file a written statement in a case has been forfeited can not introduce his case indirectly through evidence or written submission . Such a party can still participate in the proceedings and cross-examine the complainant , but can not indirectly introduce his case . ( Para 18 ) Kaushik Narsinhbhai Patel v. S.J.R. Prime Corporation , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 497 : AIR 2024 SC 3854 <p> Order 6 Rule 17 - By way of an amendment to the Plaint under Order VI Rule 17 of CPC , the plaintiff can introduce certain aspects that are necessary to determine the issues between the parties . Delay occurred in preferring the application to amend the plaint post-commencement of the trial would not have an effect if due diligence was taken . If the aspect introduced by the plaintiff remained undecided , which ought to be decided to determine the issues between the parties , then the delay that occurred in filing an amendment application would not have much relevance . Dinesh Goyal @ Pappu Versus Suman Agarwal ( Bindal ) , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 739 <p> Order 23 Rule 3 - Compromise of Suit - For a valid compromise in a suit there has to be a lawful agreement or compromise in writing and signed by the parties which would then require it to be proved to the satisfaction of the Court . In the present case , neither the compromise deed has been reduced to writing , nor it is recorded by the court . Mere statements of the parties before court about such said compromise , can not satisfy the requirements of Order XXIII Rule 3 of the CPC . Therefore , the compromise decree is not valid . ( Para 20 &amp; 23 ) Amro Devi v. Julfi Ram , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 482 <p> Order 41 Rule 25 and 27 - Courts at the Appellate stage of civil suits can not create a new case for the parties while framing such additional issues that were never raised in the pleadings of the parties . Rama Kt . Barman v. Md . Mahim Ali , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 637 <p> Order 41 Rule 25 and 27 - Recovery of Possession - Whether the High Court erred in framing new substantial questions of law at the appellate stage without providing the parties an opportunity to lead evidence on the new issues . Held , the High Court , in allowing the respondents ' appeal , had framed additional substantial questions of law , which were neither raised in the lower courts nor supported by evidence . The High Court can not create a new case for the parties at the appellate stage . As per Order XLI Rule 25 and Rule 27 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 , new issues or evidence may be introduced only after following due procedure . Consequently , the matter was remanded to the High Court for fresh consideration in accordance with law . The parties were directed to maintain status quo regarding possession of the suit land until the appeal is re-decided by the High Court . Appeal allowed . Rama Kt . Barman v. Md . Mahim Ali , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 637 <h> Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 <p> Age of the convict at the time of the commission of an offence would be of relevance along with other mitigating circumstances while commuting the sentence of the death penalty . Rabbu @ Sarvesh v. State of Madhya Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 730 <p> Court can not convict one accused and acquit another when similar or identical evidence is pitted against two accused persons . Yogarani v. State by the Inspector of Police , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 731 : AIR 2024 SC 4641 <p> Courts should refrain from ordering further investigation when the party requesting further investigation under Section 173(8) CrPC has not whispered about anything new in its evidence and has based its application for further investigation without averring fresh materials . K. Vadivel v. K. Shanthi , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 757 <p> Framing of charge -- Requirements -- The standard of test and judgment which is finally applied before recording a finding of conviction against an accused is not to be applied at the stage of framing the charge and just a very strong suspicion , based on the material on record , would be sufficient to frame a charge . The strong suspicion should be the one emerging from the materials on record brought by the prosecution . It is within the jurisdiction of the Court concerned to sift and weigh the evidence for the limited purpose of finding out whether or not a prima facie case against the accused concerned has been made out . Held , the question of framing the charge would arise only in a case where the court upon such exercise satisfies itself about the prima facie case revealing from " the record of the case and the documents submitted therewith " against the accused concerned . Hence , the intention embedded is to ensure that an accused will be made to stand the ordeal of trial only if ' the record of the case and the documents submitted therewith ' discloses ground for proceeding against him . Further held , there is no ground for a prima facie case revealed from the materials produced by the prosecution . ( Para 14 , 15 , 19 &amp; 32 ) Ram Prakash Chadha v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 475 : AIR 2024 SC 3540 : 2024 Cri LJ 3639 <p> Section 125 -- A divorced Muslim woman is entitled to file a petition for maintenance against her ex-husband under Section 125 of the Code of Criminal Procedure . This right of a Muslim woman is in addition to the right under the Muslim Women ( Protection of Rights on Divorce ) Act 1986 . Mohd Abdul Samad v. State of Telangana , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 452 : AIR 2024 SC 3665 : 2024 CriLJ 3460 <p> Section 160 - The proceedings arose from remarks made by the petitioner on social media regarding her exclusion from a decision-making process despite being invited by the Manipur State Transgender Welfare Board . Upon the petitioner expressing regret for her remarks and undertaking not to make similar comments in the future , the Court encouraged the respondent State to show leniency . The Advocate General for Manipur agreed to quash the proceedings , acknowledging the incident as a one-time , bona fide mistake . Consequently , the Court quashed the notice issued under Section 160 Cr.P.C. and all subsequent proceedings . The Writ Petition was disposed of accordingly , with the Court appreciating the State 's magnanimity . Thangjam Santa Singh @ Santa Khurai v. State of Manipur , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 752 <p> Section 162 - FIR Manipulation -- Investigation Tainted by Delay in FIR Recording -- Reiterated that when the police deliberately delay recording the First Information Report ( FIR ) after receiving information about a cognizable offense , and the FIR is prepared after on-site deliberation , consultation , and discussion , such an FIR can not be considered the actual FIR but a statement made during the investigation , thereby falling under Section 162 Cr.P.C . Failure to promptly record the FIR raises doubts about the authenticity of the investigation , as it leaves room for fabrication of evidence and false clues . Deliberate delay in FIR registration taints the investigation . FIR prepared after consultation and deliberation is inadmissible as it is hit by Section 162 CrPC . Non-production of the Daily Diary ( Roznamcha ) can suggest fabrication and concealment of material facts . FIR delayed and investigation tainted . Allarakha Habib Memon v. State of Gujarat , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 562 : AIR 2024 SC 4201 <p> Section 195 Cr.P.C. bar not applicable when forgery was committed on document before it was given as evidence in Court . Arockiasamy v. State of Tamil Nadu , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 717 <p> Section 202 - Scope of Inquiry - At the stage of the issuing process under Section 202 Cr.P.C. , the court is not required to determine whether the accused will ultimately be convicted or acquitted . The inquiry is limited to ascertaining whether there are sufficient grounds for proceeding with the case . The Magistrate must focus on the existence of a prima facie case , based on the allegations in the complaint and the evidence presented , without engaging in detailed evaluation of the merits . The accused has no right to be heard at this stage , and the Magistrate 's discretion must be judicially exercised . Grounds for quashing the issuance of process include : lack of essential ingredients of the offence , patently absurd allegations , capricious exercise of discretion , or fundamental legal defects in the complaint . Delhi Race Club ( 1940 ) Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 603 : AIR 2024 SC 4531 <p> Section 202 and 482 - Issuance of Process and Application of Mind by Magistrate - The issuance of summons in a criminal case is a serious matter and can not be done mechanically . The Magistrate must apply their mind to the facts alleged in the complaint , consider the evidence , and ensure that sufficient grounds exist for proceeding further . This requires a careful evaluation of whether the complaint discloses an offense and whether the accused is prima facie answerable . Vicarious liability of corporate office bearers can not be assumed unless explicitly provided for in the statute , and direct allegations against them must be demonstrated . The process of summoning can be challenged under Section 482 of CrPC if it is shown that the Magistrate failed to exercise due discretion and formed an opinion without sufficient material . The Magistrate 's order must reflect a subjective satisfaction based on proper scrutiny . Delhi Race Club ( 1940 ) Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 603 : AIR 2024 SC 4531 <p> Section 216 does not give any right to the accused to file a fresh application seeking his discharge after the charge is framed by the court , more particularly when his application seeking discharge under Section 227 has already been dismissed . Unfortunately , such applications are being filed in the trial courts sometimes in ignorance of law and sometimes deliberately to delay the proceedings . Once such applications , though untenable , are filed , the trial courts have no alternative but to decide them , and then again such orders would be challenged before the higher courts , and the whole criminal trial would get derailed . Suffice it to say that such practice is highly deplorable , and if followed , should be dealt with sternly by the courts . ( Para 11 ) K. Ravi v. State of Tamil Nadu , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 624 : AIR 2024 SC 4074 <p> Section 227 - Application of judicial mind at the stage of considering discharge - A judge is required to sift through the evidence presented by the prosecution to ascertain whether there is sufficient ground to proceed against the accused . The judge must not act merely as a post office for the prosecution but must exercise judicial discretion to determine whether a prima facie case exists . ( Para 20 ) Karnataka EMTA Coal Mines Ltd. v. Central Bureau of Investigation , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 606 <p> Section 227 - Principles - The judge has the power to sift and weigh evidence to determine if a prima facie case is made out . If the materials disclose a grave suspicion , a charge can be framed ; however , mere suspicion or weak evidence would justify a discharge . The judge must avoid conducting a mini-trial and should focus on whether the evidence , taken at face value , presumes an offense has been committed . ( Para 20 ) Karnataka EMTA Coal Mines Ltd. v. Central Bureau of Investigation , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 606 <p> Section 227 -- Discharge of accused in criminal cases -- When an application for discharge is filed under Section 227 , Cr.PC , the Court concerned is bound to disclose the reason(s) , though , not in detail , for finding sufficient ground for rejecting the application or in other words , for finding prima facie case , as it will enable the superior Court to examine the challenge against the order of rejection . ( Para 22 ) Ram Prakash Chadha v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 475 : AIR 2024 SC 3540 <p> Section 294 - Calling upon the accused to admit or deny the genuineness of the documents produced by the prosecution alongwith the list under Section 294 of Cr.P.C. , could not be said to be in any way prejudicial to the right of the accused , nor could it be said to be compelling him to be a witness against himself as contemplated under Article 20(3) of the Constitution of India . However , the Court deleted the observations made in paragraph 56 of the impugned order , which suggested that deliberate denial of a document 's genuineness could be considered an aggravating circumstance during sentencing . The petitioner is allowed to raise all legally permissible contentions during the trial . ( Para 2 - 4 ) Ashok Daga v. Directorate Of Enforcement , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 480 <p> Section 311 - A conjoint reading of Section 311 CrPC and Section 165 of the Evidence Act makes it clear that the trial Court is under an obligation not to act as a mere spectator and should proactively participate in the trial proceedings , so as to ensure that neither any extraneous material is permitted to be brought on record nor any relevant fact is left out . It is the duty of the trial Court to ensure that all such evidence which is essential for the just decision of the case is brought on record irrespective of the fact that the party concerned omits to do so . ( Para 48 ) Gaurav Maini v. State of Haryana , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 471 : AIR 2024 SC 3601 <p> Section 313 -- Conviction of accused challenged on grounds of violation of Section 313 -- Section 313 embodies principle of natural justice viz. , audi alteram partem , empowering the Court to examine the accused thereunder to give the accused concerned an opportunity to explain the incriminating circumstances appearing against him in the prosecution evidence . Questioning under Section 313(1) ( a ) , Cr.PC , is discretionary but the questioning under Section 313(1) ( b ) thereof is mandatory . Held , if a fatal non-compliance in the matter of questioning resulted in ' material prejudice ' to any convict in a criminal case , the trial concerning that convict should stand vitiated . The examination of the appellant under Section 313 , Cr.PC , reveals that both the incriminating circumstances were not directly or even indirectly put to the appellant while being examined under Section 313 , Cr.PC . Held , the twin incriminating circumstances were not put to the appellant while he was being questioned under Section 313 , Cr.PC , and they ultimately culminated in his conviction , it is clear that the appellant was ' materially prejudiced ' and it had resulted in blatant miscarriage of justice . The failure as above is not a curable defect and it is nothing but a patent illegality vitiating the trial qua the appellant . Hence , the conviction of the appellant could not be sustained . ( Para 19 , 20 , 24 &amp; 26 ) Naresh Kumar v. State of Delhi , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 443 : AIR 2024 SC 3233 : 2024 CriLJ 3224 <p> Section 321 -- Permission for withdrawal of the prosecution against an accused is challenged -- Held , the Trial Court 's has taken a casual approach towards the accusations against the then sitting Member of Legislative Assembly in allowing withdrawal of his prosecution and merely because an accused person is elected to the Legislative Assembly can not be a testament to their image among the general public . Matters of a gruesome crime akin to the double murder in the present case do not warrant withdrawal of prosecution merely on the ground of good public image of an accused named in the charge sheet after thorough investigation . Contrary to the Trial Court 's view , such withdrawal can not be said to be allowed in public interest in cases of involvement of influential people . Hence , it is of paramount importance to ensure progression of the trial without further delay . ( Para 12 ) Shailendra Kumar Srivastava v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 476 : AIR 2024 SC 3727 <p> Section 357 - The appellant , convicted under Sections 409 and 201 of the IPC and sentenced to four years and six months of rigorous imprisonment , was ordered by the High Court to deposit 50% of the Rs. 2.86 crore compensation to obtain bail and suspension of sentence . The Supreme Court , referencing the principles of Section 357 Cr.P.C. and the case of Dilip S. Dahanukar v. Mahindra Co . Ltd. ( 2007 ) , found the High Court 's condition unjustified and allowed the appeal , removing the requirement to deposit 50% of the compensation . Nikhil v State of Maharashtra , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 478 <p> Section 374 - When a Court deals with an appeal against an order of conviction , the judgment must contain ( i ) a concise statement of the facts of the case , ( ii ) the nature of the evidence adduced by the prosecution and the defence , if any , ( iii ) the submissions made by the parties , ( iv ) the analysis based on the reappreciation of evidence , and ( v ) the reasons for either confirming the guilt of the accused or for acquitting the accused . The appellate court must scan through the evidence , both oral and documentary , and reappreciate it . ( Para 13 ) In Re : Right to Privacy of Adolescents , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 587 : AIR 2024 SC 4004 <p> Section 374 - After reappreciating the evidence , the appellate court must record reasons for either accepting the evidence of the prosecution or for disbelieving the evidence of the prosecution . The Court must record reasons for deciding whether the charges against the accused have been proved . In a given case , if the conviction is confirmed , the Court will have to deal with the legality and adequacy of the sentence . In such a case , there must be a finding recorded on the legality and adequacy of the sentence with reasons . ( Para 13 ) In Re : Right to Privacy of Adolescents , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 587 : AIR 2024 SC 4004 <p> Section 389 -- Suspension of substantive order of sentence of life imprisonment -- Held , if a sentence imposed by trial court is for a fixed term , ordinarily , the appellate court may exercise its discretion to suspend the operation of the same liberally unless there are any exceptional circumstances emerging from the record to decline . However , when it is a case of life imprisonment , the only legal test which the Court should apply is to ascertain whether there is anything ' palpable ' or ' apparent on the face of the record ' on the basis of which the court can come to the conclusion that the conviction is ' not sustainable in law ' and that the convict has very fair chances of succeeding in his appeal . Further held , the offence is prima facie established against the appellant before the trial court . Hence , the High Court is at no fault in declining to suspend the substantive order of sentence of life imprisonment . ( Para 7 &amp; 8 ) Bhupatji Sartajji Jabraji Thakor v. State of Gujarat , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 438 <p> Section 401 - Under Section 401 ( 3 ) Cr.P.C. , the High Court lacks the authority to convert an acquittal into a conviction in revision proceedings . Instead , the High Court should have remitted the matter to the appellate court for re-evaluation . C.N. Shantha Kumar v. M.S. Srinivas , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 660 <p> Section 418 ( 1 ) -- Proportionality of sentence with respect to the offence committed -- To claim enhancement of punishment for conviction for the offence -- Held , it is the solemn duty of the Court to strike a proper balance awarding sentence proportionate to the gravity of the offence committed by the accused concerned upon his conviction for serious offence(s) . The offence under Section 494 I.P.C. , has to be treated as a serious offence , hence , the imposition of ' imprisonment till the rising of the court ' is not a proper sentence falling in tune with the rule of proportionality . Further held , imposition of sentence of ' imprisonment till the rising of the court ' upon conviction for an offence under Section 494 I.P.C. , on them was unconscionably lenient or a flea-bite sentence . Hence , it appropriate to use our judicial discretion to modify the sentence imposed under the impugned judgment to six months each , making the nature of the sentence as simple imprisonment for the said period . ( Para 14 , 15 , 17 &amp; 19 ) Baba Natarajan Prasad v. M. Revathi , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 474 : AIR 2024 SC 3348 : ( 2024 ) 7 SCC 531 : 2024 Cri LJ 3281 <p> Section 437(3) and Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act , 1985 ; Section 37 &amp; 52 -- Applicability of Section 437(3) in cases of NDPS Act -- Once a case is made out for a grant of bail in accordance with Section 37 , the conditions of bail will have to be in terms of Section 437(3) of the CrPC . The reason is that because of Section 52 of the NDPS Act , the provisions of the CrPC apply to the arrests made under the NDPS Act insofar as they are not inconsistent with the NDPS Act . ( Para 4 ) Frank Vitus v. Narcotics Control Bureau , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 441 : AIR 2024 SC 3418 : ( 2024 ) 8 SCC 415 : 2024 CriLJ 3297 <p> Section 437(3) -- Bail -- Object of imposing conditions of bail -- It is to ensure that the accused does not interfere or obstruct the investigation in any manner , remains available for the investigation , does not tamper with or destroy evidence , does not commit any offence , remains regularly present before the Trial Court , and does not create obstacles in the expeditious conclusion of the trial . ( Para 7 ) Frank Vitus v. Narcotics Control Bureau , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 441 : AIR 2024 SC 3418 : ( 2024 ) 8 SCC 415 : 2024 CriLJ 3297 <p> Section 437(3) -- Bail conditions -- Held , bail conditions can not be fanciful , arbitrary or freakish and must be within the four corners of Section 437(3) . The bail conditions must be consistent with the object of imposing conditions . While imposing bail conditions , the Constitutional rights of an accused , who is ordered to be released on bail , can be curtailed only to the minimum extent required . In case of the accused whose guilt is yet to be established , the presumption of innocence is applicable and such person can not be deprived of all his rights guaranteed under Article 21 . Further held , Courts must show restraint while imposing bail conditions . Hence , while granting bail , the Courts can curtail the freedom of the accused only to the extent required for imposing the bail conditions warranted by law and can not be so onerous as to frustrate the order of bail itself . ( Para 7 &amp; 7.1 ) Frank Vitus v. Narcotics Control Bureau , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 441 : AIR 2024 SC 3418 : ( 2024 ) 8 SCC 415 : 2024 CriLJ 3297 <p> Section 437(3) -- Constitution of India ; Article 21 -- Validity of bail condition -- The condition of dropping pin on google map -- Bail condition of dropping a PIN on Google Map gives an impression that the condition will enable to monitor the movements of the accused on a real ? time basis , which will be violative of the right to privacy guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India . Held , this can not be a condition of bail and deserves to be deleted and ordered accordingly . ( 10 , 10.2 ) Frank Vitus v. Narcotics Control Bureau , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 441 : AIR 2024 SC 3418 : ( 2024 ) 8 SCC 415 : 2024 CriLJ 3297 <p> Section 437(3) -- Validity of Bail condition -- The condition of furnishing certificate of the embassy -- It is not necessary that in every case where bail is granted to an accused in an NDPS case who is a foreign national on the ground of long incarceration of more than 50% of the minimum sentence , the condition of obtaining a ' certificate of assurance ' from the Embassy/High Commission should be incorporated . It will depend on the facts of each case . Held , grant of such a certificate by the Embassy/High Commission is beyond the control of the accused to whom bail is granted . Therefore , when the Embassy/High Commission does not grant such a certificate within a reasonable time , the accused , who is otherwise held entitled to bail , can not be denied bail on the ground that such a condition , which is impossible for the accused to comply with , has not been complied with . Hence the condition is deleted . ( Para 11.1 &amp; 12 ) Frank Vitus v. Narcotics Control Bureau , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 441 : AIR 2024 SC 3418 : ( 2024 ) 8 SCC 415 : 2024 CriLJ 3297 <p> Section 439 - Bail decisions must consider relevant factors such as the nature of accusations , the accused 's role , potential tampering of evidence , and risk of flight . It was held that the learned Single Judge erred by not adequately addressing these factors . Moreover , despite the respondent 's six-month incarceration , the economic offense 's gravity , involving the siphoning of Society funds affecting numerous individuals , justified canceling bail . The Court underscored that bail orders based on irrelevant or insufficient material are open to interference . Although bail was revoked , the Court granted liberty to the respondent to reapply for bail if circumstances change , ensuring the trial court remains uninfluenced by the present judgment . Manik Madhukar Sarve v. Vitthal Damuji Meher , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 619 : AIR 2024 SC 4078 <p> Section 439 -- To set aside Bail order -- Grant of bail in serious offences like murder -- The power to grant bail under Section 439 CrPC although is discretionary power of the court , it has to be exercised in a judicious manner and not as a matter of course . Where a court considering an application for bail fails to consider relevant factors , an appellate court may justifiably set aside the order granting bail . An appellate court is thus required to consider whether the order granting bail suffers from a non-application of mind or is not borne out from a prima facie view of the evidence on record . Held , it is evident that the High Court failed to assign any reasons for the exercise of its discretion in favour of the accused , knowing fully well that he is involved in a serious offence like murder and was absconding for a couple of years . Further held , here an order refusing or granting bail does not furnish the reasons that inform the decision , there is a presumption of the non-application of mind which may require the intervention of this Court . Hence , bail order is set aside . ( Para 14 &amp; 16 ) State of Jharkhand v. Anil Ganjhu , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 459 <p> Section 451 - Mines and Minerals Act , 1957 - Proceedings for confiscation - Release of seized vehicle - Keeping a vehicle like a Tipper Lorry idle is not serving anybody 's interest . It is resulting in damage to the stationary vehicle which is kept within the Magistrate Court complex . Public spaced is also occupied . ( Para 6 ) Perichi Gounder v. State of Tamil Nadu , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 498 <p> Section 482 - FIRs can be quashed even after a charge-sheet is filed if continuing the proceedings would be an abuse of the process of law . Shaileshbhai Ranchhodbhai Patel v. State of Gujarat , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 635 <p> Section 482 - Inherent Jurisdiction of High Court -- Scope of Powers - This provision enables the court to quash criminal proceedings at various stages -- whether at the stage of issuing process , committal , or framing of charges -- prior to the commencement of trial . Quashing should only be exercised with caution . The High Court must ensure that the material produced by the accused is of " sterling and impeccable quality , " ruling out the prosecution 's case without needing to conduct a trial . This power may be exercised even when a discharge application is pending before a trial court . Further , the court reiterated that the inherent powers under Section 482 can be used by the High Court to prevent abuse of the process of law or secure the ends of justice . Specifically , criminal proceedings may be quashed if the allegations are absurd , inherently improbable , or based on mala fides . ( Para 18 ) Karnataka EMTA Coal Mines Ltd. v. Central Bureau of Investigation , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 606 <p> The Central Bureau of Investigation ( CBI ) filed a Transfer Petition seeking to transfer certain criminal proceedings from the State of West Bengal . During the hearing , it was observed that the petition contained disparaging allegations against the judiciary of West Bengal , suggesting a hostile environment in the state 's courts . The Court expressed disapproval of such remarks from a central investigative agency . Central Bureau of Investigation v. State of West Bengal , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 732 <p> The Supreme Court set aside the High Court 's order declaring the appellant 's petition to quash the First Information Report ( FIR ) as infructuous following the appellant 's arrest . The Court criticized the High Court 's approach , stating that the writ petition for quashing the FIR should have been addressed on its merits , regardless of the appellant 's detention status . Vidhu Gupta v. State of U.P. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 735 <p> There is no prohibition against quashing criminal proceedings even after the charge sheet has been filed . Kailashben Mahendrabhai Patel v. State of Maharashtra , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 753 <p> While deciding an appeal against the acquittal , it would be impermissible for the Appellate Courts to reverse a well-reasoned judgment rendered by the trial court . A clear finding ought to be recorded by the Appellate Court while reversing the trial court 's judgment . Ramesh v. State of Karnataka , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 718 <p> Section 3 - The High Court had previously dismissed the appellant 's writ petition , which claimed that relevant documents were not supplied , impairing the detenue 's right to make an effective representation under Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India . Held , the grounds for detention were nearly identical to those in a prior case where the High Court quashed the detention orders due to the non-supply of similar documents , particularly WhatsApp chats . The Court emphasized the necessity for judicial discipline and adherence to precedent within the same High Court , ruling that the second Division Bench should have followed the earlier decision . Quashed the detention order and its confirmation , reinstating the rights of the detenue . Shabna Abdulla v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 588 <h> Constitutional Conduct <p> The Court emphasized the responsibility of all Constitutional functionaries to respect each other 's roles and discouraged unwarranted comments , stressing the importance of mutual respect among the Legislature , Executive , and Judiciary . Guntakandla Jagadish Reddy v. State of Telangana , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 733 <h> Constitution of India <p> Appointment of Vice Chancellors ( VC ) -- Power to decide on dispute regarding appointment of ( VC ) -- Held , in case(s) where the Chief Minister of the State has objected to the inclusion of any name in the panel and such objection is not acceptable to the Chancellor or where the Chancellor has an objection against empanelment of any particular name for which he has assigned his own reasons , all such files shall be put up before the Supreme Court . The final decision in this regard shall be taken by the Supreme Court after giving reasonable opportunity of being heard to the objectors . ( Para 22 ) State of West Bengal v. Dr. Sanat Kumar Ghosh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 440 : AIR 2024 SC 3319 : ( 2024 ) 8 SCC 369 <p> Article 12 and 13 - The Army Welfare Education Society can not be considered as " State " under Article 13 of the Constitution . The High Court committed an egregious error in entertaining the writ petition filed by the respondents herein holding that the appellant society is a " State " within Article 12 of the Constitution . Undoubtedly , the school run by the Appellant Society imparts education . Imparting education involves public duty and therefore a public law element could also be said to be involved . However , the relationship between the respondents herein and the appellant society is that of an employee and a private employer arising out of a private contract . If there is a breach of a covenant of a private contract , the same does not touch any public law element . The school can not be said to be discharging any public duty in connection with the employment of the respondents . ( Para 42 ) Army Welfare Education Society v. Sunil Kumar Sharma , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 464 <p> Article 14 , 16 , and 21 - Reservation for persons with benchmark disabilities , - Fixation of cut-off marks - Horizontal vs . Vertical Reservations - The appellants challenged the recruitment process of 120 posts of Civil Judge and Judicial Magistrate initiated by the Rajasthan High Court , contending that the respondents failed to publish cut-off marks for the category of persons with benchmark disabilities in the preliminary examination results . The appellants claimed this omission was discriminatory and violated their fundamental rights and the applicable state rules regarding reservation for persons with disabilities . Held , the Supreme Court dismissed the appeals , holding that the reservation for persons with benchmark disabilities is treated as an " overall horizontal reservation " and not compartmentalized into specific vertical categories such as SC , ST , or OBC . Candidates with disabilities were required to meet the cut-off marks for the vertical category they applied under . The Court found no statutory mandate requiring separate cut-off marks for the persons with benchmark disabilities in the Rajasthan Judicial Service Rules , 2010 , or the Rajasthan Rights of Persons with Disabilities Rules , 2018 . The Court reaffirmed that those who participate in a selection process can not challenge its methodology post-facto upon failing to succeed . Hence , the action of the respondents was not discriminatory or violative of the appellants ' fundamental rights . Appeals dismissed . Rekha Sharma v. High Court of Rajasthan , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 592 : AIR 2024 SC 4241 <p> Article 15(4) and 16(4) - Indra Sawhney Case - Applicability - The principle of sub-classification applies beyond Other Backward Classes ( OBCs ) and extends to beneficiary classes under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) - In Indra Sawhney , the Court did not restrict sub-classification to Other Backward Classes , but extended it to other beneficiary classes under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) . State of Punjab v. Davinder Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 538 <p> Article 16(1) , 16(4) and 335 - Efficiency of Administration - Article 335 does not limit sub-classification ; rather , it reinforces the importance of inclusion and equality in public services in line with Article 16(1) . State of Punjab v. Davinder Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 538 <p> Article 21 - Right to Speedy Trial - If the alleged offence is a serious one , it is all the more necessary for the prosecution to ensure that the trial is concluded expeditiously . When a trial gets prolonged , it is not open to the prosecution to oppose bail of the accused-undertrial on the ground that the charges are very serious . Bail can not be denied only on the ground that the charges are very serious though there is no end in sight for the trial to conclude . ( Para 22 ) Sheikh Javed Iqbal @ Ashfaq Ansari @ Javed Ansari v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 486 : AIR 2024 SC 3579 : ( 2024 ) 8 SCC 293 <p> Article 21 and Criminal procedure Code , 1973 -- Right to a speedy trial -- Application for bail on grounds of delay in trial of 4 years -- Held , bail is not to be withheld as a punishment -- If the State or any prosecuting agency including the court concerned has no wherewithal to provide or protect the fundamental right of an accused to have a speedy trial as enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution then the State or any other prosecuting agency should not oppose the plea for bail on the ground that the crime committed is serious . Article 21 of the Constitution applies irrespective of the nature of the crime . Further held , the court is inclined to exercise the discretion in favour of the appellant for reasons : ( i ) The appellant is in jail as an under-trial prisoner past four years ; ( ii ) Till this date , the trial court has not been able to even proceed to frame charge ; and ( iii ) As pointed out by the counsel appearing for the State as well as NIA , the prosecution intends to examine not less than eighty witnesses . As it can not be assumed by what time the trial will ultimately conclude , howsoever serious a crime may be , an accused has a right to speedy trial as enshrined under the Constitution of India . The appellant is ordered to be released on bail subject to the terms and conditions . ( Para 7 , 8 , 9 , 19 &amp; 23 ) Javed Gulam Nabi Shaikh v. State of Maharashtra , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 437 <p> Article 32 -- Writ petition -- Double taxation challenged -- Legality of different State Governments levying and collecting Authorization Fee/Border Tax in violation of All India Tourist Vehicles ( Permit ) Rules , 2023 in question -- Held , the State enactments , rules and regulations being not under challenge , it can not be said that the demand of Border Tax/Authorization Fee at the borders by the respective State Governments is bad under law . The petitioners , in order to succeed , have to first consider challenging the State provision contained in the Act . ( Para 10 ) Muthyala Sunil Kumar v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 450 : AIR 2024 SC 3496 <p> Article 32 &amp; 226 -- Maintainability of Writ Petition in Supreme Court -- Held , the petitioners ought to have first approached their jurisdictional High Courts to challenge their respective State enactments . Court is not inclined to enter into the merits of the matter at the present stage . ( Para 9 &amp; 10 ) Muthyala Sunil Kumar v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 450 : AIR 2024 SC 3496 <p> Article 131 - Scope of - Explained - CBI under administrative control and superintendence of Union Govt. - The State 's suit against the Union over the registration of cases by the CBI despite revocation of its general consent is maintainable . State of West Bengal v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 451 <p> Article 136 - Extraordinary Powers of the Supreme Court - Article 136 of the Constitution confers plenary and extraordinary powers upon the Supreme Court , enabling it to interfere in any judgment , decree , or order passed by any court or tribunal in India . Unlike statutory appellate powers , Article 136 does not confer a right of appeal but provides discretionary authority to address exceptional cases where substantial injustice or a significant question of law arises . These powers are not bound by procedural limitations . This jurisdiction , though wide , is sparingly exercised , especially in matters where grave miscarriage of justice is evident . Article 136 acts as a corrective and protective jurisdiction , with the Court exercising its discretion to uphold justice , maintain legal consistency , and safeguard fundamental rights . ( Para 19 ) Karnataka EMTA Coal Mines Ltd. v. Central Bureau of Investigation , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 606 <p> Article 136 - The Supreme Court 's powers under Article 136 are plenary and extraordinary , unfettered by statutory provisions and distinct from ordinary appellate powers . The jurisdiction under Article 136 is invoked in cases of grave injustice or substantial legal questions of public importance , even extending to the correction of factual errors where lower courts have acted perversely or improperly . This discretionary power , exercisable by special leave , is not restricted by procedural limitations and can be invoked by private parties as well as the State . ( Para 19 ) Karnataka EMTA Coal Mines Ltd. v. Central Bureau of Investigation , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 606 <p> Article 136 - The Court has emphasized the need for this power to be exercised sparingly , only in exceptional circumstances , to ensure justice is upheld and miscarriage of justice is prevented . It is a corrective and supervisory jurisdiction aimed at maintaining consistency in legal precedents and safeguarding the rights and liberties of individuals . The inherent limitations are self-imposed and exercised with judicial discretion to avoid arbitrary decisions . ( Para 19 ) Karnataka EMTA Coal Mines Ltd. v. Central Bureau of Investigation , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 606 <p> Article 142 -- Action of forfeiture of security deposit is challenged to be punitive -- Claiming re-commencement of the e-auction process on grounds of bona fide mistake -- Held , the system pop-up gives only one option to the bidder to submit the bid with the digital signature with no scope of rectification or retraction . There was no opportunity available on the platform for the appellant to rectify the error in the bid , having once entered it . Even if the bidder had realized that the bid amount requires to be rectified , it could not have done so because of the system not permitting such a course . Further held , it can be inferred from the circumstances that the mistake in entering the bid was committed inadvertently and the appellant on discovery of the error or mistake acted promptly in informing the authority concerned for rectification of the bid . Held , applying the balancing test to the factual matrix of the present case , it is clear that the forfeiture of entire security deposit of the appellant as against evident human error is punitive . ( Para 10 , 14 , 21 ) Omsairam Steels &amp; Alloys Pvt . Ltd. v. Director of Mines and Geology , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 477 <p> Article 142 -- Negligence in competitive bidding process -- E-auction in process was a competitive bidding process which demanded a high degree of caution and care on the part of the appellants . The human error envinces a degree of remiss and carelessness the result of which is bound to cost the public exchequer heavily in terms of time , effort and expense . Held , on account of the appellant 's failure to act with the required degree of care , the liberty granted to conduct fresh e-auction is confirmed . Hence , the appellant id directed to pay to the first respondent Rs 3,00,00,000/- ( Rupees three crore only ) within a month from date . ( Para 25 ) Omsairam Steels &amp; Alloys Pvt . Ltd. v. Director of Mines and Geology , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 477 <p> Article 142 -- Power to constitute Search ? cum ? Selection Committee for selection of VC -- Held , to do complete justice the Supreme Court may pass a common order for constitution of Search ? cum ? Selection Committee for all the subject Universities . Further held , the court resolves to constitute Search ? cum ? Selection Committee(s) of the same composition so as to avoid any confusion , irrespective of the fact that the relevant provision of the Statute of the concerned University may contain slight variations . While shortlisting the experts for composition of the Search ? cmSelection Committee , the nature of subjects and disciplines in which education is being imparted in different Universities can be focused on . ( Para 10 &amp; 11 ) State of West Bengal v. Dr. Sanat Kumar Ghosh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 440 : AIR 2024 SC 3319 : ( 2024 ) 8 SCC 369 <p> Article 163 and 239AA(4) - Delhi Lt. Governor position not akin to that of a State 's Governor - There is a clear distinction between the discretionary power of the Governor under Article 163 and that of the Lt. Governor under Article 239AA(4) . While Article 163 requires Governor of a State to act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers , ' except in so far as he is by or under this Constitution required to exercise his functions or any of them in his discretion ' , the exception in so far as the Lt. Governor , under Article 239AA(4) is concerned , he will act in his discretion , ' in so far as he is required by or under any law ' . Article 239AA of the Constitution takes into account the unique position of NCTD and therefore adopts the mandate of ' law ' as a distinct feature for exercise of discretion " . Govt of NCT of Delhi v. Office of Lieutenant Governor of Delhi , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 551 <p> Article 225 and 329(a) - Judicial review in delimitation matters is not completely barred by Article 329(a) of the Constitution . Constitutional courts can intervene under Article 226 if the delimitation process is found to be arbitrary or unconstitutional . Kishorchandra Chhanganlal Rathod v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 556 <p> Article 341 -- Power to amend list of schedule caste -- The list of scheduled caste can be amended , altered only by law made by Parliament . The Resolution extending benefit of Scheduled Castes to the members of the " Tanti-Tantwa " community by merging it with ' Pan , Sawasi , Panr ' community under Entry 20 of the list of Scheduled Castes , was patently illegal , erroneous as the State Government had no competence/ authority/power to tinker with the lists of Scheduled Castes published under Article 341 of the Constitution . " TantiTantwa " Caste , which does not appear in the list of Scheduled Castes of Bihar can not be issued Scheduled Castes Certificates treating them to be ' Pan , Sawasi , Panr ' . Hence , whether synonymous or not , any inclusion or exclusion of any caste , race or tribe or part of or group within the castes , races or tribes has to be , by law made by the Parliament , and not by any other mode or manner . Further held , that that such posts of the Scheduled Castes Quota which had been filled up by members of " Tanti-Tantwa " community availing benefit on the basis of Resolution may be returned to the Scheduled Castes category and such candidates of " Tanti-Tantwa " community be accommodated by the State in their original category of Extremely Backward Classes by taking appropriate measures . ( Para 2 , 3 , 36 &amp; 42 ) Dr. Bhim Rao Ambedkar Vichar Manch v. State of Bihar , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 472 : AIR 2024 SC 3531 <p> Article 341 intends to only give ' constitutional identity ' to scheduled castes ; not to hold them as ' homogenous class ' . State of Punjab v. Davinder Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 538 <p> Article 341 ( 1 ) - Interpretation of - Article 341(1) does not create an integrated homogenous class , as the castes notified by the President are " deemed " to be Scheduled Castes but can be further classified . State of Punjab v. Davinder Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 538 <p> Article 341 ( 2 ) - Sub-classification within Scheduled Castes does not violate Article 341(2) , unless it results in a preference or exclusive benefit to certain castes over all the seats reserved for the class . State of Punjab v. Davinder Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 538 <p> Articles 341 and 342 - Validity of Scheduled Caste Certificates - While the appellants had obtained their certificates through lawful processes , subsequent circulars issued by the Government of Karnataka , effectively revoked those certificates and classified the appellants as General Merit category candidates . The court emphasized that only Parliament has the authority to amend the list of Scheduled Castes as stipulated under Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution of India . The court acknowledged the pragmatic decision by the State to protect the employment of individuals who obtained their certificates under earlier erroneous inclusions but clarified that they would not be entitled to future benefits from the reserved category . Ultimately , the court quashed the notices issued by respondent banks to terminate the appellants ' services , upheld their entitlement to protection based on prior government circulars , and allowed the appeals . K. Nirmala v. Canara Bank , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 618 : AIR 2024 SC 4503 <p> Electoral Bond Scheme - Constitutionality and Investigations - The Supreme Court dismissed the petitions , holding that the grievances regarding quid pro quo or criminality must be addressed through available legal remedies under the law , such as invoking criminal procedure or approaching the High Courts under Article 226 . The Court further declined to order the constitution of an SIT , emphasizing that existing statutory mechanisms , such as the Income Tax Act , must be followed . The Court ruled that premature invocation of its jurisdiction under Article 32 was not warranted when statutory remedies had not yet been exhausted , reiterating that judicial review was reserved for constitutional challenges , not ordinary criminal investigations . Common Cause v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 567 <p> Social Heterogeneity of Scheduled Castes - Historical and empirical evidence shows that Scheduled Castes are socially heterogeneous . Therefore , the State can classify them further if there is a rational principle with a clear nexus to the purpose of sub-classification . State of Punjab v. Davinder Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 538 <p> Sub-classification within Scheduled Castes is permissible to ensure substantive equality of opportunity , provided it is based on backwardness and inadequate representation . The decision in Chinnaiah that barred sub-classification within Scheduled Castes is overruled . State of Punjab v. Davinder Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 538 <p> Sub-classification within Scheduled Castes - Data Collection and Representation - The State can sub-classify based on inadequate representation , provided backwardness is established through data . The State must collect data on inadequate representation in public services , which can serve as an indicator of backwardness . State of Punjab v. Davinder Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 538 <h> Consumer <p> Revocation of power of attorney executed between landowners and builder for developing their land would not absolve the landowners from being jointly and severally liable along with the builder in a consumer case for deficiency of service . Akshay v. Aditya , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 658 <h> Consumer Protection Act , 1986 <p> Section 2(1) ( d ) -- Purchase for " commercial purpose " -- Ordinarily " commercial purpose " is understood to include manufacturing/industrial activity or business-to-business transactions between commercial entities . Further , the purchase of the goods should have a close and direct nexus with a profit generating activity . If it is found that the dominant purpose behind purchasing the goods was for the personal use and consumption of the purchaser and/or their beneficiary , or was otherwise not linked to any commercial activity , the question of whether such a purchase was for the purpose of " generating livelihood by means of self-employment " need not be looked into . Held , the appellants had failed to prove that the dominant purpose or dominant use of the car in question was for commercial purpose or that the purchase of the car had any nexus or was linked with any profit generating activity of the respondent company . ( Para 16 &amp; 29 ) Daimler Chrysler India Pvt . Ltd. v. Controls &amp; Switchgear Company Ltd. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 447 : AIR 2024 SC 3619 <p> Section 2(1) ( r ) -- " Unfair trade practice " -- A trade practice which for the purpose of promoting the sale of any goods by adopting deceptive practice like falsely representing that the goods are of a particular standard , quality , style or model , would amount to " unfair trade practice " . Held , incomplete disclosure or non-disclosure of the complete details with regard to the functioning of the airbags at the time of promotion of the car , has rightly been considered by the National Commission as the " unfair trade practice " on the part of the appellants , and awarded compensation towards it . The National Commission also rightly awarded compensation towards the deficiency in service on account of the frontal airbags of the car having not deployed at the time of accident . Further held , since the National Commission has considered in detail the evidence and the material on record adduced by the both the parties , the judgment passed does not warrant any interference . ( Para 37 , 38 &amp; 39 ) Daimler Chrysler India Pvt . Ltd. v. Controls &amp; Switchgear Company Ltd. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 447 : AIR 2024 SC 3619 <h> Consumer Protection Act , 2019 <p> Section 2 ( 7 ) of the Act defines " consumer " to mean any person who buys any goods for a consideration but does not include a person who obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose . Therefore , purchase and sale of goods for resale or for commercial purpose is excluded from the purview of the definition of " consumer " . ( Para 14 ) Omkar Realtors and Developers v. Kushalraj Land Developers , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 609 : AIR 2024 SC 4024 <p> Section 2 ( 7 ) - A company purchasing a flat for residential use of its director and family can be a " consumer " . Omkar Realtors and Developers v. Kushalraj Land Developers , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 609 : AIR 2024 SC 4024 <p> Section 2(7) , Section 67 -- Definition of " Consumer " -- Real estate purchase for residential use -- Double allotment -- Deficiency in service -- Refund with compensation - The respondent , a real estate company , booked a flat in the appellant 's project for residential use by one of its directors . Due to double allotment of the same flat and failure to arrange necessary funds , the respondent declined possession , leading to the appellant 's cancellation of the allotment and forfeiture of the deposited amount . The respondent sought a refund , alleging deficiency in service and unfair trade practices . The NCDRC held that the respondent was a " consumer " under Section 2(7) of the Consumer Protection Act , 2019 , as the purchase was for personal residential use and not for commercial purposes . Held , the NCDRC 's decision , finding that the appellant 's actions , including the double allotment and cancellation of the booking before resolving the dispute , amounted to a deficiency in service . The Court also confirmed the order directing the appellant to refund the deposited amount with compensation , and dismissed the appeal . Omkar Realtors and Developers v. Kushalraj Land Developers , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 609 : AIR 2024 SC 4024 <p> Double allotment of a flat constitutes a deficiency in service , and the cancellation of the allotment without resolving such issues is unjustified . The appellant was directed to refund the amount along with compensation , with a timeline for repayment . Omkar Realtors and Developers v. Kushalraj Land Developers , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 609 : AIR 2024 SC 4024 <h> Contempt of Courts Act , 1971 <p> A Police Inspector and a Chief Judicial Magistrate from Gujarat guilty of Contempt of Court for arresting and remanding an accused ignoring an interim anticipatory bail order passed by the Supreme Court . Tusharbhai Rajnikantbhai Shah v. Kamal Dayani , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 557 <p> Enforcement of Judicial Orders - Willful Disobedience - Deliberate non-compliance with a judicial directive to vacate premises following an eviction order . The petitioner , landlord of the premises , had secured a decree for eviction on grounds of bona fide need and non-payment of rent , which was upheld at the appellate levels . Despite the Supreme Court granting nine months ' time for compliance upon dismissal of the respondent 's Special Leave Petition , the respondent failed to vacate or submit an undertaking as ordered . The Court observed repeated attempts by the contemnor to delay compliance , including filing unwarranted review petitions and obstructing warrant service through misleading conduct . The Court held that willful non-compliance erodes judicial authority , diminishes public confidence , and undermines the rule of law . Recognizing the respondent 's deliberate disregard for its order , the Court found him guilty of contempt but , in the interest of justice , allowed a final extension of one week to vacate the premises . Sitaram Enterprises v. Prithviraj Vardichand Jain , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 702 <p> Section 20 - the action for contempt should be brought within a year , and not beyond , from the date on which the contempt is alleged to have been committed . ( Para 56 ) S. Tirupathi Rao v. M. Lingamaiah , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 503 : AIR 2024 SC 3738 <p> The compliance of an order under threat of contempt can not take away the right of the party to challenge the same order . State of Andhra Pradesh v. Kopparla Santhi , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 516 <p> The power of contempt should be applied cautiously and sparingly , ensuring that it is invoked only when actions obstruct justice , undermine the law 's majesty , or diminish public confidence in the judicial system . The judgment reiterates that contempt proceedings are sui generis , not governed by the Code of Criminal Procedure or strict rules of evidence , yet must adhere to principles of fairness , allowing the alleged contemnor an opportunity to present their case . The court cites various precedents stressing that contempt jurisdiction exists to protect the integrity of the judiciary rather than individual judges and must be exercised judiciously , demanding a high standard of proof akin to criminal proceedings . ( Para 22 - 29 ) In Re : Patanjali Ayurved Ltd , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 573 : AIR 2024 SC 3978 <p> The expression " wilful disobedience , " as defined in Section 2(b) of the Contempt of Courts Act , 1971 , pertains to civil contempt , which involves ( 1 ) a judgment , decree , order , writ , or other court process , and ( 2 ) intentional disobedience of such court mandates . This definition delineates two categories of contempt : ( a ) wilful disobedience to court orders , which encompasses any order without distinction between adjudicated and consent orders , and ( b ) wilful breach of an undertaking given to the court , which is treated distinctly from compromises between parties . Courts have emphasized that " wilfulness " denotes intentional , voluntary actions done with bad purpose , excluding involuntary or negligent actions . Therefore , to establish civil contempt , it must be shown that the disobedience or breach was intentional , reflecting a conscious disregard of the law , thus upholding the sanctity of judicial proceedings and the rule of law . The court must also consider the specific circumstances surrounding the alleged contempt to determine the presence of wilfulness . ( Para 30 - 39 ) In Re : Patanjali Ayurved Ltd , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 573 : AIR 2024 SC 3978 <p> The term " undertaking , " while not explicitly defined in the relevant Act , carries significant weight in contempt proceedings . It is understood as a promise or engagement , often made by a party or their counsel in the context of legal proceedings , that can be enforced similarly to an injunction . Definitions from legal dictionaries highlight that an undertaking does not require consideration and represents a commitment made to secure concessions from the court or the opposing party . Importantly , courts have asserted that if a party 's actions convey the impression of providing an undertaking , they will be bound by it , irrespective of any subjective belief that they were not giving one or that their intentions were misunderstood . This underscores the seriousness and enforceability of undertakings within legal contexts . ( Para 40 - 42 ) In Re : Patanjali Ayurved Ltd , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 573 : AIR 2024 SC 3978 <p> The distinction between qualified and unconditional apologies in contempt proceedings is critical . A proper apology must be unconditional , demonstrating genuine contrition rather than serving as a tactical maneuver to evade consequences . The court emphasizes that apologies can not coexist with justifications ; they must reflect true remorse . The court assesses the sincerity of an apology based on the contemnor 's behavior before and after the apology , the timing of its presentation , and whether it serves to uphold or undermine judicial authority . Apologies lacking genuine contrition or offered at a late stage -- often as a strategy to avoid punishment -- are typically rejected . Ultimately , the court retains discretion to refuse any apology that does not meet these stringent criteria , emphasizing that an apology is not a blanket excuse for contemptuous actions . ( Para 43 - 50 ) In Re : Patanjali Ayurved Ltd , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 573 : AIR 2024 SC 3978 <h> Contract <p> The sanctity of contracts is a fundamental principle that underpins the stability and predictability of legal and commercial relationships . When public authorities enter into contracts , they create legitimate expectations that the State will honour its obligations . Arbitrary or unreasonable terminations undermine these expectations and erode the trust of private players from the public procurement processes and tenders . Once a contract is entered , there is a legitimate expectation that the obligations arising from the contract will be honoured and that the rights arising from it will not be arbitrarily divested except for a breach or non-compliance of the terms agreed thereunder . ( Para 127 ) Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. Chief Executive Officer , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 455 : AIR 2024 SC 3784 <h> Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act , 2005 <p> A statutory body like the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights ( NCPCR ) can not invoke Article 32 to seek a writ petition for enforcement of fundamental rights , as Article 32 is primarily intended for citizens . Reliefs sought by the petitioner were dismissed as they were deemed vague and beyond the scope of the statutory functions of the NCPCR under the 2005 Act . National Commission for Protection of Child Rights v. State of Jharkhand , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 763 <h> Companies Act , 2013 <p> Company Law Tribunals can exercise powers of rectification of the register of members under Companies Act 2013 if the applicant was a victim of an ' open-and-shut ' case of fraud by his opponents . Chalasani Udaya Shankar v. Lexus Technologies , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 681 <h> Criminal Jurisprudence <p> Howsoever stringent the penal law may be , the over-arching postulate of criminal jurisprudence that an accused is presumed to be innocent until proven guilty can not be brushed aside lightly . ( Para 20 ) Javed Gulam Nabi Shaikh v. State of Maharashtra , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 437 <p> The presumption of innocence comes to an end when an accused is put to trial and is held guilty of the offence with which he is charged . ( Para 6 ) Bhupatji Sartajji Jabraji Thakor v. State of Gujarat , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 438 <h> Criminal Trial <p> The Supreme Court expressed concern that despite the decision of the Constitution Bench in High Court Bar Association , Allahabad v. State of U.P . &amp; Ors. 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 177 , High Courts were issuing directions for expeditious trials without considering the existing pendency of criminal cases in the State of Bihar . Santosh Kumar @ Santosh v. State of Bihar , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 505 <p> The Central Bureau of Investigation ( CBI ) alleged that between 2001 and 2004 , the Appellant-Company colluded with Kandla Special Economic Zone ( KASEZ ) officials to evade countervailing duty ( CVD ) by declaring the invoice value instead of the maximum retail price ( MRP ) , causing an alleged loss of 8 crore to the government . The Appellant-Company contended it had complied with legal requirements , paid refundable amounts , and received immunity from the Settlement Commission . However , the Special Judge ( CBI ) and the High Court rejected the company 's discharge applications . The company appealed to the Supreme Court , arguing immunity and lack of fiscal liability . The Supreme Court ruled in the company 's favor , stating that the prosecution was improper since immunity had been granted and no fiscal liability was established . The Court noted that the Customs Appeals Commissioner had already confirmed CVD on invoice value , not MRP , entitling the company to a refund . Consequently , the Supreme Court quashed the criminal proceedings , labeling further prosecution as an abuse of process . Baccarose Perfumes and Beauty Products v. Central Bureau of Investigation , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 667 <h> Demolition <h> Disability <p> Persons With Disabilities ( Equal Opportunities , Protection Of Rights And Full Participation ) Act , 1995 ; Section 33 -- Exemption of posts from application of reservation - IRS ( C&amp;E ) and IRS ( IT ) posts were excluded from the reservation for the VI category -- Held , a notification excluding these two categories for VI category candidates has not been issued in terms of the proviso to Section 33 of the PWD Act , 1995 . Therefore , in absence of such a notification , the reservation will have to be provided to the VI category candidates in these two categories as well . ( Para 10 ) Union of India v. Pankaj Kumar Srivastava , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 444 <p> Persons With Disabilities ( Equal Opportunities , Protection Of Rights And Full Participation ) Act , 1995 ; Section 36 -- Vacancies not filled up to be carried forward -- Respondent no.1 has been made to run from pillar to post to get an appointment , though there is a large backlog of vacancies in various PWD categories . The appellant has taken a stand which defeats the very object of enacting laws for the benefit of persons with disability . Held , by applying the principles governing Section 36 of the PWD Act , 1995 , the cases of respondent no.1 and the other 10 candidates who are above him in merit could have been considered , especially when there is a gross default on the part of the appellant ( Union of India ) in promptly implementing the provisions of the PWD Act , 1995 . Hence , it is a fit case to exercise jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India . Respondent shall be considered for appointment against the backlog vacancies of PWD candidates either in IRS ( IT ) or in other service/branch . ( Para 9 , 14 &amp; 15 ) Union of India v. Pankaj Kumar Srivastava , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 444 <p> Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act , 2016 - Need for inclusive and respectful portrayal of persons with disabilities in visual media - Language Sensitivity : Terms that perpetuate negative stereotypes or devalue persons with disabilities , such as " cripple " and " spastic , " should be avoided as they contribute to societal discrimination and negative self-image . Accurate Representation : Creators must avoid misleading portrayals of medical conditions , as such representations can perpetuate misinformation and stereotypes . Inclusivity in Representation : Media should portray persons with disabilities as multidimensional individuals with diverse realities , challenges , and successes , moving away from simplistic or " ableist " characterizations . Avoiding Stereotypes : Stereotypical portrayals , such as depicting persons with disabilities as " super cripples " with extraordinary abilities , should be avoided , as they do not reflect the varied experiences of individuals . Participation and Consultation : The principle " nothing about us , without us " should be followed , meaning that persons with disabilities should be actively involved in decision-making processes and consulted in matters affecting them , including the portrayal in visual media . Training and Sensitization : The Court recommended implementing training programs for media professionals to ensure accurate , empathetic , and respectful portrayals of persons with disabilities . Nipun Malhotra v. Sony Pictures Films India Private Ltd ; 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 439 : AIR 2024 SC 3878 <h> Doctrines <p> Doctrine of Legitimate Expectation - Features of - a . First , legitimate expectation must be based on a right as opposed to a mere hope , wish or anticipation ; b . Secondly , legitimate expectation must arise either from an express or implied promise ; or a consistent past practice or custom followed by an authority in its dealings ; c . Thirdly , expectation which is based on sporadic or casual or random acts , or which is unreasonable , illogical or invalid can not be treated as a legitimate expectation ; d . Fourthly , legitimate expectation operates in relation to both substantive and procedural matters ; e . Fifthly , legitimate expectation operates in the realm of public law , that is , a plea of legitimate action can be taken only when a public authority breaches a promise or deviates from a consistent past practice , without any reasonable basis . f . Sixthly , a plea of legitimate expectation based on past practice can only be taken by someone who has dealings , or negotiations with a public authority . It can not be invoked by a total stranger to the authority merely on the ground that the authority has a duty to act fairly generally . ( Para 48 ) Army Welfare Education Society v. Sunil Kumar Sharma , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 464 <p> Doctrine of Legitimate Expectation / Promissory Estoppel - In situations , if the previous executive decision is withdrawn , modified or amended in any manner in exercise of legislative power in larger public interest , then the earlier promise upon which the party acts , can not be enforced as a right and neither can the authorities be estopped from withdrawing its promise , as such an expectation does not give any enforceable right to the party . ( Para 27 ) Rewa Tollway P. Ltd. v. State of Madhya Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 495 : AIR 2024 SC 3868 <p> Doctrine of Merger - If Special Leave was not granted and the petition was dismissed by a reasoned or unreasoned order , the order against which such Special Leave Petition is filed would not merge with the order of dismissal . However , once leave has been granted in a Special Leave Petition , regardless of whether such appeal is subsequently dismissed with or without reasons , the doctrine of merger comes into play resulting in merger of the order under challenge with that of the appellate forum , and only the latter would hold the field . Consequently , it is the decision of the superior court which remains effective , enforceable , and binding in the eyes of the law , whether the appeal is dismissed by a speaking order or not . ( Para 43 ) State of Uttar Pradesh v. Virendra Bahadur Katheria , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 481 <h> Dowry Prohibition Act , 1961 <p> Section 6 - Stridhan is the exclusive property of the woman , and her father can not claim recovery of Stridhan from in-laws without explicit authorisation from her . Mulakala Malleshwara Rao v. State of Telangana , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 621 : AIR 2024 SC 4067 <p> Section 6 - The Supreme Court reiterated that it can not be assumed that dowry and traditional presents given at the time of marriage are entrusted to the parents-in-law of the bride and would attract the ingredients of Section 6 of the Act . Section 6 of the Dowry Prohibition Act provides that any dowry received by a person other than the woman in connection with her marriage must be transferred to her within the specified period . It further states that such dowry , until transferred , is to be held in trust for the benefit of the woman . Failure to transfer is punishable with imprisonment and/or fine . ( Para 15 , Referred : Bobbili Ramakrishna Raja Yadad v. State of Andhra Pradesh , ( 2016 ) 3 SCC 309 ) . Mulakala Malleshwara Rao v. State of Telangana , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 621 <p> Section 6 - Indian Penal Code , 1860 ; Section 406 - Allegations that the appellants , former in-laws of the complainant 's daughter , had not returned the " stridhan " ( gifts , including gold ornaments ) given at the time of marriage . Key facts include the unsuccessful marriage of the complainant 's daughter , her divorce in the U.S. in 2016 , and subsequent remarriage in 2018 . The complaint , filed in 2021 , alleged the failure of the appellants to return the " stridhan . " The Supreme Court found no evidence supporting the claim of " stridhan " possession by the appellants , emphasizing that the complainant had no locus standi to initiate proceedings on behalf of his daughter without her express authorization . The Court reiterated established jurisprudence on the absolute ownership of " stridhan " by a married woman and highlighted that delay in filing the FIR raised questions about the complainant 's motives . The appeal was allowed , and the proceedings were quashed on the grounds of insufficient evidence , unexplained delay , and abuse of the legal process . Mulakala Malleshwara Rao v. State of Telangana , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 621 <h> Drugs ( Price Control ) Order ( DPCO ) , 1995 <p> The intent and purpose thereof are to control the prices at which medicinal drug formulations are made available to the common man by holding out the threat of recovery of the higher prices charged for such drug formulations by those involved in their manufacture and marketing . Given the laudable objective underlying the provision , it can not be subjected to a restricted or hidebound interpretation . ( Para 11 ) Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 487 : AIR 2024 SC 4317 <h> Education <p> Even if the function being performed by a private educational institution in imparting education may be considered as a public function , the relationship between the administration of such an institution and its employees remains a contractual one , falling within the ambit of private law . ( Para 50 ) Army Welfare Education Society v. Sunil Kumar Sharma , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 464 <p> New Delhi Municipal Corporation ( NDMC ) would not be liable for absorption and payment of benefits to the excess staff of the school run by the Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee ( DSGMC ) on account of the closure of the school done by the DSGMC without the prior approval of the NDMC . As per Rule 46 of the Delhi Education Rules ( Rules ) , it was incumbent upon the DSGMC to get approval from the NDMC before closing the school when the NDMC contributes 95% of the fund amount used for the management of the school . DSGMC 's failure to take necessary approval under Rule 46 does n't shift the responsibility upon the NDMC under Rule 47 to absorb and provide the salary and other benefits of the teaching and non-teaching staff of the school run by the DSGMC . New Delhi Municipal Council v. Manju Tomar , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 620 <p> MBBS - Supreme Court asks medical students to make deposit towards fee arrears to get original certificates from college . Sahil Bhargava v. State of Uttarakhand , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 712 <p> The Supreme Court directed all State Governments and Union Territories to implement the " Guidelines on School Safety and Security , 2021 " issued by the Union Government to fix responsibility of school management to protect children from natural disasters , health hazards , abuse , violence , and accidents . Bachpan Bachao Andolan v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 765 <h> Election <p> Election petition should not be rejected at threshold where there is " substantial compliance " of Representation of the People Act , 1951 provisions . Kimneo Haokip Hangshing v. Kenn Raikhan , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 698 <h> Enemy Property Act , 1968 <p> The petitioner challenged an order of the High Court , which had directed that no coercive action be taken until the Municipal Building Tribunal was constituted . The Supreme Court stayed this order and directed the Municipal Corporation and Custodian of Enemy Property to proceed with the identification and demolition of unauthorized constructions . Custodian of Enemy Property for India v. Md . Yakub @ Md . Yakub Ansari , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 719 <p> If a Government Department fails to comply with an order of the National Green Tribunal ( NGT ) , the Head of the Department shall be deemed liable for such failure as per section 28 of the National Green Tribunal Act , 2010 . Katiya Haidarali Ahmadbhai v. Sanjeev Kumar IAS , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 713 <p> Issues relating to the regulation and oversight of Genetically Modified Organisms ( GMOs ) in India - Directions - National Policy on GM Crops : The Union of India is directed to formulate a comprehensive National Policy on GM crops concerning research , cultivation , trade , and commerce . This policy must be developed in consultation with relevant stakeholders , including experts in agriculture and biotechnology , state governments , and representatives of farmers . National Consultation : The Ministry of Environment , Forest and Climate Change ( MoEF&amp;CC ) is instructed to conduct a national consultation within four months to facilitate the development of the National Policy . State governments are to be involved in this process . Verification of Experts : The Union of India must verify the credentials of all experts involved in the decision-making process and address any potential conflicts of interest . Rules with statutory force may be developed for this purpose . Compliance with FSSA , 2006 : The Respondent must comply with Section 23 of the Food Safety and Standards Act ( FSSA ) , 2006 , regarding the packaging and labeling of GM food , especially GM edible oil . Difference of Opinion on DMH-11 Approval : Given the differing opinions on the conditional approval for the environmental release of GM mustard ( DMH-11 ) by the Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee ( GEAC ) and the MoEF , the matter is to be placed before the Hon'ble Chief Justice of India for the constitution of an appropriate Bench for further consideration . Gene Campaign v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 501 <p> Public authorities should take best efforts to reduce trees required to be cut for public projects . M.C. Mehta v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 561 <p> Pollution Control Board - Instead of making an effort to regularly appoint the staff members , the Government seems to have adopted a short cut method of appointing contractual employees . This practice needs to be deprecated . M.C. Mehta v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 510 <p> The State has the constitutional duty to not only protect water bodies within the state but also to restore those water bodies which have been illegally filled in . Mirza Abid Beg v. State of U.P. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 488 <p> The Supreme Court quashed the National Green Tribunal 's order to shut down a Garbage Processing Plant observing that shutting it down will be detrimental to public interest . Pune Municipal Corporation v. Sus Road Baner Vikas Manch , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 692 : AIR 2024 SC 4452 <h> Evidence Act , 1872 <p> A witness who gives an incriminating statement can not take a shield under proviso of Section 132 of the Evidence Act to claim immunity from prosecution if there exists other substantial evidence or material against him proving his prima facie involvement in the crime . Raghuveer Sharan v. District Sahakari Krishi Gramin Vikas Bank , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 686 : AIR 2024 SC 4390 <p> Credibility of a witness -- Statement of witness has substantial variations with his testimony in court , giving rise to doubts as to the veracity of his testimony . Held , the threshold for disbelieving a witness must not be mere discrepancy or inconsistency but material discrepancy and inconsistency , which renders the account narrated by the witnesses so highly improbable that the same may safely be discarded altogether from consideration . Further held , it can not be expected that all the witnesses , when under attack by the accused persons , possess stellar memories with an accurate recollection of the events . Although , there are a few inconsistencies in the testimonies of the witnesses , they are minor and not substantial , so as to erode the credibility of such witnesses . Hence , the credibility and reliability of the witnesses is unshaken . ( Para 13 , 15 &amp; 16 ) Joy Devaraj v. State of Kerala , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 448 <p> Confessional statements recorded by the Police Officers which are part of the charge-sheet can not remain a part thereof and the same must be ignored . Sanju Bansal v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 467 <p> Dock Identification -- It is an identification made by witness in Court during trial . ( Para 12 ) P. Sasikumar v. State rep. by the Inspector of Police , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 460 <p> Eyewitness Testimony -- Credibility of Prosecution Witness -- FIR Registration Discrepancies -- Independent Witness and Police Conduct - The absence of a timestamp on the FIR and its delayed entry into the court record further fueled suspicions that the FIR was a post-investigation document , undermining its credibility . Possible manipulation or concealment of the original complaint by the prosecution . Allarakha Habib Memon v. State of Gujarat , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 562 : AIR 2024 SC 4201 <p> Hostile Witness -- A witness can not be disbelieved on the sole ground of him turning hostile , the hostility of such witness does not particularly dent the prosecution 's case . Held , merely because a witness resiled from his statement given to the police , the entire case presented by the prosecution can not be unreliable . ( Para 18 ) Joy Devaraj v. State of Kerala , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 448 <p> Section 9 -- Conviction challenged -- On grounds that identification of accused is not correct as the test identification parade ( TIP ) is not conducted -- Where accused is a stranger to a witness and there has been no Test Identification Parade ( TIP ) , the trial court should be very cautious while accepting the dock identification by such a witness . Held , not conducting a TIP was a fatal flaw in the police investigation and in the absence of TIP , the dock identification of the present appellant remains doubtful . The prosecution has not been able to prove the identity of the appellant beyond a reasonable doubt . Hence , the appellant could not have been convicted on the basis of a doubtful evidence as to the appellant 's identity . Conviction is set aside . ( Para 12 , 13 , 16 ) P. Sasikumar v. State rep. by the Inspector of Police , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 460 <p> Section 26 - Confessions made by the accused to the medical officer were inadmissible , as they were made while in police custody . Allarakha Habib Memon v. State of Gujarat , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 562 : AIR 2024 SC 4201 <p> Section 27 - Disclosure Statements and Link Evidence -- Acquittal -- Prosecution had failed to prove the guilt of the appellants beyond reasonable doubt . The disclosure statements under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act were not proved as per law , and no credible discovery resulted from them , as the link evidence ensuring safe custody of the recovered articles from seizure until reaching the Forensic Science Laboratory ( FSL ) was absent . The investigating officer 's testimony on disclosure statements was vague and unacceptable , and the FSL reports were rendered insignificant . The Court set aside the concurrent findings of the lower courts due to improper appreciation of evidence and perverse findings . The appellants were acquitted , and their convictions by the Trial Court and High Court were quashed . Appeals allowed . Convictions set aside . Allarakha Habib Memon v. State of Gujarat , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 562 <p> Section 106 of the Evidence Act also put burden on the husband who went to sleep with her in the same room , but escaped unscathed to explain as to how the death had occurred as it was within the special knowledge within the meaning of said Section . ( Para 8 ) Damodar v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 607 <p> Section 134 -- Sole witness -- Conviction on grounds of sole witness testimony is challenged -- Held , no particular number of witnesses is required , in any case , to prove a fact . It is the quality of evidence and not the quantity that matters . If the evidence of a solitary witness appeals to the court to be wholly reliable , the same can form the foundation for recording a conviction . Hence , the conviction of the appellant does not call for interference based on the sole testimony which is found to be reliable . ( Para 17 ) Joy Devaraj v. State of Kerala , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 448 <p> The investigating officer had inspected the house and found no direct material , except some make-up articles . Admittedly , another woman was also residing in the same portion of the house . The High Court did take note of this fact but explained it away by observing that since that woman was a widow , the make-up articles could not have belonged to her as there was no need for her to put on make-up being a widow . In our opinion , the observation of the High Court is not only legally untenable but also highly objectionable . A sweeping observation of this nature is not commensurate with the sensitivity and neutrality expected from a court of law , specifically when the same is not made out from any evidence on record . Be that as it may , mere presence of certain make-up articles can not be a conclusive proof of the fact that the deceased was residing in the said house , especially when another woman was admittedly residing there . ( Para 27 &amp; 28 ) Vijay Singh @ Vijay Kr . Sharma v. State of Bihar , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 746 <p> Usually in matters involving criminality , discrepancies are bound to be there in the account given by a witness , especially when there is a conspicuous disparity between the date of the incident and the time of deposition . However , if the discrepancies are such that they create serious doubt on the veracity of a witness , then the Court may deduce and decline to rely on such evidence . This is especially true when there are variations in the evidence tendered by prosecution witnesses regarding the sequence of events as they have occurred . Courts must exercise all the more care and conscientiousness when such oral evidence may lean towards falsely implicating innocent persons . ( Para 13 , Referred : Andhra Pradesh v. Pullagummi Kasi Reddy Krishna Reddy , ( 2018 ) 7 SCC 623 . Raju v. State of Uttarakhand , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 622 <h> Family <p> Irretrievable breakdown of marriage ca n't be used to the advantage of the party responsible for collapse of marriage . Prabhavathi @ Prabhamani v. Lakshmeesha M.C. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 643 <p> Maintenance or permanent alimony should not be penal but should be for the purposes of ensuring a decent living standard for the wife . ( Para 32 ) Kiran Jyot Maini v. Anish Pramod Patel , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 485 <p> Natural guardian 's right to custody of a child is not lost just because temporary custody was given to a relative . Gautam Kumar Das v. NCT of Delhi , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 586 : AIR 2024 SC 4029 <p> Indian citizenship should not be doubted due to minor variations in name spellings in electoral rolls or govt records . Md . Rahim Ali @ Abdur Rahim v. State of Assam , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 462 : AIR 2024 SC 3551 <h> Foreign Judgment <p> Foreign Judgment that goes against Indian law is not conclusive between parties involved and not binding on the Indian Courts . Rohan Rajesh Kothari v. State of Gujarat , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 579 <h> Foreign Policy <p> The Supreme Court dismissed a petition seeking the suspension of military exports from India to Israel amidst the ongoing war against Gaza . The Court said that it was beyond its jurisdiction to direct the Government of India to not export materials to any country , as it was a matter which was completely within the domain of foreign policy . Ashok Kumar Sharma v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 678 <h> Hindu Marriage Act , 1955 <p> Section 13(1) ( ib ) and 13(1A) ( ii ) -- Divorce petition -- A divorce petition can be presented on the ground that there has been no restitution of conjugal rights between the parties to the marriage for a period of one year and more after passing the decree for restitution of conjugal rights -- Held , the desertion of the appellant at least from 2008 till the date of filing the divorce petition in 2013 continued without any reasonable cause . Therefore , a decree for divorce on the ground of desertion under Section 13(1) ( ib ) ought to have been passed . It is a case of a complete breakdown of marriage for the last 16 years and more . ( Para 14 ) X v. Y , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 458 : AIR 2024 SC 3228 <p> Sections 24 and 25 - Whether alimony can be granted under Sections 24 and 25 of the Hindu Marriage Act , 1955 , in cases where the marriage has been declared void . The Court noted that different High Court and Supreme Court rulings provided divergent interpretations on the issue , citing several precedents both in favor of and against granting alimony in such circumstances . The matter was referred to a three-judge bench to resolve the conflict and provide clarity on the applicability of Sections 24 and 25 in cases involving void marriages . Sukhdev Singh v. Sukhbir Kaur , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 605 <p> Vandalism at the Hospital - Unsafe working conditions of medical professionals , particularly women , in healthcare institutions - Lack of safety protocols in medical institutions , leading to vulnerability of healthcare professionals to violence , including gender-based violence . Unregulated access to sensitive areas of hospitals and insufficient security measures . Insufficient infrastructure , resting spaces , and basic amenities for medical professionals during long shifts . Absence of effective legislation addressing systemic and institutional issues in healthcare safety . The Court constituted a National Task Force ( NTF ) comprising healthcare professionals and government officials to address the safety and working conditions of medical professionals . The NTF was tasked with formulating recommendations for improving institutional safety , preventing violence , and creating enforceable protocols for the dignified treatment of medical workers . The Court emphasized the need for a national consensus and set guidelines for hospital safety measures , including the installation of security systems , provision of adequate restrooms , and monitoring access to sensitive hospital areas . The Court stressed the urgency of protecting healthcare workers and ensuring safe working conditions in medical institutions . It flagged the systemic failures in safety standards , particularly the vulnerability of women professionals to violence and harassment , and called for immediate remedial actions.In Re : Alleged Rape and Murder of Trainee Doctor , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 585 : AIR 2024 SC 3957 <h> Income Tax Act , 1961 <p> Section 80DD - Deduction in respect of maintenance including medical treatment of a dependent who is a person with disability - Recent amendment to Section 80DD effective from April 1 , 2023 , which allows for the discontinuation of certain payments to dependents with disabilities upon the attainment of 60 years by the subscriber , as per the provisions outlined in the Finance Act , 2022 . The petitioner argued for retrospective application of this amendment to benefit existing policyholders . However , the Court denied this request , stating that the amendment 's intent aligns with ensuring benefits posthumously for disabled persons , thus upholding the integrity of the insurance contract . The Court concluded that the concerns of the petitioner had been adequately addressed through legislative action , and the writ petition was disposed of without further relief . Ravi Agrawal v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 650 <p> Section 206C - Any vendor who buys liquor from state manufacturers without obtaining it through auction and sells in retail at a fixed price would be excluded from the definition of ' buyer ' under Section 206C of the Income Tax Act . Such a trade would be exempted from TCS ( Tax Collected at Source ) . ( Para 14.5 ) Excise Commissioner Karnataka v. Mysore Sales International Ltd , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 496 <p> Section 206C - Before an order is passed under Section 206C of the Income Tax Act , it is incumbent upon the assessing officer to put the person concerned to notice and afford him an adequate and reasonable opportunity of hearing , including a personal hearing . ( Para 19 ) Excise Commissioner Karnataka v. Mysore Sales International Ltd , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 496 <h> Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 <p> Sections 29 and 34 - Penalty for breach of settlement or award - Section 29 is applicable when any person commits a breach of any term of any settlement or award binding on him under the ID Act . Therefore , in the complaint alleging the commission of an offence punishable under Section 29 of the ID Act , there must be a specific averment regarding the existence of a settlement or award binding on the accused under the ID Act and how the same has been breached . ( Para 5 &amp; 6 ) Yugal Sikri v. State of U.P. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 537 <p> Section 7 - Indian Contract Act , 1872 ; Section 140 - Subrogation -- Liability and Rights of Surety - Section 140 grants the surety the right to be subrogated to the creditor 's rights upon payment or performance of all that he is liable for under a guarantee . The Court emphasized that when the surety fulfills his liability , he acquires the right to recover from the principal debtor to the extent of the payment made . In this case , where the appellant had paid a sum of Rs.38.87 crores under the corporate guarantee in the CIRP ( Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process ) of the guarantor ( ACIL ) , the Court held that the subrogation rights of the appellant extend only to the amount actually paid . The financial creditor 's right to recover the balance debt from the principal debtor remains unaffected . Additionally , the Court reiterated that the assets of a subsidiary company can not form part of the CIRP process of its holding company , and a financial creditor can file separate applications under Section 7 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code against both the corporate debtor and the corporate guarantor . The appeal was dismissed , affirming the view taken by the NCLAT ( National Company Law Appellate Tribunal ) . ( Para 24 - 29 ) BRS Ventures Investments Ltd. v. SREI Infrastructure Finance Ltd. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 508 : AIR 2024 SC 4139 <h> Interpretation <p> Where the language used in an instrument/document is clear and unambiguous , only that clear expression of words is to be considered for the interpretation of the instrument , not the surrounding circumstances . Kamal Kishore Sehgal v. Murti Devi , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 721 <h> Judgment <p> A judgment of the Court can not contain the Judge 's personal opinions on various subjects . Similarly , advisory jurisdiction can not be exercised by the Court by incorporating advice to the parties or advice in general . The Judge has to decide a case and not preach . ( Para 14 ) In Re : Right to Privacy of Adolescents , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 587 : AIR 2024 SC 4004 <p> No doubt , the Court can always comment upon the conduct of the parties . However , the findings regarding the conduct of the parties must be confined only to such conduct which has a bearing on the decision-making . <p> The judgment can not contain irrelevant and unnecessary material . A judgment must be in simple language and should not be verbose . Brevity is the hallmark of quality judgment . We must remember that judgment is neither a thesis nor a piece of literature . However , we find that the impugned judgment contains personal opinion of the Judges advice to the younger generation and advice to the legislature . ( Para 14 ) In Re : Right to Privacy of Adolescents , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 587 : AIR 2024 SC 4004 <p> The ultimate object of writing a judgment is to ensure that the parties before the Court know why the case is decided in their favour or against them . Therefore , judgment must be in a simple language . The conclusions recorded by the Court in the judgment on legal or factual issues must be supported by cogent reasons . ( Para 13 ) In Re : Right to Privacy of Adolescents , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 587 : AIR 2024 SC 4004 <h> Judicial Service <p> National Pension Scheme - Compliance with payment of judicial officers ' arrears and allowances - Proceedings against various states - General directions were issued for resolving any subsisting grievances of judicial officers and ensuring the establishment of Standard Operating Procedures . All India Judges Association v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 634 <p> Requirement that judicial officers must be adept at local language is valid . Legal Attorneys and Barristers Law Firm v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 529 <p> Statutory rules and executive instructions in the recruitment process - The issue concerns the application of unamended Schedule ' B ' of the Manipur Judicial Service Rules , 2005 ( MJS Rules ) in the recruitment process , particularly regarding the evaluation criteria for written and viva voce examinations . The unamended rules provided that the final selection would be based on the cumulative grade value obtained in both the written and viva voce examinations , without prescribing any minimum cut-off for the viva voce segment . Held , amendments made to the rules after the recruitment process commenced , introducing a minimum of 40% qualifying marks for the viva voce , could not be retrospectively applied . The petitioner , having secured a cumulative 50.6% as per the unamended rules , would have qualified under the original scheme . Executive resolutions , such as the Full Court 's resolution prescribing a viva voce cut-off , can not override statutory rules unless those rules are properly amended . Reliance on decisions such as Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of P &amp; H , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 174 and Abhimeet Sinha v. High Court of Patna , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 350 was found inapplicable in this case , as those judgments addressed the legality of prescribing minimum interview marks where the rules were silent or ambiguous . However , in the present case , the unamended MJS Rules explicitly provided the method of final selection . Therefore , the petitioner 's evaluation should have been conducted under the unamended rules , and the executive resolution imposing a viva voce cut-off was invalid as it substituted rather than supplemented the statutory rules . Salam Samarjeet Singh v. High Court of Manipur at Imphal , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 636 <p> Substantive legitimate expectation and fairness in recruitment process - Whether the High Court 's decision violated the substantive legitimate expectation of the petitioner . Held , for a public authority to frustrate a claim of legitimate expectation , it must objectively demonstrate an overriding public interest . The petitioner claimed a legitimate expectation under the unamended MJS Rules , 2005 , that the merit list would be based on the aggregate marks of the written examination and viva voce . However , a minimum 40% cut-off for the viva voce was introduced after the recruitment process had begun , without prior notice to the candidates . Such a post-hoc imposition violated the petitioner 's substantive legitimate expectation , rendering the process arbitrary and in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution . The petitioner 's participation in the recruitment process did not preclude him from challenging the process 's illegality , reaffirming the principle that the doctrine of estoppel can not override the law . In conclusion , the Court ordered that the petitioner , having secured over 50% in aggregate marks , be declared successful in the recruitment test . The petitioner was granted appointment with notional seniority from 2015 for superannuation purposes but without retrospective monetary benefits . The directions were to be implemented within four weeks . Salam Samarjeet Singh v. High Court of Manipur at Imphal , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 636 <h> Judiciary <p> When a party is relegated to the High Court to pursue its remedies , it would not be proper , in the normal course , to bind the said High Court with directions in relation to the proceedings to be impugned before such Court . Ordinarily , this Court would leave all issues open for the party so relegated to raise and pursue before the High Court . Gagan Banga v. State of West Bengal , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 736 <h> Juvenile Justice ( Care and Protection of Children ) Act , 2015 <p> If a child is residing with a person who has injured , exploited or abused the child or has violated any other law for the time being in force meant for the protection of the child , the said child becomes a child in need of care and protection . Thus , if a child who is a victim of an offence under the POCSO Act is residing with the accused , the child becomes a child in need of care and protection . Even a child who has a parent or guardian and if such parent or guardian is found to be unfit to take care of the child , in such a case , the child is covered by the definition under sub-section ( 14 ) of Section 2 of the JJ Act . Therefore , the CWC has to exercise the power to provide basic needs and protection to such children in need of care and protection . ( Para 28.2 ) In Re : Right to Privacy of Adolescents , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 587 : AIR 2024 SC 4004 <p> Section 12(1) - The Supreme Court granted bail to a juvenile who had been in custody for over a year , criticizing the Juvenile Justice Board ( JJB ) , trial court , and the Rajasthan High Court for failing to record a specific finding justifying the denial of bail under the proviso to Section 12(1) of the Juvenile Justice Act . The Court emphasized that , absent such a finding , bail could not be denied . Citing a Psychological Assessment Report indicating the juvenile was not high-risk , the Court set aside previous orders and directed the juvenile 's immediate release on bail without surety , with supervision instructions to be issued to the Probation Officer . Juvenile in Conflict with Law V v. State of Rajasthan , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 582 <p> Sections 36 , 39 , and 46 - Inquiry , Rehabilitation , and Aftercare - Section 36 mandates the Child Welfare Committee ( CWC ) to conduct a social investigation and pass orders for the child 's placement in a children 's home , fit facility , or foster care . Section 39 emphasizes the process of rehabilitation and social reintegration based on individual care plans , aiming for family-based care or institutional placement . Section 46 , supported by Rule 25 , provides financial support to children leaving institutional care upon reaching 18 years to ensure their reintegration into society . The Court underscored the importance of these provisions in ensuring that children receive necessary support and opportunities for education , vocational training , and self-sufficiency . In Re : Right to Privacy of Adolescents , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 587 : AIR 2024 SC 4004 <p> Section 46 r/w . Rule 25 - The failure to implement these provisions , particularly Section 19(6) of the POCSO Act , denies victims the fundamental right to dignity and protection guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India . It directed strict implementation of these provisions to prevent victims from facing situations where their right to make informed choices about their future is compromised . The State is duty-bound to provide shelter , support , and financial assistance to victims , ensuring their reintegration into society and protecting their right to lead a dignified life . In Re : Right to Privacy of Adolescents , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 587 : AIR 2024 SC 4004 <h> Labour <p> In this case , the Court examined whether employees in the Public Works Department , categorized under the Converted Temporary Establishment ( CTE ) as per the Kalelkar Award , are entitled to public holidays , including holidays on the second and fourth Saturdays of each month . The Court observed that the Kalelkar Award clearly entitles non-daily-wage employees , including CTE employees , to the government-sanctioned public holidays . Additionally , they are eligible for overtime allowances as stipulated . The appellants ( employers ) argued that a government circular from May 27 , 1996 , restricted these benefits . However , the Court found this argument baseless , noting that the circular did not apply to employees under the CTE status granted by the Kalelkar Award . The Court affirmed the Industrial Court 's and High Court 's rulings , which had granted the respondent-employees these benefits . Consequently , the Court dismissed the employer 's appeal , directing compliance with the Industrial Court 's order within eight weeks . Public Works Department v. Tukaram Pandurang Saraf , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 725 : AIR 2024 SC 4618 <h> Land <p> Compensation for surrendering land for public purpose once determined is payable without formal request , failure violates Article 300-A . Kukreja Construction Company v. State of Maharashtra , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 701 <p> The Supreme Court set aside a judgment of the Karnataka High Court which directed HMT Ltd. and Union of India to either return land in Bangalore 's Jarakabande Kaval village to heirs of a previous owner from whom it was requisitioned in 1941 or to compensate them by paying the present market value . The Court noted that the writ petition filed in the Karnataka High Court in 2006 was barred by delay and laches . The Court also noted that the petitioner had suppressed several crucial facts . HMT Ltd. v. Rukmini , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 743 : AIR 2024 SC 4677 <p> The Supreme Court set aside the interim order passed by the High Court , which had directed the maintenance of status quo regarding the land acquisition and rehabilitation process for the proposed expansion of an Airport . The High Court 's order had imposed a blanket stay , halting the acquisition of land and demolition of structures , pending the disposal of a writ petition filed by families affected by the expansion project . The Court vacated the interim order , taking into account the potential delays and cost overruns caused by such blanket stays on infrastructural projects . Principal Secretary v. Gaggal Airport Expansion Affected Social Welfare Committee , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 684 <h> Land Acquisition <p> Land Acquisition Act , 1894 ; Section 23(1) -- Land acquisition -- Quantum of compensation granted to the landowners is challenged to be inadequate -- Held , there exists no direct piece of evidence to determine fair and just compensation in the instant cases hence , courts must resort to the settled principle of guesstimation . While the Court can use the principle of guesstimation in reasonably estimating the value of land in the absence of direct evidence , the Court must embrace a holistic view and consider all ' relevant factors ' and existing evidence , even if not directly comparable , to arrive at a fair determination of compensation . Such relevant factors can be divided into three categories : ( i ) . Characteristics of the land , ( ii ) . Future potentiality of the land , ( iii ) . Factors denoting market sentiment . Further held , compensation could be determined applying the principle of guesstimation , based on the circle rate after granting a marginal increase over the same . It would be appropriate to apply a 15% escalation for one year to the price fixed at INR 350 per sq . yd. , bringing the total guesstimate to INR 403 per sq . yd .. It stands conclusively surmised that the landowners are entitled to an enhancement in the compensation awarded . ( Para 32 , 33 , 34 , 42 &amp; 43 ) New Okhla Industrial Development Authority v. Harnand Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 456 <p> Principle of guesstimation -- It is a heuristic device that enables the court , in the absence of direct evidence and relevant sale exemplars , to make a reasonable and informed guess or estimation of the market value of the land under acquisition , and concomitantly the compensation payable by the appropriate Government . This principle accentuates the fundamental understanding that determining compensation for land is not a matter of exact science but involves a significant element of estimation . Indeed , this holds true for valuation of land in general , which is affected by a multitude of factors such as its location , surrounding market conditions , feasible uses etc . Accordingly , while evidence and calculations can aid in estimating the land value , they ultimately serve as tools for approximation rather than precision . ( Para 31 &amp; 32 ) New Okhla Industrial Development Authority v. Harnand Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 456 <p> Seeking parity with Bir Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh where compensation was enhanced to INR 449 per sq . yd -- Held , enhanced compensation was awarded relying on the sale deed which noted the value of land as INR 400 per sq . yd which was founded on a bona fide factual error . The figure of 400 actually denoted the area and size of the plot and not its sale value . Further held , the decision was not revisited by this Court likely on account of the practical difficulties in recovering the excess compensation amount already paid to the expropriated land owners and given the larger interest of justice . Hence , the judgement would not be binding and market value of land in question is to be determined independently . ( Para 21 ) New Okhla Industrial Development Authority v. Harnand Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 456 <h> Limitation Act , 1963 <p> Article 65 - Suit for Possession - Land was donated to the State in 1958 for the construction of a veterinary hospital . The Court criticized the plaintiff for filing a vague plaint , lacking essential details , and attempting to circumvent the law of limitation through clever drafting . The suit was barred by limitation under Article 65 , as it was filed more than 40 years after the hospital 's construction and well beyond the 12-year period from when the plaintiff had knowledge of the hospital 's existence . The burden of proof in a possession suit lies on the plaintiff , and mere entries in revenue records do not confer title . The lethargy of the State in not updating revenue records did not diminish its rights under the gift deed . The appeal by the State was allowed . ( Para 18 - 32 ) State of Punjab v. Bhagwantpal Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 479 <p> Section 12(1) -- Exclusion of the day from which the limitation period is to be reckoned -- The period of limitation under Section 34 will have to be reckoned from 30th June 2022 , when the appellants received the award . Held , in view of Section 12(1) , 30th June , 2022 will have to be excluded while computing the limitation period . Hence , the period of limitation starts from 1st July , 2022 . ( Para 7 ) State of West Bengal v. Rajpath Contractors and Engineers Ltd. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 454 : AIR 2024 SC 3252 : ( 2024 ) 7 SCC 257 <h> Maternity Benefit Act , 1961 <p> Menstrual Leave Policy - Petition seeking direction to the Union and State Governments to implement policies for granting menstrual leave under the Maternity Benefit Act , 1961 - Petitioner had previously submitted a representation to the Union Ministry of Women and Child Development , which was not responded to - Court observed that the issue raised involved multiple policy considerations and should be attended to by the Union and the States - Petitioner permitted to make another representation to the Secretary , Union Ministry of Women and Child Development - Court requested the Secretary to examine the matter at a policy level in consultation with all stakeholders , and consider framing a model policy - Writ Petition disposed of with liberty to the States to independently take appropriate action . Shailendra Mani Tripathi v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 509 <h> Mesne Profit <p> Inquiry about mesne profits continuation of original suit ; application for such inquiry not barred by limitation . Choudappa v. Choudappa , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 671 <h> Micro , Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act , 2006 <p> Banks are not empowered to classify the loan accounts of the MSMEs , as Non-Performing Assets ( NPA ) , without following the mandatory procedure laid down in the Instructions for Framework for Revival and Rehabilitation of MSMEs issued by the Ministry of MSME . Pro Knits v. Board of Directors of Canara Bank , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 548 <h> Mines and Minerals <p> States have the power to levy tax on mineral rights and that the Union law - Mines and Minerals ( Development and Regulation ) Act 1957 - do not limit such power of the States . Mineral Area Development v. Steel Authority of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 512 <h> Motor Vehicles Act , 1988 <p> Emoluments and benefits such as house rent allowance , flexible benefit plan , contribution to provident fund , etc. accrued to the deceased ought to be included while computing the loss of dependency to determine the compensation . Meenakshi v. Oriental Insurance Co . Ltd. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 549 <p> Guidelines issued by the Legal Services Authority for deciding the disability compensation in motor accident claims ought not to be made applicable for determining just and reasonable compensation in the cases where the proof of earning has been brought on record . The guidelines would be made applicable where the proof of earning is not available and to settle such disputes in Lok Adalat . Even in the absence of evidence regarding earning , the guidelines of the Legal Services Authority are not binding on the High Court and the Supreme Court and can be used only for guidance . Hans Raj v. Oriental Insurance Company , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 714 <p> Legal heirs of the deceased who died in the road accident ca n't be denied their rightful compensation on the ground that the driver of the car contributed to the accident . Sushma v. Nitin Ganapati Rangole , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 720 : AIR 2024 SC 4627 <p> ' Ownership ' is determined by control and possession of the vehicle , especially at the time of an accident . Vaibhav Jain v. Hindustan Motors Ltd , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 649 : AIR 2024 SC 4219 <p> Section 136A - Central Motor Vehicles Rules , 1989 ; Rule 167A - Implementation of - Electronic Monitoring and Enforcement of Road Safety - Section 136A requires State Governments to implement technologies like speed cameras , closed-circuit television cameras , and wearable body cameras on national and state highways , and in urban areas with populations prescribed by the Central Government . Rule 167A of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules , 1989 , further specifies operational standards for these devices , defining " electronic enforcement devices " and setting conditions for issuing electronic challans . The Court highlighted the innovative potential of Section 136A for enhancing road safety and ensuring compliance with traffic laws . It emphasized the utility of electronic monitoring devices for real-time data collection , which aids in prosecuting traffic violators and maintaining road discipline . Effective implementation of these provisions would provide a streamlined mechanism for capturing and penalizing traffic offenses , reducing the dependency on police observations alone . The Court directed relevant authorities to ensure compliance with the statutory requirements , including the installation of electronic monitoring devices in high-risk areas , as specified in Rule 167A . It underscored the need for visible signage , physical road markings , and adherence to procedural requirements for issuing electronic challans . S. Rajaseekaran v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 669 <p> It is for the Tribunal in a given case to make a decision as to whether the entire amount has to be released or if it is to be released in part . Law Association v. Director General of Police , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 499 <p> The High Court had limited the compensation awarded to the claimants to Rs. 4,00,000/- in addition to the amount awarded by the Tribunal based on the court fees paid . Held , courts are duty-bound to award " just compensation " based on the evidence , irrespective of the amount claimed in the appeal . The appellants were held entitled to Rs. 28,00,375/- , the compensation determined by the court , despite initially claiming only an additional Rs. 4,00,000/- . The Court permitted the appellants to amend the memo of appeal and pay the deficient court fee within four weeks . Kavita Balothiya v. Santosh Kumar , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 546 <h> Municipal Corporation Act , 1957 ( Delhi ) <p> Lieutenant Governor ( LG ) of Delhi has the power to nominate aldermen to the Municipal Corporation of Delhi without the aid and advice of the Delhi Government . The power was a statutory power flowing from the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act , 1957 and hence the Governor need not act as per the aid and advice of the Delhi Government . Since it was a statutory power given to the LG and not an executive power of the Government , the LG was expected to act as per the statutory mandate and not as per the aid and advice of the Delhi Government . The power to be exercised is a statutory duty of the LG and not the executive power of the State . Govt of NCT of Delhi v. Office of Lieutenant Governor of Delhi , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 551 <h> Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances ( NDPS ) Act , 1985 <p> Section 20(b) ( ii ) ( B ) and Section 50 -- The respondent was convicted by the Trial Court for possession of 2.05 kgs of Ganja . The High Court acquitted the respondent , holding the search and seizure illegal due to non-compliance with Section 50 . The State appealed to the Supreme Court . Held : The Supreme Court restored the conviction , holding that Section 50 formalities do not apply to recoveries from a bag . The respondent , who had already served four years , four months , and 21 days in prison , was sentenced to the period already undergone . Judgment of acquittal set aside . Conviction restored with modification of sentence to the period already undergone . The fine of Rs. 50,000 was upheld with a default imprisonment clause . Appeal allowed . State of Kerala v. Prabhu , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 640 <p> Sections 20 and 29 - The appellant had been convicted by the Trial Court for possession of 1.25 kg of " charas " and sentenced to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment . The appellant contested the conviction based on discrepancies in the police logbook , which showed that the police were at a different location at the time of the alleged seizure . Held , the High Court had erred in brushing aside crucial documentary evidence ( the logbook ) and statements of the police witnesses , which contradicted the prosecution 's case . Given the absence of independent witnesses and the unreliability of the prosecution 's evidence , the Court set aside the conviction and acquitted the appellant of all charges . Prakash Singh v. State of Himachal Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 616 <p> Section 37(1) ( b ) ( ii ) - Bail - HIV positive - Legality of granting bail - The High Court granted bail considering HIV-positive status as the sole ground . Subsequently , the accused was granted bail again in connection with FIR involving a commercial quantity of heroin without due consideration of the stringent requirements under Section 37(1) ( b ) ( ii ) of the NDPS Act . Held , In cases involving commercial quantities of narcotics , bail can only be granted if both conditions under Section 37(1) ( b ) ( ii ) of the NDPS Act are met : reasonable grounds for believing the accused is not guilty and that they are unlikely to commit any offence while on bail . It reiterated that these conditions are cumulative , not alternative . The High Court 's decision to grant bail solely based on the accused 's HIV-positive status , without adherence to Section 37(1) ( b ) ( ii ) , was erroneous and warranted interference . Consequently , the impugned bail order was set aside , directing the accused to surrender before the trial court within a week , with instructions to expedite the trial as per Section 34(2) of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome ( Prevention and Control ) Act , 2017 . State of Meghalaya v. Lalrintluanga Sailo , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 492 <p> Section 50 -- Whether recovery from a bag requires compliance with Section 50 - The Court reiterated that compliance with Section 50 is not mandatory when the recovery of contraband is made from a bag carried by the accused , not from the person of the accused . ( Referred : Ranjan Kumar Chadha v. State of Himachal Pradesh , 2023 LiveLaw ( SC ) 856 ) . State of Kerala v. Prabhu , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 640 <h> National Highways <p> Encroachments on National Highways and road safety measures - Proper mechanisms for inspection and removal of encroachments - The Supreme Court directed the Ministry of Road Transport &amp; Highways to : Constitute inspection teams for regular and frequent inspections of National Highways to prevent and remove encroachments . Ensure each team is responsible for specific stretches of highways and immediately reports encroachments to the competent authority . Develop a public portal where citizens can report encroachments , upload photographs , and location details , and introduce a toll-free number for reporting . Ensure action taken reports are uploaded on the portal and give wide publicity to the portal and toll-free number . Additionally , the court indicated that similar mechanisms should be extended to State Highways and forwarded the matter to the Road Safety Committee chaired by Justice Abhay Sapre . The Amicus Curiae was asked to submit a note on other relevant issues . Gyan Prakash v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 633 <h> National Housing Bank Act , 1987 <p> Section 29A and 50 - Whether the complaint could proceed against all the accused , including the directors of the company , without specific averments regarding their roles in the commission of the offence . Held , In cases involving vicarious liability , it is necessary to make specific averments that the accused directors were in charge of and responsible for the conduct of the company 's business at the time of the offence . Absent such averments , the complaint can not proceed against the directors , except the Managing Director , who is presumed to be in charge of the company 's operations by virtue of their position . National Housing Bank v. Bherudan Dugar Housing Finance Ltd. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 541 <p> The petitioners , a group of doctors with postgraduate medical degrees , challenged the National Medical Commission 's ( NMC ) decision to postpone the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test -- Super Specialty ( NEET-SS ) 2024 examination , originally set for 2024 . The NMC 's decision , based on data showing a majority of candidates for NEET-SS are from prior batches , aims to prevent a competitive imbalance in future examinations . The Court , while acknowledging the petitioners ' concerns , upheld the NMC 's decision as reasonable and equitable , emphasizing the need to balance hardship against academic policy considerations . The Court directed the NMC to announce a schedule for the NEET-SS 2024 examination within thirty days , ensuring timely communication to students completing their postgraduate courses by January 2025 . Rahul Balwan v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 631 <h> Negotiable Instruments Act , 1881 <p> Principles of compounding of offences - It is to be remembered that dishonour of cheques is a regulatory offence which was made an offence only in view of public interest so that the reliability of these instruments can be ensured . A large number of cases involving dishonour of cheques are pending before courts which is a serious concern for our judicial system . Keeping in mind that the ' compensatory aspect ' of remedy shall have priority over the ' punitive aspect ' , courts should encourage compounding of offences under the NI Act if parties are willing to do so . ( Para 6 ) New Win Export v. A. Subramaniam , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 490 <p> Section 143A - An authorized signatory of the company could not be considered as a ' drawer ' of cheque , and therefore , could not be directed to pay the interim compensation to the complainant . ( Para 30 ) Shri Gurudatta Sugars Marketing Pvt . Ltd. v. Prithviraj Sayajirao Deshmukh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 513 <h> Notary <h> Notice <p> Notices sent to the residences of the accused while they were under custody can not be proper service of notice . Saher Ali Mia v. Central Bureau of Investigation , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 578 <h> Partition <p> Chandigarh ( Sale of Sites and Buildings ) Rules , 1960 - There can not be partition of property by metes and bounds at Chandigarh . Hence , the only resolution in a suit seeking partition of joint property is sale by way of auction . Rajinder Kaur v. Gurbhajan Kaur , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 514 <h> Penal Code , 1860 <p> Criminal Conspiracy -- To constitute even an accusation of criminal conspiracy , first and foremost , there must at least be an accusation of meeting of minds of two or more persons for doing an illegal act or an act , which is not illegal in itself , by illegal means . ( Para 27 ) Ram Prakash Chadha v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 475 : AIR 2024 SC 3540 <p> Section 120B , 409 , 420 , 468 , 471 - Bail - Criminal Conspiracy - Misuse of Educational Funds - The appellants were involved in managing various educational institutions in Madhya Pradesh . FIRs were lodged against them for allegedly engaging in fraudulent activities related to the management of school funds , particularly in connection with the sale of textbooks and fee hikes . Whether the appellants ' involvement in the sale of textbooks and fee hikes constitutes offenses under the IPC . Whether the rejection of bail by the Trial Court and High Court was justified . Held , the Supreme Court allowed the appeals and granted bail to the appellants . The allegations made against the appellants were almost identical and pertained to their educational activities , which included managing the sale of textbooks and raising fees . These activities , per se , could not constitute criminal offenses under the IPC . Further , the investigation was still incomplete , and the prolonged incarceration of the appellants was unwarranted . The Court directed the release of the appellants on bail , subject to conditions . Fr . Abraham Thazhathedathu v. State of Madhya Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 591 <p> Section 148 , 302 , and 324 - The case was based on the testimony of the deceased 's widow who claimed to have identified the assailants in dim moonlight during a power cut . However , the Court found significant inconsistencies and contradictions in her deposition , particularly when compared to her earlier complaint . These contradictions raised reasonable doubts regarding the reliability of her testimony . The Court further noted that the assault occurred in a chaotic environment , complicating the identification of the attackers . Given the dubious nature of the evidence and the appellants ' prolonged incarceration , the Court granted the benefit of doubt to the appellants and acquitted them of all charges . Saheb v. State of Maharashtra , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 716 : AIR 2024 SC 4466 <p> Section 149 - Accused presence and active role within the assembly , despite a lack of direct assault or recovery of the weapon , was sufficient for his conviction . Constructive liability under Section 149 does not require personal commission of an offence ; mere membership in an assembly with a shared unlawful intent suffices . Nitya Nand v. State of U.P. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 659 : AIR 2024 SC 4259 <p> Section 193 - Mere denial of the complainant 's allegations does not constitute perjury . Prosecution for perjury requires clear evidence of deliberate falsehood on a matter of substance and should only be initiated when expedient in the interest of justice . James Kunjwal v. State of Uttarakhand , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 574 : AIR 2024 SC 3965 <p> Section 300 -- Conviction for the offence of murder is challenged -- Whether the nature of offensive act comes within the purview of section 300 ? -- Held , the appellant caused such bodily injury , which in the ordinary course of nature was sufficient to cause death . The appellant participated in a premeditated attack on the victim , armed with a deadly weapon and stabbed the unarmed victim on a vital organ causing his death . The conduct of the appellant is covered by both clauses ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) of section 300 , IPC . The intention to cause death can easily be discerned from the conduct of the appellant and the nature of fatal injury inflicted , which in the ordinary course of nature was sufficient to cause death . Fulfilment of any one condition of section 300 , IPC is enough to convict the appellant under section 302 thereof , and in the present case not one but two conditions have clearly been shown to exist to nail the appellant for murder . Further held , prosecution has been able to establish beyond reasonable doubt that the appellant was the person who stabbed the victim during the course of the attack by the accused persons leading to his death . Hence , conviction of appellant is affirmed . ( Para 20 , 24 , 26 &amp; 27 ) Joy Devaraj v. State of Kerala , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 448 <p> Section 304B and 498A - Dowry death - The High Court reversed the acquittal passed by the trial court , holding that the death occurred within seven years of marriage due to 100% burn injuries at the matrimonial home . The Supreme Court upheld the High Court 's conviction , emphasizing the presumption of dowry death under Section 113B of the Indian Evidence Act , and held that the appellants failed to discharge their burden of proof . The appeal was dismissed . Damodar v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 607 <p> Section 304A and 338 - For conviction under Section 304(A) and Section 338 of the IPC , there is no minimum sentence prescribed but the term of sentence may extend to 2 years . The sentence can also be limited to fine without any term of imprisonment . George v. State of Kerala , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 661 <p> Section 307 -- Acquittal restored due to lack of convincing evidence - The Supreme Court allowed the appeal and set aside the conviction under Section 307 of the IPC , restoring the acquittal of the appellant by the Trial Court . The Court held that the High Court 's decision to convict was based on weak and inconsistent evidence , including contradictory witness testimonies and absence of key eyewitnesses from the investigation . The prosecution 's case was undermined by discrepancies in the roles attributed to the accused , the nature of injuries inflicted , and the medical evidence presented . The Court reiterated that an appellate court should not overturn a well-reasoned acquittal unless there is a manifest error in the trial court 's findings . Accordingly , the conviction was deemed unsafe , and the appellant was acquitted . Appeal allowed , acquittal restored . Raju v. State of Uttarakhand , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 622 <p> Section 307 -- The appellants were charged under Section 307 IPC for an alleged knife attack on the victims . The trial court acquitted the appellants in 1995 , but the High Court reversed the acquittal in 2009 , sentencing them to seven years of rigorous imprisonment . Whether the conviction of the appellants under Section 307 IPC is justified in light of the inconsistencies in the prosecution 's case . Held , the Supreme Court , upon reviewing the evidence , found significant contradictions between the FIR , witness testimonies , and medical reports . The absence of key eyewitnesses and discrepancies in the prosecution 's narrative weakened the case . The court reiterated the principle that a conviction under Section 307 IPC requires clear intent and overt acts by the accused , which was not established beyond reasonable doubt in this case . The Court emphasized that an appellate court should not overturn an acquittal without compelling reasons . The High Court 's judgment was set aside , and the trial court 's acquittal was restored . The appeal was allowed , and the appellants were acquitted . Raju v. State of Uttarakhand , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 622 <p> Section 307 - When the sentencing court does n't deem fit to impose a life sentence for committing an offence of attempt to murder , then the maximum sentence that can be imposed on the convict for committing an offence of attempt to murder could not extend beyond the period of 10 years . ( Para 7 ) Amit Rana @ Koka v. State of Haryana , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 500 : AIR 2024 SC 3477 <p> Section 308 and 354B - Bail - The petitioner , a former Private Secretary to the Chief Minister of Delhi , faced allegations of assault against a Member of Parliament . While noting the investigation 's completion and the petitioner 's 100-day custody , the Court addressed concerns over witness influence due to the petitioner 's political standing . Balancing the right to liberty with a fair trial , the Court granted bail with specific conditions to ensure witness protection and trial integrity . Key conditions included restrictions on the petitioner 's official assignments , entry into the Chief Minister 's residence , and public commentary on the case . The petition was disposed of , with instructions for the trial court to expedite the examination of vulnerable witnesses . Bibhav Kumar v. State of NCT of Delhi , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 646 <p> Section 353 - Mere jostling and pushing while resisting arrest did not amount to criminal use of force . Mahendra Kumar Sonker v. State of Madhya Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 570 <p> Section 364 , 302 r/w. 34 - Murder -- Appeal Against Conviction -- Reversal of Acquittal -- Standard of Proof -- Testimony of Eyewitnesses -- Interested and Chance Witnesses -- Circumstantial Evidence -- High Court 's Approach in Reversing Acquittal -- Requirements for Sustaining Conviction Based on Circumstantial Evidence - The charge of abduction was based on direct evidence , while the charge of murder was based on circumstantial evidence . The Court scrutinized the credibility of the testimonies of eye witnesses ( PW-2 , PW-4 , PW-5 , and PW-18 ) , who were challenged by the appellants as being interested and chance witnesses . It was observed that there was no satisfactory explanation for their presence at the crime scene , and inconsistencies were found in their accounts , particularly regarding crucial details such as the existence of a pistol allegedly used by the accused . The investigation conducted by PW-21 was found to be questionable , especially when considered against the statements of defence witnesses ( DW-3 and DW-4 ) , who were senior police officers supervising the investigation . The Court noted the non-examination of natural witnesses and the improbable conduct of the eye witnesses , which cast doubt on their testimonies . Additionally , the Court held that the High Court 's approach in reversing the acquittal of A-6 and A-7 was flawed , as it did not identify any illegality , perversity , or complete unsustainability in the Trial Court 's findings . The reversal of acquittal should meet a higher threshold , recognizing the presumption of innocence reinforced by the initial acquittal . The prosecution failed to provide convincing evidence of the residence of the deceased , and the post-mortem report raised doubts about the time of death , which was inconsistent with the prosecution 's case . Held , the conviction by the High Court was unsustainable due to unreliable evidence and an improper approach in reversing the acquittal . The presumption of innocence in favor of the appellants was not displaced . Appeal allowed ; acquittal restored . Vijay Singh @ Vijay Kr . Sharma v. State of Bihar , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 746 <p> Section 375 - In view of " sixthly " in Section 375 of the IPC , penetrative intercourse with a woman under eighteen years of age , with or without her consent , constitutes an offence of rape . Therefore , whether such offence arises from a romantic relationship is irrelevant . ( Para 19 ) In Re : Right to Privacy of Adolescents , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 587 : AIR 2024 SC 4004 <p> Section 406 and 420 - Difference Between Criminal Breach of Trust and Cheating - In a criminal breach of trust , there is an entrustment of property , where the accused dishonestly misappropriates or uses the property in violation of the trust placed in him . In contrast , cheating involves a fraudulent or dishonest inducement from the beginning of the transaction , where the accused deceives the victim into delivering property or taking action they would not have otherwise taken . Delhi Race Club ( 1940 ) Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 603 : AIR 2024 SC 4531 <p> Section 406 and 420 - Difference Between Criminal Breach of Trust and Cheating - Criminal breach of trust requires that the property entrusted must belong to someone other than the accused , who holds it in trust . Cheating , on the other hand , is based on false representations made at the inception of the transaction . Both offences , while involving dishonest intent , are mutually exclusive . The accused can not be charged with both for the same transaction unless distinct elements of each offence are present . Delhi Race Club ( 1940 ) Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 603 : AIR 2024 SC 4531 <p> Section 406 and 420 - Difference Between Criminal Breach of Trust and Cheating - Mere breach of contract does not give rise to a criminal offence unless fraudulent or dishonest intent at the inception is demonstrated . A civil remedy is appropriate where the dispute arises from non-payment after a sale of goods , as the sale transfers ownership to the buyer , eliminating the possibility of criminal breach of trust . Prosecution under criminal breach of trust can not be sustained without the essential element of entrustment . Delhi Race Club ( 1940 ) Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 603 : AIR 2024 SC 4531 <p> Section 406 and 420 - Judicial Oversight in Distinguishing Between Criminal Breach of Trust and Cheating - the Supreme Court expressed concern over the casual approach of the lower courts in distinguishing between the offences of criminal breach of trust and cheating . The Court emphasized the magistrates ' duty to thoroughly examine complaints and ascertain whether the ingredients of the specific offences are met . It also criticized the police 's routine practice of registering both offences without proper application of mind . Delhi Race Club ( 1940 ) Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 603 : AIR 2024 SC 4531 <p> Section 406 and 420 - The Court called for proper legal training for police officers across the country to prevent wrongful prosecution under these distinct offences . It further directed that the judgment be sent to the Union Ministries of Law &amp; Justice and Home Affairs for appropriate action , highlighting the need for systemic reforms . Delhi Race Club ( 1940 ) Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 603 : AIR 2024 SC 4531 <p> Section 406 and 420 - Mere non-performance of a contractual obligation , such as failure to register the sale , does not constitute cheating or criminal breach of trust . Radheyshyam v. State of Rajasthan , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 595 <p> Sections 418 and 420 - The complainant purchased a BMW 7 Series vehicle and reported a defect . A complaint was lodged for alleged offences under Sections 418 and 420 of the IPC , naming the manufacturer , Managing Director , and other directors as accused . The High Court concluded that the ingredients of the offence of cheating were not established based on the contents of the FIR . Having come to this conclusion , there was no justification for the High Court thereafter to direct the manufacturer to replace the vehicle with a new BMW 7 Series . Held , the High Court correctly quashed the criminal proceedings , as the ingredients of cheating were not established based on the FIR . The Court deemed it unnecessary to continue prosecution , given the nature of the dispute and the elapsed time . Exercising jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution , the Court directed BMW India Private Limited to pay Rs 50 lakhs to the complainant in full settlement . ( Para 10 - 15 ) State of Andhra Pradesh v. BMW India P.Ltd. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 466 <p> Section 498A , 323 , 504 , 506 r/w. 34 - Need for clear and specific allegations to proceed in criminal cases , especially in matrimonial disputes . The Court reiterated its concern over the abuse of criminal processes through general and omnibus allegations , noting that such claims , without specific details or evidence , can lead to the misuse of legal provisions intended to protect against genuine harm . When criminal proceedings are used as instruments of harassment or revenge , the judiciary has the power to intervene and prevent the miscarriage of justice by quashing such proceedings . Kailashben Mahendrabhai Patel v. State of Maharashtra , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 753 <p> Section 30 - Search and seizure operation must be authorised by all three members of the District Appropriate Authority under the Act collectively , and any decision by a single member is illegal . Ravinder Kumar v. State of Haryana , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 710 : AIR 2024 SC 4311 <h> Prevention of Corruption Act , 1988 <p> It is the settled convention in such cases that the Trap Laying Officer makes efforts to verify the factum of demand of bribe by the public servant before initiating the trap proceedings . The factum of demand of bribe can also be verified by recording the telephonic conversation between the decoy and the suspect public servant . Often , a recording device is secretly placed on the person of the decoy to record the conversation which would transpire during the course of acceptance of bribe by the public servant . ( Para 31 ) Mir Mustafa Ali Hasmi v. State of A.P. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 468 : AIR 2024 SC 3356 : 2024 Cri LJ 3102 <p> Section 19 and Criminal Procedure Code , 1973 ; Section 319 -- Summon order challenged -- Sanction under Section 19 of PC Act is Necessary to Summon Public Servant as Additional Accused -- Held , courts can not take cognizance against any public servant for offences committed under the PC Act on an application under section 319 of the CrPC , without first following the requirements of Section 19 of the P.C Act . The correct procedure should have been for the prosecution to obtain sanction under Section 19 of the P.C Act from the appropriate Government , before formally moving an application before the Court under Section 319 of CrPC . Hence , on absence of the sanction the entire procedure remains flawed . High Court 's order of setting aside the order of Summon is upheld . ( Para 11 ) State of Punjab v. Partap Singh Verka , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 461 : AIR 2024 SC 3299 <p> Section 19 ( 1 ) - Sanction wo n't be rendered invalid merely because it was granted after the trial court had taken cognizance of the chargesheet . Shivendra Nath Verma v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 518 <p> The allegations against the appellants primarily pertained to a civil dispute arising from contractual obligations rather than criminal misconduct . The investigation initiated by the CBI , based on an incomplete CAG report , was flawed , and there was no basis to conclude that the appellants had engaged in any criminal conspiracy or wrongful conduct . The CBI 's investigation relied on an audit report that had not been finalized , and the evidence was insufficient to demonstrate criminal intent . The Karnataka High Court had previously ruled favorably for the appellants in related proceedings , which the CBI ignored . There was no evidence to support the claims that the appellants had caused financial loss to the state or wrongfully profited from the disposal of coal rejects . As a result , the Supreme Court quashed the order framing charges and set aside the proceedings , concluding that the matter was of a civil nature , devoid of criminal elements . Appeals allowed , and charges against the appellants quashed . Karnataka EMTA Coal Mines Ltd. v. Central Bureau of Investigation , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 606 <h> Prevention of Money Laundering Act , 2002 <p> Arvind Kejriwal is an elected leader and the Chief Minister of Delhi , a post holding importance and influence . We have also referred to the allegations . While we do not give any direction , since we are doubtful whether the court can direct an elected leader to step down or not function as the Chief Minister or as a Minister , we leave it to Arvind Kejriwal to take a call . Larger Bench , if deemed appropriate , can frame question(s) and decide the conditions that can be imposed by the court in such cases . ( Para 86 ) Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 463 <p> Here the accused is lodged in jail for a considerable period and there is little possibility of trial reaching finality in the near future . The liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution does not get abrogated even for special statutes where the threshold twin bar is provided and such statutes , in our opinion , can not carve out an exception to the principle of bail being the rule and jail being the exception . The cardinal principle of bail being the rule and jail being the exception will be entirely defeated if the petitioner is kept in custody as an under-trial for such a long duration . This is particularly glaring since in the event of conviction , the maximum sentence prescribed is only 7 years for the offence of money laundering . ( Para 12 ) Vijay Nair v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 644 <p> In order to avail the right to fair trial , the accused can not be denied the right to have inspection of the documents including the " un-relied upon documents . Manish Sisodia v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 563 : AIR 2024 SC 4053 <p> Provisions of PMLA will prevail over Cr.P.C. in relation to the summoning of a person . Abhishek Banerjee v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 674 <p> Section 19 - Power to arrest under Section 19(1) is not for the purpose of investigation . Arrest can and should wait , and the power in terms of Section 19(1) of the PML Act can be exercised only when the material with the designated officer enables them to form an opinion , by recording reasons in writing that the arrestee is guilty . ( Para 41 ) Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 463 <p> Section 19 - ( a ) Whether the " need and necessity to arrest " is a separate ground to challenge the order of arrest passed in terms of Section 19(1) of the PML Act ? ( b ) Whether the " need and necessity to arrest " refers to the satisfaction of formal parameters to arrest and take a person into custody , or it relates to other personal grounds and reasons regarding necessity to arrest a person in the facts and circumstances of the said case ? ( c ) If questions ( a ) and ( b ) are answered in the affirmative , what are the parameters and facts that are to be taken into consideration by the court while examining the question of " need and necessity to arrest " ? Questions referred to the larger bench . ( Para 84 ) Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 463 <p> Section 24 - Foundational Facts and Legal Presumption of involvement in money laundering - Held , this presumption only arises once three basic facts are established by the prosecution : ( i ) the commission of a scheduled offence , ( ii ) the property in question being derived from the criminal activity , and ( iii ) the involvement of the accused in any process or activity related to the proceeds of crime . Once these foundational facts are established , a legal presumption arises that the proceeds of crime are involved in money laundering . However , the presumption is rebuttable , and the accused has the opportunity to disprove their involvement by presenting evidence within their personal knowledge . This presumption is not conclusive , and the accused must be given a fair opportunity to rebut it through cross-examination , presenting evidence , or under Section 313 of the Criminal Procedure Code . The provision , therefore , balances the burden of proof between the prosecution and the accused , ensuring that the presumption under Section 24(a) of the PMLA is neither unreasonable nor unconstitutional . ( Para 14 ) Prem Prakash v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 617 : AIR 2024 SC 4286 <p> Section 24 - Significance of the Counter to Bail Application under PMLA - The counter must establish a cogent case by demonstrating the three foundational facts required under Section 24 of the Act : ( i ) the commission of a scheduled offence , ( ii ) the derivation of proceeds of crime from that offence , and ( iii ) the accused 's involvement in any process or activity related to those proceeds . Only after these foundational facts are prima facie established does the presumption under Section 24 arise , shifting the burden to the accused to rebut the same . The counter affidavit must crystallize the material relied upon , thereby assisting the court in making an informed decision at the bail stage under Section 45 of PMLA . It enables the court to assess whether there are reasonable grounds to believe the accused is not guilty , aligning with the framework laid down in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary , 2022 LiveLaw ( SC ) 633 . ( Para 15 ) Prem Prakash v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 617 : AIR 2024 SC 4286 <p> Section 45 -- Bail - In cases where there has been a delay in trial and the accused has spent a long period in custody , right to bail shall be read into Section 439 Cr.P.C. and Section 45 PMLA . The same will however depend on the nature of allegations , as well . Manish Sisodia v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 563 : AIR 2024 SC 4053 <p> Section 45 -- Bail - Interpretation and Application - Court must balance the statutory twin conditions required for bail with the fundamental principle that " bail is the rule and jail is the exception . " Even in cases under PMLA , the overarching principle of personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution prevails , ensuring that statutory conditions for bail should not override constitutional safeguards . Thus , courts should be guided by the higher constitutional mandate of speedy trial and personal liberty , especially where prolonged incarceration occurs without the conclusion of trial . ( Para 11 ) Prem Prakash v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 617 : AIR 2024 SC 4286 <p> Section 45 gives primacy to the opinion of the Directorate of Enforcement ( DoE ) when it comes to grant of bail . DoE should act uniformly , consistent in conduct , confirming one rule for all . ( Para 79 ) Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 463 <p> Section 45 - Scope of Inquiry - In assessing bail applications under Section 45 of the PMLA , the Court need not delve deeply into the merits of the case . The inquiry is limited to determining whether there are " reasonable grounds for believing " that the accused is guilty , based on the material collected during the investigation . This does not require proof beyond reasonable doubt , but rather an assessment of the broad probabilities of the case . Thus , Section 45 requires the Court to assess the genuineness of the case against the accused , but not to conclusively determine guilt at this stage . ( Para 13 ) Prem Prakash v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 617 : AIR 2024 SC 4286 <p> Section 45 ( 1 ) - Refusal to grant bail - The appellant , a political figure , sought bail after being charged with offenses related to money laundering . The appellant contended that since the investigation was complete and the charge sheet had been filed , her continued custody was unnecessary . Additionally , it was argued that the appellant , being a woman , was entitled to special treatment under the proviso to Section 45(1) of the PMLA , as affirmed in Manish Sisodia v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 563 . Held , detailed discussions on the merits of the case should be avoided at the bail stage to prevent prejudice during trial . The Court rejected the High Court 's reasoning , which had denied the benefit of the proviso to Section 45(1) based on the appellant 's educational qualifications and social standing , finding that the lower court misinterpreted the provision as applicable only to " vulnerable women . " The Supreme Court reiterated that the statutory provision mandates special treatment for women , and such benefit should not be denied unless specific reasons are provided . The Court set aside the High Court 's order , granted bail to the appellant , and imposed conditions to prevent tampering with evidence or influencing witnesses . Kalvakuntla Kavitha v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 614 : AIR 2024 SC 4247 <p> Section 50 - When an accused is in custody under PMLA irrespective of the case for which he is under custody , any statement under Section 50 PMLA to the same Investigating Agency is inadmissible against the maker . The reason being that the person in custody pursuant to the proceeding investigated by the same Investigating Agency is not a person who can be considered as one operating with a free mind . It will be extremely unsafe to render such statements admissible against the maker , as such a course of action would be contrary to all canons of fair play and justice . ( Para 32 ) Prem Prakash v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 617 : AIR 2024 SC 4286 <p> Section 197(1) of CrPC , which provides that prior sanction from the government is required to prosecute public servants and judges for offences alleged while discharge of public duties , will apply to cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act . Directorate of Enforcement v. Bibhu Prasad Acharya , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 670 <p> Revenue records are for tax purposes and do not confer ownership . Merely because the name of the plaintiff continued in the revenue records it would not confer any title upon him . ( Para 27 ) State of Punjab v. Bhagwantpal Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 479 <p> Transfer of Property Act , 1882 and Registration Act , 1908 - A vendor who has executed a sale deed can not execute another deed with respect to the same plot just because the first sale deed is pending registration . The moment a deed is executed , the vendor loses all rights over the property and he can not claim any right just because the deed has not been registered . The only consequence of non-registration is that the purchaser can not produce such a deed as evidence . ( Para 33.13 ) Kaushik Premkumar Mishra v. Kanji Ravaria @ Kanji , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 493 : AIR 2024 SC 3766 <p> Issue of victim support and rehabilitation under the POCSO Act and the Juvenile Justice ( JJ ) Act - The Court observed the failure of the State machinery under the JJ Act in fulfilling its obligations toward the victim and emphasized the need for remedial actions . It directed the formation of a team of experts , including a clinical psychologist and a social scientist , to meet the victim and help her make an informed choice regarding her future . The team is to carefully ascertain the victim 's needs and any support she might be receiving from the accused and his family . The Court emphasized that the process must be handled with sensitivity to avoid causing further insecurity to the victim . In Re : Right to Privacy of Adolescents , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 587 : AIR 2024 SC 4004 <p> Section 4 and 6 - Indian Penal Code , 1860 ; Sections 376 ( 2 ) and 506 - Continued use of the " two-finger test " on rape survivors , despite previous rulings condemning the practice - Referred to its earlier decisions in Lillu alias Rajesh v. State of Haryana , ( 2013 ) 14 SCC 643 and State of Jharkhand v. Shailendra Kumar Rai , ( 2022 ) 14 SCC 299 , which decried the test as regressive and invasive . A circular issued by the Government of Meghalaya on June 27 , 2024 , prohibiting the test and mandating disciplinary action for non-compliance , was noted and placed on record . The circular directs all government doctors and medical practitioners in Meghalaya to cease conducting the test immediately , with strict disciplinary actions , including suspension and penalties , to be imposed for non-compliance . It also mandates adherence to medico-legal guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health &amp; Family Welfare and emphasizes the importance of compassionate care for sexual assault survivors . After reviewing the case , found no merit to interfere with the concurrent findings of the lower courts . The Court dismissed the petition on merits , upholding the conviction , and urged full compliance with the circular . ( Para 4 - 8 ) Sunshine Kharpan v. State of Meghalaya , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 654 <p> Section 19(6) - The Court expressed concern over the failure of the State machinery to follow the mandatory rehabilitation provisions under Section 19(6) of the POCSO Act . Emphasizing the importance of victim rehabilitation , the Court directed the formation of a committee comprising experts from NIMHANS or TISS to assist the victim in making an informed choice regarding her future . The State was instructed to provide the committee with details of the benefits available to the victim . The Court also directed all States and Union Territories to implement the provisions of Section 19(6) of the POCSO Act and Section 46 of the Juvenile Justice Act and submit compliance reports . In Re : Right to Privacy of Adolescents , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 587 : AIR 2024 SC 4004 <p> Section 33 ( 5 ) - Recall of Witness under Section 311 of Cr.P.C -- Protection of Child from Repeated Testimony -- a child should not be repeatedly called to testify to protect them from further trauma . Mechanical recall of the victim would defeat the protective purpose of the POCSO Act . Madhab Chandra Pradhan v. State of Odisha , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 615 <p> The accused was not an adolescent , but his age was about twenty-five years on the date of the commission of the offence , and the victim was only fourteen years old . When such offences of rape and aggravated penetrative sexual assault are committed , by exercising its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and/or Section 482 of the Cr.PC , the High Court can not acquit an accused whose guilt has been proved . Even if the accused and the victim ( who has now attained majority ) were to come out with a settlement , the High Court could not have quashed the prosecution . ( Para 21 &amp; 23.1 ) In Re : Right to Privacy of Adolescents , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 587 : AIR 2024 SC 4004 <p> The State had a duty to provide care and protection to the victim of an offense under the POCSO Act . Despite the legal framework in place , the State failed in its responsibilities . The court emphasized that under Section 19 of the POCSO Act , police must report such cases to the Child Welfare Committee ( CWC ) within 24 hours . Similarly , under Section 29 of the Juvenile Justice Act , the CWC is empowered to ensure the care and protection of children in need . The court further underscored the obligations of the CWC to act swiftly in cases of sexually abused children and take suo motu cognizance where necessary.In Re : Right to Privacy of Adolescents , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 587 : AIR 2024 SC 4004 <h> Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act , 2005 <p> Alteration / modification / revocation of an order passed under Section 12 of the DV Act can be sought through Section 25(2) only on the basis of change of circumstances which took place subsequent to the passing of the order . S. Vijikumari v. Mowneshwarachari C. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 745 <p> The Act is a piece of Civil Code which is applicable to every woman in India irrespective of her religious affiliation and/or social background for a more effective protection of her rights guaranteed under the Constitution and in order to protect women victims of domestic violence occurring in a domestic relationship . S. Vijikumari v. Mowneshwarachari C. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 745 <h> Reasoning <h> Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act , 2016 <p> Disability assessment boards must apply mind - Disability assessment boards are not just monotonous automation to just look at the quantified benchmark disabilities as set out in the certificate of disability to cast aside a candidate . Such an approach would be antithetical to Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution and all canons of justice , equality and good conscience . The Disability assessment boards are obliged to assess the further question as to whether the candidate , in the opinion of the experts , would be eligible to pursue the course or in other words whether the disability will or will not come in the way of the candidate pursuing the course in question . ( Para 46 ) Omkar Ramchandra Gond v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 770 <p> Government and private sector should focus on how to accommodate , not disqualify , candidates with disabilities . Omkar Ramchandra Gond v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 770 <p> Mere existence of a benchmark disability is not a reason to bar a person from pursuing medical education unless there is a report by the disability assessment board that that candidate is incapacitated from studying the MBBS course . Mere quantification of the disability will not disbar a candidate and the capacity to pursue the course has to be examined by the disability assessment board . The negative opinion of the disability assessment board is not final and can be reviewed by the judicial bodies till appellate forums are created . ( Para 50 ) Omkar Ramchandra Gond v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 770 <h> Right to Information Act , 2005 <p> Section 12(4) -- Validity of Central Information Commission ( Management ) Regulations , 2007 framed by the Chief Information Commissioner ( CIC ) under Section 12(4) of the RTI Act -- Powers of the CIC -- Held , the use of the words " superintendence , direction and management " in Sections 12(4) of the RTI Act clearly provides the CIC an ambit of power wide enough to frame its own Regulations and to delegate its power to a committee formed by it . While the RTI Act does not explicitly grant CIC the authority to frame Regulations , a purposive interpretation of Section 12(4) reveals that the powers of " superintendence , direction and management " are intended to be comprehensive , enabling the CIC to adopt measures , including the framing of Regulations , that ensure transparency , accountability , and efficient handling of its responsibilities . The Chief Information Commissioner 's powers to frame Regulations pertaining to constitution of Benches of the Commission are upheld . ( Para 22 &amp; 25 ) Central Information Commission v. DDA , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 465 <p> Section 12(4) and Central Information Commission ( Management ) Regulations , 2007 ; Regulation 22 -- Powers of the CIC to constitute Benches within the Commission . Held , Sections 12(4) RTI Act , grants the CIC wide-ranging powers to manage the Commissions ' affairs , including the ability to constitute benches . This interpretation aligns with the purpose and objective of the RTI Act , which aims to facilitate the efficient disposal of cases and the effective implementation of the right to information . The absence of an explicit provision for Benches does not negate the CIC 's authority to constitute them , as such powers are implicitly included within the scope of the CIC 's general superintendence and management responsibilities . The formation of Benches allows for the efficient allocation of work and ensures the timely disposal of cases , which is crucial for upholding the right to information . ( Para 15 , 16 , 17 , 18 &amp; 19 ) Central Information Commission v. DDA , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 465 <p> Section 3(1) ( r ) - Whether mere knowledge of the complainant 's caste identity is sufficient to attract the offence - Held , mere knowledge of the complainant 's Scheduled Caste identity is not sufficient to constitute an offence under Section 3(1) ( r ) of the Act . The offence must be committed " on the ground " or " for the reason " that the person belongs to a Scheduled Caste . Shajan Skaria v. State of Kerala , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 602 : AIR 2024 SC 4557 <p> Section 3(1) ( r ) - The Court emphasized that penal statutes must be interpreted strictly , and the intent to humiliate or insult the complainant must be based on their caste identity . The Court noted that where the legislature intended mere knowledge to be sufficient , it had expressed so in clear terms in other sections of the Act . As the allegations in the present case did not establish that the insult was made because of the complainant 's caste , the requirements of Section 3(1) ( r ) were not met . Shajan Skaria v. State of Kerala , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 602 : AIR 2024 SC 4557 <p> Section 3(1) ( u ) - Whether any offence under Section 3(1) ( u ) of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes ( Prevention of Atrocities ) Act , 1989 , is prima facie made out in the present FIR/complaint . Held , no prima facie case was made out under Section 3(1) ( u ) of the Act , 1989 . To constitute an offence under this provision , the accused must promote or attempt to promote enmity , hatred , or ill-will against members of the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes as a group , through words , signs , or visible representation . The Court found that the video in question did not target Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes as a group but was directed solely against the complainant as an individual . Therefore , the essential ingredients of Section 3(1) ( u ) were not satisfied . Shajan Skaria v. State of Kerala , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 602 : AIR 2024 SC 4557 <p> Section 3(1) ( r ) - Meaning of the expression " intent to humiliate " - Held , the phrase " intent to humiliate " under Section 3(1) ( r ) must be interpreted within the context of caste-based discrimination . Insult or intimidation must be linked to the caste identity of the victim , arising from practices such as untouchability or entrenched caste hierarchies . Not every insult or intimidation against a member of the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes qualifies as an offence under this provision ; it must be motivated by the intention to humiliate based on caste . For the offence to be made out , caste-based remarks or actions reinforcing systemic humiliation must be present . The mere fact that the complainant belongs to a Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe does not automatically trigger the offence . Shajan Skaria v. State of Kerala , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 602 : AIR 2024 SC 4557 <p> Section 3(1) ( r ) - For an offence to be made out under this provision , certain specific ingredients must be present . These include intentional insult or intimidation directed at a member of a Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe with the intent to humiliate , and this act must occur in a place within public view . Mere insult or intimidation of a person belonging to SC/ST community , without any caste-based motivation , does not suffice to attract Section 3(1) ( r ) . Shajan Skaria v. State of Kerala , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 602 : AIR 2024 SC 4557 <p> Section 3(1) ( r ) - Insult or intimidation does not constitute an offence under the Act unless it is specifically aimed at humiliating the victim because of their caste . Shajan Skaria v. State of Kerala , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 602 : AIR 2024 SC 4557 <p> Section 18 - Anticipatory Bail -- When can it be said that a prima facie case is made out in an FIR/complaint ? A prima facie case , which translates to " at first sight " or " based on first impression , " is made out in an FIR or complaint when the necessary ingredients to constitute an offence under the SC/ST ( Prevention of Atrocities ) Act , 1989 are evident upon a plain reading of the allegations . If such ingredients are absent , no prima facie case is established , and courts are not precluded from granting anticipatory bail despite the bar under Section 18 of the Act . However , when the FIR or complaint does disclose the essential elements of the offence , anticipatory bail becomes unavailable . Its duty is to ensure that the allegations in the complaint are evaluated for their sufficiency in establishing the offence , free from external influence . Additionally , in cases involving digital or social media content , courts may examine the materials referenced in the complaint to assess if the prima facie case is made out . If the ingredients of the offence are not found , the bar under Section 18 does not apply . Shajan Skaria v. State of Kerala , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 602 : AIR 2024 SC 4557 <p> Section 18 - Anticipatory Bail -- Significance of the Expression " Arrest of Any Person " - Section 18 of the SC/ST Act , 1989 does not impose an absolute restriction on anticipatory bail ; rather , it applies when a valid arrest under CrPC provisions can be made . For an arrest to be lawful under Section 41 of the CrPC , there must be a reasonable belief , credible information , or reasonable suspicion that the accused has committed an offence , and the arrest must be necessary for purposes like preventing further offences or ensuring proper investigation . Thus , the bar on anticipatory bail under Section 18 only applies if prima facie evidence points to the commission of an offence under the Act . Shajan Skaria v. State of Kerala , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 602 : AIR 2024 SC 4557 <p> Section 18 -- Anticipatory Bail -- Absolute Bar on Grant of Anticipatory Bail -- Constitutionality - The Supreme Court reaffirmed that Section 18 imposes an absolute bar on the grant of anticipatory bail for offenses under the Act . The provision does not violate Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution , as the offenses under the Act form a separate class arising from the historical practice of untouchability and systemic oppression against SC/ST communities . Section 18 was upheld as it is necessary to prevent potential threats and intimidation by the accused , ensuring victims are not obstructed in pursuing justice . The Court acknowledged concerns of misuse but emphasized that the provision aligns with the object of the Act to protect vulnerable sections of society and uphold their dignity . Shajan Skaria v. State of Kerala , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 602 : AIR 2024 SC 4557 <h> Service <p> Any decision taken by the State Government to reduce an employee 's pay scale and recover the excess amount can not be applied retrospectively and that too after a long time gap . Any step of reduction in the pay scale and recovery from a Government employee would tantamount to a punitive action because the same has drastic civil as well as evil consequences . ( Para 21 &amp; 26 ) Jagdish Prasad Singh v. State of Bihar , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 564 : AIR 2024 SC 3950 <p> A statutory body such as a University can not act unfairly and arbitrarily in matters of regularization . The decision to regularize should not be based " on the whims of the decision-making authority " ; rather , it should have good reasons to justify the exercise of its power . Maitreyee Chakraborty v. Tripura University , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 598 : AIR 2024 SC 4431 <p> Dying in Harness - When the termination of a contractual appointment is stigmatic , the principles of natural justice have to be followed . Merely because an appointment was made on a contract basis , following an application for compassionate appointment , would not constitute an appointment under Dying in Harness Rules . U.P . State Road Transport Corporation v. Brijesh Kumar , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 628 : AIR 2024 SC 4424 <p> Eligibility of re-designated Research Assistants for the Career Advancement Scheme ( CAS ) . Held : Research Assistants , although re-designated as Lecturers or Assistant Professors , do not qualify for CAS benefits unless they were directly recruited as Assistant Professors . The CAS requires eight years of service following a " regular appointment , " a term that excludes re-designation . The Court emphasized the distinction between cadres of re-designated and directly appointed Assistant Professors and clarified that such differentiation is crucial for determining benefits under the CAS . Additionally , the Court ruled that any benefits already paid to the respondents should not be recovered , though future benefits would be calculated notionally , excluding CAS benefits . Rajasthan Agricultural University v. Dr. Zabar Singh Solanki , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 555 : AIR 2024 SC 3941 <p> Bihar City Manager Cadre ( Appointment and Service Conditions ) Rules , 2014 - The candidate , who applied for the position of City Manager scored 22.575 marks ( 32.14% ) out of 70 , which exceeded the required 32% threshold . However , her candidature was rejected due to having zero work experience . The BSSC had considered work experience as part of the minimum qualifying marks , thus counting her total score out of 100 marks instead of just the written examination score . The Supreme Court , upholding the High Court 's findings , ruled that the BSSC 's approach was contrary to the statutory rules , and clarified that while work experience marks should be considered in the final merit list , the candidate 's qualifying score in the written exam entitled her to be included in the merit list . The appeal by the BSSC was dismissed . ( Para 16 ) Bihar Staff Selection Commission v. Himal Kumari , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 483 <p> Employees promoted to a particular cadre can not claim the benefits of promotion when they were not even born in the cadre . Mhabemo Ovung v. M. Moanungba , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 629 : AIR 2024 SC 4637 <p> Employees governed by different rules and having different duties ca n't claim parity merely based on the same qualification . Indian Council of Agricultural Research v. Rajinder Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 611 : AIR 2024 SC 4334 <p> Grant of advance increments for Ph.D . to technical personnel in ICAR - The Indian Council of Agricultural Research ( ICAR ) , a society registered under the Societies Registration Act , 1860 , created two services , Agricultural Research Service ( ARS ) and Technical Service ( TS ) , governed by separate service rules . The respondents , technical personnel at ICAR , filed applications for two advance increments on acquiring Ph.D . degrees , similar to those granted to scientists in the ARS under a scheme dated 27.02.1999 . The Tribunal and the High Court allowed their claim , equating technical personnel with scientists for this benefit . Whether technical personnel are entitled to the same increments as scientists for obtaining Ph.D . qualifications . Whether the Tribunal and High Court erred in applying Article 14 to grant such benefits . Held , Technical personnel and scientists belong to different services , governed by separate rules and qualifications . Merely because both are engaged in the research framework , technical personnel can not claim the benefits specifically granted to scientists . Article 14 does not apply to such cases of differential treatment based on service rules , and that the benefit of two advance increments for Ph.D . acquisition was part of the pay package exclusively for scientists . The appeal was allowed , and the orders of the High Court and Tribunal were set aside . Indian Council of Agricultural Research v. Rajinder Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 611 : AIR 2024 SC 4334 <p> Guidelines sanctioning award of excess bonus marks on a differential basis is challenged to be discriminatory and ultra vires the Rules -- Bonus marks fixed for applicants with project experience and other applicants are different -- Guidelines for the selection were issued before the advertisement for the post -- Held , the experience gathered from project work stood on a higher pedestal because it was in tune with the nature of the work of the position of appointment -- Hence , there is no illegality in the prescription of additional marks for those applicants who had experience of working in projects , while recruiting Prabhodhaks . ( Para 29 &amp; 40 ) Mahesh Chand Bareth v. State of Rajasthan , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 442 <p> It is true that an employee engaged on daily wages has no legally vested right to seek regularisation of his services . However , if the competent authority takes a policy decision within the permissible framework , its benefit must be extended to all those who fall within the parameters of such a policy . Authorities can not be permitted to pick and choose in such circumstances . ( Para 5 ) State of Madhya Pradesh v. Shyam Kumar Yadav , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 515 <p> Once the termination order is set aside and judgment of the High Court dismissing the writ petition challenging the said termination order has also been set aside , the natural consequence is that the employee should be taken back in service and thereafter proceeded with as per the directions . Once the termination order is set aside then the employee is deemed to be in service . Anantdeep Singhv v. High Court of Punjab &amp; Haryana at Chandigarh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 683 <p> Mere grant of prosecution sanction against a Central Government employee is not a reason to put the recommendations of the Departmental Promotion Committee ( DPC ) in a sealed cover . Union of India v. Doly Loyi , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 742 <p> Pension is a right and not a bounty . It is a constitutional right for which an employee is entitled on his superannuation . However , pension can be claimed only when it is permissible under the relevant rules or a scheme . If an employee is covered under the Provident Fund Scheme and is not holding a pensionable post , he can not claim pension , nor the writ court can issue mandamus directing the employer to provide pension to an employee who is not covered under the rules . ( Para 35 ) U.P . Roadways Retired Officials and Officers Association v. State of U.P. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 517 <p> Rajasthan Panchayati Raj Prabodhak Service Rules , 2008 ; Rule 13(v) which provides for age relaxation to the persons serving under educational projects is challenged to be discriminatory and contrary to Article 14 of the Constitution of India -- Fixing of minimum and maximum age requirement is a policy decision -- There was a valid classification based on intelligible differentia which distinguished applicants with project experience and those who lacked project experience . Further the differentia had a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Rules . Held , the historical background leading to the enactment of the Rules itself provides a justification for granting relaxation to the persons serving under the educational project , if they fulfil the condition that they were within the age limit when they were initially engaged . Hence , relaxation provided for in Rule 13(v) is not arbitrary or unreasonable . ( Para 22 , 24 &amp; 25 ) Mahesh Chand Bareth v. State of Rajasthan , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 442 <p> Retrospective Promotion - A promotion shall be effective from the date on which it is granted and not from the date when a vacancy occurs on the subject post or when the post itself is created . ( Para 18 ) Bihar State Electricity Board v. Dharamdeo Das , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 506 : AIR 2024 SC 4609 <p> Whenever a Scheme/Policy is brought into force , ceteris paribus , the Court could not and would not import something which is not present therein and which may not be proper to be interfered with , especially when it relates to financial matters where primacy is required to be granted to the pay-master as to what scale was to be granted to the category of staff concerned . By its very nature , such exercise would fall under the realm of policy-formulation . ( Para 20 ) Rajasthan Agricultural University v. Dr. Zabar Singh Solanki , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 555 : AIR 2024 SC 3941 <p> The appellant , a retired IAS officer appointed as the State Vigilance Commissioner , challenged the pay scale offered to him upon his appointment , contending it was lower than that accorded to his predecessors who were granted pay parity with the Chief Secretary . The appellant filed a writ petition in the High Court , which was initially allowed by a Single Judge . However , this decision was reversed on appeal by the Division Bench , which upheld the original terms of the appellant 's pay . Whether the appellant , who accepted the terms of his appointment unreservedly , is entitled to a pay scale equivalent to that of the Chief Secretary . Held , the appellant , having voluntarily accepted the terms of his appointment , could not later claim a higher pay scale . The Court also rejected the invocation of the " equal pay for equal work " principle , noting it was inapplicable as the post of State Vigilance Commissioner was unique with no comparable positions during the appellant 's tenure . Appeal dismissed . Metongmeren Ao v. State of Nagaland , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 657 <p> The appellant challenged a censure penalty imposed for gross negligence and indifference in the performance of his duties , asserting that he had not been afforded an opportunity to show cause prior to the imposition of the penalty , thus breaching the Uttar Pradesh Police Officers of the Subordinate Ranks ( Punishment and Appeal ) Rules , 1991 , and the principles of natural justice . The Court found that a notice had been issued by the Circle Officer seeking the appellant 's explanation regarding pending investigations , and his response was deemed unsatisfactory by the senior police officials . The censure , as a minor penalty under Rule 4 , was properly imposed by the Superintendent of Police , who acted within the jurisdiction conferred by the Rules . The High Court had correctly dismissed the writ petition and appeal of the appellant , upholding the validity of the censure entry in his service record . Sub Inspector Sanjay Kumar v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 758 <p> There can not be a discrimination amongst the homogenous class of the candidates based on their date of admission who secured admission to the same course through the same process in the same academic session while determining their eligibility for getting an appointment to a particular position . Manilal v. State of Rajasthan , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 685 : AIR 2024 SC 4404 <p> When recruitment for public posts is being done , authorities shall preserve answer scripts of candidates until the process is complete , to obviate any allegations of wrong-doing . Khunjamayum Bimoti Devi v. State of Manipur , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 756 <h> Special Leave Petition <p> The Supreme Court prima facie disagrees that a second SLP can be filed if the first SLP was dismissed without any reasons or was withdrawn . N.F. Railway Vending and Catering Contractors Association v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 542 <h> Specific Performance <p> Limitation period for a specific performance suit will run from the date fixed for the performance and not from the expiry of the validity of the agreement . Usha Devi v. Ram Kumar Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 568 : AIR 2024 SC 4591 <h> Specific Relief Act , 1963 <p> Section 16(c) - Mandatory requirement of demonstrating readiness and willingness - Relief of specific performance of contract is a discretionary relief . As such , the Courts , while exercising power to grant specific performance of contract , need to be extra careful and cautious in dealing with the pleadings and the evidence in particular led by the plaintiffs . The plaintiffs have to stand on their own legs to establish that they have made out a case for grant of relief of specific performance of contract . The Act , 1963 provides certain checks and balances which must be fulfilled and established by the plaintiffs before they can become entitled for such a relief . The pleadings in a suit for specific performance have to be very direct , specific and accurate . A suit for specific performance based on bald and vague pleadings must necessarily be rejected . Section 16(C) of the 1963 Act requires readiness and willingness to be pleaded and proved by the plaintiff in a suit for specific performance of contract . The said provision has been widely interpreted and held to be mandatory . ( Para 22(i) ) P. Ravindranath v. Sasikala , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 491 <p> Section 19(b) -- Specific performance of the suit agreement -- Held , the defendants , who are subsequent purchasers , fail to prove that they entered into the sale deed in good faith and without notice of earlier suit agreement . Hence , in view of Section 19(b) , a decree for specific performance of the sale agreement can be passed against such defendants . ( Para 16 ) Maharaj Singh v. Karan Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 473 : AIR 2024 SC 3328 : ( 2024 ) 8 SCC 83 <p> Section 28 - An application under Section 28 of the Specific Relief Act , 1963 , can be filed before the trial court even if the decree for specific performance was passed by the appellate Court . Ishwar v. Bhim Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 651 : AIR 2024 SC 4232 <p> In the present case , the Court found substantial irregularities in the findings of the courts below concerning an agreement to sell agricultural land . The appellant-defendant challenged the authenticity of the agreement , arguing that his thumb impression had been obtained on blank stamp paper , with the agreement being transcribed later . Additionally , the respondent-plaintiff , a police constable , failed to seek departmental permission for a high-value purchase , raising further doubts about the transaction 's legitimacy . After examining evidence , the Court concluded that the respondent-plaintiff 's claim of a valid agreement and payment of Rs.16,00,000 as earnest money was unsubstantiated , indicating a fraudulent and concocted case . The lower courts overlooked critical factual discrepancies , warranting the Supreme Court 's intervention . The Court allowed the appeal , quashing the judgments of the trial court , first appellate court , and High Court , holding them perverse and unsustainable . Lakha Singh v. Balwinder Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 755 <p> When an agreement for sale consists of a clause to hand over possession of the property , then it has to be treated as " conveyance " for the purpose of the Maharashtra Stamp Act , 1958 . Therefore , the liability to pay stamp duty will arise at the time of the execution of such an agreement for sale . The fact that a sale deed was ultimately executed in pursuance of the agreement for sale and that stamp duty was paid on such sale deed will not absolve the primary liability of paying the appropriate stamp duty at the time of execution of the sale agreement . Because , in such a case , the agreement for sale is the principal document , the Court stated , referring to Explanation 1 to Article 25 of Schedule-I of the Maharashtra Stamp Act , 1958 . Shyamsundar Radheshyam Agrawal v. Pushpabai Nilkanth Patil , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 741 <h> Standards of Weight &amp; Measures ( Packaged Commodity ) Rules , 1977 <p> Rule 2(x) ( iii ) &amp; 29 and Central Excise Act , 1944 ; Section 4A -- Wholesale package -- Rule 29 does not require a declaration of sale price on the wholesale package . The respondent is selling HDPE bags containing 100 poly packs each to the distributors and dealers . The Commissioner held that an HDPE bag containing 100 poly packs does not contain a declaration of selling price and therefore , it would be a wholesale package . Rule 29 do not require the display of price on such HDPE bags . Held , HDPE bags would be covered by the definition of ' wholesale package ' as defined in clause ( iii ) of Rule 2(x) of the said Rules . Hence , duty under Section 4A(1) of the Excise Act was not applicable to the goods and subject matter of the show cause notices , can not be faulted with . ( Para 17 &amp; 18 ) Commissioner of Central Excise , Jaipur -II v. Miraj Products Pvt . Ltd. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 470 <p> Rule 2(q) -- " Retail sale " -- to attract the definition of retail sale , a commodity has to be sold , distributed , or delivered for consumption by an individual , a group of individuals , or any other consumer . Thus , the sale or distribution of a commodity to a dealer who , in turn , sells the commodity to retail dealers will not be a retail sale . ( Para 11 ) Commissioner of Central Excise , Jaipur -II v. Miraj Products Pvt . Ltd. , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 470 <h> Stay <p> If an interim protection order passed by a High Court stood automatically vacated pursuant to Asian Resurfacing but the trial has not been concluded , the vacation of stay shall be invalid and inoperative from the date of overruling . Pawan Agarwal v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 511 <h> Tax <p> Finance Act , 1994 ; Section 65(19) ( ii ) r/w. 65(105) ( zzb ) - Sale of lottery tickets by a State Government is not a service but an activity to earn additional revenue . Hence , the wholesale lottery purchasers are not promoting or marketing any service rendered by the State so as to attract service tax liability under the head " business auxiliary service " . ( Para 6 ) K. Arumugam v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 639 <p> Mere insertion of an explanation can not make an activity a taxable service when it is not covered under the main provision . ( Para 6.10 ) K. Arumugam v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 639 <h> Transfer of Property Act , 1882 <p> Section 3 Explanation 1 and Registration Act 1908 ; Section 17(2) -- Constructive notice of sale agreement -- Under the Uttar Pradesh Civil Laws ( Reforms and Amendment ) Act 1976 , clause ( v ) of Section 17(2) of the Registration Act 1908 was amended , which made an agreement for the sale of an immovable property , a compulsorily registerable document in the State . Held , in view of explanation 1 to Section 3 of the TP Act , the second to fourth defendants shall be deemed to have knowledge of the suit agreement , which was duly registered in view of the constructive notice . Hence , it can not be said that they paid money in good faith to the first Defendant . Therefore , the second to fourth defendants can never be held to be bona-fide purchasers who have paid consideration in good faith without the notice of the suit agreement . ( Para 13 ) Maharaj Singh v. Karan Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 473 : AIR 2024 SC 3328 : ( 2024 ) 8 SCC 83 <p> Section 52 -- Doctrine of lis pendens -- Lis pendens does not render all transfers pendente lite to be void ab-initio , it merely renders rights arising from such transfers as subservient to the rights of the parties to the pending litigation and subject to any direction that the Court may pass thereunder . The mere fact that the registered sale deed was executed during the pendency of the Underlying Suit does not automatically render it null and void . Held , there exists no bar to the impleadment of transferees pendente lite with notice . Permitting the impleadment of a transferee pendente lite is , in each case , a discretionary exercise undertaken to enable a purchaser with a legally enforceable right to protect their interests especially when the transferor fails to defend the suit or where there is a possibility of collusion . Further held , the Appellant has a registered sale deed in his favour and in the interest of justice the appellant is entitled to impleadment in the Underlying Suit in order to protect his interests , if any , in the Subject Land . Hence , the Appellant is directed to be added as a party defendant in the Underlying Suit . ( Para 16 , 17 , 21 &amp; 22 ) Yogesh Goyanka v. Govind , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 457 : AIR 2024 SC 3903 : ( 2024 ) 7 SCC 524 <p> Section 54 -- Zamindari Abolition Act ; Section 154B - Prohibition of the sale or transfer of agricultural lands to a person who is not an agriculturalist -- Section 154-B permits the sale of agricultural land to a non-agriculturalist with the permission of the State Government for the purposes specified in clause ( i ) to ( v ) of clause ( h ) . Held , an ' agreement for sale ' does not transfer the property subject matter of the agreement to the purchaser and does not create any interest in the property subject matter of the agreement . Therefore , the embargo created by sub-section ( 1 ) of Section 154-B will apply only to the execution of the sale deed and not to the execution of the agreement for sale . Further held , a decree enjoining the defendants to obtain permission to sell the suit property can be passed and a decree for the specific performance can be passed contingent upon the grant of the permission . ( Para 17 &amp; 18 ) Maharaj Singh v. Karan Singh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 473 : AIR 2024 SC 3328 : ( 2024 ) 8 SCC 83 <p> Section 58 ( f ) - Production of title deeds of the property as a security towards the debt amounts to the creation of a ' mortgage by deposit of title deeds ' . A.B . Govardhan v. P. Ragothaman , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 626 : AIR 2024 SC 4269 <h> Transgender Persons ( Protection of Rights ) Act , 2019 <p> Application process for a PAN card - Requested that certificates issued by District Magistrates under Sections 6 and 7 of the Act be accepted for the application process . The Union of India broadly accepted the demands made in the petition . The Supreme Court observed that the Union of India may consider incorporating these provisions into formal rules for greater clarity . Reshma Prasad @ Ramesh Prasad v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 623 <h> Unlawful Activities(Prevention) Act , 1967 <p> A constitutional court can not be restrained from granting bail to an accused on account of restrictive statutory provisions in a penal statute if it finds that the right of the accused-undertrial under Article 21 of the Constitution of India has been infringed . In that event , such statutory restrictions would not come in the way . Even in the case of interpretation of a penal statute , howsoever stringent it may be , a constitutional court has to lean in favour of constitutionalism and the rule of law of which liberty is an intrinsic part . ( Para 32 ) Sheikh Javed Iqbal @ Ashfaq Ansari @ Javed Ansari v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 486 : AIR 2024 SC 3579 : ( 2024 ) 8 SCC 293 <p> Bail - Denial of - Chhattisgarh Vishesh Jan Suraksha Act , 2005 - Indian Penal Code , 1860 - National Investigation Agency Act , 2008 ; Section 21(4) - Co-accused had been granted bail and that there was no likelihood of early conclusion of the trial , with only 40 out of 100 prosecution witnesses examined . The petitioner has been in custody since 2020 . Bail granted . Mukesh Salam v State of Chhattisgarh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 641 <p> ' Bail is the rule , jail is the exception ' even in special statutes like the UAPA . If the conditions in the special statute for the grant of bail are met , then bail should be granted . Jalaluddin Khan v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 571 : AIR 2024 SC 4380 <p> In the given facts of a particular case , a constitutional court may decline to grant bail . But it would be very wrong to say that under a particular statute , bail can not be granted . It would run counter to the very grain of our constitutional jurisprudence . ( Para 32 ) Sheikh Javed Iqbal @ Ashfaq Ansari @ Javed Ansari v. State of Uttar Pradesh , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 486 : AIR 2024 SC 3579 : ( 2024 ) 8 SCC 293 <p> The validity of sanction should be challenged at the earliest instance available , before the Trial Court . If such a challenge is raised at an appellate stage it would be for the person raising the challenge to justify the reasons for bringing the same at a belated stage . Such reasons would have to be considered independently so as to ensure that there is no misuse of the right of challenge with the aim to stall or delay proceedings . Fuleshwar Gope v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 729 : AIR 2024 SC 4684 <p> The timelines mentioned in Rules 3 &amp; 4 of the 2008 Rules are couched in mandatory language and , therefore , have to be strictly followed . This is keeping in view that UAPA being a penal legislation , strict construction must be accorded to it . Timelines imposed by way of statutory Rules are a way to keep a check on executive power which is a necessary position to protect the rights of accused persons . Independent review by both the authority recommending sanction and the authority granting sanction , are necessary aspects of compliance with Section 45 of the UAPA . Fuleshwar Gope v. Union of India , 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 729 : AIR 2024 SC 4684 
@@118898207 <h> The Third Eye : Syria confirms the rise of radicalism in West Asia <p> New Delhi , December 15 ( IANS ) : The capture of Damascus by the radical Islamic forces resulting in the flight of Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad to Moscow for political asylum on December 8 was seemingly a sudden development but it marked the culmination of what had been happening in Syria and Iraq for years signifying impact of religion on the old superpower rivalry in the region that was somewhere also changing the geopolitics at the global level . <p> It may be recalled that way back in 1928 , a Muslim thinker Hasan Al Banna had founded Ikhwanul Musalmeen or Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt and Syria to oppose the regimes of Gamal Abdul Nasser and Hafez Al-Assad --father of Bashar Al-Assad -- who were looked upon as pro-Soviet ' nationalist ' Arab leaders . <p> Banna believed that the Quran was the best Constitution for Muslims and that an Islamic state could live ' in competition , not conflict with the West ' . The US-led West appreciated the Muslim Brotherhood movement and even encouraged it . <p> When Maulana Abul Ala Maudoodi , an admirer of Hasan Al Banna , launched Jamaat-e-Islami at Lahore in 1940 , this pro-West Islamic stream spread to the Indian subcontinent too and became the ideological anchor of Nizam-e-Mustafa defined by President Zia-ul-Haq as the goal for Pakistan . <p> In the wake of the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan in 1979 and the Iranian Revolution of 1978 , there was a wave of Pan-Islamism in the 1980s supported by the Saudi Arabia-led Organisation of Islamic Conference ( OIC ) . <p> At the fourth Islamic Summit held at Casa Blanca in 1984 under the auspices of OIC , Zia-ul-Haq declared that Muslims from ' Morocco to the Philippines ' were one community who must stand together to solve any common problems . <p> Pan-Islamism as a movement sought to counter the influence of Communism and was blessed by the US whose closest ally in the Muslim world , Saudi Arabia , was pioneering it . However , there was a much older anti-West sentiment in the Muslim world -- flowing from the historical memory of the ' Wahhabi Revolt ' -- the name given to the Jehad launched by the leading Ulema of the times in the 19th century against Western encroachment of Muslim lands . <p> Developments in Afghanistan following the invasion of that country by the Soviet army facilitated the ascendancy of radical fundamentalists in the Afghan territory and this was to influence the course of events in the conflict-prone Middle East in subsequent years . <p> The anti-Soviet armed campaign in Afghanistan was operationally led by the CIA-Pakistan 's ISI combine and was run on the warcry of Jehad in which apart from the Pakistan-controlled Islamic militant outfits and Saudi-funded Lashkar-e-Toiba ( LeT ) , radical forces headed by Al Qaeda of Osama bin Laden also took part . <p> The withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan in 1991 led to the dismemberment of the USSR and the demise of International Communism on one hand and put Afghanistan in the throes of anarchy on the other because of the feud among the warlords -- primarily the contest between General Ahmad Shah Masood heading the nationalistic Northern Alliance and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar , leader of Hizbe Islami who was supported by US and Pakistan . <p> In 1993 Benazir Bhutto , the Prime Minister of Pakistan , sent the Taliban -- products of the Deobandi madrasas known for practising a ruthless fundamentalist line -- to Afghanistan to control the situation there and they managed to install the Taliban Emirate at Kabul in 1996 under Mullah Mohammad Omar -- a close relative of Osama bin Laden . <p> Taliban carried the historical memory of the Wahhabi movement -- Darul Uloom Deoband was established near Saharanpur in India by the protagonists of the failed anti-British Jehad , in 1867 -- and the Emirate soon bared its fangs against the US which had to work for bringing down the Emirate by 2001 . <p> This laid down the turf for 9/11 which was planned by Osama bin Laden taking shelter in Afghanistan . The ' war on terror ' that the US-led Coalition launched against Islamic radical forces first in Afghanistan and then in Iraq , in the aftermath of the attack on the Twin Towers , created worldwide repercussions and not unexpectedly paved the way for the spread of ' radicalisation ' in the two theatres . <p> Al Qaeda held on in Afghanistan and its competitor -- not an opponent -- appeared in the Iraq-Syria region in the form of the Islamic State of Iraq and Levant ( ISIL ) , later known as ISIS since the Levant stood basically for Syria . Bashar Al Assad had inherited the legacy of his father so far as the hostility of the US is concerned and had the consequent advantage of securing Russian support . <p> Also , the fact of his being an Alawite -- which is a Shia sect -- got him the backing of Iran and Hezbollah on grounds of religion even as Iran-US antagonism had already existed on a strong footing at the political level as well . Bashar 's regime allowed Shiites to dominate levers of power disregarding the Sunni majority and this added to the strengthening of radicalisation among the disgruntled Sunnis . <p> Syria ran into a ' civil war ' kind of situation internally because the Assad regime had become suppressive in economic distress facing the population and also because it was confronted by Islamic radical forces of Al Qaeda and ISIS on one side and the pro-West Islamic groups on the other . <p> Developments in Syria should be seen in the backdrop of the Arab Spring of 2011 which was a movement for democracy against dictatorial Arab regimes . <p> In Egypt , the Muslim Brotherhood was in the lead and that pleased the US . <p> As it proceeded in the Arab world , however , the stir allowed radical forces to come to the fore and the Western support to the ruling dispensation in the Arab countries became dependant on whether it was friendly towards the US or not . <p> Muslim societies in general tend to fall back upon their own God in times of difficulties and while this may be true of others as well , they yield to a fundamentalist line or even to the call of Jehad more readily because of the ' pull of exclusivism ' of faith that worked on them in those situations . Those behind the faith-based militancy used social media for indoctrination and this is what ultimately made ' radicalisation ' a source of terror threat at the global level . <p> Radical Islam has a place in the spectrum of faith and can not be totally discarded by Muslim societies . <p> In the Middle East , the conflict is both political and faith-based and that is how the US , Israel and Saudi Arabia are broadly in convergence against the Russia-China-Iran axis -- fundamentalist Shiism is ideologically opposed to Capitalism . <p> An anti-Assad block comprising of Qatar , Turkey and Saudi Arabia has also been a key factor in the regional politics . <p> Radicalised Hamas has been embraced by Iran because both are anti-US politically while the Iran-Israel confrontation reflects to an extent the historical conflict between Zionism and Islam . <p> The recent terror attack of ISIS-K on a Moscow concert in which at least 130 persons were killed was primarily a retaliation against the earlier Russian missile attacks on ISIS establishments in Syria and Iraq . <p> For ISIS both the US and Russia with their godless ideology were on the same footing as far as encroachment on Muslim territories was concerned . <p> The US-led West and the China-Russia alliance want a competitive presence in West Asia for political and economic reasons . <p> The US has been countering its primary enemies in the region -- Al Qaeda and ISIS -- by taking out their leadership in Intelligence-based operations . <p> Osama bin Laden was killed in a military operation at midnight carried out at his residence at Abbottabad near Islamabad in May 2011 while his successor Ayman al Zawahiri was eliminated based on precise intelligence in a drone attack in Afghanistan in 2022 . <p> Interestingly , the present chief of Al Qaeda -- Saif Al Adel -- is said to be operating out of Iran . ISIS emerged as an offspring of Al Qaeda having been created by Abu Bakr Al Baghdadi leader of Al Qaeda in Iraq ( AQI ) in 2013 to operate in Iraq and Syria . <p> Nusrat Front , another Al Qaeda affiliate active in Syria , continued to work there independently . Its leader , Abu Mohammad Al Julani who had renamed Nusrat Front as Hayat Tahrir Al Sham , has emerged as the new figure of power in Damascus after the departure of Bashir Al Assad . <p> Al Julani also had organisational links with the Islamic State . It may be mentioned that in Iraq the US had launched air strikes to prevent ISIL from expanding into northern Iraq , as it wanted to shield Christians and Yazidis -- who believed in both the Quran and the Bible . The US also released videos showing how ISIL fighters beheaded Western aid workers and journalists . <p> In 2019 Baghdadi was killed in Syria in a US raid during which he exploded his suicide vest . <p> After Baghdadi , ISIS-K -- ' K ' standing for Khorasan -- became the main face of the parent organisation . <p> Khorasan is the region covering Afghanistan , Persia and Turkmenistan . The whole scene in the Iraq-Syria region was marked by violence along sectarian lines . Such conflicts always tended to become unending and indeterminate . <p> From the Indian perspective , it is a challenge to maintain bilateral relations with the major powers in the Middle East-Iran , Saudi Arabia and Israel and advocate the cause of global peace and human development . <p> There are signs of a new Cold War on the horizon between the US and the China-Russia combine and in this setting India 's strategy would be to remain ' independent ' in counselling for stoppage of armed confrontations and commencement of negotiations for peace . <p> India has done this in the case of both the Ukraine-Russia armed conflict and Israel 's operations in Gaza . <p> India had no hesitation in promptly condemning the terror attack of Hamas on Israel on October 7 last year . <p> This country must be firmly against faith-based violence and must continue to call for condemnation of terrorism in all its forms , from different multi-lateral forums of which it is a part -- ranging from BRICS and Quad to G20 . <p> The problem for India regarding radicalisation is substantially linked to the dubious role of Pakistan which had found a way of remaining on the right side of the US despite its proven track record of harbouring Islamic radical outfits and using terrorism as an instrument of state policy . <p> Al Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent ( AQIS ) operates from Pakistan and ISIS-K elements are said to have been seen on the Kashmir front . <p> The Sino-Pakistan alliance is known to be working for covert operations against India . <p> The use of Chinese drones for dropping arms and narcotics in Kashmir and Punjab has been reported multiple times and the two hostile neighbours were also in concert in the sphere of anti-India cyber operations . <p> The flux in West Asia in general and in Syria and Gaza in particular , is a reminder for India that developments in the Islamic world have to be closely watched for their impact on the internal security of this country . <h> Connect with us <h> Intro footer <p> The Morung Express <p> The Morung Express is a people-oriented alternative newspaper based in Nagaland that was conceived from the Naga people 's historical realities and is guided by their voices and experiences . It emerged from the well-recognized concept that the core of a free press is based on " qualitative and investigative " journalism . Ensuring this is essential for contributing to an informed Naga public that makes sound decisions on issues that affect all spheres of life . 
@@118898418 <h> Israel has closed its embassy in Ireland due to the Irish government 's " extreme anti-Israel policies , " including the recognition of Palestine and support for legal action against Israel . <p> Israel has officially closed its embassy in Ireland , citing what it called " extreme anti-Israel policies " by the Irish government . The announcement was made on Sunday by Israel 's Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar , who issued a scathing critique of Ireland 's stance on Israel . <p> " The actions and antisemitic rhetoric used by Ireland against Israel are rooted in the delegitimisation and demonisation of the Jewish state , along with double standards . Ireland has crossed every red line in its relations with Israel , " Sa'ar stated in a release by the foreign ministry . <p> Sa'ar also emphasised that Israel would prioritise diplomatic efforts with nations based on their attitudes and actions towards the Jewish state . " Israel will invest its resources in advancing bilateral relations with countries worldwide according to priorities that also take into account the attitudes and actions of these states toward Israel , " he added , as per CNN . <p> The Israeli foreign ministry 's statement highlighted several actions by the Irish government , including its decision to formally recognise the State of Palestine in May and its support for South Africa 's legal action against Israel at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) . Ireland has also expressed solidarity with the Palestinian cause , with Dublin announcing in March its intention to intervene in a genocide case against Israel at the ICJ . <p> Yair Lapid , Israel 's opposition leader , criticised the embassy closure in a post on X , calling it a " victory for anti-Semitism and anti-Israel organisations . " He remarked , " The way to deal with criticism is not to run away , but to stay and fight ! " <p> Lapid 's remarks drew a sharp rebuke from Sa'ar , who responded on X , saying , " Shame on you , Yair ! ... This is clear anti-Semitism based on delegitimisation , dehumanisation and double standards towards the Jewish state . " <p> The decision has been met with disapproval from Ireland as well . Irish Prime Minister Simon Harris described the move as " deeply regrettable " and rejected the accusations of anti-Israel bias . " I utterly reject the assertion that Ireland is anti-Israel . Ireland is pro-peace , pro-human rights and pro-international law , " Harris wrote on X. <p> Ireland wants a two state solution and for Israel and Palestine to live in peace and security . Ireland will always speak up for human rights and international law . Nothing will distract from that . <p> " Ireland wants a two state solution and for Israel and Palestine to live in peace and security . Ireland will always speak up for human rights and international law . Nothing will distract from that , " he added . <p> Ireland 's recognition of the Palestinian state and its criticism of Israeli actions in Gaza have long been points of contention in relations between the two nations . In January , the ICJ directed Israel to " take all measures within its power " to prevent genocidal acts in Gaza , though it refrained from directly accusing Israel of genocide. 
@@118908419 <p> The image shows no men , as they were abducted , leaving only women and children to flee . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> North Gaza , including Beit Lahiya , Beit Hanoun , and Jabaliya , has been under relentless Israeli assaults and military siege since October 5 . The Israeli military is implementing the " Generals ' Plan , " which aims to ethnically cleanse the area of its Palestinian population . <p> After Amnesty International released a report last Thursday calling the war in Gaza a genocide , Amnesty 's Israeli branch quickly issued a statement saying most of its members do n't believe genocide has occurred .... <p> Amsterdam ( Quds News Network ) - A groundbreaking study has revealed the staggering psychological toll of the Gaza genocide on children . Conducted by the Community Training Centre for Crisis Management ( CTCCM ) with support from ... <p> The world 's foremost monitor of civilian harm caused by aerial bombardment published a report Thursday calling the first 25 days of Israel 's ongoing U.S.-backed annihilation of Gaza the worst assault on noncombatants it has ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118908424 <h> Where is Rules Based International Order when Israel makes hundreds of attacks on Syria after Assad 's ouster ? <h> Share : <p> Israel has made hundreds of air attacks on Syria in the days after the ouster of Assad , apart from its troops advancing on the ground . While these attacks have been widely reported in media including western media , there has been very little mention of the human costs of this . Even if only military targets were carefully selected , it is extremely unlikely that human lives were not lost when several hundred air attacks were made using highly destructive bombs . <p> An AFP report published in The Times of India on December 12 titled ' 480 strikes on Syria in 48 hours : Israel ' stated , " The Israeli military said Tuesday ( December 10 ) that it conducted about 480 strikes over the past 48 hours on strategic military targets in Syria , days after the ouster of president Bashar al-Assad . " This means that for two days and nights strikes were made relentlessly at the rate of ten per hour on a country that was not officially at war with Israel and where instead the regime change desired by the attacking country had already taken place , using aircraft and bombs supplied by western countries which did not raise any questions about the glaring violation of international rules and laws and did not even express any concern about the likely loss of human lives in all these attacks . <p> At the same time US attacks on Syrian targets also continued , and Turkey also continued its own attacks on Syrian Kurds . Israel also continued its attacks on Gaza -- on the same day AP reported that an Israeli strike on a home sheltering displaced people in Gaza had killed 19 people . <p> On December 11 The Times of India published a NYT report headlined ' Israel says it destroyed Syria 's Navy in Overnight Air Strikes ' " Israel said on Tuesday ( December 10 ) that it had destroyed Syria 's navy in overnight air strikes , as it continued to pound targets in Syria despite warnings that its operations there could ignite new conflict and jeopardize the transition of power to an interim government . " <p> Israeli defense minister Israel Katz boasted that the Israeli military had " destroyed Syria 's navy overnight , and with great success . " The destruction at Syria 's port city of Latakia in particular was widely reported , including published photos which showed " the smoldering remains of ships sunk at their docks . " However the loss of human lives caused in the process of such massive destruction was not mentioned or explored in any of the reports that I consulted . Katz also said , commenting on the advance of Israel 's troops on ground in Syria , that this was aimed at creating a ' sterile defense zone ' in southern Syria ( and this is likely to mean that any Syrian civilians falling in the way of such an effort are likely to be displaced sooner or later ) . <p> This massive destruction of Syria raises very serious questions regarding the observance of rules based international order and international law by Israel and its western supporters . Of course earlier also Israel violated such rules and norms repeatedly by attacking Syria again and again for years , accelerating these attacks in the days before the ouster of the Assad regime . <p> These attacks were increased enormously soon after the long-desired aim of ousting the Assad regime had been achieved , raising serious questions regarding the complete lack of concern for causing destruction in a country with which Israel is officially not at war and where a desired ( by Israel ) regime change has just taken place . What is more , the desired regime change was supported by Israel in various ways , and while some of the main actors involved in this are known to be dangerous militant and sectarian forces , their advance was facilitated by Israel and its allies in various ways . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The hundreds of attacks by Israel and the USA on Syria after the ouster of the Assad regime could take place by and large without any obstacle or even influential international calls to stop them , at least in the first days of these attacks . Even Arab countries did not take any significant steps to stop these attacks . What is most worrying is that even the United Nations could not take any effective steps to stop these attacks and by and large remained a silent spectator . This reveals the extent to which ' might is right ' is already a reality in international affairs and those who are powerful enough and/or can count on the support of the most powerful forces feel free to launch not a few but hundreds of attacks on targets of their choosing . This should worry us all , should worry the United Nations , as one does not know that armed with the most destructive weapons where such forces of destruction will eventually take our increasingly vulnerable world . <p> Bharat Dogra is Honorary Convener , Campaign to Save Earth Now . His recent books include Planet in Peril , Protecting Earth for Children , Earth without Borders and A Day in 2071 . <h> Related Posts <p> After December 2010 when a desperate and angry Tunisian young man of the name of Mohammad Bouazizi , dramatically immolated himself , an unprecedented wave of mass protests against incumbent totalitarian regimes ... <p> Damascus ( Quds News Network ) - In its first official stance , the new Syrian Interim Government has condemned Israel 's invasion of Syrian territories . Syria 's Permanent Representative to the United Nations , Qusai Al-Dhahhak , sent two ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118908425 <h> Israel Bombed Its Own Prisoners in Gaza Twice , Reveals Hamas <h> Share : <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - Hamas stated that the Israeli military has deliberately bombarded Israeli prisoners twice in Gaza . Abu Ubaida , the spokesperson for Al-Qassam Brigades , said Israel bombed a site holding Israeli prisoners , then struck it again to ensure their deaths . <p> " We have intelligence confirming the enemy intentionally targeted the location to kill the prisoners and their guards , " he said . Abu Ubaida revealed that Hamas fighters tried to rescue the prisoners , managing to retrieve one , whose fate remains unknown . <p> Hamas held Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , his government , and the army fully responsible for the attack and the safety of the remaining prisoners . <p> Screenshot from a video published by Hamas.Screenshot from a video published by Hamas . <p> Last week , the Israeli military admitted its role in the deaths of six Israeli prisoners in Gaza . The incident occurred in August , during an airstrike on a tunnel near Khan Younis . Israeli media outlet Channel 12 reported that the military informed the prisoners ' families of its findings . <p> This admission has deepened outrage over Israel 's handling of prisoners held in Gaza . Critics say the government failed to prioritize their safety during military operations . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The revelations come amid a growing scandal surrounding Netanyahu 's office . Last month , reports exposed a covert team working under his direction to block prisoner exchange deals . <p> The team manipulated intelligence and fabricated documents to sabotage efforts to secure the prisoners ' release . Analysts say the strategy aimed to maintain a hardline stance , despite public and familial pressure to bring the prisoners home . <p> After Amnesty International released a report last Thursday calling the war in Gaza a genocide , Amnesty 's Israeli branch quickly issued a statement saying most of its members do n't believe genocide has occurred .... <p> Amsterdam ( Quds News Network ) - A groundbreaking study has revealed the staggering psychological toll of the Gaza genocide on children . Conducted by the Community Training Centre for Crisis Management ( CTCCM ) with support from ... <p> The world 's foremost monitor of civilian harm caused by aerial bombardment published a report Thursday calling the first 25 days of Israel 's ongoing U.S.-backed annihilation of Gaza the worst assault on noncombatants it has ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118908427 <h> The Turkish Role in Assad 's Downfall <h> Share : <p> After tenaciously holding on to power for more than a decade of war , the government of Bashar al-Assad crumbled in two weeks of limited fighting . Overwhelmed by a surprise blitzkrieg assault , the Syrian army seemed to melt away in the face of a surprisingly well-armed and well-organized coalition of disparate " rebel " forces that rapidly conquered Aleppo , Hama , and finally Damascus , sending Assad and his family into exile in Moscow . <p> Assad 's sudden downfall has drastically shifted the facts on the ground in the Middle East . It has compromised the interests of Russia , Iran , and Hezbollah ( Syria 's primary protectors over the past decade ) , while bolstering the positions of the three states that stand most to gain from Assad 's fall : the United States , Israel , and Turkey , whose leaderswere quick to celebrate -- and take some credit for -- Assad 's fall . <p> Although the interests of the United States and Israel in Assad 's ouster are apparent , the role of Turkey is more complex , and arguably more consequential . All evidence points to Turkey having played an integral role in the operation that overthrew Assad 's government , with the Turks likely providing training and material support to at least two of the main rebel forces : The Syrian National Army ( SNA ) and Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , a Sunni Islamist group that had previously been aligned with al-Qaeda . That the assault on Assad 's government began out of Idlib province , which has been under Turkish protection since the start of the Astana Process in 2017 , has given further credence to claims of significant Turkish involvement , with accusations proliferating online that many of the rebel forces crossed into Syria from the Turkish border . <p> In the initial days of the assault , Turkish officials initially denied , and then downplayed , their country 's involvement . Nevertheless , speculation immediately flooded both traditional and social media that this was a Turkish-backed regime change operation -- speculation that became difficult to discount after the fall of Aleppo , as Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan publicly called for the rebels to march on to Damascus and topple Assad . Though the full truth of Ankara 's involvement may never be known , the belief that Turkey -- with American and Israeli support -- was substantially involved appears to be widespread in the Middle East and beyond . <p> Longstanding Relationship <p> Under Erdogan , Turkey has had a complicated relationship with Assad 's Syria , training anti-Assad forces early in the civil war and later sending its military into Syria for multiple campaigns against Kurdish , Islamic State , and Syrian government forces . Having repeatedly called for Assad 's ouster in the 2010s , however , Erdogan had recently appeared to take a more conciliatory tone with Damascus , calling for new negotiations with Assad ( though these overtures were allegedly rebuffed ) and expressing " hope " for improved ties as recently as three weeks ago . <p> Apart from Erdogan 's public statements , there were other reasons to doubt that Turkey would actively push for regime change in Syria . Among these , a primary factor was the aforementioned Astana Process , which had set up a series of " de-escalation zones " in Syria , each of which would be under the protection of the Process ' three signatories : Iran , Russia , and Turkey . Under the terms of the agreement , there was to be " no military solution to the Syrian conflict " and Syrian sovereignty and territorial integrity were to be respected . Although numerous problems arose after 2017 , Russia , Iran , and Turkey had remained committed to the terms of Astana . Indeed , mere weeks before the start of the assault , at a scheduled meeting for Astana Process states in Kazakhstan , Turkey reaffirmed its commitment to Syrian " sovereignty " and " territorial integrity . " <p> Turkey 's apparent violation of its Astana Process obligations , with no prior warning , has almost certainly enraged both Moscow and Tehran , both of which have spent much of the past decade protecting their interests there and fighting to keep Assad in power . Given both countries ' central role in the BRICS economic union , furthermore , Erdogan 's actions in Syria may have jeopardized Turkey 's bid for BRICS membership . <p> Perceptions of Turkish involvement may pose serious problems for Erdogan 's domestic standing , too . Most Turks are deeply opposed to Israel 's actions in Gaza , which many view as a genocide . Should Erdogan be perceived domestically as having aided the aims of Israel and America , the sincerity of his increasingly bellicose rhetoric towards Israel will be further questioned , with many Turks highly critical of Ankara 's reluctance to take more forceful action against Tel Aviv . <p> Given the risks to his own domestic standing and to Turkey 's historically close relations with Russia in particular , what could have motivated Erdogan to push for regime change in Syria , going against both his own public statements and his government 's official policy ? <p> Explaining Turkish Moves <p> Turkey hosts more than three million Syrian refugees , which has created significant , and sometimes violent , socioeconomic tensions between refugees and native Turks . With a turbulent and highly inflationary Turkish economy , that is suffering from years of ballooning prices and insufficient government support , these tensions have coalesced into a substantial problem for Erdogan 's government , pushing it to seek ways of repatriating Syrians to their home country . With Assad gone , Erdogan almost certainly hopes to have more control over Syrian affairs , allowing him to send Syrians out of Turkey . <p> A second likely reason for heightened Turkish involvement in Syria concerns the Kurds . The largest ethnic minority group in Turkey , Kurds have had an infamously difficult relationship with the Turkish state since its founding in 1923 . Since then , there has been a sizable minority of Turkish Kurds -- most notably the members of the Kurdistan Workers ' Party ( PKK ) -- who have sought not only greater rights and recognition but a nation-state of their own . In the eyes of the Turkish state , the U.S.-backed Kurdish forces in Syria , presiding over a large swath of territory along the Turkish border , constitute an existential threat to Turkish sovereignty . <p> The Kurdish issue is made more salient by the coming inauguration of Donald Trump . Just last week , the president-elect strongly stated that the United States should not get involved in events on the ground in the Syria , giving further credence to past reports that Trump intends to pull U.S. forces out of Syria , which Trump had previously stated were there primarily to extract Syrian oil . Should Trump make good on his promises , it would leave the U.S.-backed Kurdish forces unprotected by the presence of American boots on the ground . <p> The possibility that Trump will indeed remove U.S. troops may have been pivotal to Ankara 's calculations . Indeed , just a few weeks before the assault on Aleppo , Turkish media reported top officials in Erdogan 's government predicting a Trump-led withdrawal , suggesting that this could open up new opportunities for driving out Kurdish forces near the Turkish-Syrian border . Driving out Kurdish forces poses risks for Turkey 's relations with the United States and the broader West , where Kurdish militias have been positively represented throughout the Syrian war . But Erdogan may be expecting that , under Trump , the United States will not get in his way . <p> Erdogan may also see an opportunity to expand Turkey 's borders , which many in his base see as having been unfairly drawn after the fall of the Ottoman Empire . Perhaps Ankara will attempt to make its foothold in northern Syria permanent and expand that area by taking over areas currently held by the Kurds . Yet Turkey 's presence in the north , along with its close relations with HTS and SNA , provides Erdogan with leverage in future negotiations with various regional players -- including Russia , which is surely scrambling to negotiate the future of its military bases in Syria . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Whatever the motivations , Turkey will now be expected to take a central role in whatever government emerges out of the current chaos . Success in repatriating Syrians from Turkey back to Syria will be a critical test for Erdogan 's approval at home , as will be how he navigates the expanded Israeli occupation of Syrian territory . Abroad , Erdogan 's ability to maintain relations with Moscow and Iran will likewise be critical for the future of Turkey 's application to both BRICS and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization . Yet with a frustrated population at home , a multitude of nation states and non-state actors jostling for power in and around Syria , and a potentially difficult-to-control political force in charge of Syria , Erdogan may have this time bitten off more than he can chew . <p> Philip Balboni is an anthropologist of global politics and economy . He holds a PhD in Cultural Anthropology from the University of California , Berkeley , and teaches at Northeastern University . His writing can be found at **26;824;TOOLONG . <p> Damascus ( Quds News Network ) - In its first official stance , the new Syrian Interim Government has condemned Israel 's invasion of Syrian territories . Syria 's Permanent Representative to the United Nations , Qusai Al-Dhahhak , sent two ... <p> After the fall of Syria 's Bashar al-Assad , Israel has been encroaching on its neighbour 's territory . Israel has attacked Syria more than 400 times and , despite UN protests , launched a military incursion into ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118908429 <h> Israel 's Love Affair with Syrian Jihadis <h> Share : <p> Zionist apologists commonly present support for Israel as a necessary extension of opposition to radical Islam and the threat of Jihadi terrorism . " Support us fighting them here , so you do n't have to fight them there " is a common plea to the West from Zionist spokespeople within Israel . Yet when it comes to the Syrian Civil War , the conflict which sparked the major refugee crisis responsible for flooding Europe with millions of Muslims , Israel has been firmly on the side of Jihad , even and most particularly Al-Qaeda . <p> Israeli support for Jihadis in Syria first became known in the West when reports circulated of Israel providing medical care to anti-Assad fighters on its contested border with Syria . <p> Israel portrayed this as a principled humanitarian response , but in 2015 , the Wall Street Journal reported that only a third of those treated by Israel were women and children . Electronic Intifada : <p> The rest have been fighters who Israeli officials admit are not screened and likely belong to al-Nusra . <p> Once it became undeniable , Israel confessed it was treating fighters , but claimed that they were moderates . <p> But after al-Nusra captured and ejected UN peacekeepers in the Golan Heights last August , there was no longer any doubt that al-Nusra was the dominant force among opposition fighters in the area . <p> Efraim Halevy , a former head of Mossad , defended the aid on humanitarian grounds , but confirmed there was a " tactical consideration " . In a 2016 interview , Halevy dismissed the idea that Israel would suffer any blowback from supporting Al-Nusra , the Syrian offshoot of Al-Qaeda . While rejecting the idea Israel might also offer medical assistance to Hezbollah fighters on similar humanitarian grounds , he explained that the difference between Hezbollah and Al Nusra Front was that Israel was " not specifically targeted by Al-Qaeda " . <p> In 2019 , an outgoing Israeli army commander Gadi Eisenkot confirmed suspicions that as well as medical aid , Israel had been providing lethal material support for Syrian Jihadists . Eisenkot said that Israel had been years providing light arms weapons to rebel groups along the Syrian/Israeli border . Eisenkot also acknowledged that " we carried out thousands of attacks in recent years without taking responsibility and without asking for credit . " <p> Israeli support for these groups actually went well beyond the " light arms " Eisenkot acknowledged . In September 2018 , Foreign Policy magazine reported that Israel had funded " at least 12 rebel groups in southern Syria " , based on reports from " more than two dozen commanders and rank-and-file members of these groups . " The transfers included : <p> Assault rifles , machine guns , mortar launchers and transport vehicles . Israeli security agencies delivered the weapons through three gates connecting the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights to Syria -- the same crossings Israel used to deliver humanitarian aid to residents of southern Syria suffering from years of civil war . <p> Israel also provided salaries to rebel fighters , paying each one about $75 a month , and supplied additional money the groups used to buy arms on the Syrian black market , according to the rebels and local journalists . <p> Israel also carried out numerous airstrikes in the region which exclusively benefited groups like Al-Nusra front . In one incident , Israel responded to some rebel group firing rockets into the occupied Golan Heights by launching airstrikes on Syrian army artillery positions . <p> In a year and a half period from 2017 to 2018 , Israel carried out over 200 airstrikes in Syria , mostly directed at Iranian forces assisting the Syrian army . In a 2015 interview , Bashar al-Assad responded to the question of Israel 's agenda in Syria : <p> They are supporting the rebels in Syria . It 's very clear . Because whenever we make advances in some place , they make an attack in order to undermine the army . It 's very clear . That 's why some in Syria joke : " How can you say that al-Qaeda does n't have an air force ? They have the Israeli air force . " <p> As far back as 2015 , senior Israeli military figures had justified Israeli support for Al-Nusra front in Western media . Michael Herzog , a former chief of staff for Israel 's defense minister , told The Wall Street Journal <p> Nusra is a unique version of al-Qaida . They manage to cooperate with non-Islamist and non-jihadi organizations in one coalition ... They are totally focused on the war in Syria and are n't focused on us . But when Hizballah and Iran and others are pushing south , they are very much focused on us . <p> The same article quotes Amos Yaldin , a retired Israeli general , who reasoned that : <p> There is no doubt that Hizballah and Iran are the major threat to Israel , much more than the radical Sunni Islamists , who are also an enemy ... Those Sunni elements who control some two-thirds to 90 percent of the border on the Golan are n't attacking Israel . This gives you some basis to think that they understand who is their real enemy -- maybe it is n't Israel . <p> Also in 2015 , the Pentagon acknowledged that the " moderate rebels " who were being armed and trained by the United States and its allies were passing their equipment to Nusra Front . <p> Although the US publicly claimed it did not intentionally support Islamists like Al-Qaeda and ISIS in Syria , leaked internal documents have repeatedly shown that US officials were aware that these groups dominated the Syrian opposition and were often the chief beneficiaries of their aid . For example , a declassified 2012 memo from the Defense Intelligence Agency ( DIA ) revealed that , from the beginning of the Syrian Civil War , the US believed that " The Salafist , the Muslim Brotherhood , and AQI are the major forces driving the insurgency in Syria " . AQI being a reference to Al-Qaeda in Iraq , which later evolved into ISIS . <p> The DIA also foecasted " the possibility of establishing a declared or undeclared Salafist principality in Eastern Syria ( Hasaka and Der Zor ) , and this is exactly what the supporting powers to the opposition want , in order to isolate the Syrian regime " . <p> This is exactly what happened when the region was overrun by ISIS . The DIA even pointed to Mosul , the future capital of the Islamic State and base of its expansion , as a prime potential location for this " Salafist principality " . <p> Wikileaks revealed that current US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan told Hillary Clinton in 2012 that " AQ ( Al-Qaeda ) is on our side . " <p> When ISIS did emerge , many voices within Israel saw it as a positive . A 2016 paper by an Israeli strategic think-tank that contracts for NATO and the Israeli government argued against destroying the Islamic state , since " The continuing existence of IS serves a strategic purpose " , and could be " a useful tool in undermining " Israel 's enemies of Hezbollah , Iran , Syria and Russia . <p> Arguing against the perspective that a defeat of ISIS would help stabilise the Middle-East , the paper noted that : <p> Stability is not a value in and of itself . It is desirable only if it serves our interests . The defeat of IS would encourage Iranian hegemony in the region , buttress Russia 's role , and prolong Assad 's tyranny . <p> Other senior Israeli figures also saw an opportunity in the growth of ISIS . Naftali Bennett , now a former Prime Minister of Israel , told the annual Herzliya conference -- a " closed-door annual gathering of the country 's very top political , security , intelligence , and business elite " -- that the emergence of ISIS would offer Israel an opportunity to legitimise its annexation of the Golan Heights . Calling for a quintupling of the Jewish occupation population to 100,000 in a 5 year period , Bennett argued the chaos in Syria now made Israel 's claim more appealing than ever to the international community : <p> Who do they want us to give the Golan to ? To Assad ? Today , it 's clear that if we listened to the world we would give up the Golan and ISIS would be swimming in the Sea of Galilee . Enough with the hypocrisy . <p> By supporting Jihadis in Syria , Israel fulfilled multiple strategic goals : weakening Iranian and Russian influence in the region , dragging its arch-enemy Hezbollah into a costly fight , and solidifying its hold on the occupied Golan Heights from the claims of the Syrian regime . <h> The Jihadis who love Jews <p> In late November 2024 , the world was shocked with the news that rebel forces in Syria had seized Syria 's second city of Aleppo . This came just days after the announcement of a ceasefire between Israel and Assad ally Hezbollah , significantly weakened by a year of conflict with Israel since Israel began it 's war on Gaza . <p> This latest advance was led by the Islamist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , which has maintained control of the north-western province of Idlib . HTS grew out of a merger of multiple radical Islamist groups in Syria , most notably the Al-Nusra Front . Its leader Abu Mohammad al-Julani , is previously a member of Al-Qaeda , ISIS and Al-Nusra , as well as other Jihadi groups , and fought in both the Iraqi insurgency and Syrian Civil War , leading to the US State Department declaring him a " Specially Designated Global Terrorist " and placing a $10 million bounty on information leading to his capture . <p> Now though , " Jolani " is providing thoughtful interviews to CNN , where he promises Syria under HTS rule will be a pluralist country , ready to join the civilised world . As well as working on working on their PR with the liberal-democratic West , this new wave of Jihadis have also been keen to improve their relations with Israel . <p> Notably , the one time ISIS actually attacked Israeli forces -- in a brief exchange of fire in the Golan Heights -- it promptly issued an apology . <p> Israel 's state media outlet Kan interviewed some of the Jihadis leading today 's advance , who were surprisingly grateful to the Zionist state . Those interviewed expressed gratitude for Israeli strikes on Hezbollah and weapons transfers within Syria " which have allowed us to return and free the lands and the country " . <p> " They accuse us of cooperating with you because we were quite happy when you attacked Hezbollah , really happy , and we 're glad that you won , " the source said . <p> Both said the rebels had no issue with Israel . " We love Israel and we were never its enemies , " the man from the Idlib area said . " Israel is n't hostile to those who are not hostile toward it . We do n't hate you , we love you very much . " <p> Given that Israel is carrying out a genocide on their Muslim brothers and sisters in Gaza , you might think militant Muslims in Syria would n't be the biggest fan of the Jewish state . Yet Israeli media has ran multiple pieces on the pro-Israel sympathies of the chief threats to Assad 's rule . A commander for the US-backed Free Syrian Army assured Israel 's Channel 12 News that : <p> We are open to friendship with everyone in the region -- including Israel . We do n't have enemies other than the Assad regime , Hezbollah and Iran . What Israel did against Hezbollah in Lebanon helped us a great deal . Now we are taking care of the rest . <p> With Assad 's forces seemingly being overrun , the future of Syria is uncertain . What seems assured is a strengthening of Israel 's position . Assad was a key ally of Iran , whose rule in Syria allowed them access to the " resistance highway " of Tehran-Beirut , a Shia crescent extending across the Middle East right up to Israel 's door . If it comes to pass , Assad 's fall will follow a year of war on Hezbollah and Hamas that has significantly debilitated each . Who or what will replace Assad , and whether Syria as an entity will even survive the transition or be balkanised or collapse into years of sectarian conflict remains to be seen . But Israeli leaders are confident that what follows will not offer the same resistance to its hegemony that an Iran-aligned Syria did . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> When Israeli support for Jihadist groups was first reported , it sounded too crazy to be true , the kind of thing one might hear from an Infowars host sensationalising the complicated dynamics of the region . We now know it was not just real , but far greater extent than suspected . As its long time enemy Bashar al-Assad now seemingly faces his end , and Iran 's axis of resistance loses a crucial link in its chain , the cold logic of Israel 's Jihad-friendly military leadership and their cousins in the Pentagon appears to have borne fruit . <p> Keith Woods is an Irish writer , content creator and activist . He has been ranked as one of the most influential political commentators on social media . Since 2023 , he has been publishing a series of essays on political theory on his newsletter , keithwoods.pub . He is the author of Nationalism : The Politics of Identity <p> Damascus ( Quds News Network ) - In its first official stance , the new Syrian Interim Government has condemned Israel 's invasion of Syrian territories . Syria 's Permanent Representative to the United Nations , Qusai Al-Dhahhak , sent two ... <p> After the fall of Syria 's Bashar al-Assad , Israel has been encroaching on its neighbour 's territory . Israel has attacked Syria more than 400 times and , despite UN protests , launched a military incursion into ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118908430 <h> Why I Resigned As Chairman Of Amnesty Israel <h> Share : <p> Amnesty International officers present the group 's new report alleging genocide by Israel in Gaza on Dec. 4 . Photo by Pierre Crom/Getty Images <p> After Amnesty International released a report last Thursday calling the war in Gaza a genocide , Amnesty 's Israeli branch quickly issued a statement saying most of its members do n't believe genocide has occurred . Some in Amnesty Israel alleged the report was biased , arguing for a forgone conclusion . Others went further , claiming that the international movement abandoned its commitment to equality in the first place . <p> But even before the report came out -- one week before , to be exact -- I resigned my position as chair of the board of Amnesty Israel . I did n't step down because of the imminent controversy over the conclusions of Amnesty International 's report . I resigned because I could no longer chair a branch that did not treat Palestinians as equal partners , and I could not sign off on a critique of Amnesty International 's report that pretends to be an expert minority opinion , but is instead little more than the expression of an Israeli-Jewish worldview , to the exclusion of Palestinian voices . <p> Let 's start with the Amnesty International report itself . It was written by a diverse set of legal experts , and was revised multiple times to adhere to stricter standards of proof . It is far from the first report prepared by legal experts to reach the conclusion that genocide occurred , but it is by far the most in-depth legal analysis on the issue . Whether one agrees or disagrees with the report 's conclusions , the critique of it ought to be the kind that is commanded by serious scholarship . <p> Amnesty Israel 's position on the report was prepared by two Israeli Jewish staff members who are not legal scholars , with external assistance from Israeli legal experts . What Amnesty Israel was lacking in legal expertise it could have perhaps offered with an analysis that is instead rich in its diversity of perspective , having had Palestinian staff and board members working together with the Israeli Jewish ones to write something truly unique on this issue and contribute a perspective that would be difficult for outside experts to replicate . But instead , no Palestinians had any input on Amnesty Israel 's analysis of the genocide report . <p> This is n't because there were no Palestinians present . Amnesty Israel had skilled Palestinian staff and board members ready to contribute . It was n't because the Palestinians in Amnesty Israel have no legal expertise -- after all , the Israeli staff does n't either . It 's because , as Palestinian activists and scholars Haneen Maikey and Lana Tatour have pointed out , a common pattern in progressive Israeli spaces is that Palestinians can provide labor , translation , lived experience and trauma to feed the analysis of Israeli Jews , but can not be equal partners who get to do the analysis side by side and set the agenda together . <p> Amnesty Israel finds itself in the awkward position of being neither a source of legal expertise , nor providing a diverse human rights perspective of Israelis and Palestians . It is just another place for Israeli Jews to express themselves . <p> When I became chairman of Amnesty Israel in January 2024 , there were no Palestinians on the board of managers or in managerial positions on staff . By way of comparison , this is a lower standard than the one found in Israeli public service and government-owned corporations , which are , according to the attorney general 's guidelines , at least obligated to have a proper representation of Arabs " in all ranks and professions , in every office and auxiliary unit , " including the board of directors . <p> I insisted on Palestinian representation in managerial roles , but nothing changed . Members of management and the board were reluctant to make the necessary structural adjustments . Staff told me that there was a rule that says a Palestinian staff member must be consulted on issues pertaining to Palestinians , something Amnesty Israel pointed out in their defense recently . <p> However , staff also informed me that frequent arguments resulted from this rule not being applied , and it was certainly not applied to Amnesty Israel 's analysis for its position on the genocide report . Ironically , this pattern of defending oneself by citing a rule that is n't enforced mirrors the IDF 's approach , where it would promise " tightening of regulations " after a human rights violation , with little change following . <p> Two Palestinian board members joined during my tenure , and left shortly after one of them was told in a meeting that her opinions are evidence of a lack of experience and therefore she is unfit to be on the board . In addition , staff repeatedly ignored her pleas to include Palestinian voices in official decisions . A board member from before my time pointed out in a tweet that Amnesty Israel seems unable to retain Palestinians . <p> I must stress here that I do not intend to smear anyone , and I deeply respect and care for many of my colleagues in Amnesty Israel . But when injustice persists , whether through direct enforcement , indifference , or inertia , staying silent will simply keep it in place . Treating Palestinians , or any other group , as tokens , rubber stamps , or just labor instead of equal , agenda-setting partners is unacceptable , especially in a progressive space . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The desire among some Israelis to express positions on human rights that are unburdened by the analysis and worldview of those who actually experience those human rights violations replicates the outside Israeli system inside the world of human rights activists . If we are to win the fight for a peace that is based on human rights , justice , and equality , we must overcome this mindset . If you are advocating on behalf of Palestinians , but exclude them as equals at the table , find another cause . <p> Daniil Brodsky is a political strategist in Jersualem and former chair of Amnesty Israel . <p> Amsterdam ( Quds News Network ) - A groundbreaking study has revealed the staggering psychological toll of the Gaza genocide on children . Conducted by the Community Training Centre for Crisis Management ( CTCCM ) with support from ... <p> The world 's foremost monitor of civilian harm caused by aerial bombardment published a report Thursday calling the first 25 days of Israel 's ongoing U.S.-backed annihilation of Gaza the worst assault on noncombatants it has ... <p> It was bound to happen . With continuing operations in Gaza , and increasingly violent activities being conducted against Palestinians in the occupied territories , human rights organisations are making increasingly severe assessments ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118908442 <h> Syria Looks to Freedom and Stability <h> Share : <p> Syria becomes a new nation free of bloody authoritarian dictatorship lasting over 54 years . The Arab-Muslim world lacks capacity to imagine this unthinkable change spearheaded by a people 's movement to challenge the atrocities of the former sadistic leader Assad family denying basic human rights , freedom and justice to the masses . While socio-political changes are taking shape on the ground , Israel is set on a course of incursion and unwarranted and unjustifiable attacks and bombardment of several Syrian towns to undo the emerging peaceful developments for the people of Syria . Mohamed Al Bashir , the new Prime Minister clarified his vision and quest for an inclusive and people-oriented democratic Syria . The US Biden administration is just a spectator and so are the West European allies of Israel to simply watch and do nothing to stop the aggressive behavior of Israeli attacks on Syria . Across the globe , voices of reason are loud and clear that on peacemaking and the issues of post Assad Bashar -- New Syria America and Israel both have lost the opportunities for a peaceful accord with the new rulers of Syria and to balance the disequilibrium in which State of Israel currently exists. , the year long war on Gaza and forcible expulsion of people from their homeland in the West Bank and other parts of Palestine . It is becoming more obvious that by challenging the voices of reason and denial to the rights of the Palestinian people for statehood , both America and Israel could enjoin a terrible sense of helplessness and isolation and nothing could save them from the consequences of their own triviality , ignorance and indifference toward the standing of global community for peace , security and stability in the Middle East region . <p> Discard cynicism and wickedness but be conscious that some contemporary politicians and monsters of history are often the two sides of the same picture enriched with perversion and treacherous escape from the facts of the 21st century knowledge-based global affairs . At today 's hurriedly arranged Aqaba Conference in Jordan to discuss the issues of New Syria , America and its regional Arab allies appear on different pages and conflicting time zones . Is it meant to acquire USAID or a co-existence with Israel ? <p> The outgoing US administration has vested interest in keeping occupation of some eastern parts of Syria and free oil flow and its 900 stationed army personnel to make its illegal presence in the region . It will collaborate with Israel in strategic interests and some groups of Kurds as paid fighters to disrupt the peaceful change of Syria as a united nation free of discord . <p> Apparently , American political intransigence has lost the strategic direction and rational sense of justice and humanity in honoring its peacemaking commitments to the people of Palestine . Ironically , Antony Blinken held his separate press conference while claiming to be a supporter of the rights to freedom , security and democracy of the people of Syria . There is no concrete or a formal plan except intentions and broad-based overtures to help New Syria move towards peaceful transformation and be able to reconstruct its public institution , systems of democratic governance and acquire a stable and honorable position in the global arena of states . <p> President Biden apparently defies his own declared stance of supporting a peace process and two states solution between the Israelis and Palestinians . America has not changed its stance and policies to support the aggressive behavior of Israel in occupying the buffer zone in Golan Heights and continuous bombing of Damascus and other towns in Syria . The irrational statement on Syria and bombardment of its cities has engulfed the world with a new face of hostility and distortion in the shape of President Biden and his administration -- an insidious crisis in the making to divert attention away from the core problem of peacemaking between Israel and Palestine . There is no place for individualistic complacency and political expediency when it comes to issues of human rights , peace and justice for all . If the US Biden administration was rational and honest , it could have warned Israel not to occupy the buffer zone in Golan Heights and attacks on Syria . Do some American leaders practice favorite perversion to proclaim political aims simply to satisfy egoism ? <p> In Search of a People-Oriented Syria <p> Do the Arab leaders have any sense of rational thinking and accountability to cope with the issue of Syria and its peaceful transformation into a systematic democratic norm without any external threat to its people and security ? The future of Syria as an immense importance to the Muslim world and the global community ? What if the Arab world had legitimate , educated , intelligent and proactive leaders equipped in persuasive communication , moral and intellectual capacity to visit various global centers of politics and contribute logical viewpoints on Syria and freedom of Palestine and peacemaking between Israel and Palestine ? <p> The contemporary global affairs warrant intelligent and competent leadership not crown princes , kings or military dictators . Leaders manage the crisis when facts of life warrant change and adaptability to futuremaking . Often crises unite people of reason but not the Arab rulers . Notwithstanding the requisites of reason and honesty , many Arab rulers are collaborating with the US warmongering across the Middle East and kept silent on blatant massacres in Gaza . There are no Arab public institutions of thinking , no armies and no leaders to lead . Is the Arab world coming to its own end because of the authoritarian rulers ? Syria and its masses are a case in point for rethinking of all the obsolete thoughts and practices of the Arab political leadership . <p> While Islam professed and emphasized " shura " -- public consultation and consensus on major public discourse and national interest , the Arab leaders flouted moral and intellectual advice from the learned scholars and educated people . Most authoritarian Arab leaders are afraid of a people-oriented system of political governance , and it is uncertain if they would really come out to support their words into actions for the good of the people of Syria . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> If there were any Arab moral , spiritual and intellectual powerhouses as were the traditional " Deewan " -- community centers for interactive societal communication , listening to voices of reason and honesty and problem-solving , they should have taken initiatives to find peaceful ways and means to have peace between Israel and Palestine . The history speaks loud and clear that few powerful rulers with individualistic absolutism have always driven mankind to large scale slaughters , victimization , deprivation and long term scars of why and how it happened , it never goes away from the human memory and written pages of human history . " In our civilized world " wrote Paul Buchheit ( " War or Revolution Every 75 Years . It 's Time Again . " Common Dreams ) : <p> .... people are n't being run down by noblemen or forced to eat grass . The aristocracy has learned a lot about suppressing crowds in 225 years . But they need to fear the growing revolution . They need to fear , as Dickens put it , " the remorseless sea of turbulently swaying shapes , voices of vengeance , and faces hardened in the furnaces of suffering until the touch of pity could make no mark on them . " <p> Dr. Mahboob A. Khawaja specializes in international affairs-global security , peace and conflict resolution and has spent several academic years across the Russian-Ukrainian and Central Asian regions knowing the people , diverse cultures of thinking and political governance and a keen interest in Islamic-Western comparative cultures and civilizations , and author of several publications including : One Humanity and the Remaking of Global Peace , Security and Conflict Resolution , and a forthcoming book : Global Humanity and the Remaking of Peace , Security and Conflict Resolution beyond the Lens of Human Consciousness . <p> Damascus ( Quds News Network ) - In its first official stance , the new Syrian Interim Government has condemned Israel 's invasion of Syrian territories . Syria 's Permanent Representative to the United Nations , Qusai Al-Dhahhak , sent two ... <p> After the fall of Syria 's Bashar al-Assad , Israel has been encroaching on its neighbour 's territory . Israel has attacked Syria more than 400 times and , despite UN protests , launched a military incursion into ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118915585 <p> The rise in global conflicts is an urgent concern that threatens the stability of nations and the safety of millions . Geopolitical tensions , fuelled by great-power rivalries between the United States , China , and Russia , have escalated regional disputes into global crises . Wars like those in Ukraine and Gaza , alongside territorial tensions in Asia and Africa , highlight how fragile international peace has become . These conflicts not only cause immense human suffering but also disrupt economies , exacerbate poverty , and undermine global cooperation . <p> Compounding this is the role of ideological polarisation and extremism . From religious radicalisation to nationalist agendas , divisive ideologies are gaining ground , intensifying violence and societal discord . Economic inequalities and resource competition further fuel unrest , leaving vulnerable populations at greater risk . Climate change is also an emerging driver , as environmental degradation displaces communities and heightens resource scarcity , creating fertile conditions for conflict . The failure of international organisations like the United Nations to resolve disputes effectively underscores the need for reform . Dialogue , accountability for war crimes , and inclusive development must be prioritized . Nations must strengthen cooperation , reduce arms proliferation , and address root causes such as inequality and climate change . Global conflicts are a shared challenge requiring collective action . Without decisive efforts to promote peace and equity , the rising tide of violence risks undoing decades of progress , leaving the world more divided and insecure . The time to act is now . <p> Richard Nath <p> ( richardnath942@gmail.com ) <p> The impact of social media on young minds <p> In the modern era , social media is inseparable from young people 's lives , as it has become a platform to shape their thoughts , behaviour , and dreams . It is true that , for example , instant communication , acquiring information , and interpretation in creative ways are among the different advantages it offers to young people , but at the same time its influence on youngsters is both a plus and a minus . To a certain degree , social media has been able to help the youth connect with each other from around the planet and share their ideas as well as their skills . It has also made information available to individuals and allowed the youth to speak for changes that need to be seen in society . However , the darker side can not be ignored . It is alarming to note that emerging technologies , especially social media , have continuously been criticised for their most negative impacts on human beings and society , including anxiety , depression , and low self-esteem , which have been linked to over-dependence on social media . The constant comparison with how people live their lives online creates unattainable standards , which inevitably leads to one 's dissatisfaction with his or her own life . <p> On top of that , these platforms are so addicting that students concentrate less on their studies and interact less in person , thus compromising their social capabilities . Furthermore , one area that appears to pose a significant risk to young people is the exposure to baseless news and inappropriate content . In order to be able to confront these issues , parents , educators , and policymakers need to join forces . It is critically important to take steps that will ensure that social media is always used for reasons like encouraging digital literacy , healthy habits with respect to social media , and , most importantly , critical thinking . <p> Sukanya Bora <p> ( **25;1577;TOOLONG ) <p> New Year and Christmas celebrations begin <p> As we approach the end of 2024 , the festive spirit in Guwahati is palpable , and the city is preparing to celebrate the twin joys of Christmas and the New Year in style . This season is always a time of warmth , togetherness , and reflection , and Guwahati is ready to welcome these occasions with the enthusiasm and hospitality for which it is known . <p> Over the past few years , Guwahati has seen a remarkable transformation , with the holiday season becoming more vibrant and inclusive . The streets and neighbourhoods are adorned with twinkling lights , creating a magical atmosphere that evokes a sense of wonder and excitement . From glittering Christmas trees in shopping malls to small , cosy shops selling handcrafted decorations , the festive cheer is hard to miss . Local markets have been bustling with shoppers seeking everything from festive apparel to seasonal treats , while bakeries are filled with the scent of freshly baked plum cakes , pastries , and cookies . In addition to the visual appeal , churches and community halls across the city have been busy preparing for Christmas services , prayer meetings , and cultural events . Midnight masses , carol singing , and special programs are a part of the tradition , bringing together families and communities . Guwahati , known for its rich cultural diversity , celebrates Christmas not just through religious observances but with a spirit of unity , where people of all faiths and backgrounds come together to partake in the festivities . <p> Moreover , local hotels , restaurants , and cafes are offering special holiday menus , and many have planned live music performances and festive dinners to welcome both locals and tourists . The city 's hospitality sector has made great strides in catering to diverse tastes , and as the New Year approaches , Guwahati 's entertainment scene promises an array of events , from music concerts to DJ nights and New Year 's Eve parties . This season also provides an opportunity for reflection and gratitude . In a year marked by challenges , the upcoming celebrations offer a moment for people to come together , renew old friendships , and strengthen bonds . The sense of togetherness that permeates Guwahati during this time is a testament to the resilience and warmth of its people . It is also a time when many take part in charitable acts , helping those in need and spreading kindness across the community . As we bid farewell to 2024 and look forward to 2025 , Guwahati 's readiness to celebrate Christmas and the New Year is not just seen in its festive decorations and events but in the spirit of generosity and joy that fills the air . The city is ready to embrace a future of hope , unity , and peace , with everyone -- young and old -- joining in the celebrations . Let this festive season be a reminder of the importance of love , kindness , and the collective joy of community . I am confident that Guwahati will continue to shine as a beacon of warmth and hospitality , welcoming all with open arms into the New Year . <p> Jessica Taznis <p> ( jessicataznis@gmail.com ) <p> Hats off to Gukesh ! <p> Gukesh scripted history on Thursday after beating Ding Liren of China in the 14-game World Chess Championship finals in Singapore . The eighteen-year-old from Chennai etched India 's name in golden letters in chess history . He capitalized on a blunder by his opponent Ding , and in the winner-takes-all manner , he dethroned the reigning champion in the 14th game , winning the high-voltage match 7.5 to 6.5 , to become the second Indian after five-time champion Vishwanath Anand to win the World Chess Championship . It must be mentioned here that Gukesh displayed remarkable focus , outstanding patience , and brilliant performance to finally shatter and surpass Garry Kasparov 's record to become the youngest-ever World Chess Champion . His victory is not just a milestone in his career , but he has also emerged as a role model and inspiration for today 's youth . Gukesh 's victory must motivate the All India Chess Federation ( AICF ) in taking chess to tens of thousands of schools across the country through its ' Chess in School ' program . The time has come to popularise the game and its ecosystem among the young generation through well-trained coaches in the country . Hearty congratulations to Gukesh . <p> Iqbal Saikia , Guwahati . <p> Women 's safety at stake <p> Guwahati , which used to be full of energy and cultural warmth , now stands stark with an undercurrent of fear for a majority of women . Allegations of harassment and assault against women have spread in the city with sufficient power to have cast a shadow over the city 's so-called growth . How long must women endure this insecurity before we justly invoke this crisis as a challenge in the election ? <p> Despite immense advancement in infrastructure and urban development , the safety of women still hangs in a crumbling balance . Poor lighting in public places , unsafe public transport , and lack of police presence are factors that embolden the criminal elements . Mere initiation of helplines or installation of CCTVs , however well-intended , draws little credibility to ensure safety or restore faith . <p> There needs to be effective intervention from the authorities at this hour . The survival of women depends upon heightened police patrolling , especially in these vulnerable places ; more lighting facilities along the road would also help , along with speeding up the judicial process against offenders . Women police stations are especially needed , as well as creating schedules for police officers ' shifts having women in attendance so women can report crimes without fear . <p> However , ensuring safety for a woman is not just the responsibility of the government ; it is a question society must grapple with as a whole . Discomfort due to harassment at the card game tables should be discouraged by every citizen ; the responsibility should lie with everyone to educate growing children about equality and respect in the society , and a culture should be cultivated in which women feel safe and valued . We should not wait for more incidents to suck us out of our indifference . Guwahati should be a city where women can safely live , work , and travel and where their rights are respected and dignity restored . I urge the authorities and the citizens alike to take ready and collective steps towards the reclamation of our city at its best . <p> Pratham Kalita <p> Gauhati university <p> Chess as a learning tool in schools <p> The recent victory of 18-year-old Gukesh Dommaraju , who won the World Chess Championship on December 12 , is a landmark achievement for both the young prodigy and the nation . Gukesh 's success highlights the importance of early exposure to chess and strategic thinking . It serves as a powerful reminder that the benefits of chess extend far beyond recreation , helping to shape the cognitive and emotional development of young minds . In light of this , it is crucial for Assam to consider integrating chess into the curriculum of primary schools . Chess is a game of intellect and strategy that teaches critical life skills such as problem-solving , decision-making , concentration , and perseverance . These skills are not only vital for academic success but also for personal growth . By introducing chess at an early age , students can learn to approach challenges with logical thinking and patience , skills that will serve them well in their future studies and careers . Furthermore , chess nurtures qualities such as discipline and foresight , as players must plan several moves ahead and anticipate their opponent 's strategies . <p> Incorporating chess into school curricula also provides an equal playing field for students from diverse backgrounds . In a state like Assam , with its rich cultural diversity , chess can act as an equalizer , offering all students the opportunity to engage in a shared intellectual pursuit . Regardless of socio-economic status , gender , or regional background , chess allows children to compete based solely on their skill and strategy . This fosters a sense of unity and collaboration among students , building a strong , inclusive learning environment . In addition to its cognitive and social benefits , chess can also provide children with a mentally stimulating indoor activity , especially in an era where physical activities are missing from their schedules . Given the increasing amount of time children spend in front of screens , chess offers a constructive way to engage the mind while avoiding the sedentary lifestyle associated with excessive screen time . By integrating chess into the school curriculum , Assam can help its students develop not only intellectual strength but also a balanced and well-rounded approach to learning . <p> Joyshree Saikia <p> ( **26;1604;TOOLONG ) <p> Positive step <p> India and Bangladesh have traditionally had a love-hate relationship . Past animosities between the two countries were resolved in the nick of time to keep the mutual trust intact . Bangladesh 's status as the " largest trade partner of India in South Asia " can not be mere statistics . However , recent developments on both sides , that do not require reiteration , have cast a deep shadow over bilateral relations . Foreign Secretary Vikram Misri 's December 9 Dhaka visit , where he met with Bangladesh Chief Adviser Muhammad Yunus and his Bangladesh counterpart Md Jashim Uddin , is a giant leap towards mending broken mutual trust . The foreign secretary was restrained but optimistic in his post-visit press briefing , but the significance of the visit transcends mere optics . <p> Besides , known issues that are almost at a boiling point and their domestic repercussions , New Delhi is extremely wary of countries like China standing to gain from bilateral acrimony . Not for nothing has New Delhi learnt to tread cautiously with long-standing **34;1632;TOOLONG . India and Bangladesh have shared interests and sentimental ties . Sheikh Hasina was a through-and-through admirer and supporter of New Delhi . The 4000 km-long India-Bangladesh border is bound to be exploited by vested interests if the existing tension is allowed to further escalate . Therefore , the positive nature of the meet between Misri and Yunus should inspire confidence . 
@@118917593 <h> US , Arab League , Turkey discuss Syria 's transition <p> AQABA ( Jordan ) , Dec 15 : Top diplomats from the United States , the Arab League and Turkey met in Jordan on Saturday to discuss how to assist Syria ' s transition after the fall of Bashar Assad 's government a week ago . No Syrian representatives attended . The collapse of the Assad family 's more than half-century of rule has sparked new fears of instability in a region already shaken by the Israel-Hamas war in Gaza and hostilities between Israel and the Lebanon-based Hezbollah despite a tenuous ceasefire . US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said American officials have been in direct contact with the Syrian insurgent group that led the overthrow of Assad 's government , but the group continues to be designated a foreign terrorist organization by the United States and others . The insurgent leader in an interview with Syrian TV did n't mention contact with the US , but he warned Israel about the hundreds of airstrikes it has carried out in Syria in the past week . The US is also making a renewed push for a ceasefire in Gaza , where the war has plunged more than 2 million Palestinians into a severe humanitarian crisis.Assad loyalists attack Syrian insurgent group A Syrian war monitor and a citizen journalist say gunmen attacked members of a Syrian insurgent group in the country 's coastal region , killing or wounding 15 of them Saturday . The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said loyalists to Assad killed and wounded members of the Failaq al-Sham group , which took part in the attacks that led to the overthrow of Assad a week ago . The coastal region is home to many members of Assad 's minority Alawite sect . Citizen journalist Taher al-Omar said Failaq al-Sham members were ambushed near the town of Jableh by " sectarian gunmen . " He said several were killed , without giving details . Calls for peace , supports political transition A joint statement after a ministerial meeting on Syria 's future is calling for all parties to cease hostilities there and expresses support for a locally led transitional political process . The statement was issued Saturday after a meeting in Jordan by several Arab nations , the United States , Turkey , the European Union and others . It called for preventing the reemergence of extremist groups in Syria and ensuring the security and safe destruction of chemical weapons stockpiles . It also expressed full support for Syria 's territorial integrity . A separate statement issued by Arab foreign ministers called for UN-supervised elections based on a new constitution approved by Syrians . That statement also condemned Israel 's incursion into the buffer zone with Syria and adjacent sites over the past week as a " heinous occupation " and demands the withdrawal of Israeli forces.Hezbollah 's main supply line cut The leader of Lebanon 's Hezbollah militants says the fall of Assad in Syria has cut a main supply line for the group but it can find other ways to bring in weapons . Hezbollah was a main backer of Assad and sent thousands of fighters to Syria over the past decade . And for decades , Hezbollah relied on Syria as a channel for weapons from the militant group 's main backer , Iran . In his first public comments in the week since Assad 's fall , Hezbollah leader Naim Kassem in a televised speech Saturday said Hezbollah has lost the military supply line through Syria but the new authority there might reinstate the route . Otherwise , he said , " we might find other ways . " Kassem also said Hezbollah hopes the new authority in Syria will consider Israel an enemy . HTS chief warns Israel about airstrikes The head of the Syrian insurgent group that led the overthrow of Bashar Assad 's government says they are not about to enter a conflict with Israel . But Ahmad al-Sharaa in his first public comments on Israel in the week since Assad 's fall said " the pretexts that Israel uses have ended " for its airstrikes inside Syria in recent days . Al-Sharaa said " the Israelis have crossed the rules of engagement " in his interview with Syrian TV on Saturday . About 400 Israeli airstrikes in the past days have destroyed much of the Syrian army 's assets . Al-Sharaa leads Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or HTS . The excerpts released from his interview did not address contact with the United States , which on Saturday said had been in direct communication with HTS , which it designated a foreign terrorist organization years ago . The HTS leader did say the new authorities in Damascus are in contact with Western embassies , and that authorities have a plan to start reconstruction and development in Syria . He did not give details . He added that the authorities have given Russia -- a key backer of Assad -- an opportunity to reconsider relations with the Syrian people , and that authorities are not hostile to the people of Iran , another Assad backer.US direct contact with Syrian rebel group Blinken says American officials have been in direct contact with the Syrian rebel group that led the overthrow of Assad 's government a week ago , but the group continues to be designated a foreign terrorist organization by the United States and others . Blinken is the first US official to publicly confirm contacts between the Biden administration and HTS , which ousted Assad . Speaking at a news conference in Jordan , Blinken would not discuss details of the contacts but said it was important for the US to convey messages to the group about its conduct and how it intends to govern in a transition period . ( AP ) <h> Follow us <h> About Us <p> The Shillong Times first appeared as a tabloid weekly on 10th August 1945 under the editorship of Late Sudhindra Bhusan Chaudhuri . In 1958 it was converted to a Daily . Owing to financial constraints , within six months it reverted back to a weekly . 
@@118918350 <h> Syria 's Shifting Sands : Power Struggles , Regional Ambitions and the Dawn of a New Middle East <p> December 15 , 2024 <p> Mushtaque Rahamat <p> It is indeed perplexing how swiftly Syria 's Assad regime collapsed , forcing the dictator to flee . Understanding and unpacking the incident and its implications for regional and global politics will take time . From the information I could gather ( no small feat in an age rife with misinformation and whataboutism ) , the United States and its allies leveraged a Sunni alliance . It armed and united rebel factions opposed to Bashar al-Assad . This coalition , which can be likened to ISIS 2.0 , was supported by T ? rkiye , Saudi Arabia , the UAE and Qatar . These nations , despite their conflicting interests , played a significant role in toppling Assad , while the U.S. and its allies provided strategic backing . <p> Support TwoCircles <p> The Gulf monarchies , which are mostly Sunni , and T ? rkiye sought to counter Shia Iran 's growing influence and military prominence , which had portrayed itself as the defender of the faith . Overthrowing the Alawite rulers in Syria temporarily unified a fragmented Sunni bloc , revitalising their image of power and accomplishment . This was a crucial step for Gulf nations and T ? rkiye to project strength and assert their positions as powerhouses in the Muslim world . <p> Western Strategy and Its Regional Effects <p> For Western allies , particularly the U.S. , this situation presented an opportunity to diminish Russia 's regional influence , sever Iran 's supply routes to Hezbollah and weaken its grip over Iraq and Lebanon . With Iran unable to support its proxies , the West aimed to neutralise groups aligned with Tehran . <p> T ? rkiye , meanwhile , harboured dreams of reclaiming its Ottoman legacy as a leader in the Muslim world . The immediate benefit for T ? rkiye was curbing Kurdish separatist movements and boosting President Erdogan 's prestige among Sunnis , a much-needed reprieve given domestic criticism of his policies , especially regarding Turkish-Israeli relations . A symbolic gesture , such as Erdogan leading prayers in Homs , could bolster his image as a caliph-like figure . <p> Challenges for T ? rkiye <p> However , T ? rkiye , under Erdogan 's leadership , has struggled to reconcile its historical ambitions with its modern role as a secular nation-state . While Erdogan employs various tactics to retain power , his vision of melding Islamic principles with a modern nation-state remains contentious . Once Iran and Sunni insurgents are weakened , T ? rkiye may face challenges from its Western collaborators . <p> The Gulf monarchies , in particular , oppose any model of governance with a popular mandate , fearing it could threaten their dynastic rule . This resistance is evident in their actions in Egypt , Sudan and Pakistan . <p> Iran 's Calculated Moves , Regional Dynamics <p> Iran 's strategic actions , including its unwavering support for Palestine and military responses to Israeli aggression , have significantly shifted the regional balance of power . Unlike other Middle Eastern nations , which have historically refrained from direct military retaliation against Israel , Iran has positioned itself as a formidable military power in the region . This not only challenges Israel 's dominance but also instils apprehension among Gulf monarchies , whose defence relies heavily on the U.S. support . <p> Iran 's assertive stance has earned it widespread respect across the Muslim world , enhancing its influence both militarily and politically . However , this emerging dynamic is intolerable to Gulf monarchies , which view Iran 's rise as a direct threat to their authority and regional interests . Consequently , these monarchies are determined to weaken Iran 's proxies , such as Hezbollah in Lebanon and allied groups in Iraq and Yemen . <p> Ironically , this agenda aligns with the objectives of Western powers , particularly the U.S. , which prioritise maintaining Israel 's regional dominance -- often at the expense of Palestinian aspirations . This confluence of interests underscores the complex and often contradictory alliances shaping the Middle East . <p> Russia , Iran , and the West 's Next Steps <p> As Russia 's role in the Middle East diminishes , the focus will likely shift to Iran . One can expect attempts to destabilise Iran through Kurdish or Sunni/Shia factions , drying up its regional support . The goal is to isolate Iran , potentially leading to a regime change akin to Egypt 's Hosni Mubarak . With the Trump administration 's return , there could be increased European pressure on Iran , reflecting broader NATO interests . <p> The U.S. might also aim to involve China in a conflict , as military engagement is one arena China has avoided . With Russia mired in Ukraine , this strategy would further consolidate Western dominance . However , the Western alliance 's treatment of Ukraine highlights that it is merely a pawn in this broader power struggle . <p> Israel : The Ultimate Beneficiary <p> Among all actors , Israel emerges as the least affected and most opportunistic . The chaos in Syria has allowed it to expand its territory , divert attention from Gaza and deepen divisions between Sunni and Shia factions . Israel benefits from a weakened T ? rkiye and Iran , a fragmented Syria and Lebanon , and Gulf states aligning with its objectives . <p> While I do not support Bashar al-Assad or any form of dictatorship , the unfolding events in Syria highlight the intricate web of power struggles , betrayals and ambitions shaping the region 's future . Each actor is playing a dangerous game with no regard for the suffering of ordinary people -- an ominous harbinger of tumultuous times ahead . <h> Archive <p> COPY+PASTE Policy <p> Unless otherwise noted , you can republish our articles for free . You just have to credit TwoCircles.net and link it back to us but you ca n't edit our material or sell it separately . ( We 're licensed under Creative Commons , which provides the legal details ) . For publishing TwoCircles.net photos please contact email protected 
@@118919006 <h> Israel to close embassy in Dublin after Ireland backs ICJ genocide petition <h> Story highlights <p> Israel has announced the closure of its embassy in Dublin , citing Irelands support for an International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) petition accusing Israel of genocide . <p> Israel has announced it will close its embassy in Dublin , citing the Irish government 's stance on Israel , particularly its support for a petition at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) accusing Israel of genocide . Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar made the announcement on Sunday , describing Ireland 's actions as " extreme anti-Israel policies . " <h> Ireland 's support for ICJ petition <p> The embassy closure follows Ireland 's decision to join a petition at the ICJ in The Hague , accusing Israel of genocide related to its actions in the Palestinian territories . Israel has stated that this , along with Ireland 's previous recognition of a Palestinian state , has led to a significant breakdown in relations . <p> In a statement , Sa'ar said , " The actions and antisemitic rhetoric used by Ireland against Israel are rooted in the de-legitimisation and demonisation of the Jewish state , along with double standards . Ireland has crossed every red line in its relations with Israel . " <h> Statement by the T ? naiste <p> The T ? naiste expressed regret over Israel 's decision to close its Dublin embassy , emphasizing the importance of maintaining diplomatic channels . <p> " Ireland 's stance on the Middle East conflict is rooted in international law and humanitarian principles . We condemned the Hamas attacks on Israel on 7 October 2023 and have equally called out Israel 's military operations in Gaza , which constitute collective punishment , violate international law , and cause unacceptable civilian suffering . " <p> He stressed that Ireland is still calling for an immediate ceasefire , the release of hostages , and more humanitarian aid to Gaza . He also confirmed that Ireland will keep its embassy in Israel to continue diplomatic work . <h> Ireland rejects the accusations <p> Ireland has strongly rejected Israel 's claims . Prime Minister Simon Harris expressed his regret over the Israeli decision to close the embassy . " I utterly reject the assertion that Ireland is anti-Israel , " Harris said in a statement , underscoring that Ireland continues to seek a balanced approach to the Israel-Palestine conflict . <p> Disclaimer : WION takes the utmost care to accurately and responsibly report conflicts in West Asia involving Israel , Iran , Syria , Iraq , and non-state actors like the Islamic State , among others . In this context , claims and counterclaims are being made online and offline . WION can not independently verify the authenticity of all statements , social media posts , photos , and videos . <h> Prapti Kumar <p> Prapti Kumar is a content strategist with a sharp pen , passionate about cybersecurity and geopolitics , bringing clarity and empathy to her writing . She also loves da 
@@118930545 <h> Trump terms Assad 's fall in Syria ' unfriendly takeover ' by Turkey <p> President-elect Trump called Turkey 's ousting of Syrian leader Assad an " unfriendly takeover " but also " very smart . " He warned of consequences if hostages in Gaza are n't returned by January 20th and expressed his intent to negotiate a deal between Russia and Ukraine . Trump reiterated his opposition to vaccine mandates while supporting specific vaccines like polio and defended his proposed tariffs . <p> US President-elect Donald Trump described the recent ousting of Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad by Ankara-backed rebels as an " unfriendly takeover " orchestrated by Turkey . Speaking at a press conference at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida on Monday , Trump characterised Turkey 's actions as " very smart " while emphasizing the brutality of Assad 's regime . " I think Turkey is very smart ... Turkey did an unfriendly takeover , without a lot of lives being lost . I can say that Assad was a butcher , what he did to children , " Trump said . The comment highlights the complexities in US-Turkey relations , as Ankara 's growing influence in the region raises questions about future American policies in Syria.Trump also remarked on the uncertainty surrounding Syria 's future . " Syria has a lot of indefinites , " he said , adding that Turkey " will hold the key " to what happens next . <p> Gaza crisis and Hamas hostagesTurning to the ongoing war in Gaza , Trump reiterated his hardline stance on Hamas , particularly regarding the hostages still held in the region . " As you know , I gave a warning that if these hostages are n't back home by Jan 20 , all hell is going to break out , " Trump warned.During the October 7 Hamas-led attack on Israel , over 1,200 people were killed , and more than 250 were abducted , including Israeli-Americans . <p> Although more than 100 hostages have been freed , about half of the remaining captives are believed to be alive . Trump said he had a " very good talk " with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and promised to be " very available " after taking office.Ukraine war and a potential dealAddressing the Russia-Ukraine war , Trump expressed his intent to negotiate directly with Russian President Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy . " I 've seen horrific images of death and destruction from the war , and it 's got to stop , " he said . Trump hinted at the possibility of a deal , stating , " Zelenskiy should be prepared to make a deal . " Trump 's comments reflect his approach to prioritise diplomacy but also signal his intent to bring an end to the conflict swiftly.Vaccine mandates and tariffsOn domestic issues , Trump expressed his opposition to vaccine mandates , while underscoring his support for certain vaccines , such as the polio vaccine . " I do n't like mandates , but I 'm a big believer in the polio vaccine , " he told reporters.Trump also defended his plans to impose tariffs on foreign imports , arguing that such measures would benefit the US economy . " Tariffs will make our country rich , " he said , suggesting that trade policy would remain a key focus of his administration . <h> About the Author <p> At TOI World Desk , our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock . With an unwavering commitment to accuracy , depth , and timeliness , we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world , delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers . Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world . 
@@118931230 <h> Taking a swipe at Congress MP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra , senior BJP leader Amit Malviya said she is a " bigger disaster than Rahul Gandhi " <p> Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra during the ongoing winter session of Parliament , in New Delhi on December 16 . ( Image : PTI ) <p> Congress MP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra 's show of support for war-ravaged Palestine in the form of a bag she carried to Parliament on Monday , has triggered a war of words with the BJP terming it as " Muslim appeasement " . <p> Hitting out at Priyanka over the bag issue , the BJP wondered what message she wanted to send across . They said while she was showing solidarity for Palestinians , she had not spoken out against the reported attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh . <h> related stories <p> She , however , reportedly hit back at the criticism calling it " typical patriarchy " and said no one will decide what she wears . When asked about the BJP 's reaction , she said the saffron party should not dwell on " useless things " . <p> " Tell them that they should do something about the atrocities that are happening on minorities -- Hindus and Christians -- in Bangladesh . Talk to the Bangladesh government and stop these atrocities ... " she told news agency ANI , adding ( on Palestine bag issue ) that " they should not say such useless things . " <p> According to a video posted by Congress national spokesperson Supriya Shrinate , when the Wayanad MP was leaving in a car , she sternly reacted on the backlash over her bag . " I 've said many times what my beliefs are regarding this . If you look at my Twitter handle , all my comments are over there . Who 's going to decide what clothes I wear now , who 's going to decide that ? That 's typical patriarchy , that you decide what clothes women wear also . I do n't subscribe to that , I 'll wear what I want , " she told reporters . <p> Watch the video here : <p> Very few people in this world are led by the courage of their convictions I am glad @priyankagandhi has stood by her word -- that under NO circumstances NOTHING can justify the brutal killing of children in Gaza <h> ' WANTS TO MAKE FASHION STATEMENT ' <p> Slamming Priyanka , Lok Sabha MP Anurag Thakur said she was only interested in making a " fashion statement " . " She did not speak a word on atrocities on Hindus in Bangladesh but wants to make a fashion statement with the Palestine bag , " he said . <p> Calling the Congress " the new Muslim League " , senior BJP leader Amit Malviya called Priyanka a " bigger disaster than Rahul Gandhi " . Taking a swipe at her , he said a two-minute silence must be observed for the Congress at the end of the winter session . <p> " At the end of this Parliament session , observe a two minute silence for everyone in the Congress , who believed Priyanka Vadra was the long-awaited solution , they should have embraced earlier . She is a bigger disaster than Rahul Gandhi , who thinks sporting a bag in support of Palestine in the Parliament , is about fighting patriarchy . That is right . Crass communal virtue signaling to Muslims is now cloaked as stance against patriarchy ! " he said in a post on X. <p> At the end of this Parliament session , observe a two minute silence for everyone in the Congress , who believed Priyanka Vadra was the long-awaited solution , they should have embraced earlier . She is a bigger disaster than Rahul Gandhi , who thinks sporting a bag in support of ... **26;404;TOOLONG -- Amit Malviya ( @amitmalviya ) December 16 , 2024 <p> He added : " Make no mistake , Congress is the New Muslim League . " <p> Another BJP leader , Dr Anirban Ganguly , said Priyanka was " neither well-informed , nor is she educated " and " absolutely unaware of geopolitical landscape " . Echoing Malviya , he called the Congress the " new Muslim League " and said the Nehru-Gandhi family had always displayed an " anti-Hindu mindset " . <p> " Congress is the new Muslim League . Priyanka Gandhi is neither well informed , nor is she educated . She is absolutely unaware of the geopolitcal landscape ... Right from Pt Nehru to Priyanka Gandhi , they have alwasys shown their anti-Hindu mindset . They never said anything for the persecuted minorities in Bangladesh . Her carrying the Palestine bag to the Parliament is nothing but the Muslim League agenda ... " he told news agency ANI . <h> FROM ' BIGGEST THREAT ' TO ' BIGGER DISASTER ' <p> Three days ago , however , Malviya had a different take on Priyanka , whose first speech in the Lok Sabha as MP stole the limelight from her brother Rahul Gandhi . He said she could be " the biggest threat " to his political career if that speech was any indication . <p> In her 32-minute speech in Hindi , she was combative yet restrained , never raising her voice as she raised the Opposition 's key planks . These included the BJP 's alleged attempts to change the Constitution , atrocities on women , violence in Sambhal and Manipur , and the demand for a nationwide caste census . <p> In a post on X , he said : " If Priyanka Vadra 's maiden speech is any indication , she poses the biggest threat to Rahul Gandhi 's political career , not just in terms of heir in waiting , but someone who can outmatch him in raising the levity quotient in public discourse . " <p> If Priyanka Vadra 's maiden speech is any indication , she poses the biggest threat to Rahul Gandhi 's political career , not just in terms of heir in waiting , but someone who can outmatch him in raising the levity quotient in public discourse . ? ? -- Amit Malviya ( @amitmalviya ) December 13 , 2024 <h> PRIYANKA MET PALESTINE EMBASSY OFFICIAL LAST WEEK <p> Priyanka has been raising her voice against Israel 's actions in Gaza and expressing solidarity with Palestinians . Her bag had " Palestine " emblazoned on it along with other Palestinian emblems , including a watermelon -- seen as a symbol of Palestinian solidarity . <p> Last week , Abed Elrazeg Abu Jazer , charge d'affaires of the Palestine embassy in New Delhi , had called on the new Congress MP to congratulate her on her recent election victory from Kerala 's Wayanad . <p> In June , she had slammed Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu over what she had said were the his government 's " genocidal actions " in Gaza , as she accused him and his government of " barbarism " . <p> The Congress general secretary 's remarks had come after Netanyahu defended Israel 's ongoing war in Gaza in a speech to the US Congress . She had said it was no longer enough to speak up for the civilians , mothers , fathers , doctors , nurses , aid workers , journalists , teachers , writers , poets , senior citizens and the thousands of innocent children who were being wiped out day after day by the " horrific genocide " taking place in Gaza . <p> " It is the moral responsibility of every right-thinking individual , including all those Israeli citizens who do not believe in hatred and violence , and every government in the world to condemn the Israeli government 's genocidal actions and force them to stop , " she had said in a post on X. <p> Priyanka had added that their actions are unacceptable in a world that professes civility and morality . <p> In Lok Sabha on Monday , Priyanka also raised the issue of reported atrocities against minorities in Bangladesh on the occasion of Vijay Diwas . She said the central government should raise the issue of atrocities on minorities in Bangladesh with the neighbouring country . <h> top videos <p> In her ' zero hour ' reference , she sought the Centre 's support for those in pain because of the attacks . " The government should raise the issue of atrocities on minorities , both Hindus and Christians , in Bangladesh . Should discuss this with the Bangladesh government and support those who are in pain , " she said . 
@@118931401 <p> A long-time proponent of the Palestinian cause , Priyanka has strongly voiced her opposition to the conflict in Gaza . She was recently sporting a black-and-white keffiyeh ( a traditional Palestinian headscarf ) during a meeting with Palestine embassy charge d'affaires Abed Elrazeg Abu Jazer . <p> Priyanka Gandhi is a long-time proponent of the Palestinian cause and has strongly voiced her opposition to the conflict in Gaza . <p> New Delhi : Congress MP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was seen with a bag emblazoned with " Palestine " on it , as she arrived at the Parliament today . The special bag featured a watermelon -- a long-recognised motif of resistance in the region , and a dove . <p> A photo of Priyanka Gandhi with the bag was shared on social media by Congress spokesperson Shama Mohamed . <p> The photo invited a snide remark by the BJP . <p> " The Gandhi family has always been carrying the bag of appeasement . The appeasement bag is the reason behind their rout in elections , " BJP leader Sambit Patra said during a press briefing . <p> Priyanka Gandhi is a long-time proponent of the Palestinian cause and has strongly voiced her opposition to the conflict in Gaza . <p> " It is the moral responsibility of every right-thinking individual , including all those Israeli citizens who do not believe in hatred and violence , and every government in the world to condemn the Israeli government 's genocidal actions and force them to stop , " Gandhi had said in an X post in July . <p> The Congress leader made her electoral debut by winning Wayanad , a Lok Sabha seat in Kerala that was vacated by her brother and Leader of the Opposition Rahul Gandhi for Rae Bareli . The Wayanad constituency has a sizeable Muslim population and during the election campaign , Priyanka frequently lambasted the Netanyahu government in Israel . <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from India and around the world . 
@@118931820 <h> Last week , Abed Elrazeg Abu Jazer , Charge d'affaires of the Palestine Embassy in New Delhi , had met Gandhi to congratulate her on her recent victory in Kerala 's Wayanad Lok Sabha constituency <h> The Wayanad MP was carrying a handbag emblazoned with " Palestine " and symbols associated with Palestinian solidarity , including a watermelon . <p> Congress general secretary and Wayanad MP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra , on Monday , displayed her support for war-torn Palestine by carrying a handbag emblazoned with " Palestine " and symbols associated with Palestinian solidarity , including a watermelon , as she arrived in Parliament for the winter session . <p> The Congress general secretary has been vocal in condemning Israel 's actions in Gaza , expressing solidarity with Palestinians and calling for an end to the violence . Last week , Abed Elrazeg Abu Jazer , Charge d'affaires of the Palestine Embassy in New Delhi , had met Gandhi to congratulate her on her recent victory in Kerala 's Wayanad Lok Sabha constituency . <p> Gandhi 's criticisms of Israeli policies have been sharp and consistent . In previous statements , she strongly condemned Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his government , accusing them of committing " genocidal actions " in Gaza . Her remarks came in the wake of Netanyahu 's defence of Israel 's military operations in Gaza , which he justified in a speech to the US Congress . Gandhi described the actions as " barbaric " and expressed grave concerns over the toll on civilians caught in the crossfire . <p> In a post shared on microblogging site X , the Wayanad MP described the situation in Gaza as a " horrific genocide . " She condemned the ongoing violence that she said was resulting in the deaths of innocent civilians , including children , aid workers , doctors , journalists , and others who are vulnerable in conflict zones . Her statement called for global action to hold Israel accountable for what she characterised as war crimes . <p> It is no longer enough to speak up for the civilians , mothers , fathers , doctors , nurses , aid workers , journalists , teachers , writers , poets , senior citizens and the thousands of innocent children who are being wiped out day after day by the horrific genocide taking place in Gaza.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra ( @priyankagandhi ) July 26 , 2024 <p> " The massacre of innocent people , the daily deaths of civilians -- mothers , fathers , children , teachers , aid workers , journalists -- must be condemned by every right-thinking individual , " Gandhi wrote . " It is the moral responsibility of every right-thinking individual , including those Israeli citizens who do not support violence and hatred , to stand up and condemn the Israeli government 's genocidal actions . " <p> She condemned the indiscriminate killings of civilians , which have resulted in the deaths of not only women and children but also aid workers , doctors , journalists , and other vulnerable individuals . Gandhi urged individuals and governments worldwide to hold Israel accountable for what she called war crimes . <p> In her remarks , Gandhi also criticised the international community for its response to the conflict . " Their actions are unacceptable in a world that professes civility and morality , " she wrote . " Instead , we are subjected to the image of the Israeli Prime Minister being given a standing ovation in the US Congress . He calls it ' a clash between barbarism and civilization . ' He is absolutely correct , except that it is him and his government that are barbaric , and their barbarism is being given unstinted support by most of the Western world . It is truly a shame to watch . " <p> She added that such actions were unacceptable in a world that upholds civility and morality . " It is unacceptable in a world that claims to uphold civility and morality , " she further noted , calling for an end to the violence and a return to peace negotiations . <p> The continued violence in Gaza and the international response to it has been the subject of ongoing debates and tensions . Many countries and leaders around the world , including India , have called for an immediate ceasefire , while also addressing the root causes of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> Advisory Alert:It has come to our attention that certain individuals are representing themselves as affiliates of Moneycontrol and soliciting funds on the false promise of assured returns on their investments . We wish to reiterate that Moneycontrol does not solicit funds from investors and neither does it promise any assured returns . In case you are approached by anyone making such claims , please write to us at **25;824;TOOLONG or call on 02268882347 
@@118932228 <h> Netanyahu confirms very warm call with Trump on Israel 's need to complete its victory <p> Tel Aviv : Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu confirmed holding a phone call with US President-elect Donald Trump , during which he reaffirmed his country 's ' determination ' to continue acting against Iran and its armed proxies , CNN reported . <p> Netanyahu said in the video message that he had a " very friendly , very warm , and very important conversation " on Saturday ( local time ) and told about the need for Israel to " complete its victory . " <p> The leaders also spoke of the need to bring home the remaining hostages in Gaza . <p> Hamas carried out a massive terror attack on Israel on October 7 killing over 1200 people and holding over 250 as hostages . Around 100 of them are still believed to be in captivity in Gaza . <p> Israel launched a strong counter-offensive targeting Hamas units in Gaza in an operation that has killed over 45,000 Palestinians . <p> " I discussed all of this again last night with my friend , US President-elect Donald Trump , " Netanyahu said in a statement . <p> " It was a very friendly , very warm and very important conversation . We spoke about the need to complete Israel 's victory , and we also spoke at length about the efforts we are making to free our hostages , " he said as quoted by CNN.Netanyahu said that Israel continues to " work tirelessly to bring our hostages home , both the living and the dead . And I add , the less we talk about it , the better , and so with God 's help , we will succeed . " <p> On Sunday , the Israeli Prime Minister took to social media platform X and strongly affirmed that they would " change " the Middle East . " I said we would change the Middle East and this is what is happening . Syria is not the same Syria . Lebanon is not the same Lebanon . Gaza is not the same Gaza . Iran is not the same Iran , " Netanyahu said in a post on X. <p> " We are committed to preventing Hezbollah from rearming , " he said . " This is an ongoing test for Israel , we must meet it - and we will meet it . I say to Hezbollah and Iran in no uncertain terms - to prevent you from harming us , we will continue to act against you as much as necessary , in every arena and at all times , " as per Times of Israel . <p> Since the rebels led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) overthrew the over two-decades-long Bashar al-Assad regime on December 8 , Israel has launched hundreds of airstrikes across Syria and carried out a land incursion that stretches past the occupied Golan Heights into a previously demilitarized buffer zone , as reported by The Washington Post . <p> The Israeli army swiftly took control of the abandoned army positions , and air attacks have decimated most of Syria 's military capabilities . <p> Netanyahu reiterated that recent airstrikes against Syrian military sites were carried out to ensure that the weapons would not be used against Israel in the future . Israel also hit arms supply routes to Hezbollah , he said , acording to Times of Israel . <p> " We have no interest in a conflict with Syria , " Netanyahu said . " We will determine Israel 's policy toward Syria according to the emerging reality on the ground . " <p> Netanyahu has said that Israel has " no intention of interfering " in Syria 's internal affairs , but also warned to take " necessary " measures if the current regime allows Iran to re-establish itself in Syria or transfers weapons to Hezbollah 
@@118932233 <p> For a fairly long time , the world appeared to be fixated on the understanding that Iran and Syria acted as almost one nation in the pursuit of strategic security and foreign policy . As one of the main supporters of Bashar al-Assad in Syria , the ayatollahs of Iran secured considerable strategic advantage through the territory of the Levant under Syria 's control . Russian President Vladmir Putin 's support to Iran and Syria added to their comfort and the Russian military presence in Syria , despite the demands of the Ukrainian battlefield , only reflected how serious Mr Putin was about his foothold in the Middle East and the relationship with the Iran-Syria combine . The progressive hollowing out of the Bashir Assad administration and the corruption and lack of professionalism in the Syrian Army over the years perhaps never occurred to Russia due to the complete focus of attention on the Ukraine front . Even Iran was so totally obsessed with the successful run of strengthening Hezbollah that the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ( IRGC ) , Iran 's master of proxy war strategy , failed to detect that its hold over Syria through the Syrian Army had been largely diluted . Was the emaciation of the Syrian civil and military capability a deliberate non-military strategy followed by an external power is yet not known , but the advantage which now accrues is not to any one side but to several forces . Among those are the United States , Turkey , Israel and the radical Sunni elements that have vied for space in the Levant . Except for the US and Israel , none of the others have a joint interest . The ones at the greatest disadvantage from the run of recent events are Iran and Russia . The Jerusalem Post wrote : " Iran 's loss is staggering . Assad 's fall toppled the crown jewel of the arc of resistance that Iran spent over 35 years constructing as a counter-balance to Israel and American influence in the region . The removal of this cornerstone has effectively dismantled the arc " . It is said that when a revolution occurs and takes the world by surprise , you should always be prepared for a counter-revolution . So , is there a possibility of a counter-revolution in the making ? The factors at play and the strategic environment both do not indicate this and for several reasons this reading should be assumed correct . Hamas ' actions in Gaza triggered a chain of events which Iran misread as an opportunity . It activated its proxy strategy by ratcheting up the degree of engagement of Israel , but in the bargain , 15 months later , stands only to count its staggering losses . The entire leaderships of Hamas and Hezbollah were wiped out , and that of the IRGC itself dented . The complete supply chain for moving of military resources and wherewithal to the main proxy -- Hezbollah -- is now completely disrupted . The fall of Bashar Assad and the neutralisation of Syria 's Army is also a result of several factors , with the final nail being the chain reactions set after the Hamas attack of October 7 , 2023 . Clearly , Mr Putin did not accord high enough priority to the Middle East in the run of the ongoing two major wars in the world -- Ukraine and Gaza-Lebanon . That ensured that the strategic advantage Russia gained by the support to Iran , Syria and Bashir Assad was never prioritised . However , Mr Putin , never prone to sentimentality , is attempting to regain lost ground . He first described the HTS as " terrorists " , but shortly thereafter the Russian foreign ministry was referring to HTS as the armed Syrian opposition ; a clear overture to the new ruling authority in Syria , one of the reasons why he refused to meet Assad and only granted him asylum . For how long is this asylum too is anybody 's guess . This is the quasi-counter revolution in the making , if at all ; the overturning of the US-Israel advantage gained as a result of the Syrian meltdown . <p> Clearly , Mr Putin ca n't do much alone , the Russians do not have that kind of bandwidth about the Middle East . They need the services of Iran and perhaps some of its proxies . However , can HTS , which is a Sunni radical organisation , come to work with Iran for any strategic advantage . Provided that HTS is not a proxy of either the US or Turkey , there is always the possibility of it working in close cooperation with Iran . It should be remembered that Hezbollah is a Shia organisation in ideological affinity with Iran , but Hamas has no such connection . It is a Sunni Islamist organisation with roots in the Muslim Brotherhood . Hamas ' ideology is deeply rooted in Sunni Islamic principles , advocating for the establishment of an Islamic state in historical Palestine . However , Hamas has received support from Iran due to shared strategic interests , particularly in opposing Israel . This alliance is more pragmatic than ideological , as their theological differences remain significant . Iran has provided funding , weapons , and training to Hamas , especially during times of isolation from Sunni Arab states . Despite this cooperation , Hamas and Iran maintain distinct religious and ideological frameworks . <p> Two other issues bear significance in the aftermath of the Syrian implosion . The rule of the ayatollahs since 1979 has appeared unwavering but sporadic instances of resistance to the theological rule have often occurred . The people of Iran do not entirely support the ayatollahs . Failure on the strategic front spurs the buildup of resistance in the streets . That is what Iran will be concerned about because movements such as those contemplated here need a cause and a leadership . The cause may be there in plenty , it 's a dynamic leadership and even external support which could cause a threat to the status quo . <p> The United States under incoming President Donald Trump may exercise caution about external involvement but Iran remains an anathema and Mr Trump has a particular aversion to the ayatollahs . US strategic circles in consort with Israel and perhaps Saudi Arabia ( only to a limited extent ) could sense this as opportunity . On the other hand , Iran 's long-term strategy revolves around the creation of a strong Shia crescent from Syria to Yemen taking in the majority and minority Shia populations into its fold . Over the last few years this had developed exponentially . The sudden downturn of the rising tide may spur Iran towards greater energisation of its efforts for achieving the crescent . That is where the clash could once again occur , re-energising the sectarian divide within Islam , with the world riding atop and once again deeply affected by that re-emergence . <p> Syed Ata Hasnain , a retired lieutenant-general , is a former commander of the Srinagar-based 15 Corps . He is also associated with the Vivekananda International Foundation and the Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies . 
@@118932701 <h> Death toll in Gaza Strip from Israel-Hamas war tops 45,000 <p> DEIR AL-BALAH , Dec 16 : Health officials in the Gaza Strip say the death toll from the 14-month war between Israel and Hamas militants has topped 45,000 people . <p> The Gaza Health Ministry does not distinguish between civilians and combatants in its count , but it has said that more than half of the fatalities are women and children . The Israeli military says it has killed more than 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> The Health Ministry said 45,028 people have been killed and 106,962 have been wounded since the start of the war in October 2023 . It has said the real toll is higher because thousands of bodies are still buried under rubble or in areas that medics can not access . The latest war has been by far the deadliest round of fighting between Israel and Hamas , with the death toll now amounting to roughly 2 per cent of Gaza 's entire prewar population of about 2.3 million . <p> Israel claims Hamas is responsible for the civilian death toll because it operates from within civilian areas in the densely populated Gaza Strip . Rights groups and Palestinians say Israel has failed to take sufficient precautions to avoid civilian deaths . <p> The war began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel on October 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting another 250 . Around 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . Most of the rest were released during a cease-fire last year . ( AP ) 
@@118933426 <h> Speaking in Lok Sabha , Congress MP Priyanka remembered her grandmother and former PM Indira Gandhi as ' great martyr who led India to victory in the 1971 War against Pakistan ' . <p> New Delhi : Days after she made her maiden speech in Parliament , Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra appealed to the Modi government to raise with its counterparts in Bangladesh the issue of attacks on religious minorities in the neighbouring country . <p> Speaking in the Lok Sabha during Zero House Monday , she also criticised the decision to relocate the famous painting , depicting Pakistan 's surrender to India in the 1971 War , from the Army Chief 's annexe in South Block . Later , Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat responded to Priyanka , saying that the painting has been shifted to Manekshaw Centre . <p> The BJP , in turn , attacked Priyanka for sporting a handbag in Parliament emblazoned with symbols associated with solidarity with Palestine . To this , the newly elected Congress MP from Kerala 's Wayanad reacted by saying , " No one will decide what I will wear . " <p> Inside the Lower House , Priyanka rose to intervene during Zero Hour . She started her speech by paying tribute to those who laid down their lives in the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War . Each year , 16 December is observed as Vijay Divas in memory of Pakistan 's surrender to India on that day in 1971 . <p> She also remembered her grandmother , former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi , referring to her as a " great martyr " who ' showed courage in the most difficult of times and led India to victory in the war against Pakistan . <p> " At the time , India stood alone . It was not granted a hearing anywhere in the world . No one listened to the voices of our Bengali brothers and sisters in Bangladesh . It was then that the people of India stood with their Army , their leadership and their principles , " she said . <p> The Congress party also staged a demonstration on Parliament premises to highlight the issue of increase in attacks on religious minorities in Bangladesh since the fall of Sheikh Hasina 's Awami League government . <p> Before Priyanka rose to speak in Lok Sabha , the chair allowed BJP MP from Jharkhand 's Godda Nishikant Dubey who while praising Indira Gandhi also criticised the former Prime Minister for not giving Jagjivan Ram -- who was defence minister at the time of the 1971 War -- his rightful due . " Today is 16 December and on this day Bangladesh secured Independence . The Indian Army , its soldiers and the leadership at the time did something very big . The Indian Army took as many as 93,000 Pakistani soldiers as prisoners and later released them . And the same Bangladesh where Pakistan killed democracy , we established it . But through you madam chairperson , I want to tell the country that in this movement , Nazrul Islam , the royal family , king , of Tripura and former Congress chief minister Mukul Sangma ... and the biggest contribution , that of Babu Jagjivan Ram who was defence minister at the time ... history has forgotten them , " he said . <h> Row over Palestine handbag <p> A vocal critic of Israel 's actions during the ongoing war in Gaza , Priyanka was also criticised for carrying a bag emblazoned with the word ' Palestine ' and symbols of Palestinian solidarity . <p> In July , she had described Tel Aviv 's actions as " genocidal " and called on the global community to " force them Israel to stop " . Last week , she met Abed Elrazeg Abu Jazer , Charge d'affaires of the Palestine Embassy in New Delhi , who congratulated her on being elected to Parliament . <p> Reacting to her decision to express support for Palestine , Gulam Ali Khatana , a nominated member of the Rajya Sabha , told news agency IANS , " People do such things for news ; when they have been rejected by the people , they resort to such actions . " <p> Amit Malviya , in-charge of BJP 's national information and technology department , went even further to say the " Congress is the New Muslim League " . <p> " She is a bigger disaster than Rahul Gandhi , who thinks sporting a bag in support of Palestine in the Parliament , is about fighting patriarchy ... Crass communal virtue signaling to Muslims is now cloaked as stance against patriarchy , " Malviya wrote on X , reacting to Priyanka 's response to Khatana 's remark -- she had termed it " typical patriarchy " . 
@@118957521 <h> " The government should raise the issue of atrocities against minorities , both Hindus and Christians , in Bangladesh . It should discuss this with the Bangladesh government and support those who are in pain , " she had said . <p> After turning heads on Monday with a handbag bearing the word " Palestine " in Parliament , Congress MP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra shifted focus on Tuesday and expressed solidarity with minorities in Bangladesh . Vadra was seen carrying a cream-colored handbag with the message " Bangladesh ke Hindu aur Isaiyon ke saath khade ho " ( Stand with the Hindus and Christians of Bangladesh ) . <p> She was joined by several Congress MPs , and together they staged a protest in the Parliament premises . The MPs , holding handbags emblazoned with the message " Stand with minorities of Bangladesh , " raised slogans and demanded justice . <p> On Monday , Vadra had sought the government 's support for those who are in pain because of the attacks in Bangladesh . " The government should raise the issue of atrocities against minorities , both Hindus and Christians , in Bangladesh . It should discuss this with the Bangladesh government and support those who are in pain , " she had said . <p> Advertisement <p> Earlier , Vadra had turned heads on Monday with another handbag bearing the word " Palestine , " showcasing her support for Palestinians amid the Gaza conflict . The symbolic gestures have sparked significant discussions in Parliament , highlighting her commitment to global humanitarian causes . <p> In June , Gandhi criticised Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for what she described as the Israeli government 's " genocidal actions " in Gaza , accusing him and his administration of " barbarism . " Her comments followed Netanyahu 's defense of Israel 's ongoing war in Gaza during a speech to the US Congress . 
@@118957696 <h> Israeli strikes kill around 35 Palestinians in Gaza <h> Further north , in the town of Beit Lahiya which has been under Israeli siege since early October , at least 15 people were believed to be dead or missing under rubble of a house hit by an airstrike around dawn , said medics . Rescuers were unable to reach the site to confirm the toll . At least 10 other Palestinians were killed in separate strikes elsewhere in Gaza City and Beit Lahiya , medics said . <p> ReutersSilhouettes of a military vehicle and a soldier near the Gaza border <p> CAIRO : Huge Israeli airstrikes killed extended families in homes in two parts of the northern Gaza Strip on Tuesday , while tanks in the south pushed towards a humanitarian zone on the Mediterranean coast , forcing displaced families to take flight again . <p> Medics said at least 10 people were confirmed killed in an airstrike on a house in the Daraj suburb of Gaza City that destroyed the building and damaged nearby houses . <p> Further north , in the town of Beit Lahiya which has been under Israeli siege since early October , at least 15 people were believed to be dead or missing under rubble of a house hit by an airstrike around dawn , said medics . Rescuers were unable to reach the site to confirm the toll . At least 10 other Palestinians were killed in separate strikes elsewhere in Gaza City and Beit Lahiya , medics said . <p> There was no immediate comment from the Israeli military on Tuesday 's strikes . Israel says it targets militants and blames any harm to civilians on fighters for operating among them , which the fighters deny . <p> In Beit Lahiya Israel has been operating since October in what it calls an offensive to prevent Hamas fighters from regrouping ; Palestinians say the army aims to depopulate a buffer zone on the enclave 's northern edge , which Israel denies . <p> In Rafah near the border with Egypt , Israeli tanks pushed deeper towards the western area of Mawasi , forcing dozens of families to flee northwards towards Khan Younis , residents said . <p> Hours later , residents said the army blew up several houses in the area and set several tents ablaze . <p> Israel has previously designated Mawasi , along the Mediterranean coast , as a humanitarian area . Thousands of Palestinians have lived there in tents for months , having obeyed Israeli orders to move there from other areas for safety . <p> Footage circulating on social media showed lines of thick black and grey smoke rising from the area beside the tent encampment . Reuters could not immediately verify the time or exact location of the images . <p> The war began when the Palestinian group Hamas stormed into Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking more than 250 hostages back to Gaza , according to Israel . 
@@118958500 <p> Earlier on Monday , Priyanka Gandhi Vadra carried a bag to the Parliament that had " Palestine " emblazoned on it . Gandhi was seen carrying a handbag emblazoned with the word " Palestine " and Palestinian emblems , including a watermelon -- seen as a symbol of Palestinian solidarity . <p> New Delhi : A day after creating a buzz with her ' Palestine ' emblazoned bag , Congress MP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday carried a new bag which had a slogan on the plight of minorities in Bangladesh . <p> In reference to the incidents of attacks on minorities in Bangladesh following the ouster of Sheikh Hasina , the slogan on bag read , " Stand With Bangladeshi Hindus And Christians . " Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina stepped down from her post on August 5 and fled the country amid growing pressure from the country 's army and anti-quota protestors . <p> Earlier on Monday , Priyanka Gandhi Vadra carried a bag to the Parliament that had " Palestine " emblazoned on it . Gandhi was seen carrying a handbag emblazoned with the word " Palestine " and Palestinian emblems , including a watermelon -- seen as a symbol of Palestinian solidarity . The Congress general secretary has been raising her voice against Israel 's actions in Gaza and expressing solidarity with Palestinians . <p> The BJP hit out at the Congress leader , accusing her of continuing the family 's legacy of " appeasement . " BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said , " The appeasement bag is the reason for their losses in elections . " <p> On BJP 's objection , Gandhi said , " Tell them that they should do something about the atrocities that are happening on minorities- Hindus and Christians - in Bangladesh . Talk to the Bangladesh government and stop these atrocities . " <p> BJP 's Amit Malviya wasted no time in retaliating , calling Priyanka a " bigger disaster than Rahul Gandhi . " He wrote on X , " At the end of this Parliament session , observe a two-minute silence for everyone in the Congress , who believed Priyanka Vadra was the long-awaited solution , they should have embraced earlier . She is a bigger disaster than Rahul Gandhi , who thinks sporting a bag in support of Palestine in the Parliament is about fighting patriarchy . That is right . Crass communal virtue signaling to Muslims is now cloaked as stance against patriarchy ! Make no mistake , Congress is the New Muslim League . " <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from India and around the world . 
@@118958666 <h> Palestinian security forces try to exert control in volatile West Bank <h> Forces of the PA , which exercises limited self-rule in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , moved into Jenin in early December and have since clashed with fighters from Hamas and Islamic Jihad . <p> Reuters <p> December 17 , 2024 / 22:01 IST <h> Palestinian security forces try to exert control in volatile West Bank <p> Palestinian Authority security forces have battled Islamist fighters in Jenin for days , as they wrestle to exert control of one of the historic centres of militancy in the West Bank ahead of a likely shakeout in Palestinian politics after the Gaza war . <p> Forces of the PA , which exercises limited self-rule in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , moved into Jenin in early December and have since clashed with fighters from Hamas and Islamic Jihad . <p> At least three people have been killed , including a senior Islamic Jihad commander and two civilians . The U.N . humanitarian agency OCHA has called for an investigation into what it called violations of human rights law by the Palestinian forces . <p> Heavily armed Palestinian security forces in armoured personnel carriers have set up checkpoints around the city and outside the adjacent refugee camp , where there have been repeated protests by residents against the operation . <p> Residents say the behaviour of the PA security forces resembles the way the Israeli army has traditionally acted in Jenin . The city and refugee camp have long been a centre of Palestinian militancy , where fighters have clashed with Israeli forces mounting large-scale raids that left trails of smashed roads and infrastructure . <p> " The PA does not have bulldozers like the ( Israeli ) army does . That is the only difference . The raid is the same , the blockade is the same , " said Jenin resident Malek Jaber . <p> Brigadier General Anwar Rajab , spokesperson of the Palestinian security forces , said " outlaws " who had taken over Jenin camp had been arrested and would be brought to justice . The operation was aimed at imposing order and security and would continue until the objectives were achieved , he said . <p> Palestinian Prime Minister Mohammad Mustafa , who visited Jenin with Palestinian security leaders at the weekend , said the operation should restore security " on the way towards the creation of an independent state " . <p> However , the operation has provoked strong opposition in Jenin and there have been violent clashes in other West Bank cities including Tubas in the Jordan Valley and Tulkarm in the north . <p> ' PROVE ITS WORTH ' <p> The timing of the operation is a sign that the PA has to " prove its worth " as it seeks to uphold its role in the West Bank while preparing for a possible future role in Gaza , said Hani al-Masri , a Palestinian political analyst in Ramallah . <p> The Palestinian Authority was set up three decades ago under the Oslo interim peace accords and given limited authority in the West Bank and Gaza , where Palestinians hope for an independent state . It was driven out of Gaza by Hamas in a 2007 civil war . <p> Since the Oct. 7 , 2023 attacks on Israel by Hamas-led fighters , Israel has vowed to drive Hamas out of Gaza . Israel says it also believes the PA should have no role in Gaza after the war , but most Western and Arab countries say Gaza must be run by Palestinians and they expect a role for the PA . <p> Michael Mihlshtein , a former Israeli military intelligence officer and one of Israel 's leading experts on Palestinian affairs , agreed that PA President Mahmoud Abbas was trying to show force now , ahead of an anticipated post-war settlement . <p> " There is very broad pressure on him to do something if he wants to be considered as a relevant player for the day after in Gaza , " said Milshtein . <p> He noted that the operation in Jenin also follows a ceasefire in Lebanon , the fall of Bashar al-Assad in Syria and the election of Donald Trump in the United States , events that leave the region 's future unsettled . <p> Israel accuses the PA of failing to control militant groups in the occupied West Bank . The PA says Israel , which has military control over the territory , deliberately undermines its authority . <p> PA officials say one of the aims of the operation is to prevent Hamas and Islamic Jihad from creating the kind of rule in the West Bank that opened the way for Israel to destroy Gaza . <p> Despite efforts at reconciliation , Fatah , the main faction behind the PA , has so far failed to agree with Hamas on how Gaza should be ruled after the fighting . <p> Advisory Alert:It has come to our attention that certain individuals are representing themselves as affiliates of Moneycontrol and soliciting funds on the false promise of assured returns on their investments . We wish to reiterate that Moneycontrol does not solicit funds from investors and neither does it promise any assured returns . In case you are approached by anyone making such claims , please write to us at **25;803;TOOLONG or call on 02268882347 
@@118958700 <h> More than 5,600 youth of UP have gone to Israel for construction work so far , the Uttar Pradesh chief minister said <h> Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been raising her voice against Israel 's actions in Gaza and expressing solidarity with Palestinians <p> Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday hit out at Congress MP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for showing support for the people of Palestine in Parliament . <p> A day after the Congress leader carried to Parliament a bag with " Palestine " written on it , Adityanath said that his state government has sent over 5,000 people to Israel for jobs while the Wayanad MP is expressing solidarity with Palestinians . <p> " A Congress leader was roaming around in the Parliament carrying a bag with Palestine written on it , while we are sending the youth of Uttar Pradesh to Israel . More than 5,600 youth of UP have gone to Israel for construction work so far . Every youth is getting free accommodation and food , a salary of Rs 1.5 lakh per month and complete security is also guaranteed , " CM Yogi Adityanath said in the UP Assembly , according to ANI . <p> The Congress general secretary has been raising her voice against Israel 's actions in Gaza and expressing solidarity with Palestinians . Her recent attempt -- carrying a handbag emblazoned with the word " Palestine " and Palestinian emblems , including a watermelon -- seen as a symbol of Palestinian solidarity -- drew criticism from several leaders of ruling party including Prakash Javadekar and Anurag Thakur . <p> Senior BJP leader and the party 's Kerala in-charge , Prakash Javadekar , also criticised Priyanka over the move . Javadekar alleged that she and her party had never condemned the terror attack carried out by Hamas militants in Israeli territory , which had sparked the offensive . <p> The former Union Minister said that Priyanka 's action reflected the duplicity and " appeasement politics " practised by the Congress . <p> " Priyanka Gandhi brings Palestine bag , but she and @INCIndia never condemned Hamas terror attack , which started the war . This is the Duplicity and Appeasement politics practised by #Congress , " Javadekar said in a post on ' X ' . <p> Thakur questioned the message she intended to convey . He pointed out that while the Congress MP remained silent on the atrocities against Hindus in Bangladesh , she chose to make a fashion statement with a Palestine-themed bag . <p> The Israel-Hamas conflict began after the outfit launched a large-scale attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 . <p> Meanwhile , on Tuesday , Priyanka walked into the Parliament showing her support for the Hindu and Christian minorities in Bangladesh . " Bangladesh ke Hindus and Christians ke saath khade ho " ( Stand with the Hindus and Christians of Bangladesh ) was the message displayed on her bag . <p> Advisory Alert:It has come to our attention that certain individuals are representing themselves as affiliates of Moneycontrol and soliciting funds on the false promise of assured returns on their investments . We wish to reiterate that Moneycontrol does not solicit funds from investors and neither does it promise any assured returns . In case you are approached by anyone making such claims , please write to us at **25;898;TOOLONG or call on 02268882347 
@@118958702 <p> A 55-year-old man and his 7-year-old grandson were injured after being hit by a car driven by a 17-year-old boy . The car , speeding uncontrollably , hit multiple people and vehicles before stopping . The grandfather , bringing the child home from school , blamed the incident on negligent parenting and called for action against parents who allow minors to drive . The child sustained a head injury but is now stable . <p> December 17 , 2024 / 20:41 IST <h> India cracks down on drug dealing with ' Operation Garuda ' <p> " ... ' Operation Garuda ' has been launched and under this campaign , we have seized 210 kg of ganja ( marijuana ) , 1.7 kg of cocaine and 4.5 kg of hashish in three weeks . We have arrested 95 people and with this , not only the drug peddlers but also the suppliers have been arrested ... The drugs were mostly supplied from the North-East , Andhra Pradesh , Bihar ... So far we have seized 555 kg of ganja ( marijuana ) . This campaign will continue ... Awareness campaigns are also being run to make people aware of drugs ... , " said Joint CP of Southern Range , Sanjay Kumar Jain , speaking on ' Operation Garuda ' . <h> LK Advani stable , to be shifted out of ICU in the next 1-2 days <p> Veteran BJP leader and former Deputy Prime Minister of India , LK Advani , has been under the care of Dr. Vinit Suri in the ICU of Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals since December 12 . He has shown gradual improvement in his medical condition . Based on his progress , he is likely to be shifted out of the ICU within the next 1-2 days : Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals <p> December 17 , 2024 / 18:08 IST <h> TMC MP questions Finance Minister over blocked funds for West Bengal <p> TMC MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay said , " I asked Nirmala ji ( Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman ) on the floor of the House why money belonging to West Bengal is being blocked . She said things like there was corruption and a central team had gone there . I said West Bengal should not be targeted ... " <p> He also believes that the ' One Nation , One Election ' Bill is " anti-federal ... " . <p> December 17 , 2024 / 17:14 IST <h> Karnataka HC quashes extortion case against BJP 's B Y Vijayendra <p> The Karnataka High Court quashed an FIR against BJP state president B Y Vijayendra , accused of extortion involving electoral bonds . The complaint , filed in September by activist Adarsh R Iyer , also named Union Minister Nirmala Sitharaman , Enforcement Directorate officials , and other BJP leaders . The court had earlier quashed the case against BJP leader Nalin Kumar Kateel . The FIR alleged an extortion racket under Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita sections 384 , 120B , and 34 . <p> PM Modi expresses solidarity with France over Cyclone Chido devastation in Mayotte , offering support and confidence in France 's resilience under President Macron 's leadership . <p> Deeply saddened by the devastation caused by Cyclone Chido in Mayotte . My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families . I am confident that under President @EmmanuelMacron 's leadership , France will overcome this tragedy with resilience and resolve . India stands in ... <h> Bhopal records decades-old low as temperature drops to 3.3 ? C <p> Bhopal recorded a decades-old low on Monday as the minimum temperature plunged to 3.3 ? C , falling below 4 ? C for the first time in years . <p> December 17 , 2024 / 15:32 IST <h> World news live : At least 34 killed by Cyclone Chido in Mozambique <p> At least 34 people have been killed by Cyclone Chido in Mozambique since it made landfall there on Sunday , the U.N . humanitarian agency OCHA said on Tuesday , citing figures from the southern African country 's disaster agency . <p> December 17 , 2024 / 15:17 IST <h> IIT-Madras introduces cultural excellence quota in UG admissions , 2 seats to be added in each course <p> IIT-Madras has become the first IIT in the country to introduce a " Fine Arts and Culture Excellence " quota in admissions to undergraduate programmes , according to Director V Kamakoti . <p> The Fine Arts and Culture Excellence ( FACE ) quota will be introduced from the 2025-26 academic session . <p> Its objective is to reward and encourage students who have achieved excellence in fine arts and culture , Kamakoti said . <p> December 17 , 2024 / 13:10 IST <h> Lok Adalats in Thane settled more than 1.81 lakh cases in 2024 , says official <p> Talking to reporters , DLSA secretary Ishwar Suryavanshi said the total settlement amount reached an unprecedented Rs 82.68 crore in four Lok Adalats held this year , providing immense relief to litigants and claimants . <h> Top China , India officials to meet in Beijing for border talks <p> Senior Indian and Chinese officials are set to meet in Beijing to discuss the two countries ' border dispute , resuming formal talks on the subject that have been stalled since 2020 . <p> Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Indian National Security Advisor Ajit Doval are poised to hold the so-called special representatives ' meeting Wednesday , according to statements from both countries . <p> December 17 , 2024 / 12:58 IST <h> Israeli airstrikes kill 14 Palestinians in Gaza , tanks push south <p> Israeli military strikes across the Gaza Strip killed at least 14 Palestinians on Tuesday , at least 10 of them in one house in Gaza City , medics said as tanks pushed deeper towards the western area of Rafah in the south . <p> Medics said the Israeli airstrike on the house in the Daraj suburb of Gaza City destroyed the building and damaged nearby houses . Four other people were killed in two separate airstrikes in the city and the town of Beit Lahiya north of the enclave said medics , medics added . <p> Space startups in Japan and India said on Tuesday they had agreed to jointly study using laser-equipped satellites to remove debris from orbit , an experimental approach to the increasingly imminent problem of orbital congestion . <p> Tokyo-based Orbital Lasers and Indian robotics company InspeCity said they would study business opportunities for in-space services such as de-orbiting a defunct satellite and extending a spacecraft 's life . <p> Carved out from Japanese satellite giant SKY Perfect JSAT this year , Orbital Lasers is building a system that will use laser energy to stop the rotation of space junk by vaporising small parts of its surface , making it easier for a servicing spacecraft to rendezvous . <h> Video of the day <p> Advisory Alert:It has come to our attention that certain individuals are representing themselves as affiliates of Moneycontrol and soliciting funds on the false promise of assured returns on their investments . We wish to reiterate that Moneycontrol does not solicit funds from investors and neither does it promise any assured returns . In case you are approached by anyone making such claims , please write to us at **25;952;TOOLONG or call on 02268882347 
@@118958953 <h> One of the central topics of discussion during PM Modi 's visit will be energy security . Kuwait , as one of the world 's leading oil exporters , plays a key role in meeting India 's energy demands . Energy security remains a critical issue for India , which relies heavily on oil imports from the Gulf . <p> In the midst of growing unrest across the Middle East , Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's impending visit to Kuwait stands as a significant opportunity for both countries to recalibrate their partnership and tackle pressing regional challenges . <p> Although the exact dates have not been officially disclosed , sources indicate that PM Modi will be in Kuwait this weekend for a two-day visit , which comes at a time when stability in the region is more crucial than ever . The visit is expected to foster closer cooperation in several critical areas , including energy , security , and trade , while also addressing regional tensions , notably the ongoing conflict in Gaza . <h> A Timely Visit Amid Escalating Regional Unrest <p> Kuwait 's neutral position on regional conflicts and its leadership role within the Gulf Cooperation Council ( GCC ) makes it an important partner for India in a region fraught with tension . The timing of PM Modi 's visit could not be more significant . With the Gaza conflict intensifying and broader instability affecting the Arabian Peninsula , India and Kuwait will likely engage in talks on how to manage these crises and contribute to peace-building efforts in the region . Kuwait 's role as the current GCC President makes it a pivotal player in shaping the region 's response to geopolitical challenges , and India 's strengthened relationship with the country could prove vital in these uncertain times . <p> Kuwait has historically maintained a balanced foreign policy , avoiding entanglements in the region 's more contentious issues , which has allowed it to act as a mediator in regional affairs . For India , engaging with Kuwait provides an opportunity to influence GCC policy and deepen cooperation with a country that has been a reliable partner in times of crisis . Moreover , Kuwait 's strong stance on humanitarian issues and its willingness to support regional peace initiatives will align with India 's broader strategic goals . <h> Economic Cooperation and Energy Security <p> One of the central topics of discussion during PM Modi 's visit will be energy security . Kuwait , as one of the world 's leading oil exporters , plays a key role in meeting India 's energy demands . Energy security remains a critical issue for India , which relies heavily on oil imports from the Gulf . Given the volatility in global energy markets and the growing push for alternative energy sources , discussions are expected to revolve around ensuring a stable energy supply and exploring new avenues for cooperation in the renewable energy sector . <p> The two countries are also expected to focus on economic collaboration beyond the energy sector . India and Kuwait have already established a growing trade relationship , and both sides are keen to further diversify their economic engagements . Kuwait 's sovereign wealth funds present an opportunity for investment in India 's infrastructure , technology , and renewable energy sectors . Similarly , India 's growing digital economy and start-up ecosystem offer a potential avenue for Kuwaiti investments , which could further bolster bilateral trade . <p> The visit also offers a chance to explore cooperation in other emerging sectors such as artificial intelligence , information technology , and space exploration , all of which are high on India 's national agenda . Strengthening bilateral trade and investment ties will not only benefit both nations but could also enhance their collective economic influence within the GCC and beyond . <h> Security and Defence Cooperation <p> Beyond economic matters , security cooperation is expected to be a central aspect of PM Modi 's visit . As India faces growing challenges in the Indian Ocean and the broader Middle East , strengthening defence and security ties with Kuwait has become increasingly important . The two countries have already seen an uptick in strategic engagements , including the recent visit of the Indian naval ship INS Visakhapatnam to Kuwait . During his visit , PM Modi will likely discuss enhancing maritime security cooperation and addressing regional security challenges such as terrorism and piracy , which are common threats for both nations . <p> India 's increasing military presence in the region , coupled with Kuwait 's strategic location in the Arabian Gulf , makes the two countries natural partners in ensuring the safety and security of vital international shipping lanes . Given Kuwait 's involvement in the Gulf 's security architecture , PM Modi 's visit is expected to set the stage for deeper collaboration on counterterrorism , intelligence-sharing , and military exchanges . <h> Cultural Ties and Expatriate Welfare <p> An important aspect of the visit will also involve the well-being of the large Indian expatriate community in Kuwait . Indians make up a significant portion of the Kuwaiti workforce , particularly in the construction , healthcare , and services sectors . The government of India has long been committed to ensuring the safety and rights of Indian workers abroad , and discussions will likely touch on the ongoing implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding ( MoU ) signed in 2022 , which addresses the legal protections for Indian workers in Kuwait . <h> Humanitarian Support and Regional Solidarity <p> Kuwait 's humanitarian gestures toward India have further solidified the bond between the two nations . During the COVID-19 pandemic , Kuwait was one of the first countries to send significant medical aid to India , including oxygen cylinders and liquid medical oxygen , when India faced an overwhelming surge in cases . Kuwait 's role in providing vital medical supplies during the crisis highlighted the strength of their bilateral relationship and demonstrated that country 's commitment to supporting India in times of need . <p> Such acts of solidarity are an important aspect of the India-Kuwait partnership , reflecting shared values of humanitarianism and regional cooperation . PM Modi is likely to acknowledge this support during his visit and discuss ways in which the two countries can work together on future global challenges , from health crises to disaster relief efforts . <h> A Visit with Far-Reaching Implications <p> As the situation in the Middle East remains volatile , PM Modi 's visit to Kuwait offers both countries an opportunity to not only bolster their bilateral relationship but also work together toward a more stable and prosperous regional order . 
@@118959127 <h> ' Noble people consider entire world as their family ' : Priyanka Gandhi 's jibe at Centre <p> Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra with other opposition MPs takes part in a protest against alleged atrocities against minority communities in Bangladesh PTI <p> Ever since she was elected an MP for the first time , Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has chosen to make big political statements through her accessories . <p> On Monday , Vadra stirred up a controversy after she carried a handbag to parliament with the word ' Palestine ' emblazoned on it . The BJP targeted the Wayanad MP , questioning her ' silence ' on the plight of Bangladeshi Hindus . <p> However , she sought to silence her critics on Tuesday , by wearing another cream-coloured cloth bag bearing the slogan " Stand with Bangladeshi Hindus and Christians " . A group of opposition MPs also joined wearing similar bags , demanding the government 's intervention on the issue . <p> In her address in the Lok Sabha , Priyanka Gandhi raked up the issue of alleged atrocities on the religious minorities in Bangladesh and urged the Centre to engage diplomatically with Dhaka to ensure the safety of Hindus and Christians . <p> " The government should raise the issue of atrocities on minorities , both Hindus and Christians , in Bangladesh . We should discuss this with the Bangladesh government and support those who are in pain , " she said . <p> The Congress leader also took to social media to share the images of their protest outside parliament . In a Sanskrit post , she said : " This is mine , that is someone else 's - such petty thoughts are harboured by narrow-minded individuals ! People of high character consider the entire world as their family " . <p> Priyanka Gandhi 's ' bag move ' and the protests on the parliament premises hint at a major shift in the opposition 's approach to the turmoil in Bangladesh where minority communities have been facing attacks ever since the collapse of the Sheikh Hasina government . <p> On Monday , the Congress MP had expressed solidarity with the people of Palestine , carrying a handbag with ' Palestine ' emblazoned on it . She has been raising her voice against Israel government 's " genocidal actions " in Gaza . 
@@118959147 <h> Anand Sharma slams UP CM for his jibe at Priyanka on support for Palestinians <p> PTI Updated : December 17 , 2024 23:34 IST <p> New Delhi , Dec 17 ( PTI ) Former Union minister Anand Sharma on Tuesday hit out at Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for taking a swipe at Congress MP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra over her support for Palestinians , saying his criticism is " unjustified " and in conflict with India 's firm and consistent position on Palestine . His remarks came after Adityanath took a veiled jibe at Priyanka Gandhi for carrying a handbag to Parliament that had ' Palestine ' emblazoned on it . On the second day of the Winter Session of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly , Adityanath said , " Yesterday , a Congress leader was seen walking around Parliament carrying a Palestine bag , while we are sending our youth to Israel for opportunities . " So far , more than 5,600 youth from Uttar Pradesh have gone to Israel for construction work . Every youth gets free food and accommodation besides a monthly salary of Rs 1.5 lakh there . There is also a full guarantee of safety , " Adityanath said . In a statement , Sharma said , " UP CM Yogi Adityanath 's criticism of Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra 's expression of solidarity with the people of Palestine is unwarranted , unjustified and in conflict with India 's firm and consistent position on Palestine in the UN and support for the establishing a sovereign and viable State of Palestine within secure borders . " " Yogi and BJP leaders should be made aware that India is also a party to the recent declarations of G20 Countries in Rio Brazil and the BRICS Summit in Kazan - both attended by PM Narendra Modi , expressing deep concern over the catastrophic humanitarian situation in Gaza and reaffirming the right of Palestinian people and creation of state of Palestine as per UN Resolutions , " the former Minister of State for External Affairs said . " Yogi Adityanath should also be informed that India is sending humanitarian assistance to Gaza for the Palestinian people . He should withdraw his comments or clarify whether he is in conflict with the government of India 's position , " Sharma said . In a swipe at Adityanath , Priyanka Gandhi on Tuesday said throwing youths into the war zone in Israel for " employment " is not an achievement but a matter of shame . <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI ) 
@@118959178 <h> Palestinian Families Challenge U.S. Support for Israel in Court <h> Palestinian families have filed a lawsuit against the U.S. State Department , accusing it of supporting Israel 's military activities in Gaza , in violation of U.S. human rights laws . The lawsuit alleges that this support has contributed to a humanitarian crisis amid escalating violence in the region . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> Palestinian families have taken legal action against the U.S. State Department , accusing it of aiding Israel 's military operations in Gaza , according to a court filing revealed on Tuesday . This lawsuit highlights allegations of violations of U.S. human rights laws . <p> The case has been lodged in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia , targeting Secretary of State Antony Blinken 's alleged circumvention of U.S. human rights legislation to fund Israeli military units . These units face accusations of committing atrocities in Gaza and the Israeli-occupied West Bank . Under the Leahy Laws , the U.S. is prohibited from providing military assistance to entities involved in gross human rights abuses . Global bodies like South Africa 's World Court and Amnesty International have condemned Israel for alleged genocide and war crimes , charges that Israel denies . <p> The U.S. faces mounting criticism from human rights organizations for its unwavering support of Israel despite calls for policy change . The lawsuit particularly highlights the State Department 's failure to enforce the Leahy Laws amidst the severe escalation of Israeli human rights violations since the outbreak of war in Gaza on October 7 , 2023 . In this conflict , Israel 's military actions have reportedly resulted in over 45,000 deaths and displaced nearly the entire population of Gaza . 
@@118959636 <p> India 's support of Palestinian rights has roots in its own struggle for independence . Mahatma Gandhi , in 1938 , famously declared , " Palestine belongs to the Arabs in the same sense that England belongs to the English . " Post-independence , India stayed consistent on its commitment to the Palestinian cause . <p> However , under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi , India 's foreign policy prioritised strategic and economic interests through a strategic neutrality . <h> India 's Historical Support for Palestine <p> Spurred by its non-alignment policy , from 1947 India had opposed the United Nations ' ( UN ) partition plan for Palestine , the only non-Arab country to do so . Two years later , India vetoed Israel 's admission to the UN , recognising the Jewish state only in 1950 . However , in continued solidarity with Arab nations and the Palestinian Liberation Organisation ( PLO ) , India did not establish diplomatic relations at that time . <p> In 1974 , India ratified the PLO as the legitimate representative of the Palestinian people , while also voting in the 1975 UN General Assembly to equate Zionism with racism . India was one of the first non-Arab nations to recognise the Palestinian State in 1988 . <h> Diplomatic Relationship With Israel <p> With the end of the Cold War , a shift in global geopolitics compelled India to reassess foreign policy . Two decades after opposing Israel 's ratification into the UN , India established diplomatic relations with the State in 1992 . <p> Post Cold-War , India continued to be considered a friend of Palestine . For example , India had close ties with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat , whose visits to India were marked by public displays of camaraderie with Indian leaders , and who was widely regarded as a friend of India . The country also continued to vote in favour of Palestinian resolutions at the UN . Simultaneously , India worked to increase military and technological collaborations with Israel . <h> A Tilt Towards Israel Or Natural Progression ? <p> In 2015 , President Pranab Mukherjee visited both Palestine and Israel , quoting Gandhi 's statement on Palestine during his visit to East Jerusalem . Mukherjee 's visit was emblematic of India 's effort to balance competing interests . In 2017 , India condemned the US decision to recognise Jerusalem as Israel 's capital , reaffirming its commitment to a negotiated settlement . At the UN , India has maintained its voting patterns in favour of Palestine , including a vote in 2020 opposing Israeli settlements in the West Bank . <p> The same year , Modi became the first Indian prime minister to visit only Israel . In contrast to Congress-era leaders who often visited Palestine alongside Israel , Modi 's did not stop in Ramallah . Annual trade between the India and Israel has exceeded five billion USD , with significant investments from both countries ' in defence , including missile systems and surveillance equipment . <p> Since the events of October 7 , 2023 , Modi 's government has been reticent in vocalising support for Palestine in international forums . <h> Domestic Support for Palestine <p> Indian politicians have often expressed solidarity with Palestine within Parliament . Debates on Middle East conflicts frequently see references to India 's historical support for Palestinian self-determination . During a 2014 Parliament session , members across party lines condemned the violence in Gaza , urging the government to denounce Israeli actions . <p> On December 16 , 2024 , Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra made headlines for carrying a handbag emblazoned with " Palestine " and featuring Palestinian symbols , including a watermelon -- a widely recognised emblem of Palestinian solidarity . The gesture sparked reactions across political lines . Congress spokesperson Dr Shama Mohammed praised Vadra 's move , calling it a " gesture of compassion , commitment to justice , and humanity . " <p> Earlier this year , Vadra condemned Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's actions in Gaza as " genocidal " and " barbaric . " She also criticised Netanyahu 's speech in the U.S. Congress , calling for a global condemnation of his government 's actions . Palestinian representatives have acknowledged Vadra 's consistent support , with Abed Elrazeg Abu Jazer , Charge d'Affaires at the Palestine Embassy in New Delhi , personally congratulating her on her recent electoral victory from Kerala 's Wayanad constituency . <p> The BJP , however , accused Vadra of " appeasement politics , " with BJP MP Sambit Patra stating , " From Nehru to Priyanka Vadra , the Gandhi family has always carried the bag of appeasement , never the bag of patriotism . " <p> In October 2023 , India reiterated its support for a two-state solution during escalating violence in Gaza , reflecting its commitment to a balanced approach . <p> In April 2024 , India welcomed a UN Security Council resolution demanding an immediate ceasefire in Gaza for Ramadan , calling it a " positive step . " At the UN , India 's Permanent Representative , Ruchira Kamboj , condemned the deepening humanitarian crisis , stating , " The humanitarian crisis resulting from the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict is simply unacceptable . " 
@@118959641 <p> Israeli forces continued to pound Gaza on Tuesday , killing at least 10 people in Gaza City , even as reports suggested that ceasefire talks were inching closer to an agreement . Among the victims of Israel 's bombings the previous day was Khaled Nabhan , a grandfather in Gaza who gained global attention after being filmed mourning his slain granddaughter , calling her the " soul of my soul . " <p> Meanwhile , in apparent praise of Turkiye , United States President-elect Donald Trump described the toppling of Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad as an " unfriendly takeover " by Ankara . <p> Israel 's war on Gaza has killed at least 45,028 Palestinians and wounded 106,962 since October 7 , 2023 . At least 1,139 people were killed in Israel during the Hamas-led attacks that day . <p> Here are the latest updates : <p> Trump Lauds Turkiye 's ' Unfriendly Takeover ' <p> Donald Trump has described the toppling of Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad as an " unfriendly takeover " by Turkiye , which aligned itself with several opposition groups leading the offensive on Damascus . <p> " I think Turkey is very smart ... Turkey did an unfriendly takeover without a lot of lives being lost . I can say that Assad was a butcher , what he did to children , " Trump said in a press conference . He was referring to Assad 's December 8 ousting , which came after a surprise offensive led by Syrian rebel groups led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) . <p> Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan had long opposed Assad 's rule and supported the Syrian National Army ( SNA ) opposition group , based in northwestern Syria . Trump had previously stated that the conflict was " not our fight . " <p> Former Syrian President Bashar al-Assad , currently in Russia , has denied planning to flee Syria following the rebel takeover , in what is reported to be his first statement since Damascus fell eight days ago . <p> " With no viable means of leaving the base , Moscow requested that the base 's command arrange an immediate evacuation to Russia on the evening of Sunday 8th December , " the statement reads . <p> " This took place a day after the fall of Damascus , following the collapse of the final military positions and the resulting paralysis of all remaining state institutions . " READ FULL STORY HERE <p> Gaza Ceasefire Talks ' Close To A Deal ' ? <p> Israeli negotiators are holding talks with mediators in Qatar to discuss a ceasefire with Hamas and the release of hostages from Gaza . Diplomats are reportedly pushing for an agreement before Donald Trump takes office in January . <p> Israel 's Defence Minister Israel Katz said on Monday that negotiators had never been closer to an agreement since the November 2023 ceasefire deal . However , Hamas insists on a complete and permanent cessation of the war , a full withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza , the return of displaced people , and a prisoner exchange deal . <p> Disagreements in previous rounds , particularly over Israel 's demands about its future military presence in Gaza , obstructed progress . Hamas had accepted a version of the proposal introduced by Biden in May , but talks in mid-October ended without a deal . <p> Israel 's Minister Rules Out Pre-October 7 Status <p> Israel 's Defence Minister Israel Katz has said that Israel will maintain " security control over Gaza with full freedom of action " after Hamas 's defeat , similar to the situation in the occupied West Bank . <p> He added in a post on X that Israel will not allow any armed group in Gaza to act against its communities and citizens . <p> " We will not allow a return to the reality before October 7 , " Israel Katz said . <p> UK Diplomats Meet Syrian Rebel Leader <p> British diplomats have held talks with the leader of Syrian rebel group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) . Photos posted on social media by HTS 's military operations department showed its leader Ahmad al-Sharaa -- formerly known as Mohammed al-Golani -- meeting senior officials in the Syrian capital , Damascus . Among those photographed was Ann Snow , the UK 's special representative for Syria . <p> HTS stated that the discussions focused on " the latest developments " in Syria . The meeting followed comments by Foreign Secretary David Lammy , who confirmed that the UK had established " diplomatic contact " with HTS , even though the group remains designated as a terrorist organisation by the British government . 
@@118959983 <h> Israeli military intercepts missile from Yemen <p> Forces in Yemen launched a missile toward central Israel , triggering sirens in Tel Aviv and other cities , Israel 's military said . <p> IANS New Delhi December 17 , 2024 11:03 am <p> Representation image of missile Photo : IANS <p> Forces in Yemen launched a missile toward central Israel , triggering sirens in Tel Aviv and other cities , Israel 's military said . <p> Israel 's air defence systems intercepted the missile , and " sirens sounded due to the possibility of falling shrapnel from the interception , " the military said on Monday in a statement . <p> Advertisement <p> Israel 's Magen David Adom rescue service said no injuries have been reported . <p> Advertisement <p> No group has claimed responsibility for the attack . <p> Since November last year , the Houthi group , which controls much of northern Yemen , has been conducting missile and drone attacks on targets in Israel , allegedly to show solidarity with Palestinians amid their conflict with Israelis in the Gaza Strip . <p> Earlier on Monday , Israel 's military reported intercepting a drone and a missile launched from Yemen . <p> Although the missile was intercepted , Israeli emergency services confirmed that five people were injured while seeking shelter in Tel Aviv and other central areas of the country . <p> Since the beginning of 2024 , a coalition led by the US has been conducting air strikes that it said are targeting Houthi locations in parts of Yemen in response to attacks by the group in the Red Sea . The counter-attacks have been occasionally met with retaliation from the group . <p> In solidarity with Gaza , which has been facing an Israeli war since October 7 , 2023 , the Houthis have targeted Israeli cargo ships or those associated with Tel Aviv in the Red Sea with missiles and drones , expressing determination to continue operations until the end of the onslaught on the enclave . <p> With the intervention of Washington and London and an escalation of tensions , the Houthis announced that they now consider all American and British ships as military targets . <p> On December 9 , a drone claimed by Houthis exploded on the top floor of a residential building in the central Israel city of Yavne , causing no casualties . <p> In July , a Houthi drone attack in Tel Aviv killed an Israeli civilian , prompting retaliatory strikes on the Yemeni port of Hodeidah . <p> The Houthis , who control most of Yemen 's population centres , have also frequently targeted ships in the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden . 
@@118960351 <h> Published by HarperCollins India , ' Original Sin ' will be released on 20 December on SoftCover , ThePrint 's online platform for launching non-fiction books . <p> The surprise attack by Hamas on Israel on 7 October 2023 sparked a devastating war in Gaza , with the world remaining divided in its support of Israel or Palestine as the death toll continues to rise . The proposal for a ' new Middle East ' by the US , supported internationally , has been overshadowed by doubt due to the ongoing war , despite the recent normalization of ties with Israel by four Arab countries in the Abraham Accords of 2020 . Stanly Johny 's thorough research on the roots of the conflict in West Asia sheds light on India 's evolving policies and current interests in the region , making Original Sin a must-read for those seeking to grasp the complexities of the ongoing war . <p> The book explores the longstanding conflict between Israel and Palestine , focusing on the people 's experiences in the region . The book highlights the devastating war Israel has been fighting in Gaza since the Hamas attack on 7 October 2023 , with no clear end in sight . The Palestinian suffering is unimaginable , and the international community seems helpless or unwilling to do anything more than share verbal concerns . <p> Hamas broke the status quo of the occupation without consequences on 7 October but brought the fury of Israel 's state on the people of Palestine . Israel appears belligerent and cares little about Palestinian lives , but it does n't seem to have an endgame . Hezbollah poses a potent challenge to Israel from southern Lebanon , and the Houthis have attacked Tel Aviv using drones , a sign of what is to come . The book also discusses the looming hot and cold war between Israel and Iran , with an Indian diplomat stating that " war is the reality in West Asia . Peace is just a promise . " <p> Published by HarperCollins India , ' Original Sin ' will be released on 20 December on SoftCover , ThePrint 's online platform for launching non-fiction books . <p> Stanly Johny is the International Affairs editor with The Hindu . He has a PhD in international studies from the Centre for West Asian Studies , JNU , New Delhi . He has been writing on geopolitics and Indian foreign policy for over a decade and has reported from different parts of the world . He is a visiting professor at KREA University , Sri City , Andhra Pradesh ; an adjunct faculty member at Asian College of Journalism , Chennai ; and a visiting fellow at Kerala University , Thiruvananthapuram . He is the author of The ISIS Caliphate : From Syria to the Doorsteps of India ( 2018 ) , and co-author of The Comrades and the Mullahs : China , Afghanistan and the New Asian Geopolitics ( 2022 ) . 
@@118960578 <h> After months of stalemate , Israel and Hamas are edging toward a ceasefire , with renewed U.S. , Qatar , and Egypt mediation showing both sides ' growing willingness <p> Negotiators say Israel and Hamas are inching toward a ceasefire deal . This is what it may look like Image : AP <p> Gaza : After months of stalemate , Israel and Hamas are edging closer to a ceasefire to end their 14-month conflict , with renewed mediation by officials from the U.S. , Qatar , and Egypt showing growing willingness from both sides to reach an agreement . <p> In a key development , Hamas officials have expressed readiness to show more " flexibility " regarding the timing of an Israeli troop withdrawal from Gaza . Israel 's defense minister , Israel Katz , stated on Monday that a deal is now closer than ever . <p> Officials from all sides have warned that critical details still need to be finalized . However , there is a growing sense of optimism that has been absent for months . <h> Hamas got weak ? <p> The shift in sentiment seems to stem from several factors : Israel has dealt huge blow to Hamas throughout the war , the group is increasingly isolated following Hezbollah 's ceasefire with Israel , and Iran , a key supporter of both groups , has faced setbacks , including the fall of its close ally , Syria 's Bashar Assad . <p> In the U.S. , both the outgoing Biden administration and the incoming administration of President-elect Donald Trump have signaled they want a deal completed before the Jan. 20 inauguration . <p> According to Egyptian and Hamas officials , the agreement would take place in phases and include a halt in fighting , an exchange of captive Israeli hostages for Palestinian prisoners , and a surge in aid to the besieged Gaza Strip . Israel says Hamas is holding 100 hostages -- over one-third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> Here is a closer look at the emerging deal , according to the officials , who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were discussing closed negotiations . <h> Preliminary ceasefire <p> The first phase would last from six to eight weeks . During that time , Hamas would release some 30 hostages -- roughly half of those believed alive . They include three or four dual U.S.-Israeli citizens . <p> Israel would release hundreds of Palestinian prisoners , including as many as 100 who are serving long sentences for alleged involvement in bloody attacks . <h> Increased aid <p> The deal calls for a massive increase in aid to Gaza , which has plunged into a humanitarian crisis during the 14-month war . An estimated 90% of Gaza 's 2.3 million people have been displaced , in many cases multiple times , and aid workers report severe hunger across the territory . <p> This is expected to include a reopening of the territory 's Rafah crossing with Egypt , which has been closed since Israeli ground troops invaded the southern border town in May . The crossing is especially important because it is the primary exit point for Palestinians in Gaza who want to travel abroad , and the only one not controlled by Israel . <p> Mediators say they are considering a return to a 2005 agreement that allowed the internationally recognized Palestinian Authority to operate the crossing with European Union observers . That agreement collapsed when Hamas seized control of Gaza in 2007 and expelled the Palestinian Authority forces . <p> Israeli army troops image source : AP <h> Israeli troop withdrawals <p> During the first phase , Israeli troops would withdraw from some Palestinian population centers , allowing many Palestinians to begin returning home . But Israeli troops would n't leave Gaza altogether at this stage . They would remain along the Philadelphi corridor -- a strategic strip of land along Gaza 's border with Egypt . <h> Ending the war <p> During the initial ceasefire , the sides would continue negotiations on a permanent agreement , to include an end to the war , full withdrawal of Israeli troops , and release of remaining hostages and bodies held by Hamas . <p> Talks would begin on final arrangements for Gaza , including who would govern the territory and plans for rebuilding the destruction . 
@@118975257 <h> Bodies Pile Up In North Gaza Streets <h> Share : <p> A dire environmental disaster looms over Gaza , as the streets of the northern Strip become graveyards for countless Palestinians killed in relentless Israeli airstrikes , warned Mohammed Abu Afash , Director of the Medical Relief Organization in Gaza . <p> Unretrieved bodies , abandoned amid the chaos , now rot in the open . The haunting scene is worsened by stray animals feeding on the corpses , creating an ominous health crisis that threatens to engulf the besieged region . <p> Israeli snipers are firing upon aid workers who try to retrieve the bodies . <p> The humanitarian crisis deepens as hospitals , already battered by bombings , are left without surgeons to tend to the wounded . Medical staff face crippling shortages of supplies , with access to northern Gaza blocked and healthcare workers themselves targeted by Israeli forces . <p> Abu Afash 's grim message paints a picture not just of suffering but of an unfolding catastrophe with devastating human and environmental consequences . <p> ? ? Graphic content ? ? <p> Exclusive Al Jazeera footage shows stray dogs scavenging the bodies of Palestinian victims in northern Gaza , as the Israeli army continues to block access of ambulance and civil defense teams to the area . <p> UNICEF communications specialist Rosalia Bollen described the situation in northern Gaza after nearly two months of an Israeli siege as " most dire " . <p> " Across northern Gaza , including Gaza City , the situation is very difficult for hospitals that lack medical supplies and medicines and doctors , but also for the people who are still there , " she said . <p> After driving around the area with colleagues last week , Bollen said she saw some market activity in improvised stalls but said very few had any food . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> " The little that is available is canned food . The people are hungry , cold and traumatised . A risk of famine alert was issued last month but there have n't been any supplies entering most northern parts of Gaza , so the situation will further deteriorate for the families there , " she said . <h> Related Posts <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called the conditions at Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza " appalling , " as the area has been under relentless Israeli ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118975261 <h> Share : <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called the conditions at Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza " appalling , " as the area has been under relentless Israeli assaults and a military siege for more than 70 days . <p> He said Israeli occupation authorities have arbitrarily denied four missions to the facility in the past week , including the re-deployment of an international medical team that had evacuated from the hospital on December 6 due to the Israeli attacks . <p> " Recent attacks have further damaged the oxygen supply , generators , and broken windows and doors of the patients ' rooms , " Tedros wrote on X. <p> " The conditions in the hospital are simply appalling . We urge for the protection of health care and for this hell to stop ! Ceasefire ! " <p> . @WHO and partners reached Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern #Gaza two days ago , amid hostilities and explosions in the vicinity of the hospital during the mission . The team delivered 5000 liters of fuel , food and medicines , and transferred 3 patients and 6 companions to Al-Shifa ... **26;2198;TOOLONG <p> Since October 5 , when Israel launched a new offensive on northern Gaza , believed to be part of the so-called Generals ' Plan , Kamal Adwan hospital has been under siege , with no humanitarian aid -- medical supplies , water , or life-sustaining resources -- available to people there because of the ongoing deliberate prevention by the Israeli military . <p> The vicinity of Kamal Adwan Hospital has become a notorious site , with ongoing , repeated attacks by Israeli tank shells , quadcopters and drone missiles . <p> Last night , Israeli forces destroyed the facility 's power generators and snipers fired at staff in the intensive care unit . <p> There are more than 64 patients still in the besieged facility , according to Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , the director of the hospital , including patients in intensive care who require oxygen and water . <p> " Since yesterday until now , we have barely slept due to the continuous and deliberate Israeli shelling of the hospital , " Abu Safiya said on Tuesday . <p> " The third floor was targeted . We were in the operating rooms performing surgery on one of the injured when we came under attack . As a result of the shelling , we received five additional injuries , including one patient whose left foot we had to amputate . " <p> " The third floor was set on fire , and the water tank was destroyed . The Intensive Care Unit was also targeted while patients were inside . There were terrifying sounds in the hospital yard , and we saw a military vehicle approaching the hospital . Barrels were placed , and three of them exploded , causing panic and terror in the hospital . The doors and windows were destroyed , and the shelling has continued without stopping until now . " <p> " There is currently no electricity , water , or oxygen at all . We are working to repair part of the infrastructure that was targeted , but it is clear that the whole world either does not see or does not want to see what is happening . It seems they are waiting to see the bodies under the rubble of Kamal Adwan Hospital , and that is the harsh truth . " <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118975264 <h> Israeli Snipers Target ICU in North Gaza Hospital <h> Share : <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - Israeli snipers targeted the intensive care unit ( ICU ) at Kamal Adwan Hospital for the first time , according to Dr. Hussam Abu Safiyyah , the hospital 's director . The attack shattered all the ICU windows and created a deadly environment for patients and staff . <p> From yesterday until now , relentless strikes have hit Kamal Adwan Hospital and its surroundings . The Israeli attacks have made it nearly impossible for medics to operate safely . Coordinated ambulance evacuations came under fire , leaving two paramedics injured and three of the four ambulances disabled . <p> " We now treat some patients in the hospital corridors , " Dr. Abu Safiyyah said . The strikes have destroyed critical infrastructure , including electricity , water supplies , and oxygen systems . Repair efforts are impossible under continued targeting , leaving the hospital on the brink of collapse . <p> Since yesterday , the hospital has admitted 29 injured people and reported five deaths . " If the situation continues , the hospital will turn into a mass grave , " warned Dr. Abu Safiyyah . <p> The hospital director called for urgent international intervention . " We need immediate protection for the health system and its workers . So far , no one has stepped in to help or condemned these attacks , " he added . <p> During its ongoing genocidal war on Gaza , Israel has targeted hospitals and medical staff , causing the health sector to collapse . This was part of an Israeli plan to make Gaza unhabitable and ethnically cleanse it either through pushing Palestinians to leave or killing them . <h> Related Posts <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called the conditions at Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza " appalling , " as the area has been under relentless Israeli ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118975265 <h> Joe Biden Is an Accomplice to the Slaughter of Thousands of Palestinian Children <h> Share : <p> Joe Biden should be tried and convicted of illegally providing American bombs and planes for genocide , but not before being forced to watch videos of some of the thousands of Palestinian kids murdered or maimed by Biden 's bombs and warplanes . Let Biden see the blank look of horror of a temporarily surviving Palestinian child alongside the bloodied dead body of its mother , father , brother , sister , playmate , auntie , uncle , grandad , grandma , or as often enough all of them killed by the same blockbuster bomb . <p> Let the condemnable President of the United States of American brutality be seen on the cover of Time magazine as ' Man of the Year . ' Let Americans become aware of the reality of their government 's horrific crime against humanity . Though there is currently an international arrest warrant for Biden 's partner in the crime of genocide , Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu , the International Criminal Court lets Biden off the hook . <p> Also let the rest of the world know the truth that the TV entertainment/news conglomerates under U.S.-CIA control , by their world wide audience via satellites , make every effort to obscure the mass murderous nature of the U.S. government . <p> Currently criminal Western media keeps focusing their tele-broadcasting time on the hostages held by Palestinian freedom fighters for a second exchange for some more of Israel 's thousands of Palestinians in Israeli prisons . <p> While the world watched and students protested as Israel committed genocide with American bombs turning the cities of Gaza into rubble , the Biden presidency vetoed ceasefires in Gaza commanded by the United Nations Security Council last year on October 18 , October 25 , November 8 , November 20 , and November 28 . <p> On November 22 of this year , the International Criminal Court issued an arrest warrant for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , accusing him of crimes that include " starvation as a method of warfare , " Just two days later the Biden administration again vetoed the latest UN Security Council resolution demanding a ceasefire in Gaza that even France and Britain voted in favour of . <p> For Biden and his cohorts , the Israeli users of the lethal American weapons provided , Palestinian lives must mean less than nothing.Some Israeli soldiers ' social media have shown soldierslaughing like hyenas in videos of themselves cheering the genocidal destruction on . More than 50 thousand Palestinians under illegal militarily occupation , mostly women and children have already been put to death , while another 11 thousand or more lie buried beneath the ruins of their homes , and hundreds of thousands of Palestinians in Gaza suffer the life endangering pangs of hunger that bring disease , dysentery , and fatal results of starvation and malnutrition . <p> The Face of Good ol ' Joe Biden <p> What does this caricature of a human being see when it looks in a mirror ? This monster of pitiless death and destruction sees not the creature thrown up from Hell that seeks to help Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu annihilate all Palestinian life in Gaza and the West Bank , but rather the jovial face of a human being deceptively presenting himself as a likeable father figure . <p> Do n't be fooled ! Joe Biden is a serial destroyer of human life on Earth , and Biden did n't start in October of last year . <p> Previously Joe Biden as Senator Made War on Iraq Possible <p> We knew Joe Biden as a super ' yes man ' of the war and weapons investors complex deep state already when as Senator and Chair of the powerful Senate Foreign Relations Committee , Biden vociferously called for the invasion of Iraq , even though it would be a war of the opposing party Republican President George Bush Junior . Senator Biden embraced an ultrahawkish position on Iraq , already in March 2000 , Joe Biden said at a Senate hearing that if Iraq refused weapons inspections , he " would introduce a resolution calling for the use of force by the United States of America , if we have to do it alone , to go after Saddam Hussein . " ( CongressionalQuarterly , March 2000 ) <p> In September 2004 , then-United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan stated , " I have indicated that it is not in accordance with the UN charter . From our point of view and the UN Charter point of view , it the war was illegal . " <p> Fast forward <p> " Iraq conflict has killed a million " , says survey <p> By Reuters , January 30 , 2008 ( Updated 17 years ago ) <p> LONDON , Jan 30 ( Reuters ) -- More than one million Iraqis died as a result of the conflict in their country since the U.S.-led invasion in 2003 , according to research conducted by one of Britain 's leading polling groups , ( The survey was conducted by Opinion Research Business ORB ) , but Biden 's Gaza genocide , so widely and graphically tele-broadcasted all around the world makes him someone to be remembered for representing the intensive cruelty of the American government and the deadly indifference of the American public . <p> America 's most famous critic , 96-year-old Noam Chomsky , has said repeatedly that all the U.S. presidents after Franklin Roosevelt would have been hanged if tried under the same laws the Nazis were tried under . With his Palestinian Gaza genocide Joe Biden seems to have outdone all of them in extreme mortal cruelty , except possibly Harry Truman , who had atomic bombs dropped on two cities . But Biden has the distinction of having been able to watch his provisioned genocidal daily and nightly horror go on for 14 months . <p> May Joe Biden Be Condemned To Watch Videos of the Thousands of Adorable Palestinian Children He Has Had Murdered . <p> May Americans be made aware of the genocide of their president . <p> May the Global South be empowered to stop it and learn from it . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> On January 20 , another president might continue to provide for the inhuman mass butchery of women and children . Trump has warned of consequences if the hostages are not released , but tellingly made no mention of the more than 50 thousand dead Palestinians . <p> Let 's hope and agitate for a termination of the Gaza genocide and the usurping of Palestinian land . <p> Jay Janson , spent eight years as Assistant Conductor of the Vietnam Symphony Orchestra in Hanoi and also toured , including with Dan Tai-son , who practiced in a Hanoi bomb shelter . The orchestra was founded by Ho Chi Minh , and it plays most of its concerts in the Opera House , a diminutive copy of the Paris Opera . In 1945 , our ally Ho , from a balcony overlooking the large square and flanked by an American Major and a British Colonel , declared Vietnam independent . Everyone in the orchestra lost family , " killed by the Americans " they would mention simply , with Buddhist un-accusing acceptance . Jay can be reached at : email protected . <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called the conditions at Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza " appalling , " as the area has been under relentless Israeli ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118975277 <h> Whither War on Terror <h> Share : <p> Bodies are seen outside the Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , after an Israeli strike on the town of Beit Lahiya killed scores of Palestinians in October 2024 . ( Screengrab/X ) <p> If a country suffers a very serious terrorist attack , how should it respond ? Clearly it should investigate the attack very , very carefully and thereby finding out the culprits and any collaborators , also double checking that they have been identified correctly , then should take very strong action against them and in addition , if there are also some foreign culprits , call upon the international community to take suitable strict actions against such culprits so that a clear message against terrorism can be conveyed , the culprits can be punished suitably while ensuring that any innocent persons are not harmed in the process . In addition the affected country should ask non-partisan scholars to investigate if there are any real grievances among certain sections of people , local or foreign , motivating such violence , and if there are , then such genuine grievances should also be removed , so that the root causes of violence are also removed . <p> There can be a fair degree of consensus that this should be the proper response to any major terrorist attack in any country . Now let us compare this proper response with the actual response of the USA and Israel to the biggest and extremely tragic terrorist attacks suffered by them . <p> The USA suffered the biggest terrorist attack on September 11 , 2001 , often called the 9/11 attack , in which about 3000 people were killed . The sympathies of almost the entire world immediately were with these victims and the USA . Unfortunately the USA badly muddled up the response so that in the War on Terror that it launched soon after , at least 4.5 million persons ( including soldiers of the USA and its allies ) have died in an incomplete count up to May 2023 . In other words , 1500 times the number killed in the original act of violence have perished in the course of the response , and over 90 per cent of these are innocent persons . What is more , this huge War on Terror was launched without a credible , reliable investigation of the original 9/11 attack . A very large number of people within the USA have serious doubts about the official explanation of what exactly happened on 9/11 . There are strong reasons for this and a summary of these can be found in my article in Countercurrents.org dated 17 January 2024 titled ' Truth must prevail in controversial issues of historical importance to enable system reform ' . What is more , the basic causes that lead to terrorism have increased , not deceased , in the course of this War on Terror , and in fact several terrorist , sectarian groups have been supported and created in the course , ironically , of pursuing this War on Terror . <p> Israel suffered its biggest and very tragic , distressing terror attack on 7 October , 2023 in which about 1250 people died and at that time sympathies of a very large number of people were with these victims and with Israel . Unfortunately Israel did not properly investigate this attack to bring out the entire truth , and many people in Israel also do not believe the official version . A summary of several of the reasons for this can be found in my article published in Countercurrents.org on January 3 2024 titled ' Why getting to the bottom of the October 7 attack is important for peace ' . The response of Israel has already led to the death of over 300,000 persons or about 250 times the number of people killed in the original attack , still counting , and over 90% of these are innocent persons . <p> Now let us look at the data , sources and facts in some greater detail . <p> The terrible 9/11 attacks led the USA military and foreign policy establishment to launch a prolonged series of military actions in many countries with the stated aim of curbing terrorism and terror . These have been collectively called the war on terror or terrorism , the global war on terror and the 9/11 wars . Although there have been criticisms and debates linked to these names , for practical purposes the short description of war on terror has been frequently used to collectively describe the US military actions mainly in Afghanistan , Iraq , Syria , Libya , Yemen , Somalia , Pakistan , Somalia and elsewhere . Till 2023 , the counter-terrorism operations had in fact extended to about 78 countries . <p> Countries were attacked and punished under the War on Terror in very arbitrary ways without evidence of their involvement in 9/11 or any other big terrorist attack . There are reports of US President Bush Jr . asking his leading security advisor to submit a report linking 9/11 with Iraq and its president Saddam Husain , and when he submitted a reported that there is zero such evidence , he was asked to revise his report and re-submit . General Wesley Clarke has spoken regarding his visit to Pentagon in those days and a friendly official showing him a memo from the office of the Defence Secretary stating that the USA intends to attack seven countries ( Iraq , Syria , Lebanon , Sudan . Somalia , Libya and Iran ) in the next five years , all pre-planned and decided without any transparency or evidence-based approach . <p> This war on terror has proved extremely costly in terms of loss of human life and displacement of people . According to the Costs of War data base prepared by the Watson Institute of International and Public Affairs , Brown University , USA ( briefly referred to as Brown University estimates which were also cited , although selectively , by President Biden in one of his national addresses ) , these costs from 2001 to now have been unacceptably high . <p> This data base tells us that a total of 906,000 to 937,000 human lives have been lost in this war on terror in terms of direct war deaths ( people who died from bombs and bullets or directly in conflicts ) . This figure does not include the deaths caused by infrastructure collapse of water , sewage and health as a result of war , or diseases related to war impacts . However the Brown University base clearly says that " several times as many more have been killed as a reverberating effect of war . " <p> Regarding the direct war deaths 176,000 took place in Afghanistan , 280,771 to 315,190 in Iraq , 268,816 in the context of Syria/ISIS , 112,000 in Yemen and 67,000 in Pakistan , and the remaining elsewhere . <p> What is more , 38 million people have been displaced by the post 9/11 wars -- 5.9 million in Afghanistan , 3.7 million in Pakistan , 4.6 million in Yemen , 4.3 million in Somalia , 1.8 million in the Philippines , 9.2 million in Iraq , 1.2 million in Libya and 7.1 million in Syria . <p> This estimate has been presented as a conservative estimate and according to this data base , a more realistic number would be somewhere between 49 to 60 million . <p> What did these interventions achieve ? In the case of Afghanistan , the people who faced food insecurity were 62% of the population in 2001 ( before the intervention ) , in 2022 this number had increased to 92% . The percentage of children under 5 suffering from malnutrition increased in a big way . The percentage of people of Afghanistan living in poverty increased from 80% to 97% . Women faced heavy restrictions in 2001 , they also faced heavy restrictions in 2022 . Since 2001 the US development aid to Afghanistan amounted to $ 36 billion while the US spending on top 5 military contractors amounted to $2.1 trillion or $ 2100 billion . <p> These statistics collected from many sources by the Brown University data base tell a very sad story of a highly misguided war on terror hijacked to an entirely wrong path . The 9/11 attacks had created sincere and strong sympathy for the USA , on top of an already felt need for strong action against terrorism by many world leaders . Statements of sympathy , cooperation and help were pouring in without asking from several world leaders , including from Russia . This was the right time for mobilizing strong worldwide action against all terrorisms in an unbiased way , based in the UN . Almost everyone would have cooperated and nobody would have been burdened too much by costs by pooling resources . But the hawkish policy makers in the USA concentrated instead on organizing the entire thing around their almost pre-set aggressive agenda , leading to such terrible results . <p> The financial costs alone for the USA have been 8 trillion or 8000 billion dollars , amounting to about a billion ( or 1000 million ) dollars a day over a 22 year period , or 42 million dollars an hour , or 700,000 dollars per minute , or 12000 dollars per second . <p> Compare this with the estimates made by the World Food Program ( WFP ) of 40 billion dollars a year needed to eliminate world hunger . In 2021 the WFP which is the world 's biggest feeding program had wanted to raise 15 billion dollars but could raise only 10 , although it still managed to feed about 100 million people in 120 countries , more or less , according to its data . Compare this with the 365 billion dollars a year spent on a war the most defining feature of which has been the killing of innocent people . All the rich countries together have not been able yet to together raise the promised 100 billion dollars a year grant needed for helping developing and poor countries to fight climate change , but just one of these rich countries could easily find 365 billion dollars a year for a terrible war with only destruction to show . According to the Department of Housing and Urban Development , USA , 20 billion dollars a year are needed to end homelessness in the USA . Raise this to 36 billion , and it would still be only 10% of what has been spent annually on this futile war . When , in September 2022 , President Biden announced a plan to end hunger in the USA , all that his administration could commit in public and private funding was 8 billion dollars , about 2 per cent of the annual spending on this senseless , destructive war . <p> The USA is supposed to have some of the most capable intellectuals , some of the best universities , its democratic system is supposed to have checks and balances , how then it could continue such a futile and destructive agenda for such a long time ? What is going so seriously wrong here ? What is the remedial action needed ? Answers to these questions have to be sought and only then we can say that the very costly lessons of the war on terror have been learnt . <p> When the Brown University ( USA ) based Costs of War project had estimated the direct deaths resulting from violence ( actual fighting , bombing etc. ) caused by the USA 's post 9/11 War of Terror at about 920,000 ( a little less than a million , or 0.9 million ) then many people were shocked by this . However even at that time the project researchers had cautioned that this was merely the number of deaths which were directly caused in the conflicts . They had added that if all the indirect deaths related to the war on terror are also counted ( for example deaths caused later by diseases resulting from destruction of sanitation and health facilities in the bombings ) , then the number of these deaths may turn out to be much higher , in fact it may be several times more . <p> In May 2023 , this project also released its estimates of the indirect deaths caused in the War on Terror . These indirectly caused deaths have been estimated at 3.6 to 3.7 million . If these are added to the direct deaths caused earlier , the total number of deaths in the War on Terror goes up to 4.5 million to 4.6 million . So the total number of deaths is about 5 times the number of direct deaths . <p> The details of reaching this estimate have been provided in a thoroughly researched and thickly referenced paper meaningfully titled ' How Death Outlives War -- the Reverberating Impact of the Post 9/11 Wars on Human Health ' . This important paper written by Stephanie Savell is on the one hand a confirmation of past trends ( such as in the Korean War ) that indirect death continue long after the actual war and can be much higher than the immediate war deaths , and on the other hand this is also very important from the point of view of an assessment of the costs of war which is close to reality in the context of recent wars . Hence this study is of great importance for peace activists and movements all over the world for taking their message of promoting peace and opposing wars among more and more people . <p> While this study states clearly that the total death toll in the post 9/11 war zones of Afghanistan , Pakistan , Iraq , Syria and Yemen could be at least 4.5 million to 4.6 million , it also says that so many aspects of life are affected by war that very precise estimates may not be possible to obtain and even these estimates are presented in a situation of still counting . As the number of serious malnourished children affected by ' wasting ' is reported to be very high in these countries , hunger and deprivation are widespread , the tragedy is still continuing . <p> While the main estimate appears to be concentrated on the five countries mentioned above , the tragic situation in some other countries like Somalia and Libya has also been discussed in this report . In the context of Somalia in particular it is also mentioned that in view of the serious famine-like conditions prevailing here , the counter-terrorism laws could also have adversely affected the relief efforts badly needed by starving people . <p> An important point made by the study is that while war-devastated countries may lose much of the attention of the world and ' the international community ' once the actual fighting ends , in many contexts the longer-term effects of war continue to cause more and more deaths , disabilities and distress . What is more , these deaths may even increase with the passage of time . In the case of Iraq , the number of children facing birth defects and disabilities may be very high , although this has been denied by others . There are several such examples of the longer-term health hazards of several extremely dangerous weapons , bombs and ammunitions . <p> In the contexts of several victim countries but perhaps most clearly in the context of Iraq , there appears to be a very strong case of a very large number of entirely avoidable deaths of entirely innocent persons having been caused , and of other large numbers of entirely innocent people having been exposed to very painful injuries , disabilities and diseases . Hence there is a very strong justice based case for damages in billions of dollars being paid by the main perpetrators of violence to the victims . This process can start by the USA and Britain in particular making these payments to the victims and their families in Iraq , and this can later be extended to other victim countries wherever a strong case for this exists . Such payments can not undo the great tragedy , the entirely avoidable tragedy of such great distress having been caused to entirely innocent persons just due to the whims and faulty decision making of a small bunch of arrogant persons in positions of powers , but this can help to reduce their distress even if only partially and belatedly . This is the least that can be done at this late stage . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Unfortunately instead of learning from the extremely distressing and tragic mistakes by the USA 's War on Terror , Israel is following the same hugely flawed and dangerous road after October 7 , 2023 . Its response is not just hugely disproportionate , but in addition it is also linked to a hugely destructive and aggressive wider agenda which looks more like a pre-planned agenda rather than a response to a sudden , unexpected attack . This is why this writer has been emphasizing that it is important to get at the truth of what exactly happened on 9/11 and on 10/7 . <p> Bharat Dogra is Honorary Convener , Campaign to Save Earth Now . His recent books include Planet in Peril , Protecting Earth for Children , Earth without Borders , Man over Machine and A Day in 2071 . <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called the conditions at Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza " appalling , " as the area has been under relentless Israeli ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118975279 <h> Doctors around the world warn of catastrophic situation , Call for a resounding voice to end wars and promote health <h> Share : <p> Monica Johnston RN , burn and wound care nurse from Portland , Oregon , with the Palestinian American Medical Association , monitors a patient who sustained major burns on May 8 , 2024 , in Khan Younis , Gaza . A group of 35 foreign doctors on a volunteer mission to help at the hospital , including 22 Americans , have been trapped in Gaza by Israel 's seizure of the Rafah crossing into Egypt Ammar Ghanem/AP Photo <p> The ongoing wars in different parts of the world is a cause of serious concern . The recent Russia Ukraine war which began on 24th February 2022 is not coming to an end . The consequences are dire for civilians as well . According to a recent statement by Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky some 43,000 Ukrainian soldiers have been killed and 370,000 injuries had been reported . According to United Nations Human Rights Council ( UNHRC ) nearly 4 million people have been driven from their homes and are internally displaced and 6.8 million people have crossed into neighboring countries in the region including Poland , Hungary , Moldova or other countries globally . Nearly 20 million people now require urgent humanitarian aid , many facing life-threatening shortages of essential medicines and food . <p> Crises in the Middle East is deepening everyday . After the HAMAS attack on Israel on 7 October 2023 , the Israeli Defence forces launched a disproportionate aggression over Gaza . This has killed nearly 45000 civilians , 70% of them being women and children . Bombardments have displaced over 1.5 million people , severely restricting access to clean water , medical care , and shelter , resulting in thousands of preventable deaths . Because of very limited humanitarian aid in Gaza there is serious risk of starvation . Women in the make shift arrangements are living in unhygienic conditions and some of them were pregnant and having difficulty in managing their pregnancy and delivering the babies . This is leading to spread of infection . Sometime back there was a fear of spread of polio in the region . <p> Almost 80% of the infrastructure in Gaza has been destroyed and raised to the ground . This has led to 50% of medical facilities being partially or completely disabled , and hundreds of health workers have been killed or severely injured while serving vulnerable populations . Many of these medical professionals were reportedly killed while actively providing aid amidst bombings and attacks . Several of them developed mental health problems while dealing with the seriously injured and watching small children dying in front of them because of lack of availability of required medical equipment and medicines . Most of Gaza 's hospitals now operate under precarious conditions , struggling with limited supplies , staff , and security threats . Only a few medical facilities remain functional , jeopardizing healthcare for millions of residents . <p> The new Syrian government after the fall of Asad regime is yet to stabilize and is faction ridden . Syria has been in war for a long time and has seen the largest internal displacement of 14 million people . People in Syria are yearning for a lasting peace and in that hope they are supporting the present regime . How the new region will behave only the time will tell because the present rulers are part of the Al-Qaeda and ISIS . What will be their attitude towards rights of women , their education and their healthcare is yet to be known . There are reports of scientists and intelligentsia being killed . Israel has already strengthened and further expanded its control on Golan Heights . <p> With so much instability in the world there is a great danger of escalation of these wars leading to use of nuclear weapons which would be catastrophic and for which medical fraternity has no remedy to offer . <p> As a moral , ethical and professional duty , the doctors and other health workers are trained to cure the sick and the infirm . Therefore any situation , natural or manmade , which affects health of the people , is a cause of concern to them . It is by now well accepted that war is the most serious threat to public health with catastrophic effects on infrastructure and environment and accounts for more deaths &amp; disability than many major diseases combined . It destroys families , communities and sometimes whole cultures . It channels limited resources away from health and other social needs . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> It is in this situation that the doctors from different countries gathered in Delhi on 1st December in an international seminar to share their concern . After day long deliberations they came out with a declaration demanding resounding global voice for end to wars and promotion of health . They demanded UNO to be made more effective and democratic . Protection of health workers and humanitarian aid in the affected zones be ensured . They also demanded dissolution of the NATO and QUAD . For south Asia the declaration asked for strengthening of SAARC . There was unanimous demand for abolition of nuclear weapons from earth and all nuclear weapons possessing countries to join the multilateral treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons ( TPNW ) passed by the UN General Assembly in July 2017 . This is the only way to save and promote health of the citizens of the world . <p> Dr Arun Mitra is a Practicing ENT Surgeon in Ludhiana , Punjab . He is also the President of Indian Doctors for Peace and Development ( IDPD ) www.idpd.org <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118975295 <p> Israeli airstrikes killed Al-Shanti , her husband and three children on December 11 . The attack targeted an apartment in Al-Malash Tower in Sheikh Radwan , northwest Gaza City . <p> Hours earlier , Al-Shanti wrote on Facebook : " It is unbelievable that we are still alive ? May God have mercy on the martyrs . " <p> Eman Al-Shanti , 38 , was a broadcaster at Voice of Al-Aqsa Radio . She was known for her program Asl Al-Qissa ( The Root of the Story ) , which aired on social media platforms . <p> Mohammed Baalousha <p> Mohammed Baalousha <p> Baalousha was killed when a bomb was dropped from an Israeli quadcopter on Ahmed Yassin Street in the Sheikh Radwan neighborhood on December 14 . <p> Baalousha , who worked for Al Mashhad television , had been shot by an Israeli sniper in January 2024 . Despite his injury and the absence of medical care , he continued to report and cover the Israeli assaults . <p> Mohammed Al-Qrinawi <p> Mohammed Jaber Al-Qerainawi <p> Al-Qrinawi was killed along with his wife , Maram , and their three children : Jaber , Sidra , and Ayat . Israeli warplanes targeted their home in the Al-Bureij refugee camp on December 14 . He is a journalist at Sanad News Agency . <p> Palestinian journalists bid farewell to their colleague , Al Jazeera photojournalist Ahmed al-Louh , who was killed , along with five civil defense members , in an Israeli attack on the Nuseirat refugee camp in the central Gaza Strip last night . **26;1365;TOOLONG <p> The attack targeted a Civil Defense site near the camp 's marketplace , according to Al-Awda Hospital . Medical staff confirmed that the body of Al-Louh arrived at the hospital after the strike . <p> " Massacre " of Journalists in Gaza <p> Two separate reports from media freedom organisations that analysed the deaths of reporters worldwide this year found Israel carried out a " massacre " of journalists in Gaza . <p> An annual report published by Reporters Without Borders ( RSF ) on Thursday found the Israeli army killed 18 journalists -- two in Lebanon and 16 in Gaza -- as they were working this year . <p> The toll , equivalent to around a third of the total worldwide of 54 , was described by RSF as " an unprecedented massacre " . <p> " Palestine is the most dangerous country for journalists , recording a higher death toll than any other country over the past five years , " the organisation said in its report , which covers data up to December 1 . <p> In total , " more than 145 " journalists have been killed by the Israeli army in Gaza since the start of the war there in October 2023 , with 35 of them working at the time of their deaths , the report found . <p> RSF has filed four complaints with the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) for " war crimes committed against journalists by the Israeli army " . <p> In a separate report published on Tuesday , the International Federation of Journalists ( IFJ ) said that 104 journalists were killed worldwide in 2024 , with more than half of them in Gaza . <p> The IFJ and RSF figures vary because they use different methodologies to calculate the tolls . RSF only records journalist deaths in its report if they have been " proven to be directly related to their professional activity " . <p> The IFJ also condemned Israel 's military . " The war in Gaza and Lebanon once again highlights the massacre suffered by Palestinian ( 55 ) , Lebanese ( 6 ) and Syrian ( 1 ) media professionals , representing 60 percent of all journalists killed in 2024 , " it said . <p> IFJ Secretary General Anthony Bellanger described 2024 as " one of the worst years " for media professionals . He condemned the " massacre taking place in Palestine before the eyes of the entire world . " <p> Israel 's genocidal war on Gaza has been considered the deadliest for journalists and media workers in the world in 30 years . <p> Critics accuse Israel -- which banned foreign reporters from entering Gaza -- of targeting journalists in the Palestinian territory to obscure the truth about its war crimes there . <p> Jodie Ginsberg , the chief executive of the Committee to Protect Journalists ( CPJ ) , says Israel 's killing of Palestinian journalists is part of a " systematic attempt " to " censor information coming out " of Gaza and the occupied West Bank . <p> " Deliberately targeting journalists is a war crime under international law . This attack must be independently investigated and the perpetrators must be held to account , " Programme Director at Committee to Protect Journalists ( CPJ ) , Carlos Martinez de la , said . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> According to Gaza 's Government Media Office , 195 Palestinian journalists have been killed in Israeli attacks since the start of the offensive . <h> Related Posts <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called the conditions at Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza " appalling , " as the area has been under relentless Israeli ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118975296 <h> Share : <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - Pregnant women in Gaza are enduring dire conditions as the humanitarian crisis intensifies , with escalating shortages of essential supplies and the onset of harsh winter weather . <p> According to a recent report from the United Nations Population Fund ( UNFPA ) , around 50,000 pregnant women in Gaza are particularly vulnerable amid the ongoing Israeli assault , with critical shortages of food , water , shelter , and sanitation . <p> The report highlights the deteriorating living conditions in the enclave , where heavy rains , rising sea tides , and freezing temperatures are exacerbating already severe shortages of basic necessities . <p> Water and sanitation systems are collapsing , and sewage is accumulating in the streets , worsening hygiene and increasing the spread of infectious diseases . As a result , women and girls in Gaza are increasingly suffering from reproductive and urinary tract infections , largely due to a lack of sanitary products and poor hygiene conditions . <p> The UNFPA reports that 72 percent of women are unable to access menstrual hygiene supplies , further contributing to the already unbearable situation . <p> The agency also warns of rapidly escalating food insecurity and malnutrition , with around 345,000 people across Gaza facing famine-like conditions . Among those suffering , 38,000 adolescent girls and 8,000 pregnant women are particularly at risk . <p> The assault has led to a rise in maternal deaths , miscarriages , preterm births , and low-birth-weight infants , as the healthcare system in Gaza teeters on the brink of collapse due to the relentless bombardment by Israeli forces . <p> The UNFPA report reveals that 84 percent of healthcare facilities in Gaza have been destroyed , leaving only 17 out of 36 hospitals partially operational . <p> In northern Gaza , where Israel imposed a siege starting on October 5 , the Kamal Adwan Hospital -- the last major medical facility providing maternal and newborn care -- has been besieged by the Israeli army . This has left pregnant women struggling to access critical medical services , and many newborns have died due to a lack of incubators , electricity , and essential medical supplies . <p> Jawaher , a displaced woman who fled northern Gaza , shared her painful experience with the UNFPA : " I was not ready for childbirth . We are very tired , " she said , recounting how she was in labor for two days while searching for shelter before finally reaching al-Sahaba Hospital to give birth . <p> The situation has made safe pregnancies and deliveries almost impossible . <p> The continuous Israeli airstrikes have destroyed much of Gaza 's infrastructure , including medical facilities , making it increasingly difficult for women to receive the care they need during pregnancy and childbirth . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The humanitarian crisis has also displaced thousands of families , including Adla , who fled the northern region of Jabalia . " We have no mattress , no food , no clothes -- nothing , " she told the agency . " We fled the airstrikes as we were . " <p> Since the start of Israel 's assault on Gaza on October 7 , 2023 , over 44,800 people have been killed , and more than 106,000 wounded , with women and children making up the majority of the casualties . According to the UN , around 70 percent of those who have died are women and children . <h> Related Posts <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called the conditions at Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza " appalling , " as the area has been under relentless Israeli ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118975325 <h> Erasing Culture : Israel Ca n't Win Despite Destroying a Gaza Beacon <h> Share : <p> It is unthinkable for " culture " to be destroyed by wars , yet in Gaza it is . Culture , its monuments and symbols have long become military targets crushed in a sadistic and criminal context where the aggressor targets the human and civilizational components of the subjugated party . This is what the Israeli occupation wants from its war on the Gaza Strip , brutal images committed for more than 14 months . <p> The Rashad Shawa Cultural Center ( RSCC ) is evidence of the Israeli " scorched-earth " policy on the Gaza Strip . The center was transformed from a cultural symbol receiving hundreds of people daily as part of its intellectual , cultural , and artistic activities , exhibitions , and communicating with the world in seminars addressing all local and global issues , into a destroyed , desolate place now for displaced people who seek shelter from the Israeli Nazi Holocaust the occupation is waging across the Strip . <p> Following 7 October , 2023 , the Israeli aggression began targeting all cities and regions of the Strip , especially the northern governorates , and spreading death everywhere with the residents of Gaza finding themselves forced to move from one place to another , seeking nothing more than escape from the Israeli cauldrons of death . <p> Weeks passed after the start of that aggression while temporary truces only lasted for a few days , allowing the people of the Al-Rimal neighborhood in Gaza City to return to their wrecked homes , only to be shocked by the the gutted Center that had become a thing of the past , after the Israeli army and occupation bombed it . <p> The residents had long been accustomed to seeing this great cultural edifice . Inside were chants , competitions , and humming of readers in the library that held more than 100,000 books in the sciences , knowledge , and arts , and a source of pride for the residents of Gaza becoming a destination for visitors from all over the world ; a beaconed intellectual window that expresses Palestinian civilization with its diverse spectrums and openness to the world , in addition to what it represented of dear memories , now turned upside down by the brutality of the occupation into a pile of dirt . <p> The Gaza Municipality condemned the Israeli destruction of the Center , as part of its barbaric aggression on the Gaza Strip , killing thousands of civilians , destroying the city 's main landmarks , and erasing the cultural memory of the Palestinian people according to the Palestine Information Center . <p> The municipality called on UNESCO to intervene and condemn the occupation 's crimes against cultural centers , libraries , and historical and archaeological landmarks of the city . <p> The RSCC was the first of its kind to be built in Palestine , and named after Rashad Shawa , who served as the mayor of Gaza between 1972 and 1975 , and built this center to become a Palestinian cultural beacon . <p> The architectural and engineering plans for establishing and designing the center began in 1978 and it first opened its doors in 1985 and its printing press began the following year with the center slowly expanding its activities reaching a peak in the 1990s and especially after 1994 when the Palestinian Authority took its seat there . <p> The RSCC center had a distinctive design that give it a modernistic outlook spread over two floors with a spiral stairway and an impressive triangular roof . In 1992 , it was nominated for the Aga Khan Award for Creativity in Architecture . Before its destruction , those in charge took care of it and restored it periodically to preserve its distinctive architectural appearance . <p> The building witnessed important events in the history of the Palestinian cause , including : Hosting sessions of the National and Legislative Councils , and visits by heads of state , including former US President Bill Clinton in 1998 met by the late Palestinian President Yasser Arafat , and many world figures . <p> Cultural isolation <p> Before its destruction , the center worked to end the cultural and civilizational isolation the Palestinians suffered from as a result of the Israeli occupation , and its attempt to erase the Palestinian identity and steal its heritage . <p> Even before its destruction , the center faced global isolation because of the continued Israeli siege that was imposed on Gaza since 2007 and the worsening economic situation that was created and which was reflected in the social and cultural aspects of life in the Strip . <p> Major destruction to the Rashad Al Shawa Cultural Center in #Gaza as a result of its targeting by the #Israeli occupation army . <p> As with all aspects of life in Gaza , nothing has remained the same , the buildings no longer stand , the patterned landmarks destroyed , families scattered while institutions reduced to brick and mortar if not plotted out . <p> Culture usually plays its role in awareness and enlightenment but here and over the past months , it has become a witness to the tragedies of massacres , separation of family and friends , and the endless journeys of people forced to move with the center reduced to housing refugees who place plastic bags on its walls to protect themselves , and light fires to try and keep warm from the harsh winter . <p> In its ongoing aggression on the Gaza Strip , the Israeli occupation targeted the cultural and scientific centers of Gaza , its universities , and all outlets expressing the identity , civilization and heritage of the Palestinian people to obliterate their cultural landmarks so that the barbarism of occupation is entrenched in their public memory and the identity of the right of the owners to the land and holy places erased . <p> Israel Will Not Succeed <p> The RSCC was not the only architectural and cultural victim of the Israeli aggression as the destruction machine flattened universities and other cultural centers , including Al-Saqa Palace in Gaza City 's Shuja'iyya built at the end of the Ottoman period during the reign of Sultan Muhammad IV . <p> In November 2023 , Abaher Al-Saqa , professor in the Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences at Birzeit University , wrote : " Beit Al-Saqa , or as people call it , Qasr Al-Saqa , was built by my late grandfather 's cousin , Ahmad Al-Saqa , one of the city 's major merchants . Its walls are studded with sandstone and the ceilings are Roman marble . It is 350 years old and was designated by the family to be turned into a cultural center after it was restored by the Islamic University . It was bombed as part of the brutal colonial bombing . The colonial authorities are exterminating the city 's urban and architectural history , in parallel with the genocide . " <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Riwaq , the Palestinian Center for Popular Architecture , based in the West Bank city of Al-Bireh ( which participated in the restoration of Beit Al-Saqa with the Iwan Center of the Islamic University of Gaza ) , noted in a recent post the house was completely bombed on 9 November , according to Aser Al-Saqa , a member of the family that owns the historic building in Shuja'iyya . <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called the conditions at Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza " appalling , " as the area has been under relentless Israeli ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118975326 <h> Share : <p> The national organization Veterans For Peace , with chapters in over 100 US cities , is calling on US Senators to vote NO on Pete Hegseth for US Defense Secretary , should President-elect nominate him . <p> Veterans For Peace is astounded that someone with the track record of Pete Hegseth would seriously be considered for the critically important role of US Secretary of Defense . His dubious and questionable qualifications are far overshadowed by the many reasons that should disqualify him . These include a well-documented record of misogyny , sexual assault , white supremacy , Islamophobia , financial malfeasance , alcoholism , and opposition to VA healthcare . Are these the qualities we want in our Secretary of Defense ? <p> Misogyny <p> Hegseth 's long-running abusive behavior toward women -- even decried by his own mother -- should be more than enough to disqualify him . His stated intention to reverse progress for women and gays in the military was only reversed by him in recent days , after pressure from key women Senators whose votes he needs if he is to be confirmed as Defense Secretary . Can he be trusted to defend the rights of women and LGBTQ+ people in the military ? Would he challenge the rampant sexual abuse within the military today ? <p> White Supremacy / Islamophobia <p> Pete Hegseth sports tattoos on his body that are associated with White Supremacy . In January 2021 , Hegseth was one of 12 national guardsmen flagged as potential insider threats and removed from a group providing security for the presidential inauguration of Joe Biden , after a fellow Guard member reported he had a tattoo on his biceps reading " Deus Vult , " a phrase associated with the Crusades and , in the 21st century , with white supremacists . Hegseth has said that his National Guard superiors removed him because of his Jerusalem Cross tattoo , a Christian symbol which they determined was connected to extremism . <p> Post Traumatic Stress / Alcoholism <p> Pete Hegseth 's bouts with binge drinking and public drunkenness at formal organizational events have been widely reported . On one such occasion , he was heard shouting " Kill All Muslims . " Was it the alcohol talking ? Islamophobia ? Or both ? As a national guardsman , Hegseth served at Guantanamo Bay and in Iraq and Afghanistan . Veterans For Peace recognizes that many veterans who experience Post Traumatic Stress , Traumatic Brain Injury , or Moral Injury have difficulty returning to civilian life , and have problems with alcohol and antisocial behavior . They need professional help , not the additional stress associated with US war-making . <p> A Voice of Restraint ? Or Nuclear War ? <p> Pete Hegseth should not be making critical defense decisions for the largest military in the world , particularly at this dangerous moment of superpower confrontation and nuclear brinksmanship . The very existence of human civilization is imperiled . Would Pete Hegseth be able to provide the president with wise counsel regarding ending the war in Ukraine ? Could he stop sending US weapons to fuel the horrific genocide in Gaza ? Would he put a brake on the Neocon drive for wars against China and Iran ? Could he be a responsible check on a president 's decision to use nuclear weapons ? We fear that the answer to these questions is No . <p> Financial Mismanagement <p> Pete Hegseth has a track record of " failing upward . " He has been demoted and forced to resign from several veterans organization and PAC 's , after failing to raise funds , and spending as much as half of the organizations ' funds on Christmas parties for families and friends . Arguably , the stupendous and ever-growing Pentagon budget , which just failed its 7th audit in a row , and for which there is remarkably little accountability , might be the perfect piggy bank for Pete Hegseth . <p> Hegseth Threatens VA Healthcare <p> Of particular concern to many veterans is Hegseth 's opposition to VA healthcare . He supports " outsourcing " -- or privatizing VA healthcare -- a concerted goal of the Koch brothers-funded Concerned Veterans of America , which Hegseth headed up from 2013-16 . For all its shortcomings , the Veterans Administration continues to provide excellent healthcare to millions of veterans , who rely on it and greatly appreciate it . Undermining , defunding and privatizing healthcare is an attack on all veterans , as well as an attack on the healthcare system , for which the VA provides one of the very best models . Senators who are interviewing Pete Hegseth should ask him why he would dismantle VA healthcare in favor of the failing private healthcare model . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Poll : Pete Hegseth should not be Secretary of Defense <p> Veterans For Peace 's opposition to confirming Pete Hegseth as US Defense Secretary is shared by most Americans , only 20% of whom approve , according to a recent poll . Will our Senators get the message ? We should make sure that they do . <p> <p> Veterans For Peace is dedicated to restraining the US government from intervening in the internal affairs of other nations , and calls on the US to end its complicity in the Gaza genocide by stopping the flow of US weapons to Israel . <p> As President-elect Donald Trump shapes his administration , his cabinet picks have raised eyebrows , especially among those concerned about US foreign policy and long history of wars . A significant number of ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118975334 <h> What Syria Needs Now Is International Solidarity : Orwa Nyrabia <h> Share : <p> Orwa Nyrabia is a film activist , was a prisoner of the Assad regime in Syria before international pressure got him released . He later became artistic director of the International Film Festival of Amsterdam , a post he has just stepped down from . Countercurrents.org did an email interview with him on the present situation in Syria . <p> Countercurrents : Many people in Damascus and elsewhere were seen celebrating after the fall of Bashar al-Assad regime even though the Islamist militant group Hayat Tahir al-Sham ( HTS ) and its allies were taking over . Is that what Syrians wanted ? <p> Orwa Nyrabia : Syrians , or at least a vast majority of them , from the country 's many various ethnic and religious groups , are going through an unprecedented experience , and part of that is a collective joy that we have never experienced before . We are happy . We got rid of a dictatorship that confiscated our hope over five decades . We now have hope . This experience of joy also extends to many in Lebanon , who experienced the criminality of the Syrian regime since 1978 . <p> The collapse of the regime came after 14 years of the Syrian revolution . The cost of which has been tremendously painful . At least since 2017 , we have been coming to terms with defeat , as a society , as a people . The regime was about to collapse in 2013-2014 , and the military intervention of Russia and Iran prevented that . Extending the life of the regime has been the result of foreign interests , of external military intervention . After 54 years under one of the most brutal regimes in history , the bar becomes lower and we can be happy to cross this barrier . We now know that nobody can be as brutal as Assad 's regime . This is an accomplishment of the Syrian people , not of any one group . <p> It has been shocking to realize how much the world does not know , does not want to know about level of criminality of the Assad regime . Most Syrians are victims of this regime , in a way or another . The number of political detainees over five decades rarely leaves a Syrian family unharmed . Massacres by the regime started in the late 1970s , and continued until 2020 . The regime normalized extreme torture in ways that are incomparable to other regimes around the world , and in numbers that are much larger than in other countries . It is common for us , Syrians , to share a bitter smile when people speak of the horrors of CIA torture , or even of the Israeli torture , with all the ugliness of these examples . <p> Historically , the regime always used the actions of small groups of religious extremism/Salafist Jihadism as a pretext to crack down brutally on political dissent in the country . It presented itself as an expert in fighting " terrorism " , long before Netanyahu did that . As pupils in the 1980s and 1990s , we started our mornings in school by shouting the slogans of the ruling Baath party . On every morning , the " military education " teacher would shout " Our Pledge is ... " , and we 'd all have to shout back : " To combat Imperialism , the Reactionary , and Zionism , and to crush their criminal instrument , the treacherous Muslim Brotherhood gang " . <p> Furthermore , when we speak of the corruption of the Syrian regime , we are not talking about conflict of interest , bribery , or such practices . We are talking about systemic , deep , and resilient structures . The Assad family 's regime failed to manage the country 's wealth , which is not massive , but is not too small either . Mismanagement meant that the people lived in much worse conditions than they could have . A parallel corruption economy was established and maintained . To compensate for the low salaries , to keep the pretence of being socialist , regime operatives and officers were given free hand to exploit their power the way they like . We used to call that " direct tax collection " when we tried to laugh at our catastrophe . The tax system was only comparable to mafia extortion , and it was repeatedly manipulated to pressure bourgeois and petite-bourgeois dissidents . Pyramids of corruption started with the traffic police , with almost every civil servant you would ever meet , who paid up the ladder to their superiors , and so on . After Hafez Assad 's death in 2000 , a dispute started between the Assad family and a Swiss bank that did not accept to hand a few million dollars in a bank account belonging to the dead man , because he did not think he would die , so he did not leave a will . We now know that Bashar Assad , as a " refugee for humanitarian reasons " in Russia , is living in one of many high-end residences he personally owns in Moscow . Over the past decade , it is not a secret that the regime facilitated and made money from the world 's largest Captagon tablets producing and smuggling networks , which might have amounted to 80% of global production of the drug . This corruption did not stop at the economy , it expanded deeply into the social fabric of the country . I still remember when I was a teenager how a kid in my neighbourhood got rid of his violent father by reporting that he was an Islamist . Fear of an informant in the family penetrated many homes in the country . <p> A big question today is where is the Syrian Left . The answer of this question is not different from that in various countries . The Left is in crisis . A crisis of capacity , of rejuvenation , and of real relationship with the street . Since the 1970s , Syrian left has been split twice . The first time when the Syrian Communist Party stood against Assad 's despotic plans , and particularly his 1974 Disengagement agreement with Israel , that was seen as a huge compromise . This was faced by a mighty push back from Moscow , taking the side of Assad . It caused a division between communists who are not in line with Assad and Moscow , becoming banned and persecuted , and those who do whatever those two ask . A few years after that , another split happened between those who believe the regime is the priority enemy , and the emerging Islamist movements are an organic part of society that should be taken seriously and with whom we must build bridges , and those who believe that democratic project should only be concerned with those who believe in democracy , that it is acceptable to wait for the regime to get rid of Islamists for us , and then we combat the regime . Both sides were brutally persecuted , imprisoned , and exiled . In my own small leftist family , which is not an exception in Syria , my father was detained and tortured for 5 years , an uncle of mine was detained and severely tortured for 19 years , and another uncle for 4 years . As a child , I used to explain the absence of my father by saying that he 's in Argentina , and my uncles were in Brazil . Because when people know you are from a dissident family , they fear being associated with you , and you get stigmatized , even targeted , by the regime informants spread in all society . Sill , in comparison to other families , we were lucky ! So , Syrian leftists are part of every side in the current experience . Many are working in journalism , in culture , in human rights , and they are also spread around with many diverse opinions and approaches . However , there are barely any Leftist political structures that are truly effective at this moment . Much work to be done . <p> In 1982 , the actions of an armed Jihadist Salafist group that might have had comprised 250 members around the country were believed to be centered in the city of Hama , and that was the pretext for the Syrian Army Special Forces led by Bashar Assad 's uncle Refaat destroyed large parts of the city and executed more than 40.000 of its inhabitants in 20 days . 40 thousand is the most probable number of victims , but estimates go anywhere between 25 thousand and 150 thousand killed in three weeks . This happened in February , and the Israeli invasion of Lebanon came right after that in June . Before that , in 1979 , a failed assassination attempt on Hafez Assad made the regime send soldiers to the infamous Tadmor Prison where they executed no less than 600 Islamist political prisoners in their prison cells , as a form of retaliation . Just before that , a Unions ' Movement , 1978-1979 , demanding controls over corruption a shift towards democracy , held conferences around the country and spoke up -- was met by mass detention of Union leaders and members . <p> The Syrian uprising started in the most peaceful way imaginable in 2011 . The man who famously gave roses to army soldiers , Ghiath Matar , was tortured , maimed , and mutilated to death in an underground detention centre . He became one of the revolution 's great icons . The ( verified ) total sum of victims since then is over half a million people killed , over 150 thousand disappeared , and more than 11 million displaced . But over the past few days , as rebels opened all the country 's political prisons and secret detention centres , it now seems that less than 10 thousand were found alive . The country is now trying to accept that about 140 thousand more were silently murdered in detention while their loved ones were still waiting for them . <p> This history is long , and needs much more than my words here to be explained or exposed . However , this is to say that Syrians are celebrating the end of this criminal regime , and not the one group that happened to lead this final moment . However , the emergence of such groups did not come out of the blue . There 's a history behind it . The leader of HTS , Ahmad Al Shara ' , formerly known as Abu Mohammad Al Jolani ( note that his nom de guerre refers to the fact he hails from the Israeli-occupied Jolan Heights ) , went to Iraq in 2003 to volunteer to fight against the US invasion as a 21 year old man , and witnessed the terror of the American destruction , and George W. Bush 's offensive rhetoric . It was there that Al Shara ' was , like many others , radicalized . At those moments of extreme terror , radical religious thought was an effective shelter for many . Later , he was imprisoned by the Americans in Iraq , where he was radicalized even more , and then he joined Al Qaeda , and broke up with them a couple of years later in Syria . So , it is all connected . <p> To answer your question , the end of this regime was what most Syrians wanted . I can not speak of is how many of them do welcome HTS or similar groups as leaders . Their crimes are not forgotten by most , but there 's a clear will to try and open a new page . This new power is now a defacto leadership , and many are waiting to see what will happen . It has only been a few days , and there are surprisingly good signs , and then other signs that are deeply worrying too . What must be said is that this new power showed an unprecedented level of restraint and control over the past historical few weeks . Vengeance acts are almost non-existent and the discourse , though it is a highly restrictive religious one , is much more open than anything we have seen before . Then , we also see scary signs that they see themselves monopolizing power , that they do think their " victory " entitles them to do that . This calls for a different approach . It is still early to judge , especially because they are learning very fast , and they are adapting in an impressively quick manner . <p> This is not only special in the Syrian context . The Salafist Jihadist movement altogether is going through a historically unique experiment today . Its ranks include , like any force , both hawks and doves , and it seems to be trying to reconcile two dreams now : the dream of going to God 's heaven , with the dream of being liked by the people on earth . Until today , only one approach towards them was tested , since the start of this wave in 1950s . We 've always dehumanized them , infantilized them , saw them as a disgrace , and murdering them was seen as a necessary evil , even sometimes as a great accomplishment . It has always been the same and it always resulted in more angry , more violent reincarnations of this movement . Today , this group is saying , and already showed in deeds , that it wants to " protect all the communities of Syrian society " . While we will always be very much worried about their understanding of " protection " , we can also take note that they are breaking with the notion of Takfir . The Salafist-Jihadist notion of considering anybody who is not exactly on the same page with them to be an infidel , and thus , unworthy . They are showing a pragmatist approach , rather than an entirely closed dogmatic one . We can also see this as a window for work , as an opportunity to try and push them to focus on the second purpose , being liked by people , rather than reverting back to the first , that of being liked only by God . <p> Still , do we trust them ? Absolutely not ! But history does not rely on trust . We also have to be realistic and see that we do not have power , or even a choice . But we can work to prevent , or put certain controls in front of their overwhelming influence over the near future of the country . This requires serious and responsible political work , rather than clear-cut judgments of who is good and who is bad . And here , international pressure could help . Because Syria will need a lot of help from the world now . Another important factor here is the fact that Syria , with all its diversity and socio-economic complexity will not be easy for any new government to lead . Whoever will try to lead now will have to adapt , will learn that they need the others on board , or they will fail . <p> It is a new chapter and those who were dissident to that regime are already prepared to be dissidents to any new one ! It is not over , just the most brutal chapter of our history is over now . We get to celebrate that . <p> CC : Do you think that many people who fled Syria during the Assad regime will return to Syria ? <p> Orwa Nyrabia : It is still to be seen . There 's no doubt that the majority of displaced Syrians , inside Syria and in neighbouring countries have been living in refugee camps under terrible conditions and with no hope has already started to return to their homes . As for those who already established quasi-normal lives around the world , a new government will have to show its intentions first . People have children in schools , and jobs in more than 100 countries now . We have been living with no hope of returning home for years already . It is all too sudden . It will take some time for each family and each individual to find their way . But we know that the country needs everyone . Both for its wellbeing , economy , education , health ... etc , and for its political future too . EU governments would like to keep the so-called " well-integrated " Syrians , especially those already contributing to the economy . Germany 's health sector already announced that it is scared of losing the 5800 Syrian doctors in Germany today . But to send back those who did not " integrate " well into Western mainstream . In Syria , the new defacto forces are calling on all to return , and rightfully saying that the country needs all of us , but not yet realizing that they also have to pay a price for the return and the contribution of everybody . Such a price compromises of guarantees over participation , personal rights , the rule of law , and a civil state , not a holy one . <p> CC : What is the ethno-religious composition of the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) and other important rebel groups ? Are they all composed of native Syrians , or do they have significant numbers of foreign fighters ? <p> Orwa Nyrabia : There is a minority of their fighters or collaborators that come from various Arab and Muslim countries . Think of this as an Islamist Jihadist global solidarity movement . It is radical Jihadists own version of the 15th brigade in the Spanish Civil War . They do believe they are all one nation . There are many voices demanding their expulsion , but unsurprisingly , those who fought right next to them see them as valuable comrades . <p> However , the vast majority is made up of native Syrians , and time proved that they are not homogeneous in their political and social beliefs . This is not a small group of people indoctrinated with the same dogma . It was like that before it was besieged in Idleb province over the past years , and thus stopped being a secret organization . Now it is a massive grouping of those who found meaning through fighting with , under the leadership of , one of the few groups that did not lose hope already . <p> CC : Many commentators are suggesting that HTS and its allies achieved this success at lightning speed because they were supported by Turkey , USA/NATO and even Israel . What is your opinion ? <p> Orwa Nyrabia : That is , in my opinion , another condescending colonial interpretation of these events . Every power in the West made clear that it is not willing to invest into Syria 's opposition in any way , at least since Obama dropped his chemical weapons red line in 2013 . That was after the regime used Sarin gas to kill over 1200 civilians in their homes at night near Damascus , after which Putin 's propaganda worked hard to spread the lies that it was the opposition ( referring always to Islamist opposition and making sure the existence of any other opposition is always forgotten ) , who killed their own children to blame it on the regime . A spread of hysterical lies that unfortunately found ears with various Leftists around the world ... those who found it a more convenient narrative that admitting that a seemingly anti-American regime is actually a criminal one . It was after that moment that Western powers started to propagate the idea that " there are no good sides in Syria " , and that " moderate opposition is a myth ( what contributed effectively to the decline of moderate opposition ) . While at the same time , Putin 's own imperial ambitions found a new foothold , got a number of military bases in Syria , a large military airport , and direct access to the Mediterranean . A former dream of Russia , since 19th century , that was only attainable in a deal with Assad , for the price of keeping him in power . <p> The US was taken by surprise since November 27 , just like the Russians . They expected a push from north , but did not expect the regime to collapse so fast . Remember that supporting the Kurdish armed structure , SDF , has been the strategic choice of the Pentagon for years . We should not underestimate American intelligence 's manipulative capacities ... but we also should not overestimate them . They are a super power , but not a mythological level of genius . <p> As for Turkey , and although there 's no clarity here , has been investing in the so-called National Syrian Army , where its main interest was to block the Kurdish SDF . It had connections to HTS , but it did not seriously support it . However , there seems to be some understanding between the rebels and the Turkish government over the past few weeks . Then , the rebels are repeating that Turkey did not directly support their efforts , and I do tend to find that more plausible . The priority of Turkey is to corner and control the power of Kurdish forces , and by tracking the rebel groups that prioritize that , one can see Turkish influence more clearly . All that said , Turkey , and others , seem to have hopped on this train only after it moved successfully , they probably did not move the train . I think the example of Hamas and Oct 7th might apply here ... as we now know that Hamas did reach out to various powers nearby seeking help before the operation , and they were told they should go ahead on their own and then they 'll be supported . Nobody takes more risk than that in this region and this context . <p> CC : Commentators suggest that the timing of the attack by the rebels was crucial when Iran and Russia were weakened by wars in Ukraine and Lebanon/Gaza . The power that is being benefitted most by the regime change in Syria is Israel . Do you see an Israeli hand in this operation ? <p> Orwa Nyrabia : Again , there 's a colonial view of all of this . International forces are never irrelevant , and conspiracies are not always imaginary . However , to keep on prioritizing theories that ignore the local people , their will , and their work should be questioned . When it comes from the West , it is colonialism ... but when it comes from the South , I wonder if it is not cynicism ... a reflection of our very own despair , our own belief that we do not , or can not , own our choices and actions . <p> October 7th did result in more than weakening the so-called " axis " . Iran 's regional influence , its meddling with the internal politics , and of armed militias in the region is severely diminished now . Its fight with Saudi Arabia over regional influence , dressed up in a sectarian narrative , is totally different today . Hezbollah , whose members supported Assad and infamously committed many massacres in Syria , against civilians and with the most sectarian way , paid the price of expanding its numbers dramatically to do that . Hezbollah could be destroyed by Israel as we watched , because of the inflation in numbers and in structure that it had to implement , to support Assad and protect Iranian interests in Syria . It is also relevant to mention that Assad has disappointed Putin recently , when he refused to make peace with Turkey in a deal that Russia brokered and wanted . <p> Israel used this moment in the most irresponsible , arrogant , and opportunistic manner . The claim of Netanyahu that the 1974 ceasefire agreement with Syria was signed with the regime , and as the regime fell , the agreement is null and void , will be remembered in history as a case study in political evil . The fact that the world does not stop Israel is not new . It did not do so in Gaza , nor in Lebanon , and now in Syria . What Israel did recently , invading more Syrian land that it occupied first in 1967 , and liberated by Syria in 1973 , is relevant in more than one way to our future . There 's a pain here that will live long . A pain of being abused in your rare moment of happiness . A bad learning that happiness is vulnerability . But not a new practice to the history of the Israeli war machine . To invade with impunity , to claim historical right to the land of others , or to market a blatant aggression as a necessary act of self-defence , none of this is new . <p> However , it also is not a matter of dispute that Israel 's actions , destroying Syria 's military capacities in what they called the largest air force operation of their history , comes as a result of what we , Syrians , always knew : Assad 's regime has always been speaking against Israel , but acting against the Palestinians . The regime always used its fictional war with Israel as a justification for dictatorship . The enemy was always more important than us , but we never really confronted the enemy , we lived a practical peace since 1974 . The Arab Nationalist regime never saw the current Syria as a convincing border for its power . Hafez Assad always saw himself as the leader of all Arabs , and thus , he never respected the leaderships of Palestine or Lebanon . Overall , Israel felt safe with this regime in power , even though it had a problem with how it recently allowed an arms highway between Iran and Hezoballah . <p> On the other hand , it should be clear that the Syrian people , in general , are not just Pro-Palestine ... We do not have a merely ethical or a political solidarity with Palestine , because we all live , day in and day out , with our Palestinian refugees , our friends and relatives displaced from the Occupied Jolan ( Golan Heights as Israelis call it ) , with our Palestinian relatives and our Palestinian partners . The relationship between Syria and Palestine , as well as Lebanon and Jordan and Iraq , is much more organic and profound than any solidarity movement . Remember that the current borders between these countries were all imposed by colonial powers after WW I. Then , neither Syrians nor Palestinians are one block of homogeneity . We are many , and we have different opinions and approaches . The rest is international political convenience that favours hearing only those of us who serve the moment 's preferred narrative . <p> So , we also have a lot of work here . But it is not what it seems from the outside . <p> CC : After the takeover of Syria by the rebels , Israel has bombed Syria hundreds of times , especially hitting military targets . Do you think that it will weaken Syria militarily and shift the regional balance of power in favour of Israel ? <p> Orwa Nyrabia : I think I partly responded to this question earlier ... <p> CC : Yassin al-Haj Saleh , Syrian author and leftist activist in a 2022 article accused Noam Chomsky and other Western leftist intellectuals of having a Western bias in interpreting events in Syria . He said , " Washington 's role in the world has ossified into a theology , with the U.S. as a malevolent God " . Do you think that the Western leftist interpretation of Syria was skewed in favour of Assad ? <p> Orwa Nyrabia : In this very important essay , Yassin was much more kind than I would have been , towards Western Left . First , it is not only in the West , it also applies in India for example . There 's a history of defending the narrative . Cubans have been living under a terrible dictatorship for decades now , while we , Leftists around the world , easily discard their pain because we can not imagine our own selves without the image of the great Cuban revolution . We discarded Cuban dissidents as CIA agents for a long time ! One might even say that we must have pushed some of them to become so , as we left them no other path . So , not so differently from Imperialistic powers , the Left did prefer the narrative of propaganda and , in practice , the Cuban people were acceptable collateral damage in the service of the greater good ... just not for the good of Cubans . <p> The fact that the atrocities of Assad 's regime are always underrated , the theories that Assad is innocent of all the massacres he perpetrated , or the ongoing denial of Syrians ' joy these days ... are all painful to watch and interesting to study . The inconvenience of a narrative that challenges our simplification of the world is interesting to study . How is it Leftist to deny the joy of the millions , or to teach an entire nation from the outside about its own life ? The priority of Islamophobia , or even the massive fear of Salafist-Jihadist movements , the exaggeration of their role in the world , and the clarity that they should all be exterminated , were all ideas that Assad the father was selling since the 1970s , and they only caught fire after 9/11 . This fixation , the denial of facts , of the complexity of the Syrian experience today , the reduction to this one challenge , is in itself anti-marxist to me , even more widely , it is anti-philosophical . <p> So , we here have a long list of priorities and historical compromises to be made . We need safety , dignity , justice , and we need freedom , liberties , and an inclusive democratic system that allows us to shape our future as a people . We know that we will not get all we want at once . We know how long , profound , slow , and painstaking change is . We now accept that the next chapter will be just better than the previous one , relatively speaking , and we prepare to keep on fighting for it to be better and better . We have no money , no power , and we are traumatized , in pain , and in mourning for all those we 've lost . But , we have hope today . We did not have that until a few weeks ago . <p> The only serious leftist approach today would be to stand by the side of the people -- as opposed to protecting a comfortable simplified narrative , or prioritizing hurting the oppressor over solidarity with the oppressed . That is a defining responsibility . All narratives are being skewed to serve our hatred of American imperialism , rather than our love to the world 's oppressed . We can/must work on that . <p> CC : Syria is now controlled by many groups supported by many outside forces . Do you see a balkanization of Syria ? <p> CC : How do you view the fate of the Kurdish resistance movement in the new scenario , given the fall of the Assad government and the increased role ofTurkey ? <p> Orwa Nyrabia : I will combine the two questions <p> A balkanization needs active external support , and that is nonexistent today . Interest in Syria dried out substantially over the past few years . A renewal of that interest is yet to be seen , or not . A balkanization was a possibility until a week ago , when we saw the parts of society that we always saw supporting Assad celebrating his regime 's demise and showing the rest of Syria the hidden injustice and exploitation they have been enduring under his iron fist . When we first demanded democracy in the Spring of Damascus , 2000-2001 , the regime called it " the Algerization of Syria " . Since 2011 , we heard " Afghanization " and " Somalization " very often . This format becomes somewhat cynical with repetition . <p> A serious plan for a democratic and dignified future for the country would almost certainly need to rely on a new constitution that recognizes and protects the rights of Kurdish people , and of others , and a federal system , where various regions , notably the Kurdish , have a guaranteed right to a functioning autonomy under a collective national structure . Many Arab and Kurdish thinkers and politicians believe in this . However , there are historical sensitivities , and then even more pressing recent ones that prevent a faster and safer process . On the Kurdish side , as much as on the Arab side , there are various fractions -- there are hardline nationalists , and there are people building bridges . The historical injustice that the Kurdish people endured ( in Syria , Turkey , Iraq , and Iran ) should not be expected to bring about a coherent front of Kurds of the same color . The over romanticization , sometimes even the fetishization of Kurdish fighters and their just struggle is yet another example of self-serving global Left narrative . It takes away the actual complexity and the richness of Kurdish people . The need for outside support is making Turkey a leading power . Not many others are showing interest in supporting a new Syria . This reality does put any serious chance for a better Arab-Kurdish future in the country at a serious risk . <p> CC : The uprising against the Assad regime in 2011 was for democracy . What has now happened is that Syria is being taken over by Islamists groups ! Do you think that the revolution was sabotaged ? Do you see democracy coming to Syria in the near future ? <p> Orwa Nyrabia : I do not think the revolution was sabotaged . I do think that some , not all , Islamist factions proved to be resilient , committed and hard-working . The fact that I stand against them in many ways should not prevent me from noting this . It has been a long journey and the rise of these powers , in my opinion today , is linked to two factors : A history of oppression , and external manipulation , through funding mainly . It is a reality . Progressive forces did not engage in building military power . There 's a price to that , as much as a virtue in it . <p> Democracy will come ! But it will probably come through a painstakingly slow process of multiple phases . A calmer and less bloody phase would now hopefully be the first . <p> CC : How does one neutralize or even stay safe from Israel and USA ? And is a truth and reconciliation process possible to initiate given that virtually all parties have blood on their hands ? <p> Orwa Nyrabia : A reconciliation process is indeed a necessity . First loss of this recent victory was that both rebels and civilians celebrated by destroying many secret prisons around the country . With that , huge amounts of important documents are already lost . However , the legal and human rights side of opposition developed greatly over the past few years . I do have confidence that even if the new defacto powers do not invest enough into this process , there are others , many great people who are already working day and night to find pathways towards justice . For it will be a key factor in a process of building a new social contract , and in showing any future government that there are checks and balances , even when the world does not want to help . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> As for neutralizing or staying safe from Israel and the USA ... It is also a question of Russia , Iran , Turkey , KSA , UAE , Qatar , and the European Union . There 's no scenario where everybody 's hands are off Syria . Syria 's future government will need to be wise and smart enough to build balance between all these different forces . <p> Victorious cheers and celebrations erupted across the capital , Damascus , as the nearly half-century-old Assad regime fell in Syria , the Middle East 's central conflict zone . However , the stability and sovereignty of ... <p> After December 2010 when a desperate and angry Tunisian young man of the name of Mohammad Bouazizi , dramatically immolated himself , an unprecedented wave of mass protests against incumbent totalitarian regimes ... <p> Damascus ( Quds News Network ) - In its first official stance , the new Syrian Interim Government has condemned Israel 's invasion of Syrian territories . Syria 's Permanent Representative to the United Nations , Qusai Al-Dhahhak , sent two ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@118983777 <h> Ceasefire in Gaza Closer Than Ever , Say Israeli Officials <p> A long-anticipated ceasefire in Gaza appears closer than ever , as Israeli officials express renewed optimism about negotiations to free hostages and deliver critical aid to the war-torn region . A working group from Israel has arrived in Doha , Qatar , to strengthen mediation efforts , marking a potential turning point in the year-long conflict . <p> Israeli officials believe a ceasefire in Gaza is a more realistic possibility now than at any point over the past year , signaling that a breakthrough in negotiations to free hostages and increase humanitarian aid to the devastated region may be near . <p> A working group from Israel is currently in Doha , Qatar , this week to re-establish ties with mediators , should progress in talks with Hamas occur , according to officials who requested anonymity due to the sensitive nature of the discussions . <h> Positive Signals from Israeli Leadership <p> This renewed optimism is echoed in recent statements by senior members of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's cabinet . On Monday , Defence Minister Israel Katz stated that a truce is " closer than ever , " while Foreign Minister Gideon Saar conveyed greater confidence to hostage families , noting he feels more hopeful compared to a month ago . <p> Diaspora Affairs Minister Amichai Chikli added to the momentum during an interview with Army Radio on Tuesday . " There 's a chance to reach a deal , and from what I know , it will involve all 100 hostages , " he said . " First the humanitarian cases and then the rest . " <p> Hamas , in response , issued a statement suggesting an agreement is possible if Israel refrains from introducing new conditions . <h> Mediation Efforts For Ceasefire Gaining Momentum <p> Negotiations , which are being facilitated by Qatar and Egypt with U.S. involvement , appear to be advancing . Visits by U.S. officials to the region in recent days may have further helped to move talks forward . <p> Cairo-based broadcaster Extranews , a media outlet closely aligned with the Egyptian government , stated on Tuesday that intensive efforts involving " all parties " are underway to secure a truce in Gaza . Reuters also reported that a deal could potentially be reached within days . However , Egyptian television and Netanyahu 's office denied additional reports claiming the prime minister had traveled to Egypt for the negotiations . <h> Ceasefire Plan in Phases <p> While details remain limited , two Israeli officials indicated the ceasefire would be implemented in phases . The process would begin under the outgoing U.S. administration and continue as President-elect Donald Trump takes office on January 20 . Adam Boehler , Trump 's appointed special envoy for hostage affairs , is currently in Israel , meeting with Netanyahu and other officials . Trump has publicly stated his desire for all hostages to be freed before his new term begins . <p> In the first phase of the proposed agreement , hostages categorized as " humanitarian " -- including women , the elderly , and those who are ill -- would be released in exchange for Palestinian prisoners held in Israel . This phase would be followed by a six- to seven-week ceasefire during which Israeli troops would withdraw from parts of Gaza , enabling negotiations toward a more permanent truce . <p> During this period , hundreds of aid trucks would enter Gaza daily , delivering essential food , water , and medical supplies . The United Nations and humanitarian organizations have repeatedly warned of a deepening humanitarian crisis , with the enclave 's population suffering from severe shortages . <h> Hostage Release and Reconstruction <p> In the subsequent phase , the remaining hostages -- primarily military-age men -- would be released in exchange for additional Palestinian prisoners . The third and final phase would focus on Gaza 's reconstruction and include the return of hostages ' bodies . Officials estimate that approximately half of the 100 hostages still in captivity are deceased . <p> Significant challenges remain , however . One long-standing obstacle is Hamas 's demand that Israel commit to a full troop withdrawal from Gaza at the outset . Israel has firmly opposed this , insisting its military campaign will not cease until Hamas is dismantled and no longer governs the territory . <p> Although Hamas has not publicly softened its position , Israeli officials believe the group has shown greater flexibility in recent discussions . 
@@118985135 <h> Middle East Opportunity <p> The collapse of Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria is not an isolated event in the Middle East , but part of a vast realignment of forces in the region . The new changed scenario gives rise to the possibility of growth of democracy but it is also to be understood that no external force has the capability to alter this extremely complex and violent region . <p> Some considered an opportunity for change did come in 2003 when Saddam Hussein was ousted from power in Iraq . But , it was a futile exercise . The US invaded Iraq on the pretext of unearthing weapons of mass destruction ( WMD ) . It was incapable of helping install a pluralist , if not democratic , regime in Baghdad that looked after the interests of the Iraqi people . <h> Also Read <p> Instead , the destruction of Saddam 's reign sowed seeds of long-lasting chaos . Twenty-one years on , the collapse of Bashar al-Assad 's regime and his inglorious escape , mainly under pressure from Islamists flaunting nationalist credentials , have once again brought the Middle East on the cusp of violent change . The situation is such that it may once again lead to devastating disorder , but all the same , it offers an opportunity to review the region . A new beginning can be made in Syria which had been witnessing massacres comparable to the worst inhumanities known in history since the regime of Hafez al-Assad , father of Bashar , started in early 1970s . <p> On the other hand , the Israeli army 's attacks in Gaza and Lebanon have triggered widespread criticism for their brutality and crime against humanity . However , these war crimes have considerably weakened the Palestinian militia and Hezbollah , which appear to have been greatly crippled as the axis linking it to Tehran via Syria and Iraq is now cut off . Herein lies a hope for the emergence of a political alternative in the Palestinian camp , the restoration of institutions in Lebanon and the formation of a new political balance in Damascus . <p> Rosy as this picture may seem , everyone , deep down , knows that the redness of the rose is due to it being dipped in blood . There are signs of other changes taking shape too . The Shi'ite Iranian regime does not look as strong as it did months back and is now seeking common ground with its great Sunni and Wahabi rival Saudi Arabia . <p> In November , Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman referred to Iran as a " sister republic " and advised Israel to respect its territorial integrity . The ruler of Riyadh has also reverted to the kingdom 's traditional position which emphasises normalisation of relations with Israel on condition that a Palestinian state is created . It is to be seen if this gets traction in the Arab world . The cry that is resonating in the Middle East at the moment is the need for realignment , stabilisation and d ? tente . The peoples of the region aspire to achieve these goals after decades of futile attempts but the world is aware that a keg of gunpowder seeking warmth from a fire would certainly be disastrous . The main groups that have benefited most from the recent developments in the region are the Syrian Islamists , their Turkish sponsor and Israel . The three must walk the extra mile for durable peace and development of the region . The new forces ruling Syria need to respect the complex ethnic mosaic in the country , while Turkey should stop the persecution of its Kurdish enemies by respecting its territorial sovereignty . Likewise , Israel should realise it is time to end the carnage in Gaza , the escalation in the West Bank , the bombing campaign against the fallen regime 's military sites in Syria , and by avoiding unnecessarily provocative gestures including attempts to take control of the Syrian Golan buffer zone it occupies . However , any optimism in this regard must be tempered since the past actions of these three players do not inspire much confidence . <p> Yet , Middle East watchers point to the three protagonists who need to be pragmatic so that a possible roadmap can be chalked out to create a new order for the establishment of some kind of order that has so long eluded the region and probably will continue to do so in the future too if nothing is done at junctures such as prevailing now . 
@@118987604 <p> Congress lawmaker Priyanka Gandhi reached Parliament on Monday with a ' Palestine ' tag on her handbag , drawing the attention of fellow Parliamentarians and television cameras alike . <p> It is seen as a move by the Congress MP to express solidarity with Palestinians amidst the months-long military face-off with Israel . <p> Priyanka has been vociferous about the Israel-Gaza fight in the recent past and termed Israeli actions in Gaza as " barbaric and inhuman . " <p> As the photo of Priyanka Gandhi smiling and flaunting a bag that reads " Palestine " landed on social media , it ignited a storm of reactions from netizens with many expressing shock and surprise while others raised eyebrows over her espousal of the cause of Palestinians . <p> Priyanka 's symbolic support for Palestine comes a day after her meeting with Palestine embassy charge d'affaires Abed Elrazeg Abu Jazer . The Palestinian diplomat met Priyanka at her residence days ago , to congratulate her on Lok Sabha victory from Wayanad and also suggested a leadership role for India in reaching a ceasefire in the Israel-Gaza war . <p> Notably , the Congress General Secretary has been vocal in condemning Israel 's actions in Gaza and called its military offensive a violation of international law . <p> " It is the moral responsibility of every right-thinking individual , including all those Israeli citizens who do not believe in hatred and violence , and every government in the world to condemn the Israeli government 's genocidal actions and force them to stop , " Gandhi had expressed on X in July . <p> In October last year , the Gaza-based Hamas operatives launched a major terror strike in Israeli territory , killing more than one thousand Israelis and taking away many more as captives . It was after this terror attack that Israeli forces launched a large-scale military operation and hit Hamas hard inside Palestine . <p> India had strongly condemned the October 7 , 2023 terror attack in Israel and also demanded the immediate release of Israeli civilians from Hamas ' captivity . ( IANS ) 
@@118987606 <p> Speaking at a closed session of the Israeli parliament 's Security Committee , Katz said , " We are the closest we 've been to a hostage deal since the previous one , " referring to an agreement in November-December 2023 that secured the release of 81 Israeli hostages held by Hamas in exchange for a temporary truce and the release of 240 Palestinian prisoners . <p> Katz said that the " Philadelphi Corridor , " a strip along the border between the southern Gaza Strip and Egypt , and the " Netzarim Corridor , " which divides Gaza into northern and southern sectors , " will not pose an obstacle to the execution of the deal . " <p> " There will be an overwhelming majority in the Cabinet and government for a hostage release deal , " Katz added . However , key members of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's far-right coalition have previously stated their opposition to an Israeli withdrawal from Gaza , even under a deal -- a key demand by Hamas . <p> Negotiations mediated by Qatar , Egypt , and the United States have produced several proposals over the past year . However , Netanyahu 's demand to maintain a military presence in the Philadelphi and Netzarim corridors , alongside repeated Israeli rejections of a complete end to the war , has slowed progress . <p> The current deal under discussion includes multiple stages , Katz said , without providing further details , Xinhua news agency reported . Earlier Monday , a senior Hamas official told the Saudi channel Asharq News that the two conflicting sides are " closer than ever " to reaching an agreement . The official claimed that Hamas and other factions had shown " great flexibility " in agreeing to a gradual cessation of hostilities and a withdrawal based on an agreed timeline . He urged the US administration to pressure Netanyahu to finalize the deal . ( IANS ) 
@@118987607 <p> Tel Aviv : Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke with US President-elect Donald Trump about Israel 's determination to continue acting against Iran and its armed proxies whenever they try to harm the Jewish state , the premier said in a video statement . <p> Netanyahu said on Sunday evening that it was a " very friendly , very warm , and very important conversation " about the need for Israel to " complete its victory " . " We are committed to preventing Hezbollah from rearming , " he said . <p> " This is an ongoing test for Israel , we must meet it -- and we will meet it . I say to Hezbollah and Iran in no uncertain terms -- to prevent you from harming us , we will continue to act against you as much as necessary , in every arena and at all times . " <p> Netanyahu reiterated that recent airstrikes against Syrian military sites were carried out to ensure that the weapons would not be used against Israel in the future . Israel also hit arms supply routes to Hezbollah , he said . <p> " We have no interest in a conflict with Syria , " Netanyahu said firmly . " We will determine Israel 's policy toward Syria according to the emerging reality on the ground . " " Syria is not the same Syria , " he said , arguing that Israel is changing the Middle East . <p> " Lebanon is not the same Lebanon , Gaza is not the same Gaza , and the leader of the axis -- Iran -- is not the same Iran . " <p> During the conversation with Trump , Netanyahu pointed to shifts in the Middle East , claiming that Israeli operations in Lebanon , Gaza , Yemen , and Syria have diminished Iran 's influence over the past year . <p> " Within a few days , we destroyed capabilities that the Assad regime had built over decades , " Netanyahu noted , referring to a series of intense Israeli airstrikes during the past few days following the collapse of the Assad government in Syria on December 8 . ( IANS ) 
@@118992842 <h> Gaza war : Hamas says truce talks in Doha are ' serious and positive ' <h> Story highlights <p> Since the Gaza war began , Qatar , along with the United States ( US ) and Egypt , has been working for months to secure a truce and hostage release deal . But apart from a one-week pause in fighting late last year , successive negotiations have failed to stop the war . <p> Palestinian militant group Hamas said on Tuesday ( Dec 17 ) that talks in Qatar 's Doha aimed at a truce and hostage-prisoner exchange in Gaza were " serious and positive . " <p> In a statement , Hamas said , " Hamas affirms that , in light of the serious and positive discussions taking place today in Doha under the auspices of our Qatari and Egyptian brothers , reaching an agreement for a ceasefire and a prisoner exchange is possible if the occupation ( Israel ) ceases to impose new conditions . " <p> Israel and Hamas have been fighting a war in the Gaza Strip since October 7 , 2023 . <h> Israeli delegation arrives in Doha for talks <p> Hamas ' remarks came a day after an Israeli delegation arrived in Doha for talks aimed at bridging gaps ( with Hamas ) . <p> Since the Gaza war began , Qatar , along with the United States ( US ) and Egypt , has been working for months to secure a truce and hostage release deal . <p> But apart from a one-week pause in fighting late last year , successive negotiations have failed to stop the war . <p> The ceasefire in late November last year saw scores of Hamas-held hostages being released in exchange for Palestinians held in Israeli prisons . <h> Will a ceasefire happen again ? <p> According to a report by the news agency AFP , Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz indicated on Monday that negotiators from his country had " not been this close to an agreement " for the release of hostages in Gaza since the truce in November last year . <p> Meanwhile , a senior Hamas official in Doha told AFP that negotiations for the truce deal were " closer than ever before " but warned that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu could still " disrupt the agreement as he has done every time before . " <h> Families of hostages call for immediate ceasefire <p> On Tuesday , families of Israeli hostages took to the streets of Tel Aviv to call for an immediate ceasefire deal that would see the release of all 100 hostages in Gaza amid both Israel and Hamas being close to an agreement . <p> Also watch Trump warns Hamas to release hostages soon <p> Carrying large posters of their loved ones and chanting slogans , the protesters marched on the Tel Aviv headquarters of Prime Minister Netanyahu 's Likud party , where they demonstrated outside , a report by the news agency Reuters said . 
@@118992874 <h> Iran 's Khamenei says ' resistance ' not over after Assad ouster <h> Story highlights <p> Fellow Axis members Hamas and Hezbollah have also suffered heavy losses since the Palestinian militant group attacked Israel on October 7 , 2023 , sparking war in Gaza and later in Lebanon . <p> Iran 's supreme leader said Tuesday that Israel and the United States were " completely wrong " to imagine the Tehran-backed axis of resistance had collapsed with the ouster of Syria 's longtime strongman . <p> " With the developments in Syria and the crimes the Zionist regime is committing and the crimes that America is committing , and the help that some others are giving to them , they thought that the resistance was over , " Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said in a televised speech . <p> Watch How Coffee Promotes Good Bacteria ? <p> " They are completely wrong , " he added . <p> On December 8 , Syrian President Bashar al-Assad fled the country as rebel forces entered the capital Damascus after a lightning offensive . <p> Fellow Axis members Hamas and Hezbollah have also suffered heavy losses since the Palestinian militant group attacked Israel on October 7 , 2023 , sparking war in Gaza and later in Lebanon . <p> Since Assad 's fall , Iran has sought to distance itself from the ousted leader , instead emphasising the history of friendship between the two countries . Khamenei has also insisted that Assad 's overthrow will not weaken Iran . <p> " The Zionist regime imagines it can encircle and eradicate the Hezbollah forces through Syria , but the one who will be eradicated is Israel , " Khamenei said on Tuesday . <p> Disclaimer : This story has been published from a news agency feed with minimal edits to adhere to WION 's style guide . The headline may have been changed to better reflect the content of the story or to make it more suitable for WION audience . 
@@118992909 <h> Story highlights <p> During the Parliament winter session , Priyanka Gandhi , in her Zero Hour reference , said that the picture was removed on Monday , which also happens to be Vijay Diwas . <p> Congress MP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday ( Dec 16 ) alleged that the photograph of the Pakistan Army surrendering in front of the Indian Army in the 1971 war has been removed from the Army hedquarters . <p> During the Parliament winter session , Priyanka Gandhi , in her Zero Hour reference , said that the picture was removed on Monday , which also happens to be Vijay Diwas . <p> " Today , that picture has been removed from the Army headquarters where the Pakistan Army is surrendering before the Indian Army , " she said . <p> She further recalled the role of soldiers and martyrs who fought the war between India and Pakistan in 1971 . <p> Gandhi added , " I want to salute the brave soldiers who fought for us in the war of 1971 . Whatever was happening in Bangladesh , no one was listening to the voice of the people of Bangladesh , our Bengali brothers and sisters . Indira Gandhi was the Prime Minister at that time , I want to salute her . She showed courage in the most difficult situations and showed such leadership that made the country victorious . " <p> Vijay Diwas is celebrated every year on December 16 to commemorate India 's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war . The war also resulted in the liberation of Bangladesh . <h> Attacks on minorities in Bangladesh <p> The Congress MP stressed the need to raise their voice against the atrocities committed against the Hindu and Christian minorities in Bangladesh . <p> " The government should raise its voice against the atrocities committed against the Hindu and Christian minorities in Bangladesh , it should hold talks with them and take their support , " the Wayanad MP said . <h> Gandhi 's ' Palestine ' emblazoned bag <p> The Congress MP also landed at the centre of a controversy when she carried a bag with " Palestine " emblazoned on it inside the Parliament to express her support for Palestinians . <p> Congress 's general secretary has been known to raise her voice against the actions of Israel in Gaza and show her solidarity with Palestinians . <p> Priyanka Gandhi was seen carrying a handbag that had the word " Palestine " and Palestinian emblems like a watermelon emblazoned on it . The watermelon is seen as a symbol of Palestinian solidarity . <p> ( With inputs from agencies ) <h> Mansi Arora <p> Ardent geopolitical news writer with a keen eye for global affairs . With passion for illuminating the complexities of global dynamics , Mansi explores her interests b 
@@119004858 <h> The two foreign ministers understood to have also discussed the situation in Syria following the collapse of President Bashar Assad 's regime 11 days back . <p> There have been a flurry of diplomatic engagements in the last few days for the proposed ceasefire and hostage release deal after months of deadlock in the negotiations between the two sides . ( File Photo ) <p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday held a phone conversation with his Israeli counterpart Gideon Sa'ar amid signs of a possible ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas in Gaza . <p> There have been a flurry of diplomatic engagements in the last few days for the proposed ceasefire and hostage release deal after months of deadlock in the negotiations between the two sides . <p> Around 95 hostages are reportedly in the custody of Hamas in Gaza . <p> Advertisement <p> " Pleased to speak to FM @gidonsaar of Israel today . Appreciate his briefing on the ongoing developments in the region . Also discussed our bilateral relations and efforts to strengthen them , " Jaishankar said on ' X ' . " Look forward to meeting in person , " he said . <p> The two foreign ministers understood to have also discussed the situation in Syria following the collapse of President Bashar Assad 's regime 11 days back . <p> Rebel forces overthrew Assad 's authoritarian government on December 8 after capturing several other prominent cities and towns . <p> Assad fled to Russia after the rebel group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) took control of Damascus , marking the end of his family 's 50-year rule . <p> Advertisement <p> In its reaction , India pitched for a peaceful and inclusive Syrian-led political process in that country . <p> " We underline the need for all parties to work towards preserving the unity , sovereignty and territorial integrity of Syria , " the Ministry of External Affairs ( MEA ) said on December 9. 
@@119005260 <h> Priyanka Gandhi Vadra 's use of tote bags supporting Palestine and minorities in Bangladesh has been criticised by the BJP , calling it a gesture of appeasement . She has called the criticism ' typical patriarchy ' <p> To support minorities in Bangladesh , Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was seen sporting a bag with a slogan -- ' Stand with Bangaldeshi Hindus and Christians ' -- on Tuesday . ( Images/X ) <p> Congress MP from Wayanad Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been grabbing nation 's attention for her choice of tote bags , apparently showing her support to the international causes . She was seen carrying a bag in Parliament on Monday with ' Palestine ' printed on it . A day later , another of her handbag bore a phrase condemning atrocities against Hindus in Bangladesh . <p> Vadra , who gave her maiden speech in Parliament on December 15 , touching issues concerning women , violence in Sambhal in Uttar Pradesh and Manipur and nationwide caste census , has been quite outspoken about the matters in the world . <h> related stories <h> What Priyanka Gandhi Vadra Has To Say On Palestine And Bangladesh ? <p> Her gesture to support the Palestine cause was met with criticism , with the BJP terming her action " appeasement " . Vadra said the censure was " typical patriarchy " where she was " being told what to wear and what not to wear " . <p> " I do n't subscribe to patriarchy . I will wear what I want to , " she said . <p> Vadra has been showing solidarity with Palestine in Parliament for a few days . As a symbolic gesture , she was seen wearing a black-and-white ' keffiyeh ' ( a traditional Palestinian headscarf ) during a meeting with the Palestinian Charge d'Affaires . <p> She had criticised Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in June , accusing his government of genocide in Gaza . " It is the moral responsibility of every right-thinking individual , including all those Israeli citizens who do not believe in hatred and violence , and every government in the world to condemn the Israeli government 's genocidal actions and force them to stop , " she had posted on X. <p> To support minorities in Bangladesh , Vadra was seen sporting a bag with a slogan -- ' Stand with Bangaldeshi Hindus and Christians ' -- on Tuesday . The phrase referred to the attacks on minorities in Bangladesh , which happened since former Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina was overthrown in August . <p> In her address at Zero Hour in the Lok Sabha on Monday , Vadra asked the government to bring up the matter of atrocities against minorities in Bangladesh . She also urged the Centre to establish relations with Dhaka in order to protect the safety of Christians and Hindus . <h> What Has Been BJP 's Reaction On Vadra 's Stunts ? <p> BJP MP and spokesperson Sambit Patra said Vadra 's gesture was not a surprise . " As far as Gandhi family members are concerned , it is nothing new . Right from Nehru to Priyanka Vadra , members of the Gandhi family roam around with the bag of appeasement ... They have never hung the bag of patriotism on their shoulders . This baggage is the reason behind their defeats , " he said . <p> BJP 's IT cell head Amit Malviya accused the Wayanad MP of using " communal virtue signalling " under the guise of a stance against patriarchy . " At the end of this Parliament session , observe a two-minute silence for everyone in the Congress who believed Priyanka Vadra was the solution . Sporting a bag in support of Palestine in Parliament is crass communal posturing , " he said . " Make no mistake , Congress is the New Muslim League " . <h> What Has Been Congress ' Stance On Palestine ? <p> The Congress had reiterated its past position on Palestine and avoided questioning the government on its stand in relation to the conflict that began in Gaza on October 7 , 2023 . <p> " The Indian National Congress condemns the brutal attacks on the people of Israel . The Indian National Congress has always believed that the legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian people for a life of self-respect , equality and dignity must be fulfilled only through a process of dialogue and negotiations while ensuring the legitimate national security interests of the Israeli people . Violence of any type never provides a solution and must stop , " Congress communication head Jairam Ramesh had said on X. <p> Historically , the Congress has always supported the legitimate cause of the Palestinian people , at the same time , underlining the need for better relations with Israel . <p> In June 2021 , the Congress had issued a statement raising concerns about India 's stand on the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians in Gaza . The party had pointed out that while New Delhi 's initial statement in the UN Security Council on May 16 noted that the intrusion by Israeli forces into the Holy Al Aqsa mosque during Ramzan prayers ruptured the delicate peace in the region , its statement at the UN General Assembly four days later omitted that mention . <p> In 2004 , UPA government 's common minimum programme drafted by the Congress and Left leaders stressed the historical commitment of India to the Palestinian cause . " Traditional ties with West Asia will be given a fresh thrust . The UPA government reiterates India 's decades-old commitment to the cause of the Palestinian people for a homeland of their own , " it said . <h> What Is India 's Policy On Palestine ? <p> The Ministry of External Affairs has stated , " India 's policy towards Palestine has been long standing and includes support for a negotiated two State solution , and the establishment of a sovereign , independent and viable State of Palestine within secure and recognized borders , living side by side in peace with Israel . India also supports Palestine 's membership of the UN . <p> " India has strongly condemned the terror attacks on Israel on October 7 , 2023 and also the loss of civilian lives in the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict . India has called for a ceasefire , release of all hostages and peaceful resolution of conflict through dialogue and diplomacy . " <p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had stressed India 's commitment to a " sovereign , independent , and viable Palestinian state " . Responding to allegations of India abstaining from UN resolutions on Gaza , Jaishankar had clarified that India had supported 10 of 13 resolutions concerning Palestine at the UN General Assembly since the Israel-Hamas conflict began in October 2023 . <p> Since the beginning of the Gaza conflict , India has provided around 70 million tonnes of humanitarian aid , including 16.5 million tonnes of medicines and medical supplies to Palestinian refugees . It has also released $5 million last year and disbursed another $5 million this year to United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian refugees in Near East ( UNRWA ) . Recently , 65 tonnes of medicines were also sent to UNRWA and Palestine Ministry of Health in October and November 2024. <h> top videos <p> India and Palestine share strong ties , which date back nearly five decades . In 1974 , India became the first non-Arab nation to recognise the Palestine Liberation Organisation ( PLO ) . Diplomatic relations deepened in 1996 , when India established a representative office in Gaza , later shifted to Ramallah in the West Bank in 2003 . <p> The Central government has criticised the October 7 attack in Gaza , which killed more than 1,000 Israelis and kidnapping of many . It has called for ceasefire and restraint in the besieged Palestinian enclave the death toll has exceeded more than 45,000 people , including 17,000 children , according to the Ministry of Health in Gaza . 
@@119006217 <h> Israeli Demolitions Rip through Palestinian Area of Jerusalem <p> Palestinians from the Abu Diab family inspect the rubble of their house after it was demolished by Israeli forces in the al-Bustan neighbourhood of the Arab town of Silwan in Israel-annexed east Jerusalem ( Photo : AFP ) <p> Jerusalem : Tired and sad , Palestinian activist Fakhri Abu Diab stood amid the rubble of his home in Israeli-annexed east Jerusalem , just a narrow valley away from the famed domes of the Old City . <p> In early November , bulldozers from the Israeli-controlled Jerusalem municipality tore down his house in the Silwan neighbourhood for a second time , citing unauthorised construction . <p> " They want to expel us from the area , " said the 62-year-old , who has organised protests against the demolitions in Silwan 's Al-Bustan area . <p> The destruction of homes built without permits -- which campaigners say are nearly impossible for Palestinians to obtain due to Israel 's restrictive planning policy -- has roiled East Jerusalem and the rest of the occupied West Bank for years . <p> Abu Diab 's house was among around 115 Palestinian residential properties marked for demolition by the Jerusalem municipality , which controls both the city 's Jewish-majority western part and its Palestinian-majority east , occupied by Israel since 1967 . <p> The municipality says it aims to address " illegal construction , allow the construction of proper infrastructure and new public buildings for the neighbourhood 's residents " , as well as to create green space . <p> But Israeli rights group Ir Amim said Israeli authorities often abuse the designation of areas in east Jerusalem as national parks or open spaces . <p> The group , fighting against demolitions , said the practice is " designed to suppress " Palestinian development " while enabling the seizure of their lands for Israeli interests " . <p> The status of Jerusalem remains one of the most contentious issues in the Israel-Palestinian conflict . <p> Israel conquered east Jerusalem , including the Old City , in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war , and swiftly annexed the area . <p> Silwan begins at the foot of the Old City walls where the Bible says the City of David was located after the Israelite king conquered Jerusalem from the Jebusites . <p> Today , hundreds of Israeli settlers live among nearly 50,000 Palestinians in Silwan . <p> The settlers ' homes are distinguished by Israeli flags flying from rooftops and windows as well as ubiquitous security cameras . <p> Meanwhile , Palestinians in east Jerusalem face a housing crisis , unable to build without permits amid a rapidly growing population . <p> Abu Diab 's house was first demolished in February . He rebuilt it , but it was destroyed again in November . <p> " This time , they wore me out , " he said , visibly exhausted . <p> " The original house was built in the 1950s . I was born , raised , married and raised my children here . " <p> But now , Abu Diab said that " even my children had to rent outside Silwan . " <p> Now , next to his flattened home , Abu Diab lives in a caravan , which is also under threat of demolition . <p> He and some of his neighbours rejected an offer from the municipality to relocate to another Palestinian neighbourhood in northern Jerusalem . <p> Near the ruins of Abu Diab 's home , 42-year-old day labourer Omar al-Ruwaidi sat by a fire with his son , surrounded by the rubble of his own demolished home and those of four of his brothers . <p> " About 30 people , including 12 children , are now homeless , " he said , his voice heavy with exhaustion . <p> " We 've been battling this in court since 2004 and have spent tens of thousands ( of Israeli shekels ) , but to no avail , " said Ruwaidi . <p> Several families who received demolition orders declined to speak to AFP , citing a fear of retribution . <p> According to Ir Amim , demolitions in east Jerusalem have surged to unprecedented levels since the start of the Gaza war , which was sparked by a surprise Hamas attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 . <p> Between January and November 2024 , 154 homes were demolished across the area , the group said . <p> On November 13 , bulldozers destroyed the Al-Bustan Association community centre , whose director said it served 1,500 Palestinian residents , mostly teenagers . <p> " The association provided various services to its members , including skill-building , capacity enhancement as well as sports and cultural training , " said director Qutaiba Ouda . <p> " It was a safe haven and a cultural lifeline in a neighbourhood with no community centres . " <p> Ouda lamented the loss , saying that the Israeli authorities did not just destroy a building , but " our memories , dreams and hard work " . <p> Following the demolition , France , which had supported activities at the association , demanded an explanation from Israel . <p> Kinda Baraka , 15 , was among those who frequented the association . <p> " It was our safe space , " she said . <p> " When it was destroyed , I cried a lot . It felt like they could come and demolish my home next . " <p> Baraka said she believed the demolitions aimed to push out Palestinians in favour of settlers . <p> Ruwaidi echoed those fears but remained defiant . <p> " We will not leave Silwan . Outside Silwan , we can not breathe , " he said . 
@@119006273 <h> Why are five Palestinians from Gaza , West Bank suing Blinken ? <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken ( L ) meets with Israel 's President Isaac Herzog in Tel Aviv AFP <p> A group of five Palestinians from Gaza and West Bank and their families in the US have filed a lawsuit against the American government , alleging that it has failed to enforce the Leahy Law , a federal statute that prohibits US military assistance to foreign military units implicated in gross human rights violations . <p> The lawsuit , filed in the US District Court of Columbia on December 17 , blames the State Department and Secretary of State Antony Blinken , accusing them of not applying the law to Israeli military units despite concerns over their conduct during the ongoing conflict in Gaza . <p> The lawsuit specifically addresses the escalation of violence in Gaza that began on October 7 , 2023 , after attacks by Hamas and other Palestinian armed groups on Israel . Israel 's military response , which included aerial bombardments and a ground invasion of Gaza , has led to significant casualties . The Palestinian health ministry reported more than 45,000 deaths in Gaza till December 15 , with additional fatalities in the West Bank , further drawing attention to the broader humanitarian crisis in the region . <p> One of the lead plaintiffs in the case , a Gaza teacher who is identified under the pseudonym " Amal Gaza , " has personally experienced the devastating effects of the conflict . She has been displaced seven times due to the fighting and lost 20 family members in Israeli airstrikes . She said the US government 's continued military support for Israel was exacerbating the suffering of the Palestinians . <p> At the heart of the case is the Leahy Law , which prevents the US from cooperating with and aiding foreign armies suspected of human rights violations like torture , extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances . The plaintiffs argue that Israel 's actions in Gaza , including widespread destruction and the use of American weapons , violate the law . The lawsuit asks the US to stop providing military aid to Israel , which currently receives approximately $3.8 billion annually , with additional funds allocated since the escalation of violence in Gaza in 2023 . <p> Human rights activists like Raed Jarrar , advocacy director for Democracy for the Arab World Now ( DAWN ) , which supports the lawsuit , say the Biden administration has failed to enforce the Leahy Law where Israel is concerned . Despite reports from various human rights organisations , the United Nations , and other entities documenting civilian casualties and allegations of misconduct , the US has continued to provide military support to Israel . According to the plaintiffs , the Leahy Law should apply equally to all foreign governments , including Israel , if credible evidence of human rights abuses exists . <p> The US has a special policy in place for Israel , known as the Israel Leahy Vetting Forum ( ILVF ) , which critics argue creates a more complex and slower process for determining whether Israeli military units are eligible for assistance . This process has been described by some former American officials , such as Charles Blaha , a former State Department employee who helped put in place the Leahy Law , as a procedure that delays decision-making and ultimately weakens the law 's enforcement . Blaha said since the ILVF was established , no Israeli military unit had been deemed ineligible for assistance . <p> The lawsuit also cites a recent decision by the State Department regarding the Netzah Yehuda Battalion , an Israeli military unit blamed for violence in the West Bank . The State Department acknowledged that the battalion had committed human rights violations but concluded that the unit had " remedied " its actions , allowing it to continue receiving American aid . Critics say it reflects a pattern of leniency toward Israel , undermining the intent and integrity of the Leahy Law . <p> In addition to the ongoing situation in Gaza , the West Bank has seen an increase in violence since October 2023 . The United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( OCHA ) reported that at least 770 Palestinians were killed in the West Bank between October 7 , 2023 , and the end of November 2024 , reinforcing the plaintiffs ' argument that US law should be applied to Israeli forces in the same manner as it is to other foreign military units . <p> The lawsuit requests the federal court to declare that the State Department 's actions in continuing military assistance to Israel as arbitrary , capricious and contrary to American law . It also seeks an injunction that would prevent the US from providing military aid to Israeli units involved in human rights violations . Additionally , the plaintiffs want the State Department to issue a list of Israeli military units that are ineligible for US assistance , under the Leahy Law . <p> Jarrar said the case was not about politics or foreign policy but about the American government fulfilling its legal obligations under domestic law . Unlike previous legal attempts to challenge American foreign policy , this case has been filed under the Administrative Procedure Act , which allows courts to review administrative decisions . <p> The case , if successful , could have significant implications for American military aid to Israel . The outcome may influence how the US applies the Leahy Law in future cases and could set a precedent for how Washington addresses allegations of human rights violations by its allies . 
@@119006286 <h> Families of hostages endure uncertainty even as hopes rise for ceasefire in Gaza <p> PTI Updated : December 18 , 2024 20:35 IST <p> Kiryat Gat ( Israel ) , Dec 18 ( AP ) Ilana Gritzewsky is fighting a battle against time to save her boyfriend from Hamas captivity . While there appears to be progress toward a deal to free the remaining captives in phases , Matan Zangauker would likely not be released in the first stage since he is a young man . Gritzewsky is terrified a deal could break down or he could die in captivity before he 's freed . Gritzewsky knows first-hand the perils facing her boyfriend , who turned 25 on Wednesday . She was kidnapped and held hostage for 55 days before being released during the only previous ceasefire deal a year ago . " All the hostages need to get out , " said Gritzewsky . " If we do n't release all of the hostages -- all the hostages in captivity -- they will be dead . " Many relatives of people held in Gaza find no reprieve in reports that negotiations toward a deal are progressing . The renewed ceasefire talks are just the latest twist in what 's been more than 14 months of anguish , despair and uncertainty about their loved ones ' fates . Still , they dedicate themselves to lobbying for their loved ones ' freedom , even as the world moves on to other crises . " I gave my promise to my friends from the kibbutz in the tunnels before I went home . I told them I will do everything , everything I have to , to take them out from that hell . And I ask all the time : Am I doing everything I can ? " said Gritzewsky , 31 . Hamas militants stormed into southern Israel on October 7 , 2023 , killing 1,200 people and abducting roughly 250 , dragging them into Gaza . The attack sparked an Israeli invasion of Gaza . More than 45,000 people have been killed in the ongoing war , according to local health authorities , who say more than half are women and children but do not distinguish between civilians and militants in their count . About 100 hostages were freed in a brief truce in November 2023 , while others have been rescued or their bodies have been retrieved by the Israeli military . Around another 100 have not been released , though Israel believes at least a third of them are dead . In the deal under discussion , mostly women and older people are expected to be freed in the first six-to-eight-week phase , but many families of hostages are lobbying for all of the hostages to be freed at once . Zangauker and Gritzewsky were kidnapped from Kibbutz Nir Oz , where they lived together , and then held separately in Gaza . Just before her release from a tunnel under Gaza , Gritzewsky heard from other hostages that Zangauker was nearby . She begged to be able to see him but was not allowed . Two weeks ago , Hamas released a video of Zangauker , filmed under duress , where he described difficult conditions in Gaza and pleaded with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to strike a deal to end the war . " He spoke quietly , but his eyes were screaming for help , " Gritzewsky said of the footage . While it was a relief to see Zangauker , the video is no guarantee that he 's still alive today , she said . " I do n't want a photo . I do n't want a video . I want him here . I want all the hostages here , " she said . The video brought back some of the worst memories of her captivity : the middle of the night interrogations , the filthy conditions , the lack of medical help for the injuries she suffered during the kidnapping . Gritzewsky 's pelvis and jaw were broken and she has burns on her legs . She suffered hearing loss in one ear . " What they are going through is physically , psychologically , and emotionally torture , day and night , " said Gritzewsky , wearing a hat that belonged to Zangauker that she rescued from their destroyed home . " I know the psychology that they use , how you do n't have water , how you do n't have food , how you do n't see the light , you do n't know what day or hour it is . " Gritzewsky said she hates being in front of the cameras , telling her story over and over , reliving the worst days of her life , in a desperate attempt to raise awareness of the plight of the hostages and bring her boyfriend home . Nonetheless , Gritzewsky has been a constant presence at protests and demonstrations across the country along with Zangauker 's mother , who has emerged as one of the most vocal activists for the hostages . Einav Zangauker , who used to support Netanyahu , has virulently opposed his handling of the war and is furious at the government for not yet reaching a ceasefire deal , accusing it of forsaking the hostages in its bid to topple Hamas . Netanyahu has said that the war must continue until Hamas is crushed and unable to rearm , but critics point out that Israel has already assassinated the top leadership and destroyed large swaths of Gaza . Einav Zangauker , a single mother , has been relentless in her crusade , attending demonstrations daily , speaking repeatedly to every major Israeli media outlet , and even climbing into a cage that was hoisted high above a protest to hammer home the idea of her son in captivity . She has demanded that politicians pursue a ceasefire that will release all the hostages at once . " If my son returns in a body bag or body parts , I will not put you on trial , I will take the law into my own hands ! " she screamed at lawmakers during a parliamentary committee meeting Monday . While Gritzewsky is no longer captive in Gaza , she said she ca n't begin to heal until the hostages , including her boyfriend , come home . " Since October 7 , it 's like time stopped , " she said . " You see the world running in front of your eyes , but your life is crushed like little pieces of dust . " ( AP ) GRSGRS <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI ) 
@@119006413 <h> Ceasefire Efforts Intensify Amid Gaza Conflict <h> U.S. and Arab mediators are advancing ceasefire talks between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip , where ongoing conflict has led to significant casualties . Israeli strikes have caused civilian deaths , sparking accusations of ethnic cleansing by Palestinians . Efforts continue to negotiate the release of hostages and a cessation of hostilities . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> The United States , allied with Arab mediators , is accelerating efforts to broker a ceasefire agreement between Israel and Hamas . This comes as hostilities in the Gaza Strip reach a critical 14-month duration . Medics reported significant casualties due to Israeli airstrikes , with at least 20 Palestinians killed in recent operations . <p> In Cairo , sources indicated that a potential agreement might soon be formalized , proposing a ceasefire and the exchange of hostages for Palestinian prisoners . Intense Israeli airstrikes have led to numerous deaths in various Gaza localities , heightening the tensions and humanitarian crises in the region , notably in Beit Lahiya and Jabalia . <p> Despite Israeli claims of targeting Hamas militants , Palestinian officials decry these operations as ethnic cleansing . The U.S. and other international actors continue to push for a resolution before political changes in Washington complicate efforts . Meanwhile , ongoing negotiations aim to address hostilities hampering peace in the Middle East . 
@@119006811 <p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday spoke to his Israeli counterpart Gideon Sa'ar where they discussed bilateral relations and Sa'ar reportedly briefed him on the ongoing developments in the West Asia region . <p> Jaishankar in a post on X wrote about their conversation stating , " Pleased to speak to FM @gidonsaar of Israel today.Appreciate his briefing on the ongoing developments in the region . Also discussed our bilateral relations and efforts to strengthen them . " <p> Jaishankar also added that he looks forwards to meet Sa'ar in person . <p> There have been a flurry of diplomatic engagements in the last few days for the proposed ceasefire and hostage release deal after months of deadlock in the negotiations between the two sides . <p> The two foreign ministers understood to have also discussed the situation in Syria following the collapse of President Bashar Assad 's regime 11 days back . <p> Rebel forces overthrew Assad 's authoritarian government on December 8 after capturing several other prominent cities and towns . <p> Assad fled to Russia after the rebel group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) took control of Damascus , marking the end of his family 's 50-year rule . <p> In its reaction , India pitched for a peaceful and inclusive Syrian-led political process in that country . <p> " We underline the need for all parties to work towards preserving the unity , sovereignty and territorial integrity of Syria , " the Ministry of External Affairs ( MEA ) said on December 9 . <p> Jaishankar 's call comes days after he reaffirmed India 's support for a two-state solution between Israel and Palestine in the Indian Parliament . <p> Addressing the ninth day of the Parliament winter session on December 5 , the union minister reaffirms India 's support for the creation of " a sovereign , independent , and viable Palestinian state " alongside Israel . <p> Since the start of Israel 's war on Gaza , India has provided humanitarian assistance to Palestine and the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) . <p> India on December 13 voted in favour of a UN General Assembly resolution that demanded an immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire in Gaza and reiterated the demand for immediate and unconditional release of all hostages . <p> The UN General Assembly has approved resolutions demanding an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and backing the UN agency for Palestinian refugees that Israel has moved to ban . <p> India recently also said that it remains " concerned " at the evolving situation in West Asia and attacks against commercial vessels in and around the Red Sea threaten freedom of navigation and " impact our trade " . <p> Minister of State for External Affairs Kirti Vardhan Singh in a written response to a query in the Indian Parliament also said the government has " raised the issue " with the countries in the region and the Indian Missions are " closely monitoring " the situation to mitigate its impact . 
@@119007101 <h> In recent days , diplomatic efforts have intensified to finalize a proposed ceasefire and hostage release deal , following months of stalled negotiations between the parties . Approximately 95 hostages are believed to be held by Hamas in Gaza . <p> New Delhi : External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday held a phone conversation with his Israeli counterpart Gideon Sa'ar amid signs of a possible ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas in Gaza . There has been a flurry of diplomatic engagements in the last few days for the proposed ceasefire and hostage release deal after months of deadlock in the negotiations between the two sides . Around 95 hostages are reportedly in the custody of Hamas in Gaza . <p> " Pleased to speak to FM @gidonsaar of Israel today . Appreciate his briefing on the ongoing developments in the region . Also discussed our bilateral relations and efforts to strengthen them , " Jaishankar said on ' X ' . " Look forward to meeting in person , " he said . <p> The two foreign ministers understood to have also discussed the situation in Syria following the collapse of President Bashar Assad 's regime 11 days back . Rebel forces overthrew Assad 's authoritarian government on December 8 after capturing several other prominent cities and towns . Assad fled to Russia after the rebel group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) took control of Damascus , marking the end of his family 's 50-year rule . <p> In its reaction , India pitched for a peaceful and inclusive Syrian-led political process in that country . " We underline the need for all parties to work towards preserving the unity , sovereignty and territorial integrity of Syria , " the Ministry of External Affairs ( MEA ) said on December 9. 
@@119007152 <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed that he would not permit the establishment of a Palestinian state , rejecting reports that Israel had agreed to a " path toward Palestinian statehood " as part of efforts to normalise relations with Saudi Arabia . <p> IANS New Delhi December 18 , 2024 11:31 am <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ( File Photo : Reuters ) <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed that he would not permit the establishment of a Palestinian state , rejecting reports that Israel had agreed to a " path toward Palestinian statehood " as part of efforts to normalise relations with Saudi Arabia . <p> " Prime Minister Netanyahu has acted and continues to act against the establishment of a Palestinian state , " his office said on Tuesday in a statement , describing the reports as " completely false " . <p> Advertisement <p> The statement added that such a move would " endanger Israel 's security " . <p> Advertisement <p> Israeli media earlier reported that a concession on Palestinian statehood was being considered as part of ongoing negotiations for a normalisation agreement with Saudi Arabia , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> Meanwhile , the Saudis also strongly deny the report , saying there has been no breakthrough . <p> " The notion that the kingdom 's leadership has somehow modified its longstanding commitment to the establishment of an independent Palestinian state is equally baseless , " a statement issued to reporters by an unnamed Saudi official said . <p> " The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia will continue to work towards ending the war in Gaza and helping the Palestinian people achieve their right to an independent state , " the statement added . <p> Netanyahu , who has long regarded formal ties with the kingdom as a key strategic objective , dismissed the reports . <p> Israel captured the West Bank , East Jerusalem , and the Gaza Strip in the 1967 Middle East war . Palestinians seek to establish an independent state in those territories . <p> Netanyahu 's comments come amid mounting international criticism of Israel 's military campaign in Gaza , launched in October . <p> The offensive has drawn global condemnation , with Netanyahu and senior Israeli officials facing war crimes accusations at the International Criminal Court in The Hague . <p> Netanyahu has instead floated the idea of Arab countries like the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia contributing to the administration of Gaza after the war . However , those countries and others in the region have repeatedly said that they would not take part in the post-war management or reconstruction of Gaza without the Palestinian Authority 's ( PA ) involvement . <p> The US and Israel 's security establishment have warned that a failure to advance a viable alternative to Hamas rule , such as the PA , will allow the terror group to re-fill vacuums temporarily created by IDF operations in Gaza . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu confirmed holding a phone call with US President-elect Donald Trump , during which he reaffirmed his country 's ' determination ' to continue acting against Iran and its armed proxies 
@@119007319 <h> Washington Pushes Shia-Sunni Politics To Divide West Asia Again <h> Israel has bombed Syria over 800 times , and still counting <p> It is difficult to fathom how Israel has been able to get away with a genocide , and all out military action against two sovereign nations . Difficult as Americans too had not expected this level of complicity and support from their President Joe Biden who has turned a deaf ear and a blind eye to the worst kind of human atrocities seen by the modern world , surpassing even Vietnam . The brutal annihilation of an entire people with schools and hospitals and women and children being killed with bullets , bombs and now starvation confounds . The justification of this makes it absolutely impossible to understand , as a genocide is unfolding on camera and the world that has made much of Hitler and his concentration camps is watching with just a few small countries finding the conscience to speak out . <p> It has been American lie after lie to justify the all consuming desire to control the Middle East , to sanitise the region for the expansion of Israeli Zionism , and to have the power to turn on the tap for the gas and oil that the ME is so rich in . The region has been in the US and now Israel led war for almost a decade and a half . The countries supporting the Palestinians have been systematically targeted . Iraq was the first , with the world watching in shock and awe as US fighter jets bombed the sanctions hit country day and night for several days . Then the mighty tanks filled with soldiers and embedded journalists , triumphant at having conquered a country without an army and without weapons . The excuse for the attack in which entire villages were wiped out , was that Saddam Hussain was manufacturing weapons of mass destruction . Journalists like this writer who visited Iraq just before the invasion knew that this was a big lie as the country was badly hit by the years of sanctions , and literally struggling to survive . The surveillance was such that the government could not move a rifle without the alarm bells ringing , let alone build a nuclear bomb or they said weapons . <p> The truth was out soon , but not before Iraq had been destroyed . And while this was admitted by the Americans , it was just power for the course . The projection was of terrorists and jihadis all grouped together in the targeted country , with not one of the hundreds of western big media journalists who visited Iraq bothering to write about the rich civilisation of Mesopotamia ; the culture of Iraq ; the sophistication of the people , their passion and their desire to live a better life . It was all about spreading the American lies to justify a barbaric invasion that the western world at least condoned . And the rest of the world watched , stupefied . <p> Since then it has been unending . The attack on Gaza , the atrocities , the killings , has stoked protests in the younger generations across the world . Protests have increased , Israel and Netanyahu condemned , Biden called out -- but nothing absolutely nothing has come in the way of the leveling of Gaza and now the attacks on the West Bank . The Palestinians have been literally finished , there is nothing left , but even then Israeli fighter planes are bombing a starving , ill and maimed population day after day . The brutality is unbelievable , as Israel , armed and supported by the US and some other governments , has been allowed to run amok -- in violation of all rules of human law . <p> Targeted assassinations are now justified . As is the death of the Palestinians . The attacks on Lebanon where the south in particular has been destroyed and scholar and Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah killed . The focus now has shifted to Syria where President Bashar al Assad left within days , but despite the proclaimed regime change Israel has carried out over 800 strikes on the hapless country , killing and wounding , and occupying more and more territory . Again there is no army , no fight back , but the bombing continues as the world watches , America endorses , and the peoples protest . <p> In the midst of all this are the Arab regimes . Autocratic rulers , sycophants who have never stood up for the Palestinians . Not even when Yasser Arafat was alive and most capitals in the world were keen to resolve the issue . The Arabs treated the Palestinians like dirt , simply because they were secular and educated and progressive and unlike Saudi Arabia for instance , did not base their existence on the support of oil and religion . All the despots occupying the top positions in the region played their own games with Sunni vs Shia dominating the political discourse until recently . The Israel war is also a sign of worry about the rapprochement between Sunni Saudi Arabia and Shia Iran -- or at least the beginnings of it -- as a united region strikes fear in Tel Aviv . <p> So even this time around Saudi Arabia did not jump to Washington 's bugle , Turkey did and Erdogan joined Israel in destroying Syria . Syrians told this writer repeatedly that while they had no love lost for Assad they would now rally behind him , as the alternative was far worse and would lead to unimaginable persecution of the minorities and a fragmentation of Syria . They said this after the first sign of trouble at Homs a few years ago , and as Salafists brought together by the Americans and their allies in the region , were gathering at the borders . Assad had in his last years worked for a pluralistic society and it was very visible to all of us who visited the beleaguered country more than once . The same motley group of al Qaeda and ISIS remnants were brought together again by their controllers and armed sufficiently to walk into Syria and topple the regime . In that , Assad decided to leave , and as some commentators have said , perhaps to give Russia and others time and the opportunity to retrieve lost ground in the region . But more of this later . <p> The celebrations are limited to the Salafists and their western backers . And of course to some misguided Syrians who left their country and are bursting crackers with little to no idea of what they are really celebrating . The man commanding this new army that is looting and burning Damascus is himself a wanted terrorist , and plays hardline Sunni politics . It is apparent that the West has decided to bring in the worst face of the Salafists into Syria and thereby drive a wedge into the Sunni-Shia amity that was slowly taking shape earlier . America and Israel are happier in a divided West Asia , and this conflict has been blurred by Shia Iran , and a Shia Hezbollah giving support to Sunni Palestinians . It also suits regimes like in the Gulf and Jordan and Egypt who have kept a long distance from the Palestinian issue , and can now continue to do so , without pressure from the Arab street that was quite disgusted with these governments . But will now be assuaged or so they hope with the tensions of a Shia -Sunni divide . <p> Iran of course knows better than the rest that it is the main target . And while it has Russia 's support , this might or might not fructify into a real defence . The extreme leadership in Syria will give it a rough time , and the almost certain persecution of Shias and others in the country will make it difficult for the Iranian government to withstand the pressure from their own people . The axis of resistance thus has been dealt a severe blow and the installation of puppets in Syria , supported by supposedly more legitimate puppets like Erdogan , spells deep trouble for the Middle East that has been unable to rise to levels that could keep it out of American control . Israel of course , will pay a price for this but then Benjamin Netanyahu is as expendable as Erdogan although both do not realise it as yet . 
@@119007502 <h> The Israel PM visited the site Tuesday after troops occupied the demilitarised zone between Syria &amp; Golan Heights following the collapse of the Assad government in Syria . <p> Jerusalem : Israel will remain on the strategic Mount Hermon site on the Syrian border until another arrangement is found , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said . <p> Israeli troops occupied Mount Hermon when they moved into a demilitarized zone between Syria and the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights following the collapse of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad 's government this month . <p> Officials have described the move as a limited and temporary measure to ensure the security of Israel 's borders but have given no indication of when the troops might be withdrawn and Defence Minister Israel Katz last week ordered troops to prepare to remain on Mount Hermon over the winter . <p> On Tuesday , Netanyahu went to the site for an operational briefing with military commanders and security officials . <p> " We are holding this assessment in order to decide on the deployment of the IDF in this important place until another arrangement is found that ensures Israel 's security , " he said in a statement issued by his office late on Tuesday , referring to the Israel Defence Forces . <p> Israel 's move into the buffer zone created following the 1973 Arab-Israeli war has been criticized as a violation of international agreements by a number of countries and the United Nations , which have called for the troops to be withdrawn . <p> ( Reporting by James Mackenzie ; Editing by Howard Goller ) <p> Disclaimer : This report is auto generated from the Reuters news service . ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content . <h> 1 COMMENT <p> Israel should annex the whole of Gaza strip and the southern part of Syria and Lebanon . Under Israeli administration , even the deserts bloom with ample foodgrains , vegetables and fruits . It will be beneficial for the middle-east . <h> COMMENTS <p> Israel should annex the whole of Gaza strip and the southern part of Syria and Lebanon . Under Israeli administration , even the deserts bloom with ample foodgrains , vegetables and fruits . It will be beneficial for the middle-east . 
@@119022067 <h> Israel still refusing to deliver aid to northern Gaza : UN <h> Share : <p> The spokesman for UN chief Antonio Guterres told AlJazeera Israel is continuing to refuse the delivery of aid to the northern Gaza Strip , amid an ongoing Israeli siege and intense bombardment . <p> Stephane Dujarric said during a news conference that the majority of UN-led aid missions to northern Gaza trying to reach the besieged areas in Beit Lahiya , Beit Hanoon and parts of Jabalia had been rejected . <p> The UN attempted to reach these besieged areas 40 times , of which 38 attempts were denied and two were obstructed . <p> Dujarric urged Israel to meet the " essential needs " of civilians in the north and facilitate the delivery of humanitarian aid . <p> Last month , the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . <p> Eid Sabbah , the director of nursing at Kamal Adwan Hospital , described a night " full of horror " at the facility in northern Gaza , as Israeli bulldozers advanced and quadcopter drones fired at the medical compound and surrounding buildings . <p> " They targeted the Battah family home in the vicinity of the hospital . Fifteen bodies arrived at the hospital including six people from the Battah family , " Sabbah told Al Jazeera . <p> " Many have been wounded and many are still under the rubble . " <p> Sabbah said the Israeli attack on the hospital 's ICU filled the rooms with black dust , as staff evacuated four patients on ventilators . Centralised oxygen remained unavailable and the few cylinders left were about to run out . <p> He added that 74 injured patients were present at the hospital and were being treated " in a very primitive way " due to the lack of resources . <p> International medical team denied deployment at Kamal Adwan Hospital : WHO <p> The World Health Organization ( WHO ) says an international medical team urgently needed at Kamal Adwan Hospital has not been allowed to deploy as Israel continues its siege in northern Gaza . <p> Hanan Balkhy , WHO regional director for the Eastern Mediterranean , also condemned the repeated attacks on the medical facility . " The fear endured by the hospital 's staff and patients in recent days is indescribable -- and unacceptable , " she wrote on X. <p> Attacks on Kamal Adwan Hospital in north #Gaza have caused further damage , leaving it without surgical or maternal care capacity . @WHO and partners were recently able to deliver 5,000 liters of fuel , medical supplies , and food , and transfer 3 patients with 6 companions to ... **26;1247;TOOLONG <p> Palestinian territory -- The Israeli military 's destruction of entire Palestinian cities and neighbourhoods in the Gaza Strip is a clear manifestation of the genocide Israel has been committing in Gaza for ... <p> " There is only one solution ! Intifada ! Revolution ! " --Pro-Palestinian Street March Chant , 2023-24 On November 2nd , there was a " No Votes for Genocide " protest in New York City . To those pro-Palestinian ... <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called the conditions at Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza " appalling , " as the area has been under relentless Israeli ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119022068 <p> War is loathsome . War is repugnant , and why should n't it be when it leaves so much suffering , death , and destruction in its wake ! <p> The evil consequences of war are not just the loss of human life of the warring parties . Property is destroyed . Homes , workplaces , schools , and places of worship are wrecked in an instant . Women , children and men are killed and injured . Food and water become scarce . Whole societies and families are left impoverished . Communities and families are ruined , disintegrated , displaced and left destitute . Citizens become refugees . Rape and sexual abuse occur . <p> Children and adults are exposed to long-term physical and psychological harm and are abandoned to an unpitying world in a state of helplessness and hunger as economies collapse . <p> All right-thinking people know that wars do not solve anything . They just create more problems . Wars never bring happiness to anyone , only loss and sadness . Yet countries and people continue to war against each other ? <p> As much as we would like to deny this , we are really an aggressive , brutal and bloodthirsty species , because in the short history of humans on this planet we have progressively killed , and exterminated many species . Our environmental impact is widespread and consequential . <p> Compared to other species we are the most relentless killers on Earth . We humans use our so-called intelligence and our scientific temper to create new means to kill one another . <p> Here 's a quote from R. Douglas Fields 2016 book , ' Why We Snap ' -- " Our violence operates far outside the bounds of any other species . Human beings kill anything . Slaughter is a defining behavior of our species . We kill all other creatures , and we kill our own . Read today 's paper . Read yesterday 's , or read tomorrow 's . The enormous industry of print and broadcast journalism serves predominantly to document our killing . Violence exists in the animal world , of course , but on a far different scale . Carnivores kill for food ; we kill our family members , our children , our parents , our spouses , our brothers and sisters , our cousins and in-laws . We kill strangers . We kill people who are different from us , in appearance , beliefs , race , and social status . We kill ourselves in suicide . We kill for advantage and for revenge , we kill for entertainment : the Roman Coliseum , drive-by shootings , bullfights , hunting and fishing , animal roadkill in an instantaneous reflex for sport . We kill friends , rivals , coworkers , and classmates . Children kill children , in school and on the playground . Grandparents , parents , fathers , mothers -- all kill and all of them are the targets of killing ... " <p> R. Douglas Fields , neurobiologist and authority on the brain and the cellular mechanisms of memory , explains , " I have been frequently challenged for being overly harsh on the species that has chosen to christen itself " sapiens , " ( the wise one ) . But I was not offering social commentary . I was providing an objective , zoological description of this species . " <p> Our species , ' Homo Sapiens ' which means wise humans , are clearly not so . We humans love wars . And those of us who do not take part in war activities , take sides , pass judgements and justify wars of vengeance of one against another , and idly gossip about wars and the rights and wrongs of the warring sides in heartless , insensitive disregard to the brutality , killing and destruction of our fellow human beings . <p> We are complacent about anything that we do n't see as a direct threat to us individually , so we stubbornly ignore threats that are bearing down on us . We fail to recognise existential threats or heed warning signs of social injustices in our close proximity , or of climate change , or the damage of wars to the environment and to all humanity and the imminent ( hopefully never ) use of nuclear weapons and nuclear power . <p> We are xenophobic -- we dislike , we fear , we hate and we have prejudices against people from other countries , other religions and other ways of life , we overlay this with racism and ethnocentrism -- the attitude that one 's own group , ethnicity , skin colour or nationality or culture , or religion is superior to others . <p> This explains why we are conducting 33 international and civil wars that are currently devastating millions and causing immense human suffering and instability of people and the environment around the world . <p> It is time for us to take responsibility for ourselves and society by realising that all of us as individuals and societies have far-reaching impacts on one another 's social , political , economic and cultural lives . <p> We could peacefully engage in acts of nonviolent resistance through acts of nonviolent protest and persuasion , acts of nonviolent non-cooperation and acts of nonviolent intervention to bring about a nonviolent future on Earth to compel governments and corporations to no longer use military violence and economic coercion to control world affairs to convince or , necessarily non-violently resist domination . Create new organisations , communities , institutions and structures that genuinely meet the needs of all beings in a just , peaceful and ecologically sustainable manner . Support those organizing for ceasefire in wars . ( adapted and transliterated from The People 's Charter to Create a Nonviolent World 2011* ) <p> We ought to support ceasefires in the international wars . <p> In Gaza between the Jewish occupiers of Palestine and their ruthless massacre , slaughter , pogrom , carnage , genocideagainst the Palestinian people in their homeland . Palestine . <p> Support ceasefires in Ukraine between US/NATO forces and Russia -- using Ukraine as the battleground . <p> Support ceasefires in the ' Nagorno-Karabakh ' war between Armenia and Azerbaijan . <p> Support ceasefires in the thirty equally vicious civil wars going on around the world : <p> In West Asia and North Africa in the following territories : Cyprus , Egypt , Iraq , Israel , Libya , Morocco , Palestine , Syria , Turkey , Yemen and Western Sahara . <p> In Africa , all the nations that were once colonised : Burkina Faso , Cameroon , the Central African Republic ( CAR ) , the Democratic Republic of the Congo , Ethiopia , Mali , Mozambique , Nigeria , Senegal , Somalia , South Sudan and Sudan . <p> In Asia : Afghanistan , China , India , Myanmar , Pakistan and The Philippines . <p> In Europe : Russia is currently occupying Crimea ( Ukraine ) , Transdniestria ( Moldova ) , as well as South Ossetia and Abkhazia ( Georgia ) , Armenia is occupying parts of Nagorno Karabakh ( Azerbaijan ) . <p> History tells us that wars are meaningless and vicious . They resolve nothing . <p> War does not solve any problems or determine who is morally correct . War does not decide the justice of any question , it only determines which party is the most ferocious and savage . <p> Throughout human history , traditions of wisdom -- religious and otherwise -- have taught values , to guide human behaviour towards a responsible attitude ; their basic premise -- still relevant today -- has been that individual and social values influence practices . In fact , practices and values mutually influence each other . Such values include the right to a life of dignity and respect for both human and non-human forms of life , a preference for dialogue rather than violence , compassion and consideration for others , solidarity and hospitality , truthfulness and sincerity , peace and harmony , justice and equity , and a preference for the common good rather than self-interest . We can expressresponsibility in many ways , among them accepting responsibility for the direct and indirect consequences of our actions in the short as well as the long run , joining with others and uniting for effective action . Charter of Human Responsibilities* <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> With realisation of our responsibilities , we could , if our conscience permits , look into and listen deeply to ourselves , to each other and to our home , Earth , to become more considerate , more humane and more responsible to the environment ; to the society we live in and generally be compassionate in our way of life . It is only empathy , love and compassion that could create a world of peace . <p> Pratap Antony , Passive activist/Active pacifist writer on ecology and environment , compassion and humanity , dogs , social justice , music and dance . <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119022073 <p> The Palestinian Authority is demonstrating its value and proving loyalty to its Israeli and American masters through a deadly military operation in the northern occupied West Bank city of Jenin . <p> " The operation is a make or break moment for the Palestinian Authority , " one unnamed Palestinian official told Barak Ravid , an Israeli media figure with close ties to US and Israeli intelligence . <p> The deadly PA military operation in Jenin and its refugee camp , which is nearing a second week , is targeted at armed Palestinian resistance in the area which emerged to counter Israeli encroachment and land grabs . <p> PA leader Mahmoud Abbas launched the operation " to send a message to the incoming Donald Trump administration that the Palestinian Authority is a reliable partner , " Ravid wrote for Axios . <p> The PA 's " actions seem to be driven by its desire to offer a ' valuable gift ' to the incoming US administration and win the favor of President-elect Donald Trump , by suggesting that its military operation in Jenin is capable of ' cutting off the head of the resistance , ' " one analysis piece in the Lebanese newspaper Al-Akhbarread . <p> Whether the PA can be successful in actually making a dent in resistance capabilities or the will to carry on is a different story . <p> There is buzz in Israeli media about the fragility of the Palestinian Authority , with concerns that some members within its ranks may shift their loyalties . This is why the PA is attempting to demonstrate its capabilities in suppressing armed resistance in areas where Israel grants it nominal control . <p> Since the military operation began , PA forces have occupied the Jenin government hospital , cut off electricity and water to the camp , shot and killed two youths in addition to a member of the armed resistance , creating a state of fear and uncertainty in the camp . <p> Schools have been closed in the area , with students shifted to virtual learning . Jenin residents have observed a camp-wide strike for the fourth day in a row to protest the PA 's incursion . <p> UNRWA , the UN agency for Palestinian refugees , has been forced to suspend its operations in the area . <p> " Children remain out of school and camp residents are unable to access primary healthcare and other critical services , " Philippe Lazzarini , commissioner-general of UNRWA , said on Tuesday . <p> " For far too long , residents of Jenin and Jenin camp have been subject to a cycle of violence and destruction , rendering the camp nearly uninhabitable , " Lazzarini added , failing to mention that it was the Israeli military that subjected Jenin to widespread destruction and accelerated violence since Israel launched its genocide of Palestinians in Gaza in October 2023 . <p> In September this year , Israel reportedly destroyed the vast majority of Jenin 's streets during a lethal multi-day raid of the city and its camp . <p> The PA operation is being carried out with full coordination with Israel , Hebrew media has reported . PA security chiefs even met with Michael R. Fenzel , a US lieutenant general who oversees so-called security ties between Israel and the Palestinians , ahead of the operation to go over planning details . <p> The PA officials handed Fenzel a detailed list of weaponry needed to intensify their offensive against Palestinians , Axiosreported . <p> The US is now asking Israel to authorize the transfer of weapons to the PA , ensuring it can continue carrying out Israel 's dirty work . <p> Palestinian and US officials told Barak Ravid the operation was also launched " to try to prevent what happened in Syria from happening in the West Bank . " <p> One Palestinian official said that this was the " Syria effect . Abbas and his team were concerned that what happened in Aleppo and Damascus will inspire Palestinian Islamist groups . " <p> This is , of course , incoherent with the Palestinian Authority 's other propaganda , which portrays armed Palestinian groups in the camps as part of an " Iranian-funded takeover , " as the unnamed Palestinian official told Ravid . <p> " The gunmen in Jenin are not resistance fighters , but mercenaries serving the dubious agenda of an outside party , " Anwar Rajab , the spokesperson of the PA " security " forces , said . <p> Rajab likened activities by the groups to " ISIS-style efforts , " highlighting this incoherence . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> In reality , the resistance in the West Bank has existed as long as Israel 's military occupation has , and is a direct reaction to it . It is not motivated by external support . <p> This is a reality the PA understands and is undermined by , which is why the collaborationist body is willing to do everything in its power to prove its worth to its Israeli masters . <p> Palestinian territory -- The Israeli military 's destruction of entire Palestinian cities and neighbourhoods in the Gaza Strip is a clear manifestation of the genocide Israel has been committing in Gaza for ... <p> " There is only one solution ! Intifada ! Revolution ! " --Pro-Palestinian Street March Chant , 2023-24 On November 2nd , there was a " No Votes for Genocide " protest in New York City . To those pro-Palestinian ... <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called the conditions at Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza " appalling , " as the area has been under relentless Israeli ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119022074 <p> As Israel intensified its killing campaign in the Gaza Strip in May , people across the globe took to the streets in solidarity with Palestinians . Others used social media to document , condemn and raise awareness ... <p> Israel deliberately destroyed a residential tower in the Gaza Strip on Tuesday despite warnings from Palestinian resistance groups not to target civilian infrastructure . Videos circulated on social media show the ... <p> Israel is trying to silence people who witness its atrocities . The Knesset , Israel 's parliament , is considering a bill that would criminalize filming or recording Israeli soldiers and publishing the content . The law calls for ... <p> An Israeli military court has approved a plea deal which will see Palestinian teenager Ahed Tamimi serve an eight-month prison sentence on top of a fine of nearly $1,500 . Ahed , who turned 17 in January , was charged with ... <p> The Israeli authorities are exerting pressure on Facebook to comply with more of their demands . Earlier this month , members of Israel 's parliament , the Knesset , discussed how to suppress content of which they disapproved on ... <p> The Israeli military filed 12 charges on Monday against Palestinian teenager Ahed Tamimi . The 16-year-old , who was filmed in an encounter with soldiers in her home village of Nabi Saleh last month , could ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119022075 <h> Israel expands urbicide as a tool of genocide in Gaza <h> Share : <p> An aerial image published by the Israeli army of Jabalia in northern Gaza after more than two months of the largest genocide campaign it launched on the strip <p> Palestinian territory -- The Israeli military 's destruction of entire Palestinian cities and neighbourhoods in the Gaza Strip is a clear manifestation of the genocide Israel has been committing in Gaza for the past 14 months , and a primary tool for its implementation . <p> This crime has not been confined to the killing of tens of thousands of Palestinians or the gradual decimation of two million people 's basic survival elements . It has extended to the complete annihilation of Palestinian cities , obliterating their architectural and civilisational fabric . This systematic destruction aims to erase the Palestinian national and cultural identity , impose permanent forced displacement , prevent return , dismantle communities , and eradicate their collective memory . It is a deliberate attempt to eliminate their physical and human existence while destroying their past , present , and future . <p> Information documented by Euro-Med Monitor 's field team , alongside testimonies from families forcibly displaced from northern Gaza , reveals that the Israeli occupation army has pursued , since its third ground assault on the northern Gaza Strip starting 5 October 2024 , a policy of comprehensive erasure and destruction . <p> Methods employed include demolition using robots and booby-trapped barrels , aerial bombardment with destructive ordnance , planting explosives for remote demolition , and bulldozing using Israeli military and civilian machinery . <p> Euro-Med Monitor has meticulously reviewed videos and photographs published by Israeli soldiers and media platforms . Extensive aerial footage confirms the scale of destruction inflicted upon the northern Gaza Strip , with Jabalia camp left entirely in ruins , reduced to piles of rubble and impassable streets . <p> Entire areas , including Blocks 2 , 3 , 4 , and 5 , as well as Al-Alami , Al-Houja , Al-Falluja , Al-Tuwam , and the northern outskirts of Al-Saftawi , have been completely annihilated . Similar devastation has occurred in Beit Lahia and Beit Hanoun , leaving these once-thriving communities uninhabitable . <p> The systematic and comprehensive destruction of Palestinian towns and neighbourhoods -- targeting homes , infrastructure , and civil and economic facilities -- has persisted for over 73 days ( since 5 October 2024 ) . The pattern of devastation demonstrates that it is not militarily necessary but serves the deliberate purpose of erasing the Palestinian material and cultural presence . This constitutes a grave breach of international law . <p> Israel 's actions align with a broader policy of urbicide where the destruction targets not just Palestinian individuals and property , but the erasure of their cultural and civilisational existence . The goal is to obliterate any material or historical trace connecting Palestinians to their land , thereby weakening their ability to remain and survive in their ancestral areas . <p> Israeli government ministers , officials , Knesset members , and settler organisations openly promote these actions as part of efforts to impose a new demographic and geographic reality -- replacing the indigenous Palestinian population with Israeli settlers . This constitutes a flagrant violation of international law and demands immediate intervention , accountability , and justice for the victims . <p> This policy of urbicide is not limited to northern Gaza . Initial reports from Rafah , in the southern Gaza Strip , alongside satellite imagery and testimonies , indicate that large areas have been nearly erased . Similar destruction has devastated Khan Yunis , Shuja'iyya , Zeitoun , and neighbourhoods along the Netzarim axis . The destruction extends to homes , streets , infrastructure , and essential civil , economic , and cultural facilities , rendering these areas uninhabitable and systematically preventing Palestinian return . <p> This urbicide is also tied to the ongoing crime of culturcide , initiated on 7 October 2023 . Since then , Israel has deliberately targeted Palestinian archaeological and cultural landmarks in a clear effort to erase the Palestinian cultural heritage . Euro-Med Monitor has documented dozens of cases where the Israeli army targeted mosques , churches , historical buildings , museums , cultural centres , and universities , all integral to Gaza 's cultural identity . <p> While previous Israeli military operations destroyed key aspects of Gaza 's rich architectural heritage , the current assault represents its near-total obliteration . <p> Gaza 's heritage belongs not only to Palestinians but to all of humanity . These sites hold cultural and historical significance that transcends national borders , representing a shared global memory . The international community must act urgently to protect these sites , conduct impartial investigations into Israel 's violations , and pressure Israel to cease its systematic destruction . <p> All states must fulfil their international responsibilities to halt the genocide and other grave crimes being committed by Israel in Gaza . This includes imposing effective sanctions , ensuring compliance with international law and ICJ rulings , and halting all forms of political , financial , and military support to Israel . Immediate cessation of arms sales , transfers , and military aid to Israel is essential , alongside enforcing accountability for crimes against Palestinians . The International Criminal Court 's arrest warrants for Israel 's Prime Minister and Defence Minister must also be executed without delay . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Moreover , countries complicit in Israel 's crimes -- most notably the United States and others providing military , financial , and political support -- must also be held accountable . This includes states engaging in intelligence sharing , contractual agreements , and other forms of collaboration that enable Israel 's crimes . <p> Immediate action is imperative to end this unprecedented destruction , bring justice to the victims , and safeguard humanity 's shared heritage and dignity . <p> Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor is a Geneva-based independent organization with regional offices across the MENA region and Europe <p> " There is only one solution ! Intifada ! Revolution ! " --Pro-Palestinian Street March Chant , 2023-24 On November 2nd , there was a " No Votes for Genocide " protest in New York City . To those pro-Palestinian ... <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called the conditions at Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza " appalling , " as the area has been under relentless Israeli ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119022077 <h> Share : <p> On November 2nd , there was a " No Votes for Genocide " protest in New York City . To those pro-Palestinian activists , candidate Kamala Harris was fully supporting a genocide in Gaza and candidate Donld Trump promised complete devotion to the Israeli war criminal state committing it . Palestinian-American Layan Fuleihan was out in front of the march leading the chants in Arabic and English : " Free free Palestine ! From the river to the sea , Palestine will be free ! " And " Imperialism will fall ! Every fascist state will fall ! Hands off Gaza now ! Hands off Lebanon now ! We demand liberation ! End the Zionist occupation ! " <p> Claudia de la Cruz , presidential candidate for the People 's Party for Socialism and Liberation , also exhorted the crowd . " Our so-called ' democracy ' has no backbone to stand against genocide . Trump and Harris both support millionaire military contractors ! " For Fuleihan and de la Cruz , as with the thousands of women marching there and all over America , there is no other choice but to dissent against the egregious US/Israeli partnership to commit war crimes against the Palestinian people . <p> Anti-genocide women activists see this holocaust as a feminist issue . They see it as a matter of " human rights and justice , " as the Palestinian Feminist Collective puts it , and as a war crime directly impacting huge numbers of defenseless and innocent women and children . The seven women featured here , although from diverse backgrounds , and employing different strategies , strongly agree with those sentiments . They are young socialist feminists Layan Fuleihan and Calla Walsh ; veteran Palestinian activists Hazami Barmada and Huweida Arraf , and very long-time anti-war activist Medea Benjamin ; and two women in politics , one , Michigan Congresswoman and Palestinian , Rashida Tlaib ; and socialist , anti-imperialist PSL candidate , Claudia de la Cruz . <p> The seven women dissenters are fighting the Israeli/Jewish apartheid state which is carrying out the ethnic cleansing of Palestinians , and the US/Western support of this genocide , as part of racist Western colonialism . The Palestinian resistance group Hamas started their " Al Aqsa Flood " operation last October 7 , essentially a slave rebellion to break out of 75 years of extreme apartheid/occupation . It was met with an unbelievably violent response : an Israeli holocaust which has killed tens of thousands of Palestinians . The journal Lancet reported last July that the Gaza Ministry of Health 's count of 45,000 dead is far too low . They estimate , after considering the victims buried under the rubble , and the people who succumb to disease and famine , the true tally is upward of 186,000 . UN Rapporteur Francesca Albanese has outlined in great detail how Israel 's intention is to kill " the totality of the Palestinian people . " After over a year the US and Western countries continue to stand by and watch the genocide unfold , literally and in great detail , on social media . Anyone with a shred of humanity has to oppose it ; many women are choosing to resist it . And many are paying the price for defying the Empire and its cosseted partner , Israel . <p> Professor As'ad Abu Khalil has said that the " movement against Israeli/American colonialism and genocide is being led by remarkably brave young Palestinian women . " If you have seen the rallies , marches , university encampments , and attacks and arrests by police -- you 've seen many remarkably brave young women . Layan Fuleihan re-tweeted the comments of Hamas-allied Hezbollah Resistance leader Hassan Nasrullah , since murdered by the Israelis . Nasrullah was surprised at the support American student protests gave to the Palestinians . He called it " another front of the resistance . " Fuleihan and her fellow young protesters take being another resistance front very seriously and are convinced they can show their power in their dissent . There are hundreds of student/youth organizations involved in this effort , many of them Palestinian-led , and many women-led . The very visible Students for Justice for Palestine ( SJP ) " supports and unifies " the over 200 campus Palestinian solidarity organizations " in occupied Turtle Island " ( US-occupied Native-American lands ) . Its aim is to " contribute to the fight for Palestinian liberation . " <p> Last May , the SJP and Within Our Lifetime , which seeks university divestment of Israel investment , organized a rally which included hundreds of protesters , to oppose Israel 's Gaza genocide . That same month , encampments were set up at Columbia University and City College in NYC , and in Massachusetts , Iowa , Texas , Michigan , California , and all across the country . And in every case , they were met by heavy-handed repression by university authorities and security and by the police . At the May NYC student protests , over 300 were arrested . Hunter College student Johanna von Maack joined an encampment praising the students ' " solidarity and support . " But von Maack was appalled at the NYPD 's reaction . They were in full riot gear , " pepper spraying students ; they were injuring them . " She wondered , " Why was it so brutal and violent ? They were just trying to get CUNY to divest away from genocide . " The counterforce was well under way to stop student protest . <p> Zionist/Jewish/Israeli pressure has influenced university presidents , legislators and law enforcement to bring the hammer down on the anti-genocide dissenters . Many hundreds have been arrested -- often in brutal and violent ways -- from Emerson College in Boston to USC and UCLA . USC security and LAPD police shoved young women protesters wearing kaffiyehs to the ground and clubbed them , and then hauled them off as their fellow protesters chanted " free Palestine ! " The crackdown has only worsened this fall . There are new stricter regulations for demonstrations , and at NYU , pro-Israel " Zionists " are now a protected class . There is more repressive surveillance and a greater police presence . Two women students , Samantha Escobar and Naomi Guttierrez , were among four arrested for the felony of putting up posters criticizing people who were for genocide at the University of Rochester . The Jewish/Israeli lobby was at work to maintain the school administration 's continued support of Israeli/US genocide . When student protester Reem Odeh of Chicago was out in the streets last summer , she said " The US role is to continue genocide and persecution . . . The American ruling class spends money killing children in Gaza . " And " We want a weapons embargo now ! " At the same event , a young woman called Melach of the Palestinian Assembly for Liberation denounced the " settler colonial regime of Israel . " " Revolution is here ! " Such is their commitment . <p> My two young activists -- Layan Fuleihan and Calla Walsh -- have different methods , but share leftist politics : they want the revolution here and now . A day after Hamas began the Al Aqsa Flood Operation , Layan Fuleihan said " the oppressed people of Palestine broke out of the open-air prison they have been subjected to . " She was speaking at an " All Out for Palestine " rally organized by the People 's Forum . Fuleihan is education director for the Forum , an organization which " makes no apologies for calling for the destruction of an apartheid and colonial state that is actively engaging in a genocide of the Palestinian people . " Fuleihan is an impressive and insightful writer . She " educates and organizes " for the Forum , sharing what she has learned as a " student of the struggles of the oppressed . " She works to promote a " world free from the control of imperialism and capitalism . " She has written that the end of the Gaza war will bring a way " for the Palestinian people to realize their goals for liberation , for dignity and for true independence . " She dreams of returning to " a liberated Palestine . " <p> She 's continually at rallies -- in New York on October 24 , ' 23 , she spoke out against the US as a " capitalist imperialist government " which supports the Gaza genocide . Fuleihan was at the huge march in DC last July protesting Netanyahu 's visit , which saw a lot of police violence against the marchers . Her message was that the US " provides a " fortress " for " war criminal " Bibi Netanyahu . " We are the people of conscience -- there is no place for genocide ! " " Hands off Gaza now ! " Her twitter posts reflect her politics : she lauds the Palestinian resistance and condemns Israel . When Israel bombed a hospital in Gaza she wrote : " Israeli occupation is genocidal and needs to go now . " Last January at the " Shut it down for Palestine " march , she said " we will stay in the streets until there is a permanent ceasefire and Palestine is free ! " She was arrested and she continues to be . " The genocide defenders sent their puppets , the NYPD , thinking they could shut us down . They were wrong . Arrest us , and the millions will keep marching . We are the ones with the power . " And the bravery . <p> Beyond rallies , marches and encampments , some female dissenters opt for direct action in their anti-genocide fight . Activist Calla Walsh , now 20 , is one of the " Merrimack 4 , " arrested for her action against the Haifa ( Israel ) -based Elbit Systems plant . Elbit is a major supplier of the drones , artillery and munitions Israel needs to do its genocide in Gaza . Walsh began her political activism at 16 in Massachusetts , working to create online youth support for Senator Edward Markey , who quickly disillusioned her with his support for Israel . Walsh changed political directions and became a socialist , often speaking out against US imperialism , especially as used against Cuba and China . She argues that the US uses promises of " democracy " and aid as weapons to fight real ( anti-US ) democracy around the world . <p> Walsh , with Sophie Ross , 22 , Paige Belanger , 32 , and Bridget Shergolis , a 24-year-old former Disney actress , spray-painted walls , raised burning torches and smashed some windows at the Merrimack , NH branch of Elbit . Walsh and Belanger had helped organize a US branch of the British Palestine Action which has been busy getting its people arrested for doing direct action against Israeli arms-related businesses . Before Merrimack , Walsh and company had been involved in related actions in Virginia and Cambridge , MA ( Ross and Walsh are still facing court action there ) . The Merrimack arrests were followed by very harsh charges . <p> Brought into court in shackles and orange jumpsuits , the women were met with accusations of " riot , conspiracy to commit criminal mischief , burglary and falsifying evidence . " Each charge , a felony , could mean a three and a half to seven- year prison sentence . A conservative NH attorney general , backed by numerous politicians , such as Governor Chris Sununu , called the action " antisemitic " and " a vile act of hate . " They joined the Jewish Anti-Defamation League in calling the women antisemitic for crimes targeting Jewish and Israeli-owned businesses . The Canary Mission , an Israeli-run website which tracks and smears Palestinian advocates ( including Fuleihan ) through network informants , calls Walsh a " vicious antisemitic communist hooligan . " This is partly because she supposedly worked on the " Mapping Project " of Boston Jewish organizations ' support for colonization of Palestine . She denies that and says she only " supported it , " but did n't work on it . <p> In September the felony charges were dropped . Apparently , the prosecutors hoped to coerce some guilty pleas , but also to discourage others from such actions . The sentences were reduced to 60 days , starting on November 14 , for misdemeanors . Walsh said the " hardest part was all the months of waiting , isolation and fear of a lifetime in prison . " But she still believes direct action is better than parades and " liberal reformism . " Palestine Action stated the women will be " imprisoned for trying to stop a genocide . " The punishments for fighting a holocaust are harsh . <p> My older activists , Hazami Barmada , Medea Benjamin , and Arraf Huweida , have all faced numerous arrests and threats . Palestinian Barmada was inspired to fight because of the Gaza genocide , but Jewish anti-war campaigner Benjamin and anti-occupation Palestinian Huweida have been in the struggle for years . Barmada , probably my favorite dissenter , comes from an interesting background . I first saw Hazami Barmada in a video with another dozen people , shouting at Secretary of State Antony Blinken as he drove away from his house . " War criminal ! War criminal ! " Barmada and crew set up their camp across the road from his house in January , calling it " Kibbutz Blinken . " The protesters ask people driving by to honk for Palestine , and they usually do . At seven every morning , Barmada wakes Blinken : " Wakey , wakey war criminal ! How many kids did you kill while you were sleeping ? " The group follow that up by putting blood red paint on the road as Blinken leaves for the State Department . Blinken asked Barmada not to make his kids " uncomfortable . " But she told him Palestinian kids their age " are treated as dispensable . They ca n't escape the rain of bombs that drop on their heads . " <p> Barmada is **27;1259;TOOLONG ; she is CEO of Humanity Lab Foundation , and once headed the Arab Empowerment Institute . She has an MA from Harvard in public policy and has been a consultant to the UN , Aspen and the government of Oman . In 2023 she became an adjunct professor at George Washington University in DC . In her earlier persona , she is pictured as an attractive buttoned-down CEO , but as an anti-genocide activist , her hair is carelessly pulled back in a kerchief and she 's in jeans . Why the change ? She says the last few years have been hard : her father had a paralyzing stroke , and she almost died twice during her last pregnancy . She had never been a Palestinian activist , because they did n't do that " in philanthropy work . " But then she saw a photo of a Palestinian woman holding her daughter on her knees . She looked at it as she was putting her son to sleep . She started crying . " What would I do if it was my kid ? " So she said she " went out and put my body on the ground in front of the Capitol . " As a mother , she felt compelled to fight the Israeli/American genocide . <p> Barmada wanted , like Walsh , to do direct action and " political street theater " to " engage " and " educate " people more that marches do . Her actions include " die-ins " at the Israeli Embassy and White House , making State Department workers walk through blood red paint to get to work , and interrupting pro-Israel politicians ' speeches . For her actions , she has received many death threats and been assaulted by Israeli Embassy people . Barmada and company lived at Kibbutz Blinken from January through July , experiencing a lot of support from locals ( and especially from Arab and Palestinian restaurants ) . Finally in late July , the state of Virginia decided it was illegal for them to " block the road " ( although they were n't ) . Police with rifles cleared them out . Barmada says she has lost friends because of her activism , but she has gained a new family . <p> Fellow dissenter Medea Benjamin seems to be constantly dogging the steps of government leaders -- trying to make them listen . It 's very much an uphill battle , and Benjamin has been fighting to change politicians ' minds for decades . To me , her most dramatic and spectacular anti-genocide display was the one done very early in the Gaza " war , " on November 3 , 2023 . Dozens of protesters , including Benjamin and her COlDEPINK colleagues , held up hands painted bloody red as a backdrop to secretaries of state and defense , Antony Blinken and Lloyd Austin as they presented their case to the Senate Appropriations Committee for giving more money to Israel to commit war crimes against the Palestinians in Gaza . When her turn to interrupt came , Benjamin told them they had blood on their hands . " How can you send more weapons to Israel ? They kill a child every 10 minutes . . . Who are you representing ? Jewish/Israel lobby 's AIPAC ? The arms industry ? " She was dragged away as the Senate audience looked annoyed or indifferent . <p> Medea Benjamin has been arrested hundreds of times because she refuses to stop her anti-government dissent . Benjamin was born to a Jewish family on Long Island in 1952 . She went to Tufts where she embraced feminism and joined SDS . She left school to hitchhike through Europe , and then returned to earn MAs at Columbia ( public health ) and the New School ( education ) . She spent 10 years as a nutritionist in Latin America and Africa . Her activism efforts are really too numerous to mention , but they center in anti-war dissent : a watch center on US abuses in Baghdad , anti-Guantanamo Prison protests in Congress , anti-drone activism , pro-Venezuela action in Washington , and taking part in Gaza flotillas and freedom marches to break Israel 's siege . <p> Medea Benjamin , Jodie Evans and 100 others started CODEPINK in November ' 02 to protest the Iraq War . The CODEPINK name was to counter President Bush 's national security codes of Orange and Red and offer pink as a call " to wage peace . " After four months in existence , 25 of their number including Benjamin , were arrested at the White House gates protesting the war . From then until now , you can find CODEPINK people , often including Benjamin , at any significant government function regarding war and peace . They were there in force at the Democratic National Convention last July -- plaguing VP candidate Tim Walz when he spoke at the " Women 's Caucus " about the ERA . But he did not mention Palestinian women 's rights , and so he was informed . " Gaza is a feminist issue ! " The DNC was a clear example of US political depravity . Onwar Omeish was one of the women reading out the names of dead Gazan children , to ridicule , and for the most part , to attendees " covering their ears . " <p> When Medea Benjamin was honored at the global Peace Unity Conference in London last October , she told them she has gone to Congress every day since October 7 . As an American she is disgusted . And as a Jew , she says her " religion has been twisted . " " Anti-Zionism is not antisemitism . " She is fighting " Israeli apartheid . " She does not ( publicly ) grapple with the huge support American Jews , in every local synagogue and federation , give to Israel and its genocide . One egregious example was an LA synagogue selling Gaza land in anticipation of its Israeli takeover . Israel is a Jewish supremacist apartheid state and needs to be condemned by -- as Benjamin put it -- " anyone with a sense of humanity . " Benjamin was back opposing Austin last April at the House Appropriations Committee . She told him US support for Gaza genocide is " illegal , immoral and disgraceful . " She shouted , " The whole world is watching what we are doing in Gaza . Secretary General you are supporting a genocide . Free Palestine ! " Again , she was led away in handcuffs . She spoke to the cameras : " We must all do what we can even if it means going to jail for justice . " And she did . And she will . <p> Veteran Palestinian-American activist Huwaida Arraf has also been doing what she can for Palestinian rights for decades , although as a Palestinian she comes at it from a different direction from Benjamin . Like Benjamin , Arraf maintains mainstream connections while she criticizes political policy . My impression is that she and Benjamin are both shaken by the US government/Democratic administration support for Israeli genocide . Last March , Arraf joined the crowd of protesters rallying against President Biden as he prepared to give his State of the Union message . She wielded a microphone to tell the crowd they " actually represent the ideals Biden claims to speak for . " " We know the State of the Union , the State of the Union is genocide ! " His motorcade avoided the protesters , their huge Palestinian flag , and their chants : " From DC to Palestine , occupation is a crime ! " Arraf , 48 , knows only too well about the crimes of occupation . Huwaida Arraf grew up in Michigan after her Palestinian parents moved there when she was an infant . She visited Palestine until she was 11 , and later studied in Jerusalem . She got her law degree with a focus on human rights . <p> Arraf worked with Seeds of Peace , a US organization promoting Jewish-Palestinian dialogue , and met her Jewish husband there . But it was n't long before she left Seeds of Peace . She has said it was a " feel-good project " and it " ignored Israeli hegemony . " Instead she and her husband founded the International Solidarity Movement ( ISM ) in 2001 with the very different focus of resisting " the long-entrenched and systematic oppression and dispossession of the Palestinian population " with non-violent and direct actions methods . She was off and running : from Ramallah , West Bank , joining the PLO 's Arafat in solidarity , under Israeli fire in 2002 ; to serving as a " Palestinian freedom rider " defying Israeli anti-Palestinian law and thus getting dragged off a bus and arrested in 2011 . In 2008 she was aboard the first of the International Gaza Freedom Flotillas ( which she helped organize ) . The ship was the first to reach a Gaza port in 40 years . Arraf was also onboard in 2010 when their ships were raided by Israeli commandoes . The Israelis killed 10 and injured 50 of the activists . When a Greek participant of the 2010 action recently died , she tweeted he 'd be with her in spirit " when we return to a free Gaza and free Palestine ! " She was an organizer for the Flotilla attempt last April to call attention to the siege and genocide in Gaza , knowing " Israel might attack us . " But there were Turkey/Israeli/American political machinations and delays which ended their attempt . <p> Maintaining her ties with the Michigan Democratic party , Arraf ran for Congress in 2022 . She said she hoped once there , she would be able to work on writing better human rights laws . Unsurprisingly , she had vicious Jewish/Israeli Lobby opposition with their charges of antisemitism , and lost the primary handily . As noted , her disillusion with the Democrats is growing . She tweeted on November 1st she would never vote for Kamala Harris , and on the 6th that she was not surprised Secretary Blinken ignored Israel 's blocking aid to Gaza and his refusal to change administration policy . She spends her time defending Michigan students who face disciplinary action for their pro-Palestinian protests . She 's at rallies and giving talks and seminars -- my husband , a pro-Palestinian writer himself , says she does n't get enough credit for all she 's done . According to Huweida Arraf , " The Palestinian struggle is for freedom -- for basic human dignity and human rights . " Obviously an Israeli/American genocide would , to her , have to be fought at all costs . <p> My two women in politics , Rashida Tlaib and Claudia de la Cruz , have differing political views but the same dedication to the anti-genocide struggle . The only politician in Washington fighting against genocide , like her close friend Arraf , Palestinian Congresswoman Rashida Tlaib of Michigan , has been scorned and censured by her own party for her ( understandably ) strong pro-Palestinian stands . She refused to endorse Democratic presidential candidate and pro-genocide , Kamala Harris , but won her own fourth term with 80% of the vote . She won in spite of strong Jewish lobby pressure against her . On November 14 , she was on the floor of the House , demanding that Secretary Blinken resign for lying to Congress . In an October letter he threatened Israel with withholding arms if they did n't start sending aid to the population of Gaza . He , of course , reneged on that promise , which , as noted , Arraf also condemned . Tlaib tweeted that Blinken 's lies had led to the starvation of Gaza . " I ca n't believe our country wo n't stop funding and enabling these war crimes . " <p> Rashida Tlaib , 48 , is the first and only Palestinian-American to be in Congress . She comes from a working-class Detroit family ; attending college for a political science and then law degree . She ran for and won state office in 2007 and then Congress in 2019 . Her opposition to Israeli apartheid has always been central for her , and she 's made no apologies for it . She promotes a one-state solution and supports Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions ( BDS ) against Israel . Israel banned her from the country so she can not visit relatives in the West Bank . In Congress she has been investigated for allegedly violating campaign finance laws , and last October the House voted to censure her for criticizing Israel and " leading an insurrection " for participating in a Capitol protest . That censure motion failed . Tlaib called it " deeply Islamophobic . " The next attempt in November succeeded . This time 22 Democrats joined the GOP in denying their colleague free speech . The Republican-led resolution accused her of " promoting false narratives " regarding the Hamas operation of October7 and of using the phrase " from the river to the sea " to advocate Palestinian self-determination as " a genocidal call " to " destroy Israel . " Tlaib has actually been careful about her statements , dutifully criticizing Hamas and denying the Congressional " river to the sea " interpretation . But her ceasefire calls and criticism for US support for genocide is too much for Congress . <p> One of the bravest acts of courage I 've ever seen is when Tlaib sat alone in Congress on the occasion of the Congressional lovefest for Israeli war criminal Benjamin Netanyahu last July . She was noticeably avoided and ignored by her colleagues . No one joined her as she held up a sign which said " War Criminal " on one side and " Guilty of Genocide " on the other . She explained : " It is important for myself as a Palestinian-American to make sure that our community is not erased , that the genocide in Gaza is not ignored . " There was one presidential candidate who opposed the Democrats who joins Tlaib in her determination that it will not happen . <p> No one exemplifies the courage and backbone to fight genocide better than the indomitable Claudia de la Cruz , 44 . As noted , de la Cruz was marching with Fuleihan last January in a NY " Shut it Down for Palestine " rally , when she suffered one of her numerous arrests . She pulls no punches as to whom to blame for the genocide . Last July at a rally in NY protesting Netanyahu 's visit , one met with slobbering devotion by both political parties , Dominican-American de la Cruz , PSL candidate for president , had a decidedly different view . " The US sponsors terrorism ! **28;1288;TOOLONG and Harris -- no pass given for a black woman -- all support it . " " We are in the belly of the beast . . . We are committed to liberation . Long live Palestine ! " De la Cruz is a complete socialist : anti-capitalist and anti-imperialist . <p> She prides herself on her working- class background . Born in the South Bronx , she has a degree from John Jay , an MA in social work from Columbia , and a divinity degree from Union Theological Seminary . At an early age she was organizing -- as in a 2003 march against the Iraq war -- and began a movement to promote leadership for young Dominican and Puerto Rican women in honor of the nuns killed in 1960 who opposed Dominican dictator Trujillo . As pastor in a Latin American church , she worked to use her faith to do community organizing . Her link with Layan Fuleihan stems from her being co-founder of the People 's Forum . Her PSL candidacy features socialist reforms like single payer healthcare , recognition of Native-American treaty rights , and eliminating billionaires ; but her main goal has been ending Israeli/American genocide . <p> In a University of Rochester student interview , she said she 's been demonstrating for Palestine since she was 13 . In her opinion , the worst thing to do " as we approach one year of this genocide is give them the ruling power space to demoralize us . . . Genocide is the issue because it shows us that they have the capacity to annihilate , to exterminate , an entire population . What do you think will happen to us ? " So de la Cruz keeps marching , organizing , speaking out and being arrested . A few weeks ago she was in New York exhorting her listeners : " Hello comrades ! It 's a long march ! People in Syria , in Gaza -- they all know the US is a terrorist entity too ! . . . Are you tired of marching ? A resounding No ! Hands off the Middle East ! From the Belly of the Beast ! " She said she 's a girl from the Bronx and she " fights to win ! " So " Buckle up , it 'll get bumpy ! We 'll build resistance to lift us to liberation ! Free Palestine ! " De la Cruz would be the president we badly need . <p> Not everyone believes the genocide should be fought at all costs . In fact , incredibly , the job of mainstream western media is to normalize genocide , and again , an array of female dissenters are working hard to make sure people are constantly presented with the reality of how genocide is abnormal and the worst crime against humanity . One of the most infamous supporters and hawkers for Israel , is CNN 's Dana Bash . Bash makes her arguments , like Antony Blinken , by unabashedly centering them in her being a Jew . She constantly parrots the IDF and Israeli government line . She insists Israel is a wonderful democracy where " every life matters . " She calls US student protests against the genocide " rage against Jews " and " hate on college campuses . " When addressing the need for a ceasefire , she says " On October 6 , there was a ceasefire , but it ended on October 7 with the brutal massacre of Israelis done by Hamas . " There is no context and no argument . <p> Bash has been confronted by protesters who charge her with " media malpractice " and " promoting genocide . " When Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal told Bash 15,000 women and children had been killed by Israel , Bash said " at least Israeli soldiers do n't rape Palestinian women . " That , of course , is a lie , with plentiful documentation of their soldiers ' raping women and men in their prisons and at their checkpoints . But her favorite focus was the since disproved story of Hamas soldiers systematically raping and killing Israeli women on October 7 . <p> The weaponization of rape as used by Empire narrative managers is not new . In this case , beyond Dana Bash and CNN , it was used most notably in a film by Sheryl Sandberg called " Screams Before Silence . " The film is supposedly a documentary of the rape and murder of Israeli women by Hamas , with women sexually abused , some mutilated and raped , and some killed . But her witnesses and her evidence have been debunked . In spite of that , Democratic Party " feminists " like Hillary Clinton and Senator Kristen Gillibrand lined up for an Israeli embassy event lauding the film . Kamala Harris repeated the disproved narrative numerous times , insisting " Israeli women suffered unspeakable sexual violence . " Truth has no place when engaging in heavy-handed Israeli genocide propaganda . <p> A whole host of alternative female podcasters , journalists and writers battle that narrative by presenting the truth and horror of genocide . There are numerous Americans , including Anya Parampil , Sabby Sabs , Katie Halper , Amy Goodman , and Margaret Kimberley . The writing efforts of Australian Caitlin Johnstone tackle the horrors of genocide and imperialism with her wit and insight every day . And there is brave former Gaza activist , Canadian Eva Bartlett bringing her first-hand knowledge to describe Israeli atrocities . Truthteller Vanessa Beeley , once detained by police at Heathrow , is still bringing the truth about the Empire 's new invasion in Syria . And the stubbornly strong Sarah Wilkinson , because she provides Gaza news for many thousands , was arrested , injured , and her home ransacked -- with the British SWAT team dumping out her mother 's ashes . All these women bring their sanity and humanity , and their unswerving support for the women , the children , the innocents being killed in the Israeli/American genocide . <p> A couple of weeks ago , the door to my house was egged . We live in a small town , but on a busy highway . Someone objected , I believe , to the signs in our windows : " Stop Israeli Apartheid " and " Let My People Go " in English and Arabic . As a child of the 60s , it is clear to me this is the time for building a movement against the Empire 's imperialism and global destruction , which now includes the brutal , violent takeover of Palestinian Resistance bulwark Syria . Young Palestinian women like Layan Fuleihan are leading rallies and marches , which she says shows the strength of the movement -- of " people who refuse to be complicit in genocide . " Claudia de la Cruz has the same mission : " We 're fighting to build socialism here . . We 'll build resistance to lift us to liberation . " Barmada , Benjamin and Arraf demand that women in government stand for " true feminism and liberation " and not " weaponize women 's rights " as the Palestinian Feminist Collective puts it . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Female dissenters are willing to take the consequences for being part of this movement . To quote Paige Belanger of the Merrimack Four : " I did n't want to serve time in jail , but I have no regrets about being incarcerated for materially disrupting the flow of weapons to Palestine and I will forever be proud that I took a stand against genocide , especially because it meant putting my own freedom on the line . Standing by and doing nothing simply was n't an option . " And standing by silently was not an option for Hazami Barmada when she confronted Joe Biden 's campaign speech last January . The topic was reproductive health . She interrupted him to shout out that women 's reproductive health was under attack in Gaza . He spoke over her , said she was a Trump MAGA , and called her " the woman hollering over there . " Women are hollering and they wo n't be silenced . They wo n't be stopped . <p> Palestinian territory -- The Israeli military 's destruction of entire Palestinian cities and neighbourhoods in the Gaza Strip is a clear manifestation of the genocide Israel has been committing in Gaza for ... <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called the conditions at Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza " appalling , " as the area has been under relentless Israeli ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119022078 <h> Can Trump Trump China ( or Vice Versa ) ? <h> Share : <p> Gaza , Haiti , Iran , Israel , Lebanon , Russia , Syria , Ukraine , and Venezuela : President-elect Donald Trump will face no shortage of foreign-policy challenges when he assumes office in January . None , however , comes close to China in scope , scale , or complexity . No other country has the capacity to resist his predictable antagonism with the same degree of strength and tenacity , and none arouses more hostility and outrage among MAGA Republicans . In short , China is guaranteed to put President Trump in a difficult bind the second time around : he can either choose to cut deals with Beijing and risk being branded an appeaser by the China hawks in his party , or he can punish and further encircle Beijing , risking a potentially violent clash and possibly even nuclear escalation . How he chooses to resolve this quandary will surely prove the most important foreign test of his second term in office . <p> Make no mistake : China truly is considered The Big One by those in Trump 's entourage responsible for devising foreign policy . While they imagine many international challenges to their " America First " strategy , only China , they believe , poses a true threat to the continued global dominance of this country . <p> " I feel strongly that the Chinese Communist Party has entered into a Cold War with the United States and is explicit in its aim to replace the liberal , Western-led world order that has been in place since World War II , " Representative Michael Waltz , Trump 's choice as national security adviser , declared at a 2023 event hosted by the Atlantic Council . " We 're in a global arms race with an adversary that , unlike any in American history , has the economic and the military capability to truly supplant and replace us . " <p> As Waltz and others around Trump see it , China poses a multi-dimensional threat to this country 's global supremacy . In the military domain , by building up its air force and navy , installing military bases on reclaimed islands in the South China Sea , and challenging Taiwan through increasingly aggressive air and naval maneuvers , it is challenging continued American dominance of the Western Pacific . Diplomatically , it 's now bolstering or repairing ties with key U.S. allies , including India , Indonesia , Japan , and the members of NATO . Meanwhile , it 's already close to replicating this country 's most advanced technologies , especially its ability to produce advanced microchips . And despite Washington 's efforts to diminish a U.S. reliance on vital Chinese goods , including critical minerals and pharmaceuticals , it remains a primary supplier of just such products to this country . <p> Fight or Strike Bargains ? <p> For many in the Trumpian inner circle , the only correct , patriotic response to the China challenge is to fight back hard . Both Representative Waltz , Trump 's pick as national security adviser , and Senator Marco Rubio , his choice as secretary of state , have sponsored or supported legislation to curb what they view as " malign " Chinese endeavors in the United States and abroad . <p> Waltz , for example , introduced the American Critical Mineral Exploration and Innovation Act of 2020 , which was intended , as he explained , " to reduce America 's dependence on foreign sources of critical minerals and bring the U.S. supply chain from China back to America . " Senator Rubio has been equally combative in the legislative arena . In 2021 , he authored the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act , which banned goods produced in forced labor encampments in Xinjiang Province from entering the United States . He also sponsored several pieces of legislation aimed at curbing Chinese access to U.S. technology . Although these , as well as similar measures introduced by Waltz , have n't always obtained the necessary congressional approval , they have sometimes been successfully bundled into other legislation . <p> In short , Trump will enter office in January with a toolkit of punitive measures for fighting China ready to roll along with strong support among his appointees for making them the law of the land . But of course , we 're talking about Donald Trump , so nothing is a given . Some analysts believe that his penchant for deal-making and his professed admiration for Chinese strongman President Xi Jinping may lead him to pursue a far more transactional approach , increasing economic and military pressure on Beijing to produce concessions on , for example , curbing the export of fentanyl precursors to Mexico , but when he gets what he wants letting them lapse . Howard Lutnick , the billionaire investor from Cantor Fitzgerald whom he chose as Commerce secretary , claims that Trump actually " wants to make a deal with China , " and will use the imposition of tariffs selectively as a bargaining tool to do so . <p> What such a deal might look like is anyone 's guess , but it 's hard to see how Trump could win significant concessions from Beijing without abandoning some of the punitive measures advocated by the China hawks in his entourage . Count on one thing : this complicated and confusing dynamic will play out in each of the major problem areas in U.S.-China relations , forcing Trump to make critical choices between his transactional instincts and the harsh ideological bent of his advisers . <p> Trump , China , and Taiwan <p> Of all the China-related issues in his second term in office , none is likely to prove more challenging or consequential than the future status of the island of Taiwan . At issue are Taiwan 's gradual moves toward full independence and the risk that China will invade the island to prevent such an outcome , possibly triggering U.S. military intervention as well . Of all the potential crises facing Trump , this is the one that could most easily lead to a great-power conflict with nuclear undertones . <p> When Washington granted diplomatic recognition to China in 1979 , it " acknowledged " that Taiwan and the mainland were both part of " one China " and that the two parts could eventually choose to reunite . The U.S. also agreed to cease diplomatic relations with Taiwan and terminate its military presence there . However , under the Taiwan Relations Act of 1979 , Washington was also empowered to cooperate with a quasi-governmental Taiwanese diplomatic agency , the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office in the United States , and provide Taiwan with the weapons needed for its defense . Moreover , in what came to be known as " strategic ambiguity , " U.S. officials insisted that any effort by China to alter Taiwan 's status by force would constitute " a threat to the peace and security of the Western Pacific area " and would be viewed as a matter " of grave concern to the United States , " although not necessarily one requiring a military response . <p> For decades , one president after another reaffirmed the " one China " policy while also providing Taiwan with increasingly powerful weaponry . For their part , Chinese officials repeatedly declared that Taiwan was a renegade province that should be reunited with the mainland , preferably by peaceful means . The Taiwanese , however , have never expressed a desire for reunification and instead have moved steadily towards a declaration of independence , which Beijing has insisted would justify armed intervention . <p> As such threats became more frequent and menacing , leaders in Washington continued to debate the validity of " strategic ambiguity , " with some insisting it should be replaced by a policy of " strategic clarity " involving an ironclad commitment to assist Taiwan should it be invaded by China . President Biden seemed to embrace this view , repeatedly affirming that the U.S. was obligated to defend Taiwan under such circumstances . However , each time he said so , his aides walked back his words , insisting the U.S. was under no legal obligation to do so . <p> The Biden administration also boosted its military support for the island while increasing American air and naval patrols in the area , which only heightened the possibility of a future U.S. intervention should China invade . Some of these moves , including expedited arms transfers to Taiwan , were adopted in response to prodding from China hawks in Congress . All , however , fit with an overarching administration strategy of encircling China with a constellation of American military installations and U.S.-armed allies and partners . <p> From Beijing 's perspective , then , Washington is already putting extreme military and geopolitical pressure on China . The question is : Will the Trump administration increase or decrease those pressures , especially when it comes to Taiwan ? <p> That Trump will approve increased arms sales to and military cooperation with Taiwan essentially goes without saying ( as much , at least , as anything involving him does ) . The Chinese have experienced upticks in U.S. aid to Taiwan before and can probably live through another round of the same . But that leaves far more volatile issues up for grabs : Will he embrace " strategic clarity , " guaranteeing Washington 's automatic intervention should China invade Taiwan , and will he approve a substantial expansion of the American military presence in the region ? Both moves have been advocated by some of the China hawks in Trump 's entourage , and both are certain to provoke fierce , hard-to-predict responses from Beijing . <p> Many of Trump 's closest advisers have , in fact , insisted on " strategic clarity " and increased military cooperation with Taiwan . Michael Waltz , for example , has asserted that the U.S. must " be clear we 'll defend Taiwan as a deterrent measure . " He has also called for an increased military presence in the Western Pacific . Similarly , last June , Robert C. O'Brien , Trump 's national security adviser from 2019 to 2021 , wrote that the U.S. " should make clear " its " commitment " to " help defend " Taiwan , while expanding military cooperation with the island . <p> Trump himself has made no such commitments , suggesting instead a more ambivalent stance . In his typical fashion , in fact , he 's called on Taiwan to spend more on its own defense and expressed anger at the concentration of advanced chip-making on the island , claiming that the Taiwanese " did take about 100% of our chip business . " But he 's also warned of harsh economic measures were China to impose a blockade of the island , telling the editorial board of the Wall Street Journal , " I would say to President Xi : if you go into Taiwan , I 'm sorry to do this , I 'm going to tax you at 150% to 200% . " He would n't need to threaten the use of force to prevent a blockade , he added , because President Xi " respects me and he knows I 'm expletive crazy . " <p> Such comments reveal the bind Trump will inevitably find himself in when it comes to Taiwan this time around . He could , of course , try to persuade Beijing to throttle back its military pressure on the island in return for a reduction in U.S. tariffs -- a move that would reduce the risk of war in the Pacific but leave China in a stronger economic position and disappoint many of his top advisers . If , however , he chooses to act " crazy " by embracing " strategic clarity " and stepping up military pressure on China , he would likely receive accolades from many of his supporters , while provoking a ( potentially nuclear ) war with China . <p> Trade War or Economic Coexistence ? <p> The question of tariffs represents another way in which Trump will face a crucial choice between punitive action and transactional options in his second term -- or , to be more precise , in deciding how severe to make those tariffs and other economic hardships he will try to impose on China . <p> In January 2018 , the first Trump administration imposed tariffs of 30% on imported solar panels and 20%-50% on imported washing machines , many sourced from China . Two months later , the administration added tariffs on imported steel ( 25% ) and aluminum ( 10% ) , again aimed above all at China . And despite his many criticisms of Trump 's foreign and economic policies , President Biden chose to retain those tariffs , even adding new ones , notably on electric cars and other high-tech products . The Biden administration has also banned the export of advanced computer chips and chip-making technology to China in a bid to slow that country 's technological progress . <p> Accordingly , when Trump reassumes office on January 20th , China will already be under stringent economic pressures from Washington . But he and his associates insist that those wo n't be faintly enough to constrain China 's rise . The president-elect has said that , on day one of his new term , he will impose a 10% tariff on all Chinese imports and follow that with other harsh measures . Among such moves , the Trump team has announced plans to raise tariffs on Chinese imports to 60% , revoke China 's Permanent Normal Trade Relations ( also known as " most favored nation " ) status , and ban the transshipment of Chinese imports through third countries . <p> But Trump will also face possible pushback from other advisers who are warning of severe economic perturbations if such measures were to be enacted . China , they suggest , has tools of its own to use in any trade war with the U.S. , including tariffs on American imports and restrictions on American firms doing business in China , including Elon Musk 's Tesla , which produces half of its cars there . For these and other reasons , the U.S.-China Business Council has warned that additional tariffs and other trade restrictions could prove disastrous , inviting " retaliatory measures from China , causing additional U.S. jobs and output losses . " <p> As in the case of Taiwan , Trump will face some genuinely daunting decisions when it comes to economic relations with China . If , in fact , he follows the advice of the ideologues in his circle and pursues a strategy of maximum pressure on Beijing , specifically designed to hobble China 's growth and curb its geopolitical ambitions , he could precipitate nothing short of a global economic meltdown that would negatively affect the lives of so many of his supporters , while significantly diminishing America 's own geopolitical clout . He might therefore follow the inclinations of certain of his key economic advisers like transition leader Howard Lutnick , who favor a more pragmatic , businesslike relationship with China . How Trump chooses to address this issue will likely determine whether the future involves increasing economic tumult and uncertainty or relative stability . And it 's always important to remember that a decision to play hardball with China on the economic front could also increase the risk of a military confrontation leading to full-scale war , even to World War III . <p> And while Taiwan and trade are undoubtedly the most obvious and challenging issues Trump will face in managing ( mismanaging ? ) U.S.-China relations in the years ahead , they are by no means the only ones . He will also have to decide how to deal with increasing Chinese assertiveness in the South China Sea , continued Chinese economic and military-technological support for Russia in its war against Ukraine , and growing Chinese investments in Africa , Latin America , and elsewhere . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> In these , and other aspects of the U.S.-China rivalry , Trump will be pulled toward both increased militancy and combativeness and a more pragmatic , transactional approach . During the campaign , he backed each approach , sometimes in the very same verbal outburst . Once in power , however , he will have to choose between them -- and his decisions will have a profound impact on this country , China , and everyone living on this planet . <h> Related Posts <p> Amid other crises , China 's economy has reeled from Western decoupling efforts . While several countries stand to gain from this process , it has only partially reduced China 's extensive global influence . The ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119026297 <p> Under their respective leaders , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan , relations between the two countries have deteriorated sharply in recent years . This sets the stage for a bitter showdown over Syria . <p> A new rivalry is emerging <p> Turkey is widely reported to have backed the offensive led by the Sunni rebel group , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , to drive Assad from power , thus backstabbing Syria 's traditional allies , Iran and Russia . <p> Tehran has intimated that without Turkey 's support , HTS would have been unable to achieve its blistering takeover . <p> Now , with Assad gone , Erdogan is believed to be positioning himself as de facto leader of the Sunni Muslim world . He also wants Turkey to be one of the dominant powers in the region . <p> Erdogan has said if the Ottoman Empire had been divided in a different way following its defeat in the First World war , several Syrian cities , including Aleppo and Damascus , would have likely been part of modern-day Turkey . <p> Turkey immediately reopened its embassy in Damascus after Assad 's fall and offered help to HTS in shaping the country 's new Islamist order . <p> As part of this , Erdogan has opposed any concession by HTS to the US-backed Kurdish minority in Syria 's northeast , which he regards as supporters of the Kurdish separatists in Turkey . <p> Meanwhile , Israel has taken advantage of the power vacuum in Syria to advance its territorial and security ambitions . It has launched a land incursion into the Syrian side of the strategic Golan Heights and has executed a massive bombardment of Syria 's military assets across the country . <p> Israel 's foreign minister said destroying these assets -- which included ammunition depots , fighter jets , missiles and chemical weapons storage facilities -- was necessary to ensure they did n't fall into the " hands of extremists " that could pose a threat to the Jewish state . <p> Turkey sees Israel 's recent actions in Syria and the occupied Golan Heights as a land grab . Israel 's actions have also been denounced by Arab countries , who demand Syria 's sovereignty and territorial integrity be respected . <p> Israel is clearly concerned about the rise to power of an Islamist group and the transformation of Syria into a jihadist state . <p> This is despite the fact that HTS leader Ahmad al-Sharaa ( also known as Abu Mohammad al-Jolani ) has signalled he does not want conflict with Israel . He 's also pledged not to allow any groups to use Syria for attacks on Israel . <p> At the same time , al-Sharaa has called for the withdrawal of Israel from Syrian territory according to a 1974 agreement that followed the 1973 Yom Kippur war . <p> Bitter foes <p> Erdogan , Turkey 's moderate Islamist president , has long been a supporter of the Palestinian cause and a fierce critic of Israel . But tensions have significantly escalated between the two sides since the start of the Gaza war . <p> Erdogan has called for an Arab-Islamic front to stop what he 's called Israel 's " genocide " in Gaza . He has equally berated Israel 's invasion of Lebanon earlier this year . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , meanwhile , has lashed out at Erdogan over the years . He has called him a " joke " and " dictator " whose jails are full of journalists and political prisoners . He has also accused Erdogan of committing a " genocide " of the Kurdish people . <p> Washington , which is allied to both Turkey and Israel , has launched intense diplomatic efforts to ensure that HTS moves Syria in a favourable direction . It is keen to see a post-Assad system of governance aligned with America 's interests . <p> These interests include HTS ' support for America 's Kurdish allies in northeast Syria and the continued presence of 1,000 American troops in the country . The US also wants HTS to continue to prevent the Islamic State terror group from regaining strength . <p> The US will also have to manage the emerging geopolitical rivalry between Israel and Turkey in Syria . <p> Some observers have not ruled out the possibility of an Israeli-Turkish military showdown , should Israel turn what it calls its temporary occupation of the demilitarised zone on the Syrian side of the Golan Heights into a permanent territorial acquisition . <p> This is not to say a war between them is imminent . But their clashing interests and the breadth of mutual hostility has certainly reached a new level . <p> Iran 's loss could be costly <p> For Iran , Assad 's ouster means the loss of a critical ally in its predominantly Shia " axis of resistance " against Israel and the United States . <p> The Iranian regime had worked hard to build this network over the last 45 years as a fundamental part of its national and wider security . It had propped up Assad 's minority Alawite dictatorship over the Sunni majority population in Syria at the cost of some USD 30 billion since the popular uprising against Assad began in 2011 . <p> And with Assad now gone , Iran is deprived of a vital land and air bridge to one of its key proxies -- Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> The Assad regime 's sudden demise is now causing soul searching in Tehran about the wisdom of its regional strategy -- and whether it will have any significant role at all in the new Syria . This seems unlikely , as al-Sharaa ( the leader of HTS ) has declared his disdain for both Iran and Hezbollah . <p> Al-Sharaa has prioritised the establishment of a publicly mandated Islamist government and Syria 's reconstruction and national unity over a conflict with Israel , Iran 's arch enemy . This will no doubt lead to contention with the hardliners and reformists in Iran . <p> Only time will tell how all of this will play out . At this stage , the future of Syria and the region hangs in the balance . And much depends on whether HTS leaders will move to set up an all-inclusive political system and unite a Balkanised Syria . ( The Conversation ) 
@@119029077 <p> There have been a flurry of diplomatic engagements in the last few days for the proposed ceasefire and hostage release deal after months of deadlock in the negotiations between the two sides . Still around 95 hostages are reportedly in the custody of Hamas in Gaza . <p> The two foreign ministers also discussed the situation in Syria following the collapse of President Bashar Assad 's regime 11 days back . Rebel forces overthrew Assad 's authoritarian government on December 8 , 2024 after capturing several other prominent cities and towns . <p> India has maintained a balanced position on the evolving situation in West Asia given its close and strategic ties with both Israel and Arab states . New Delhi has also called for a return to dialogue and diplomacy aimed at finding a two-state solution . 
@@119029947 <h> What does Donald Trump 's win mean for peace in the Middle East ? <h> Published on Dec 18 , 2024 <p> While Donald Trump has promised to bring peace to the Middle East , his intention to support the state of Israel and his ambivalent track record makes the future uncertain <p> Image Source : Getty <p> In his public address to his supporters after winning , the newly elected 47th President of the United States ( US ) , Donald Trump , said , " I 'll stop wars " , without explicitly mentioning the ongoing war in Gaza . He also asserted that during 2017-2020 , his presidency saw no major civil wars involving the US , reiterating his intent to restore world peace . " This will truly be a golden age of America " , he emphasised , while constantly pledging that the Republicans would make America great again through his " America First " policy . This article traces the currency of President Trump 's claims to restore world peace , particularly its implications for peace in the Middle East , by analysing America 's foreign policy in the region during his earlier presidency while simultaneously evaluating the possible impact of his presidential victory on the Middle East . <p> By December 2017 , Iraq declared its victory over Daesh and in February 2019 , the SDF besieged Daesh in the village of Baghouz , its last territorial enclave , thus ending ISIS ' physical caliphate in both Iraq and Syria . <p> The Trump administration continued implementing Obama 's strategy , although employing the new " rules of engagement " , which involved " greater risks in return for faster , more decisive operations " . As a result , backed by the US-led coalition airpower , Mosul was recaptured by Iraqi forces in July 2017 and Raqqa by the Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) in October 2017 after months-long battles . By December 2017 , Iraq declared its victory over Daesh and in February 2019 , the SDF besieged Daesh in the village of Baghouz , its last territorial enclave , thus ending ISIS ' physical caliphate in both Iraq and Syria . It is worth noting that within two and a half years of Obama 's military campaign , Daesh lost its only international border with T ? rkiye , and approximately half of its territory had already been liberated by the time Trump joined the office . The remaining territory was recaptured within the next nine months , demonstrating the rigour of Trump 's military operations . <p> During Trump 's tenure , significant tactical changes were made to Obama 's military strategy . For instance , Trump " delegated authority to the right level to aggressively and promptly move against enemy vulnerabilities . " In other words , fewer sign-offswere required when those on the ground requested airstrikes due to a faster decentralised approval process . As proclaimed by Trump himself , " We have made , alongside our coalition partners , more progress ... in the past several months than in the past several years . " Rather than establishing peace in the Middle East , Trump 's broader objective in defeating Daesh has been to prevent American casualties , illustrating his " America first " motto . That being said , Daesh was almost defeated within a year of Trump 's presidency , which eventually paved the way for reconstruction and peacebuilding initiatives in the recaptured territories of both Iraq and Syria . <h> From 2017 to 2020 : Trump 's foreign policy in the Middle East <p> During Trump 's time in office , although his constant " wading in and out of conflicts " risked further destabilisation in the region , he significantly reduced the US presence in Iraq and Afghanistan , fulfilling his promise to pull the US out of endless wars . In 2018 , Trump withdrew from the Iran nuclear deal , which aimed to have P5+1 sanctions lifted on Iran in exchange for its agreement to serious restrictions on its nuclear development . The US withdrawal from the deal was seen as a new crisis in the making . Around the same time , the Trump administration pursued a maximum pressure campaign against Iran , thereby increasing the risks of escalation and conflict with Iran . However , Trump did not respond to <p> Iran 's provocations in the Persian Gulf in the summer of 2019 , thereby maintaining peace in the Middle East . <p> Around the same time , the Trump administration pursued a maximum pressure campaign against Iran , thereby increasing the risks of escalation and conflict with Iran . <h> Ongoing war in Gaza and Trump 's renewed pledge for peace <p> Fast forward to 2024 . Trump has won the 2024 presidential election in the US , defeating the Democratic candidate Kamala Harris . In her closing pitch for the presidential campaign , Harris promised to end the war in Gaza , a rather weak attempt to change the narrative regarding her party 's unrelenting military support to Israel . Trump has also pledged to bring " peace " to the Middle East , suggesting that he would end the ongoing war in Gaza , which has killed around 45,000 individuals , devastated the region , and brought neighbouring countries such as Lebanon , Yemen , Syria , and Iran to be engulfed in the war . Although indecisive in his statements regarding foreign policy , Trump has a reputation for keeping the promises he made during his campaign . <p> The Gaza war poses a serious threat to peace in the Middle East and beyond , therefore , it is inevitable that Trump would make some difficult decisions , balancing his support for Israel and his commitment to world peace . For months during his campaign , Trump has asserted to end the ongoing war in Gaza , even setting a timeline for Israel , asking it to end its campaign against Hamas by the time he officially enters office . If reports are to be believed , Trump has pressured Hamas to backpedal on key issues during recent ceasefire and hostage-release talks with Israel . For instance , Hamas has now conceded to temporary intervention through Israeli forces staying in the Gaza Strip after the fighting ends , as well as agreed to provide a complete list of hostages , including Americans , who will be released as part of the ceasefire agreement . Trump 's warning that he wants to see a deal before he enters office has been perceived as " a big factor " in these recent concessions . Trump has been opposed to wars , and it is doubtful that his support for Israel would include an extension of the ongoing war in the region . <p> Trump has a reputation for maintaining strong relations with leaders in the Arab world who could , in turn , further influence Hamas for the safe return of hostages . <p> Trump will prioritise his promise to " Make America Great Again " . Consequently , his foreign policy would emphasise cutting down on war funding to external actors , including Israel , while also restraining American military assistance . Trump has already made several statements throughout his campaign asserting his intention to end the ongoing war in Gaza . Although he has had a complex relationship with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , Trump , it is believed , can pressure him to end the war , adding to the domestic pressure on Netanyahu in Israel . Alternatively , Trump might push for Netanyahu 's exit , if required , while keeping his support for Israel intact . Trump has a reputation for maintaining strong relations with leaders in the Arab world who could , in turn , further influence Hamas for the safe return of hostages . However , it is still unclear how Trump would navigate his desire to show strong support for Israel while also bringing the war to an ultimate closure , recognising Palestinian rights to humanity , dignity and freedom . <h> Conclusion <p> Trump 's previous tenure was marked by strategic military initiatives prioritising quick results , as evident in his approach to defeating Daesh while maintaining an " America First " stance . His past actions , such as his stance on the Israel/Palestine issue and his abrupt withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal , depict a leader with indecisive decision-making and a lack of lasting diplomatic solutions . However , Trump 's 2024 election victory signals a new phase in US foreign policy towards the Middle East , with the potential for both progress and setbacks . While his renewed " America First " approach may lead to a more restrained US presence in the region , his promise to end the war in Gaza and broker peace is fraught with complexities . Ultimately , his second term will test his ability to balance competing interests and navigate the delicate dynamics of Middle Eastern geopolitics . <p> Sabine Ameer is a doctoral researcher in Politics and International Relations at the University of Glasgow , 
@@119032149 <p> Washington : The US reiterated its call for a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas as a solution towards ending the conflict between the two warring parties . The remarks were delivered by Matthew Miller , Spokesperson of the US Department of State during the Daily Press Briefing . <p> Answering the questions , Miller spoke about the hostage negotiations in Gaza , civilian casualties , need for a ceasefire and aid in Gaza amongst other significant issues in other countries of West Asia too such as Syria . <p> On being asked about the latest update on the hostage negotiations in Gaza , Miller said that there is a " lot of optimism " . <p> " Negotiations have been productive in recent days . We have continued to try to work with the other mediators to narrow the differences . We have been down this road so many times before , though , it 's hard to stand here and say we 're optimistic about it , because we are very much realistic about how difficult it has been to reach a deal " , he said . <p> " There are a very small number of differences that remain between the parties , and we continue to believe that those differences can be bridged " , he added . <p> On being asked about how the journalists can be protected in Gaza as the causalities have risen to 196 , Miller said , " Journalists in Gaza absolutely need to be protected ... Ultimately the answer to this is to get a ceasefire , which is why we continue to push for a ceasefire . The journalists that are operating in Gaza are doing so with incredible heroism . The U.S. does n't have any personnel on the ground to verify reports , so we rely on journalists to bring that information forward , and we rely on the work that they do . But as long as it is an active conflict zone , journalists are going to be at risk the same way other civilians are going to be at risk , which is why we believe the ultimate answer to this question is to reach a ceasefire and why we continue to use all of the diplomatic muscle that we can bring to bear to try to get one over the line " . <p> Speaking on the deaths of civilians in Gaza , Miller said , " There continue to be unspeakable tragedies happening in Gaza every day , not just the death of civilians , the maiming of civilians , the people who find it difficult to get enough to eat , the people that find it difficult to get access to medical care . It is an ongoing tragedy , and the answer to stopping that tragedy is to reach a ceasefire , which does n't just require acquiescence by Israel ; it requires acquiescence by Hamas " . <p> Miller refused to offer comments on a report by Israeli Maariv Newspaper which said that Egypt has reached on an agreement with the Hamas that a transitional committee which is not Hamas could run Gaza and look after things . <p> Miller said , " I 'm not going to speak to that report . I 'm not aware of it . But I can tell you we have been having conversations with a number of parties in the region for some time about what the post-conflict period ought to look like in Gaza , including what governance ought to look like . We have made clear that the status quo as it existed before October 7th can not continue . Gaza can not continue to be governed by Hamas . But as to what the governance looks like , it 's not something I can speak to today " . <p> Speaking on the access of aid into Gaza , Miller said that despite the challenges there have been improvements . He reiterated that for overcoming the situation , the need for reaching a ceasefire is critical . ( ANI ) 
@@119034587 <h> Action in Syria may reshape Israel 's borders again <p> Jerusalem , Dec 18 : Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu entered Syrian territory Tuesday and said Israeli troops would remain in the area indefinitely , blurring the border with its northern neighbour . Since its establishment in 1948 , Israel has never had fully recognized borders . Throughout its history , the frontiers with its Arab neighbours have shifted as a result of wars , annexations , ceasefires and peace agreements . Now , the downfall of Syrian President Bashar Assad has created a situation that could once again reshape Israel 's borders . As Assad was toppled early this month , Israel quickly moved into the Syrian side of a 50-year-old demilitarized buffer zone . Netanyahu described the move as defensive and temporary , and said it was aimed at making sure that none of the groups jostling for power inside Syria threatened Israel . But in Tuesday 's visit to the Syrian side of the buffer zone , Netanyahu made clear that Israel plans on staying for some time . Speaking on the windswept summit of Mount Hermon overlooking Syria , he said Israel would remain " until another arrangement is found that will ensure Israel 's security . " Here is a closer look at the evolution of Israel 's borders over the years . Israel 's establishment In 1947 , the United Nations approved a plan to partition what was then British-controlled Mandatory Palestine into Jewish and Arab states . The contested city of Jerusalem was to be administered by the UN . This plan , however , was never implemented . Israel declared independence in May 1948 , and neighbouring Arab countries declared war . That war ended with Israel in control of some 77% of the territory -- with Jordan controlling the West Bank and east Jerusalem , and Egypt in control of the Gaza Strip.1967 Mideast war During the six days of fighting of the 1967 Mideast war , Israel captured the West Bank and east Jerusalem from Jordan , Gaza and the Sinai peninsula from Egypt , and the Golan Heights from Syria . Initially celebrated by Israel , the lightning victory set the stage for decades of conflict that continue to reverberate today . Israel quickly annexed east Jerusalem -- home to the city 's most sensitive Jewish , Muslim and Christian holy sites as well as its Palestinian population . Although Israel has never formally annexed the West Bank , it has informally incorporated much of the territory by building settlements that are now home to over 500,000 Jewish Israelis . The international community overwhelmingly considers both east Jerusalem and the West Bank occupied territory . Israel also built settlements in the Sinai , Golan and the Gaza Strip . 1979 peace agreement with Egypt Under Israel 's first peace agreement with an Arab country , Israel returned the Sinai peninsula to Egypt and dismantled all settlements there.1981 Golan annexation Israel annexed the Golan Heights , a strategic mountainous region overlooking northern Israel . In 2019 , then-President Donald Trump became the first and only foreign leader to recognize Israel 's control . The rest of the world still considers the area occupied Syrian territory . Netanyahu announced this week he wants to expand the Golan settler population after Assad 's downfall.1982 invasion of Lebanon After a brief invasion of Lebanon against Palestinian militants in 1978 , Israel reentered the country in 1982 in an operation that turned into an 18-year occupation of southern Lebanon . Israel withdrew in 2000 under heavy fire from the Hezbollah militia.1993 Oslo Accords Israel and the Palestinians reached an interim peace deal granting the Palestinians autonomy in Gaza and parts of the West Bank , while leaving Israeli settlements intact . The accords were meant to pave the way for a two-state solution , but repeated rounds of peace talks ended in failure . The Palestinians seek all of the West Bank and Gaza for their hoped-for state , with east Jerusalem as their capital.2005 Gaza withdrawal Then-Prime Minister Ariel Sharon led a unilateral withdrawal from Gaza , uprooting all troops and 21 settlements from the territory . Two years later , Hamas militants overran Gaza and ousted the Palestinian Authority . 2023 war in Gaza and Lebanon Responding to Hamas ' Oct. 7 cross-border attack , Israel invades Gaza in an operation that continues . Israeli leaders have not laid out a clear postwar plan but have indicated they will maintain a buffer zone along Gaza 's border with Israel along with some sort of long-term military presence . Some hardliners in Netanyahu 's governing coalition have called for the re-establishment of Jewish settlements . In October , Israeli ground troops invaded southern Lebanon after a year of fighting with Hezbollah militants . Under a ceasefire , Israel has pledged to withdraw from a strip of land it is occupying by late January.The fall of Assad As opposition forces ousted Assad on Dec. 8 , Israeli military forces moved into the Syrian side of the demilitarised buffer zone , established after the 1973 Mideast war . Israel now controls the zone and targets deeper inside the country . Although Israel has said the move is temporary , its open-ended presence has drawn international criticism from countries such as Egypt , Turkey and Saudi Arabia as well as the United Nations . US Secretary of State Antony Blinken has urged all countries with interests in Syria to " try to make sure that we 're not sparking any additional conflicts . " The new Syrian government has already lodged a complaint with the UN Security Council about Israeli advances into Syrian territory . The leader of the largest insurgent group , Ahmad al-Sharaa , has publicly condemned Israel 's operations but said Syria is not seeking a military conflict with Israel . Carmit Valensi , an expert on Syria at Israel 's Institute for National Security Studies , said she does not think the Israeli presence will morph into a longer-term occupation . She said Israel has little to gain by provoking al-Sharaa , who is also known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani , and a long-term occupation would be costly economically and for Israel 's war-fatigued army . ( AP ) <h> Follow us <h> About Us <p> The Shillong Times first appeared as a tabloid weekly on 10th August 1945 under the editorship of Late Sudhindra Bhusan Chaudhuri . In 1958 it was converted to a Daily . Owing to financial constraints , within six months it reverted back to a weekly . 
@@119048409 <h> The ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas , which has repeatedly failed over multiple issues , has now narrowed most of its gaps in the agreement 's clause , the mediators claim . <p> Smoke rises following an explosion in the Gaza Strip as seen from southern Israel , Wednesday . ( AP Photo ) <p> The United States , joined by Arab mediators , is looking to close a ceasefire deal between Israel and Gaza based Hamas militant group and halt the 14-month long war which has killed over 45,000 Palestinians , according to Gaza 's health ministry . <p> The ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas , which has repeatedly failed over multiple issues , has now narrowed most of its gaps in the agreement 's clause , the mediators claim , according to a Palestinian official close to the negotiations . The official added that Israel introduced certain conditions which Hamas rejected . <p> According to a Reuters report , people close to the talks in Cairo have claimed that a ceasefire agreement is bound to be signed in the coming days wherein the hostages in Gaza would be returned and Palestinian prisoners held by Israel would also be released . <p> Advertisement <p> Palestinians search in the rubble of a building hit by an Israeli airstrike that apparently targeted a municipal meeting in Deir al-Balah , central Gaza Strip , Saturday Dec. 14 , 2024 . Palestinian medical officials said at least 10 people were killed . ( AP Photo ) <p> Israel 's defence minister , Israel Katz also said that an agreement between Gaza and Tel Aviv is closer than ever . A Palestinian official , who is involved in the talks , told BBC that the deal is in a " decisive and final phase " . <p> According to reports , US President-elect Donald Trump 's recent message to ascertain a deal between Israel and Hamas and return the hostages held by the militant group , had an impact on the talks which showed a sudden optimism in the talks going forward . <p> " As you know , I gave a warning that if these hostages are n't back home by that date , all hell is going to break out , " Trump had said during a press conference in Palm Beach , Florida . <p> As per news agency AFP , Hamas is keen to close the ceasefire agreement before the end of the year amid the weakening of its ally Lebanon based Hezbollah group and the ouster of Syria 's ex-President Bashar al-Assad . <p> Advertisement <p> Meanwhile , the Israeli airstrikes in Palestine have continued with medics stating that at least 10 people were killed in a house in the northern town of Beit Lahiya while six were killed in separate airstrikes in Gaza City , Nuseirat camp in central areas , and Rafah near the border with Egypt . 
@@119049697 <h> The Houthi-controlled al-Masirah TV reported that the Israeli strikes hit power stations in Sanaa and the Ras Isa oil terminal , killing at least nine people . <p> Emergency services personnel work near a damaged site after a projectile fired from Yemen was intercepted in Israel . ( Image : Reuters ) <p> Israel 's military confirmed it conducted a series of intense airstrikes on Houthi military positions in Yemen after intercepting a missile fired by the group aimed at Israel . The airstrike , approved by Defence Minister Israel Katz , was carried out by Air Force jets under the coordination of the Intelligence and Navy branches and ended up killing at least 9 people . The targets in the western coastal region and deeper into Yemen were identified as key sites used by Houthi forces for military operations . <h> Israel attacks power plants , oil facility in Yemen <p> In response , Houthi-run Al Masirah TV reported a series of Israeli air raids on Sanaa and the port city of Hodeidah , including attacks on two power plants and an oil facility . Yemen 's SABA news agency also reported that four raids targeted Hodeidah , with two strikes hitting the Ras Isa oil facility , causing casualties among the facility 's workers . <p> Israel and Iran have exchanged direct fire while Syria 's government , long an enemy of Israel , has collapsed under pressure from rebel forces . These regional conflicts have disrupted Iran 's network of allied groups . <p> The recent Israeli strikes , however , could lead to a bigger conflict with the Houthis . The Houthis , who control parts of Yemen , have been targeting the Red Sea shipping route , affecting global trade . The Houthi-controlled al-Masirah TV reported that the Israeli strikes hit power stations in Sanaa and the Ras Isa oil terminal , killing at least nine people . <p> Israel 's military did not provide specific details about the targets but confirmed they were used by the Houthis for military purposes , including smuggling weapons . The strikes were part of Israel 's broader effort to defend itself from Houthi attacks . Tensions escalated after Israel intercepted a missile fired from Yemen . The Houthis have attacked many ships in the Red Sea , with some targeting Western vessels and others , claiming their aim is to stop Israel 's offensive against Hamas in Gaza . <p> This conflict in Yemen is part of a larger war that has killed over 150,000 people and caused a severe humanitarian crisis . 
@@119049970 <h> Just In <h> Israeli school hit by missile from Yemen 's Houthi group <h> A missile launched by Yemen 's Houthi forces struck a school in central Israel on Thursday , causing significant damage , according to Israeli official sources . <p> Jerusalem : A missile launched by Yemen 's Houthi forces struck a school in central Israel on Thursday , causing significant damage , according to Israeli official sources . <p> The missile , identified by the Houthis as a hypersonic ' Palestine-2 ' missile , triggered air raid sirens across central Israel overnight . The Israeli military initially reported intercepting the missile but later clarified that it was only partially intercepted and struck the school in Ramat Gan , a suburb of Tel Aviv . <p> An initial investigation by the Israeli Air Force indicated that the missile 's warhead exploded upon impact with the school , causing damage . <p> Ramat Gan Mayor Carmel Shama told reporters the school had been closed due to the damage . " The school 's main structure needs to be destroyed , and it will be rebuilt , " he said , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> The missile attack from Yemen followed an Israeli air offensive targeting major ports in Yemen and the capital , Sanaa . Local media reported at least nine people were killed in the Israeli strikes . <p> Also on Thursday , a drone launched from the Gaza Strip triggered air raid sirens in nearby Israeli communities before being shot down by the Israeli Air Force . <p> Earlier , it was reported that at least nine people were killed and several others wounded on early Thursday morning by Israeli airstrikes on Yemen 's capital and the Red Sea ports in the western province of Hodeidah . <p> " Seven were killed in the port of As-Salif , and two others killed in the port of the Ras Issa oil facility , " said the Houthi-run al-Masirah TV , adding that at least three others were wounded in the airstrikes . <p> Residents of Hodeidah posted videos on social media showing fires burning at several facilities in the ports of Ras Issa and As-Salif , adding that the fires were still burning . <p> In Sanaa , al-Masirah TV said the Israeli airstrikes had targeted the Hizyaz and Dhahban power stations , south and north of Sanaa , respectively . <p> The airstrikes on Sanaa shook the entire city and smashed the windows of houses near the power stations , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> The Houthi group , which controls much of northern Yemen , uses the ports of Ras Issa and As-Salif to import fuel and cooking gas and sell them to the residents in the areas under their control . <p> According to al-Masirah TV reports , the Israeli airstrikes came a day after the US Navy launched an airstrike that targeted the Houthi-controlled defence ministry building in downtown Sanaa , causing extensive damage to the building , and a few hours after the Houthi group launched a long-range rocket toward Israel . <p> Accusing the Houthis of " forcing millions of ( Israeli ) civilians to take cover in bomb shelters " on Wednesday night , Israeli military spokesperson Daniel Hagari confirmed the airstrikes , saying that the Israeli army had conducted " precise strikes on Houthi military targets in Yemen . " <p> Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz also warned Houthi leaders in a statement that " Israel 's long arm will reach you as well " and his country " will not allow the continuation of missile fire and threats . " <p> Since October 2023 , Houthi forces have been attacking Israel , including launching drones and surface-to-surface missiles , in support of Palestinians . 
@@119050227 <h> Blinken will avoid Ukraine , Middle East at divided UN Security Council <p> UNITED NATIONS , Dec 19 : Secretary of State Antony Blinken will make what is likely his final trip in office to the United Nations this week , capping his engagements with the world body after a tumultuous four years that saw war return to Europe and multiple crises in the Middle East . <p> With the UN Security Council more divided than ever , Blinken will chair two meetings of the UN 's most powerful body on Thursday . But neither will focus on Russia 's war with Ukraine or the Middle East , where the US has been frequently at odds with permanent members China and Russia and almost always in the minority when it comes to Israel 's war against Hamas in Gaza . <p> Instead , in an apparent bid to produce a modicum of consensus , Blinken will lead Security Council sessions on artificial intelligence and the current conflict in Sudan , which aid agencies say has sparked a dire humanitarian crisis that has not received the attention it is due . <p> Here 's a look at what to expect : <p> Why is America 's top diplomat presiding over Security Council meetings ? <p> Blinken has been appearing in person and virtually before the Security Council since March 2021 , just after assuming his position as the Biden administration 's top diplomat . <p> In addition to several one-off council meetings , including one in February 2022 shortly before Russia invaded Ukraine , Blinken has gone to New York for a week every September for the annual General Assembly gathering of world leaders . <p> The presidency of the Security Council rotates alphabetically every month among its 15 members . This month , it 's the US turn . <p> The country holding the presidency almost always organises several signature events on topics its government chooses . Presidents , prime ministers and foreign ministers often preside at these meetings , which ministers from other council nations are invited to attend . <p> Why is the US not highlighting the Middle East or Ukraine ? <p> Russia and China have blocked all council action condemning the invasion of Ukraine . <p> This has led US officials to believe that a session on the topic , especially as President-elect Donald Trump prepares to take office with a stated goal of ending the war immediately , would likely be a waste of time . <p> On the Middle East , the US has frequently vetoed council action condemning Israel for its tactics against Hamas in Gaza , leaving it virtually alone at the United Nations in supporting Israel . <p> Why did the US choose AI ? <p> The US leads the world in developing AI technology , according to a recently released Stanford University index , and it has been in the forefront of UN action on AI . <p> In March , the first UN resolution on artificial intelligence was adopted by the 193-member General Assembly . It was sponsored by the US and gives global support to an international effort to ensure the powerful technology benefits all nations , respects human rights , and is " safe , secure and trustworthy " . <p> Why is the US focusing on Sudan ? <p> The US ambassador to the UN , Linda Thomas-Greenfield , recalled in early December that the previous US presidency of the Security Council in August 2023 took place just months after war broke out in Sudan between rival generals heading the military and paramilitary forces . <p> The fighting has left tens of thousands dead , forced millions from their homes and pushed a large swath of Sudan 's population to starvation -- creating an often forgotten global crisis the US is seeking to spotlight . <p> Sudan " is facing one of the most dire humanitarian crises on the face of the planet , " State Department spokesman Vedant Patel told reporters Wednesday . <p> " And so anything we can do to continue to work with partners at the UN and otherwise to shed light on that , figure out what ways we can continue to unearth and solidify humanitarian corridors and continue to push for a political solution , that 's absolutely a priority for us and we will continue to use ways to elevate that , " he said . <p> Will Blinken confront Russia ? <p> Blinken has represented the US at the Security Council about half a dozen times at meetings ranging from Russia 's invasion of Ukraine to the war in Gaza . <p> Russia , like the US and China , is a permanent veto-holding member of the 15-nation council , and both have seats at its horseshoe-shaped table . <p> But apart from pointed disagreements during debates , there have been no confrontations or one-on-one meetings between Blinken and Russian diplomats at previous UN meetings . <p> It is not unusual for Blinken or other senior US officials to attend international meetings and conferences where Russian officials are present , but interactions are rare . <p> Blinken and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov were last in the same venue for a meeting this month in Malta but did not speak to each other . The last time they spoke -- albeit briefly -- is believed to have been in March 2023 at a Group of 20 foreign ministers meeting in New Delhi , India . ( AP ) 
@@119050289 <h> Israel has launched a series of airstrikes on Yemen 's capital , occupied by rebels , and a port city , and killed at least nine people . This occurred sometime after a Houthi missile targeted central Israel . The strikes have escalated Israel 's war on the Iranian-backed Houthis , who have not yet faced the same level of intense military strikes such as those against the militant group Hamas in Palestine and Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> By PTI December 19 , 2024 , 11:58:02 AM IST ( Published ) <p> 4 Min Read <p> A series of intense Israeli airstrikes shook Yemen 's rebel-held capital and a port city early Thursday and killed at least nine people , officials said , shortly after a Houthi missile targeted central Israel . The strikes further escalate Israel 's campaign against the Iranian-backed Houthis , who have so far avoided the same level of intense military strikes that have targeted the Palestinian Hamas militant group and Lebanon 's Hezbollah , members of Tehran 's self-described " Axis of Resistance . " <p> Meanwhile , Israel and Iran have exchanged direct fire while the government of Syria , an enemy of Israel since its founding in 1948 , collapsed in the face of a rebel advance as the region 's wars have upended Iran 's network of allied proxy groups . <p> However , Thursday 's strikes risk further escalating conflict with the Houthis , whose attacks on the Red Sea corridor have drastically impacted global shipping . <p> The Houthi-controlled satellite channel al-Masirah said that some of the strikes targeted power stations in the capital , as well as the Ras Isa oil terminal on the Red Sea . The channel , citing its correspondent in the port city of Hodeida , said at least seven people had been killed at a port , while another two had been killed at the Ras Isa oil terminal . <p> An Israeli military statement offered no specifics on the targets hit . <p> " The targets struck by the ( Israeli military ) were used by the Houthi forces for military purposes , " the statement said . " The strikes degrade the Houthi terrorist regime , preventing it from exploiting the targets for military and terrorist purposes , including the smuggling of Iranian weapons to the region . " <p> Rear Adm Daniel Hagari , an Israeli military spokesman , said the strikes hit energy and port infrastructure , which he alleged the rebels " have been using in ways that effectively contributed to their military action . " " Israel will not hesitate to act in order to defend itself and its citizens from the Houthi attacks , " Hagari said . <p> Rebel-held Hodeida , some 145 kilometres ( 90 miles ) southwest of Sanaa , has been key for food shipments into Yemen as its decadelong war has gone on . There 's also longstanding suspicion that weapons from Iran have been transferred through the port . <p> The strikes happened just after the Israeli military said its air force intercepted a missile launched from Yemen before it entered the country 's territory . <p> " Rocket and missile sirens were sounded following the possibility of falling debris from the interception , " the Israeli military said . Sirens sounded near Tel Aviv and the surrounding areas , and a large explosion was heard overhead at the time . The Houthis did not immediately claim the missile attack , but said an important military statement would be issued in the coming hours , following a pattern of how they claim their assaults . <p> Israel previously struck Hodeida and its oil infrastructure in July after a Houthi drone attack killed one person and wounded 10 in Tel Aviv . <p> American forces have also launched a series of strikes on the Houthis over nearly a year due to Houthi attacks on shipping in the Red Sea corridor . On Monday , the US military 's Central Command said it hit " a key command-and-control facility " operated by the Houthis in Sanaa , later identified as the al-Ardi complex once home to the government 's Defence Ministry . But Israel appears to have carried out Thursday 's strikes alone . <p> The Houthis have targeted some 100 merchant vessels with missiles and drones since the Israel-Hamas war in the Gaza Strip started in October 2023 after Hamas ' surprise attack on Israel that killed 1,200 people and saw 250 others taken hostage . Israel 's grinding offensive in Gaza has killed over 45,000 Palestinians , local health officials say . <p> The Houthis have seized one vessel and sunk two in a campaign that has also killed four sailors . Other missiles and drones have either been intercepted by separate US- and European-led coalitions in the Red Sea or failed to reach their targets , which have also included Western military vessels . <p> The rebels maintain that they target ships linked to Israel , the US or the United Kingdom to force an end to Israel 's campaign against Hamas in Gaza . However , many of the ships attacked have little or no connection to the conflict , including some bound for Iran . <p> The Houthis have battled a Saudi-led coalition into a stalemate in a wider Yemen war that 's killed more than 150,000 people , including civilians . The conflict also has created one of the world 's worst humanitarian disasters that 's believed to killed tens of thousands more . 
@@119050307 <p> West Asia continues to witness violence , as a series of intense Israeli airstrikes shook Yemen 's capital and a port city early Thursday , killing at least nine people , according to local media . Meanwhile , in Gaza , Israeli forces carried out heavy bombardment , killing at least 16 Palestinians in the north , including children and a doctor at al-Ahli Arab Hospital . <p> In Syria , mass graves have been uncovered in the aftermath of President Assad 's overthrow . The Syrian Civil Defence group , known as the White Helmets , uncovered at least 21 corpses , along with incomplete human remains , on Wednesday in the Sayyida Zeinab suburb of capital Damascus . <p> Here are the latest updates : <p> Israeli Airstrikes On Yemen <p> A series of intense Israeli airstrikes shook Yemen 's capital and a port city , killing at least nine people . Nasruddin Amer , deputy head of the Houthi media office , said in a post on X that nine people were killed and three others injured in Israeli airstrikes on a port and oil facility near the capital Sanaa . <p> Israel 's military stated that the airstrikes were in retaliation for Houthi missile and drone attacks on Israel over the past year , most of which were intercepted . Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz warned Houthi leaders , saying , " Israel 's long hand will reach you as well . Whoever raises a hand against the State of Israel - his hand will be cut off , whoever harms us - will be harmed sevenfold . " <p> Mohammed Al-Bukhaiti , a member of the political bureau of the Houthi armed group , claims that the US is part of the recent Israeli attacks on Yemen . " The US-Israeli bombing of civilian facilities in Yemen ( power stations and ports ) reveals the truth about the West 's hypocrisy and refutes all its humanitarian claims , " he said . The Houthis have attacked Israel , its allies , and vital Red Sea shipping lines in rejection of Israel 's war on Gaza . <p> Clashes In Jenin Refugee Camp <p> The Palestinian Authority ( PA ) has intensified its operations in the Jenin refugee camp , engaging in armed confrontations with Palestinian resistance fighters over several days . PA is a government body that has partial administrative authority over parts of the occupied West Bank . <p> The raids have left at least three Palestinians dead , including a senior commander from the Jenin Brigades and a child , further heightening tensions in the occupied West Bank . <p> Jenin has long been a bastion of resistance against Israel 's occupation , with fighters in the camp opposing both Israeli forces and the PA 's interventions . The PA claims its actions target " lawless elements " in the area . Critics , however , view the operations as a crackdown on anti-occupation resistance , potentially serving Israeli interests . <p> Mass Graves Uncovered In Syria <p> Mass graves have been uncovered in Syria in the aftermath of President Assad 's overthrow by Rebels . More than 100,000 people were tortured and killed in the state-run " machinery of death , " Stephen Rapp , former U.S. war crimes ambassador at large , told news agency Reuters on Tuesday after visiting two mass grave sites in the towns of Qutayfah and Najha near Damascus . <p> Meanwhile , the Syrian Civil Defence group , known as the White Helmets , uncovered at least 21 corpses , along with incomplete human remains , on Wednesday in the Sayyida Zeinab suburb of Damascus . The site had reportedly been used by Lebanon 's Hezbollah and Iran-backed Iraqi militias , allies of deposed President Bashar al-Assad during the country 's civil war . <p> " Some ( of the remains ) are skeletons , others are incomplete , and there are bags of small bones . We can not yet determine the number of victims , " Ammar al-Salmo , an official with the White Helmets , was quoted as saying by The Associated Press . " Damascus has become a mass grave , " he added , citing the growing reports of war-related graves and burial sites in the capital and other places in Syria . <p> The United Nations special envoy for Syria has warned that the war " has not ended yet , " despite the removal of President Bashar al-Assad by opposition fighters . Assad 's regime was overthrown less than two weeks ago by a rebel coalition led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) . <p> " There have been significant hostilities in the last two weeks , before a ceasefire was brokered , " Geir Pedersen told the UN Security Council in New York on Tuesday , warning that a military escalation could be " catastrophic . " <p> The remarks come after the Syrian National Army ( SNA ) , a group of fighters backed by Turkiye , battled with the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) in the wake of al-Assad 's removal . The SDF , which is spearheaded by the People 's Protection Units ( YPG ) , is the main ally in a United States-led coalition against ISIS . Ankara considers the YPG an extension of the Kurdistan Workers ' Party ( PKK ) , an armed group that Turkey has outlawed and fought for 40 years . 
@@119050782 <h> 16 Palestinians killed , many injured as Israeli forces bombard Gaza <p> Smoke rises following an explosion in the Gaza Strip as seen from southern Israel . -- Photo:AP <p> Gaza : At least 16 Palestinians were killed by Israeli bombings in northern Gaza , the Palestinian official news agency WAFA reported . At least 10 people were killed on Wednesday night and some others injured when the Israeli aircraft bombed the house of the Al-Najjar family in the town of Jabalia , WAFA said . <p> Six more people were killed due to Israeli bombing on the house of the Al-Zaytouniya family near the Al-Tabi'in School in the Al-Daraj neighborhood , east of Gaza City , it added . <p> The Israeli army has not commented on these incidents , Xinhua news agency reported . Meanwhile , at least 24 Palestinians were killed in Israeli raids across the Gaza Strip , Palestinian sources said . Israeli warplanes bombed a house in Beit Hanoun town in northern Gaza on Wednesday , according to Palestinian security sources . <p> Mahmoud Basal , spokesman for Civil Defence in Gaza , told Xinhua that four people were killed in the strike , including two women , and several others are still missing under the rubble . In a separate incident in northern Gaza , two more were killed and another seriously injured when an Israeli drone targeted a gathering of Palestinians in the Jabalia area , according to Basal . <p> In addition , a brief statement issued by Al-Awda Hospital in northern Gaza said that a paramedic was killed in an Israeli airstrike on a building in the town of Beit Lahia at dawn Israel has been launching a large-scale offensive against Hamas in the Gaza Strip to retaliate against a Hamas rampage through the southern Israeli border on October 7 , 2023 , during which about 1,200 people were killed and about 250 taken hostage . 
@@119051088 <h> At least 24 Palestinians killed in Israeli raids on Gaza : Sources <p> Gaza , December 19 ( IANS ) At least 24 Palestinians were killed in Israeli raids across the Gaza Strip , Palestinian sources said . <p> Israeli warplanes bombed a house in Beit Hanoun town in northern Gaza on Wednesday , according to Palestinian security sources . <p> Mahmoud Basal , spokesman for Civil Defence in Gaza , told Xinhua that four people were killed in the strike , including two women , and several others are still missing under the rubble . <p> In a separate incident in northern Gaza , two more were killed and another seriously injured when an Israeli drone targeted a gathering of Palestinians in the Jabalia area , according to Basal . <p> In addition , a brief statement issued by Al-Awda Hospital in northern Gaza said that a paramedic was killed in an Israeli airstrike on a building in the town of Beit Lahia at dawn , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> The statement added that the Israeli army detonated a " robot " near the hospital , causing injuries among medical staff and patients , without disclosing their exact number and condition . <p> Meanwhile , Kamal Adwan Hospital said in a statement in the morning that at least 10 people were killed and several others injured in an Israeli shelling on a residential house in Beit Lahia . <p> The hospital 's intensive care unit also caught fire as a result of gunfire from Israeli vehicles , the statement said . <p> In central Gaza , medical and civil defence workers recovered the bodies of four people who were killed in Israeli airstrikes at dawn , one on a tent sheltering displaced people in Deir al-Balah city and the other around " Ard al-Mufti " park north of al-Nuseirat refugee camp , according to Basal . <p> In Khan Younis in southern Gaza , three Palestinians , including two women , were killed as a result of an Israeli shelling on a house east of the city , reported the Nasser medical compound after receiving the victims ' bodies . <p> The Israeli army has not commented on these incidents yet . <p> Israel has been launching a large-scale offensive against Hamas in Gaza to retaliate against a Hamas rampage through the southern Israeli border on October 7 , 2023 , during which about 1,200 people were killed and about 250 taken hostage . <p> The Palestinian death toll from ongoing Israeli attacks in the Gaza Strip has risen to 45,097 , the Gaza-based health authorities said in a statement on Wednesday . <h> Connect with us <h> Intro footer <p> The Morung Express <p> The Morung Express is a people-oriented alternative newspaper based in Nagaland that was conceived from the Naga people 's historical realities and is guided by their voices and experiences . It emerged from the well-recognized concept that the core of a free press is based on " qualitative and investigative " journalism . Ensuring this is essential for contributing to an informed Naga public that makes sound decisions on issues that affect all spheres of life . 
@@119051247 <h> Human Rights Watch on Thursday accused Israel of causing the deaths of thousands of Palestinians by systematically restricting Gaza 's water supply in a campaign <p> New York : Human Rights Watch on Thursday accused Israel of causing the deaths of thousands of Palestinians by systematically restricting Gaza 's water supply in a campaign that amounted to " acts of genocide . " <p> The rights group is the latest in a growing list of critics accusing Israel of committing genocidal acts during its war in Gaza . <p> Israel strongly rejects these claims , stating that its military actions are aimed at Hamas militants , not the civilian population of Gaza . <h> ' Crime Against Humanity of Extermination ' <p> In its report published on Thursday , HRW asserted that many infants , children , and adults have died from malnutrition , dehydration , and illness as a result of Israeli actions over the past year . These actions are said to include deliberately cutting off water and electricity to Gaza , destroying infrastructure , and obstructing the delivery of essential supplies . <p> " As a state policy , these acts constitute a widespread or systematic attack directed against a civilian population . Israeli officials are therefore committing the crime against humanity of extermination , " the New York-based group said . <p> The rights group said that the " pattern of conduct " outlined in its report and statements from Israeli officials " may indicate " genocidal intent , but it did not come down definitively on one side . Under international law , proving intent is key in concluding whether the crime of genocide has been committed . <h> Israel Refutes HRW Allegations <p> Israel said Hamas is responsible for the destruction in Gaza because the group hides and operates in schools , hospitals and residential areas . It says the October 2023 Hamas attack that triggered the war -- the deadliest attack on Jews since the Holocaust -- amounts to genocide . <p> " Human Rights Watch is once more spreading its blood libels in order to promote its anti-Israel propaganda , " Israel 's Foreign Ministry said . <p> It claimed Israel has worked to facilitate the flow of water and humanitarian aid into Gaza throughout the war . " Israel will continue to ensure humanitarian aid enters Gaza , in full compliance with international law , " the statement said . <p> The new report by Human Rights Watch outlined what the organization described as an extended , methodical campaign by Israeli officials to deprive Palestinians in Gaza of water.That has drastically reduced the water supply in Gaza , from about 83 liters ( 21 gallons ) per person each day before the war began to between two and nine liters in the months since , the human rights group says . <p> The World Health Organization said people require 50 to 100 liters per day to meet basic needs and keep sickness in check . <p> ( With inputs from AP ) <p> Human Rights Watch said Israeli forces deliberately razed the solar panels that powered four of Gaza 's six wastewater treatment plants and destroyed a key reservoir . 
@@119065787 <h> My Hunger Strike for Gaza : A 31 Day Experience <h> Share : <p> When Northern Gaza was placed under a complete siege , the Biden Administration issued a warning that if conditions did n't improve within 30 days , he would stop weapons shipments to Israel . At the time of the announcement , hundreds of thousands of Palestinians faced imminent starvation because the Israeli military was blocking trucks of humanitarian aid from entering Northern Gaza . As children and their parents either starved to death or suffocated under the rubble of their homes that were deliberately bombed -- Biden told them to wait thirty days . When the thirty days were up , Israel correctly called Biden 's bluff . They knew he was n't going to stop sending weapons , and they were right . <p> I began this hunger strike to demand that my government end the siege on Gaza . It 's clear to the entire world that Israel acts with full backing from the United States and both governments are responsible for the death and human suffering happening in Palestine . <p> The people of Gaza were starving before Biden 's 30 day warning . They faced famine even before October 7th . People who defend this genocide will often note that there was peace on October 6th , 2023 . But on October 6th , there was an Israeli imposed blockade that only allowed in the minimal calorie intake per Palestinian every single day -- with no intention of making sure it reached each of the two million people that resided in Gaza . On top of that deprivation , Israel waged sporadic wars on the people of Gaza every few years . Nearly a month has gone by since Israel called Biden 's bluff -- the arms are still flowing into Tel Aviv with American flags stamped into the bomb casings and the people of Gaza are still starving to death . When the very few aid trucks do arrive to feed the starving population , Israel kills them while they stand in line for food . <p> I want to tell you what 30 days with no food does to a person , and my experience is made easier by the fact that I have a roof over my head , access to clean water , and a certainty that I wo n't have to flee my home at any moment depending on the whim of the IOF evacuation orders . The women my age in Gaza are not given the same luxuries . I 'm an Elder , a mother and a long time Peace and Social Justice activist . I 've lived in California for over forty years , mostly in Sonoma County , but also in San Francisco and presently in Marin County . <p> In the first days of my hunger strike , I felt really tired and the hunger pangs were intense . Now they occur only several times a day . My body aches and as of today I 've lost seventeen pounds . I 'm constantly cold and my resistance and immunity are low . I learned yesterday from a dear friend and sister Palestinian Activist -- something I did n't know about hunger strikes -- that after days of starvation , beginning to eat food again could kill you . Your body is n't used to processing even a little bit of food . My friend Hazami , who ended her hunger strike this week , ended up in the hospital . So , I wonder what would happen to a person who has n't had enough food for months and months ? What happens to them when they have no hospital to go to ? What happens when the remaining hospital they do find gets bombed ? Or when their doctors get executed ? I know I will be able to eat again , but what if I was a child and I had no idea when food might be coming ? How scared would I be ? Hunger is n't just hunger in Gaza , it 's grief and suffering compounded a hundred times . It 's a form of torture . <p> I feel I 've been living in a traumatized state for over a year . I cry everyday , multiple times a day , my heart is beyond broken , it 's shattered . I wake up each morning worrying about the genocide that is happening in Gaza , knowing that if it was n't for my government 's partnership with the Israeli government this could n't continue . Our government is sending billions upon billions of our tax dollars to slaughter innocent children , mothers and fathers , entire families with bombs and artillery funded by our country . <p> I understand that " my trauma " is nothing compared to what the people of Gaza must be suffering . I ca n't even imagine the horrors they 're being forced to live through or die from . <p> I 'd gone to Washington DC on Oct 3rd wanting to work for diplomacy in the war in Ukraine . When Oct 7th happened , I decided to stay until we had a ceasefire in Gaza . I was there for seven long months , going to Capitol Hill , the White House and the State Department everyday trying and failing to get a Ceasefire . I came home broken . Last summer I joined the Handala in Lisbon , part of the Freedom Flotilla that is trying to break the Siege of Gaza . There are ships with 5,500 tons of humanitarian aid stuck in Istanbul , because the Turkish government has succumbed to Israeli and US pressure not to allow the ships to sail ! The US government is not allowing much needed humanitarian aid to reach Gaza , but then spends millions on building a port that was never going to work . Our government 's hypocrisy is soul crushing . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> I was desperate for this genocide and ethnic cleaning of Palestine to end , so I took a stand and put my body on the line . Today , Thursday Dec. 19th , is the beginning of the 31st day of my hunger strike/fast for Gaza . Even now my Representative in Congress , Jared Huffman , refuses to sign onto Representative Casar 's letter for an arms embargo against Israel . I asked for a meeting with him on the 25th day of my hunger strike/fast and was told he was unavailable to meet with me . Since it 's clear Rep. Huffman does n't care about Palestinians or his constituent 's lives and he seems to be indifferent to our collective suffering , I 'm ending my hunger strike/fast for Gaza with my dear friends and colleagues at the press conference at a press conference today and saving my energy to sue the ****** . <p> Leslie Angeline is a decades-long peace activist and proud mom based in San Francisco . She organizes with CODEPINK , Palestine Solidarity Network , and Greenpeace . <h> Related Posts <p> ( Jerusalem ) -- Israeli authorities have intentionally deprived Palestinian civilians in Gaza of adequate access to water since October 2023 , most likely resulting in thousands of deaths and thus committing the crime against ... <p> Repeated Israeli military attacks on Palestinian civilians over the last 14 months , the dismantling of the health care system and other essential infrastructure , the suffocating siege , and the systematic denial of humanitarian assistance are destroying ... <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - Israeli soldiers and officers have exposed shocking practices by the Israeli army in Gaza , where Israeli soldiers have created a line of corpses in northern Gaza . According to ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119065793 <p> Israeli authorities have deliberately inflicted conditions of life calculated to bring about the destruction of part of the population in Gaza by intentionally depriving Palestinian civilians there of adequate access to water , most likely resulting in thousands of deaths . <p> In doing so , Israeli authorities are responsible for the crime against humanity of extermination and for acts of genocide . The pattern of conduct , coupled with statements suggesting that some Israeli officials wished to destroy Palestinians in Gaza , may amount to the crime of genocide . <p> Governments and international organizations should take all measures to prevent genocide in Gaza , including discontinuing military assistance , reviewing bilateral agreements and diplomatic relations , and supporting the International Criminal Court and other accountability efforts . <p> ( Jerusalem ) -- Israeli authorities have intentionally deprived Palestinian civilians in Gaza of adequate access to water since October 2023 , most likely resulting in thousands of deaths and thus committing the crime against humanity of extermination and acts of genocide , Human Rights Watch said in a report released today . <p> In the 179-page report , " Extermination and Acts of Genocide : Israel Deliberately Depriving Palestinians in Gaza of Water , " Human Rights Watch found that Israeli authorities have intentionally deprived Palestinians in Gaza of access to safe water for drinking and sanitation needed for basic human survival . Israeli authorities and forces cut off and later restricted piped water to Gaza ; rendered most of Gaza 's water and sanitation infrastructure useless by cutting electricity and restricting fuel ; deliberately destroyed and damaged water and sanitation infrastructure and water repair materials ; and blocked the entry of critical water supplies . <p> " Water is essential for human life , yet for over a year the Israeli government has deliberately denied Palestinians in Gaza the bare minimum they need to survive , " said Tirana Hassan , executive director at Human Rights Watch . " This is n't just negligence ; it is a calculated policy of deprivation that has led to the deaths of thousands from dehydration and disease that is nothing short of the crime against humanity of extermination , and an act of genocide . " <p> Human Rights Watch interviewed 66 Palestinians from Gaza , 4 employees of Gaza 's Coastal Municipalities Water Utility ( CMWU ) , 31 healthcare professionals , and 15 people working with United Nations agencies and international aid organizations in Gaza . Human Rights Watch also analyzed satellite imagery , photographs , and videos captured between the beginning of the hostilities in October 2023 and September 2024 , as well as data collected and estimates produced by doctors , epidemiologists , humanitarian aid organizations , and water and sanitation experts . <p> Human Rights Watch concluded that Israeli authorities have intentionally created conditions of life calculated to bring about the physical destruction of Palestinians in Gaza in whole or in part . This policy , inflicted as part of a mass killing of Palestinian civilians in Gaza , means Israeli authorities have committed the crime against humanity of extermination , which is ongoing . This policy also amounts to one of the five " acts of genocide " under the Genocide Convention of 1948 . Genocidal intent may also be inferred from this policy , coupled with statements suggesting some Israeli officials wished to destroy Palestinians in Gaza , and therefore the policy may amount to the crime of genocide . <p> Immediately after the attacks in southern Israel by Hamas-led Palestinian armed groups in Gaza on October 7 , 2023 , which Human Rights Watch has found amounted to war crimes and crimes against humanity , Israeli authorities cut all electricity and fuel to the Gaza Strip . On October 9 , then-Defense Minister Yoav Gallant announced a " complete siege " of Gaza , stating : " There will be no electricity , no food , no water , no fuel , everything is closed . " <p> That same day , and for weeks thereafter , Israeli authorities cut off all water and blocked fuel , food , and humanitarian aid from entering the strip . Israeli authorities continue to restrict the entry of water , fuel , food , and aid into Gaza and to cut Gaza 's electricity , which is required to operate life-sustaining infrastructure . This continued even after the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) issued provisional measures in January , March , and May 2024 ordering Israeli authorities to protect Palestinians in Gaza from genocide and , in so doing , provide humanitarian aid , specifying in March that this includes water , food , electricity , and fuel . <p> Israeli authorities have also barred nearly all water-related aid from entering Gaza , including water filtration systems , water tanks , and materials needed to repair water infrastructure . <p> Between October 2023 and August 2024 , the Gaza Coastal Municipalities Water Utility , the UN , and other sources reported that people in Gaza did not have access to the minimum amount of water needed for survival in long-term emergency situations . In northern Gaza , the UN reported that people did not have access to potable water for over five months , between November 2023 and April 2024 . While a study of water access in August showed that people 's access to water had increased , most people still did not have adequate water needed for drinking and cooking . <p> Human Rights Watch found that Israeli forces have deliberately attacked and damaged or destroyed several major water , sanitation , and hygiene ( WASH ) facilities . In several cases , Human Rights Watch found evidence that Israeli ground forces were in control of the areas at the time , indicating that the destruction was deliberate . <p> The decimation of Gaza 's healthcare system , including healthcare tracking , has meant that confirmed cases of disease , illnesses , and deaths possibly linked to water-borne disease , dehydration , and starvation are not being systematically tracked or reported . However , based on interviews with healthcare professionals and epidemiologists , it is likely that thousands of people have died as a result of the Israeli authorities ' actions . The deaths are in addition to the more than 44,000 people directly killed in the hostilities , as recorded by Gaza 's Health Ministry . <p> Hundreds of thousands of people have also contracted diseases and health conditions to which the lack of access to safe and sufficient water has likely caused or contributed , including diarrhea , hepatitis A , skin diseases , and upper respiratory infections . Water deprivation is particularly harmful to infants , pregnant and breastfeeding women , and people with disabilities . <p> The crime of genocide requires committing acts of genocide with genocidal intent . The ICJ has said that to infer such intent from a pattern of conduct by the state , it needs to be " the only reasonable inference to be drawn " from the acts in question . Human Rights Watch 's findings , and statements from Israeli officials suggesting that they wished to destroy the Palestinians in Gaza , may indicate such intent . <p> Human Rights Watch also found that some statements from senior Israeli officials calling for cutting water , fuel , and aid , in tandem with their actions , have amounted to direct and public incitement to genocide . <p> The Israeli government 's continuing blockade of Gaza , as well as its more than 17-year closure of the strip , also amounts to collective punishment of the civilian population , a war crime . The closure also constitutes part of the continuing crimes against humanity of apartheid and persecution that Israeli authorities have been committing against Palestinians . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Several governments have undermined accountability efforts and continue to provide the Israeli government with arms despite the clear risk of complicity in serious violations of international humanitarian law . <p> " Governments should not contribute to the grave crimes that Israeli officials are committing in Gaza , including crimes against humanity and genocidal acts , and should take all steps possible to prevent further harm , " Hassan said . " Governments arming Israel should end their risk of complicity in atrocity crimes in Gaza and take immediate action to protect civilians with an arms embargo , targeted sanctions , and support for justice . " <p> Repeated Israeli military attacks on Palestinian civilians over the last 14 months , the dismantling of the health care system and other essential infrastructure , the suffocating siege , and the systematic denial of humanitarian assistance are destroying ... <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - Israeli soldiers and officers have exposed shocking practices by the Israeli army in Gaza , where Israeli soldiers have created a line of corpses in northern Gaza . According to ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119065796 <h> Related Posts <p> ( Jerusalem ) -- Israeli authorities have intentionally deprived Palestinian civilians in Gaza of adequate access to water since October 2023 , most likely resulting in thousands of deaths and thus committing the crime against ... <p> Repeated Israeli military attacks on Palestinian civilians over the last 14 months , the dismantling of the health care system and other essential infrastructure , the suffocating siege , and the systematic denial of humanitarian assistance are destroying ... <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - Israeli soldiers and officers have exposed shocking practices by the Israeli army in Gaza , where Israeli soldiers have created a line of corpses in northern Gaza . According to ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119065817 <h> A ' Line of Corpses ' in ' Lawless Gaza ' : Israeli Soldiers Expose Arbitrary Killings and War Crimes <h> Share : <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - Israeli soldiers and officers have exposed shocking practices by the Israeli army in Gaza , where Israeli soldiers have created a line of corpses in northern Gaza . According to a Haaretz investigation , soldiers shoot to kill anyone crossing invisible " red lines , " even unarmed civilians or children . These actions are part of what some soldiers call a " kill zone , " where every death is counted as eliminating a " terrorist . " <p> A " Line of Corpses " and Dog Packs <p> Commanders from Division 252 described an unmarked " line of corpses " in northern Gaza near Netzarim Road . Bodies are often left uncollected , attracting packs of stray dogs . " In Gaza , people know to avoid areas where they see packs of dogs , " one officer explained . The Israeli army officially denies the existence of such zones , yet commanders in the field enforce this deadly boundary . <p> A soldier recalled , " Anyone crossing this line is shot . The bodies stay where they fall . It 's become a grim reality . " Civilians , including children , have reportedly been killed in this manner . <p> Civilians Counted as " Terrorists " <p> Another soldier shared disturbing accounts of how unarmed civilians are often labeled as terrorists after being killed . " We kill civilians , but the reports always count them as terrorists , " the soldier admitted . This misrepresentation feeds a culture of competition among Israeli military units , where killing the most " terrorists " is rewarded . " If one division killed 150 , another tries to hit 200 , " he said . <p> One soldier recounted a chilling incident involving a 16-year-old boy who was identified as a ' threat ' . " We riddled him with bullets , took pictures , and later learned he was n't a terrorist -- just a kid , " the soldier said . The unit commander , however , congratulated the soldiers , dismissing objections . " To them , anyone who crosses the line is a terrorist , " the soldier added . <p> In another case , four unarmed Palestinians were spotted near a tank . Soldiers opened fire , killing three . The fourth man , who surrendered , was stripped , humiliated , and briefly interrogated before being released . " He was just trying to visit relatives in northern Gaza , " a soldier explained . <p> Soldiers describe Gaza as a place where normal rules do not apply . " We 've spent over a year in a lawless environment where human life means nothing , " said a senior commander . Soldiers admitted to acting like an " armed militia " without oversight or accountability . One officer commented on the power given to field commanders , who now authorize strikes that previously required top-level approval . <p> Many soldiers expressed internal conflicts over their actions . " This war is n't just killing Palestinians -- it 's destroying us too , " said one reservist . Soldiers who voiced objections were often silenced or ridiculed . " If I 'm called back to Gaza , I do n't think I 'll go , " he admitted . <h> Related Posts <p> ( Jerusalem ) -- Israeli authorities have intentionally deprived Palestinian civilians in Gaza of adequate access to water since October 2023 , most likely resulting in thousands of deaths and thus committing the crime against ... <p> Repeated Israeli military attacks on Palestinian civilians over the last 14 months , the dismantling of the health care system and other essential infrastructure , the suffocating siege , and the systematic denial of humanitarian assistance are destroying ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119070061 <p> LUCKNOW : The All India Shia Personal Law Board ( AISPLB ) , country 's largest Shia Muslims ' organisation , on Thursday expressed concern over the recent incidents of surveying mosques and dargahs in the country by declaring them as temples and appealed to the Supreme Court and the government to strictly enforce the Places of Worship ( Special Provisions ) Act , 1991 . <p> In the Board 's national executive meeting held in Lucknow , the issues of surveying Muslim religious places across the country by declaring them as temples , increasing disrespect for mosques , protection of waqf properties , ongoing Israel-Palestine war in the Middle East and political changes in Syria were discussed . <p> Talking to PTI , AISPLB general secretary Maulana Yasoob Abbas said , " Many members in the meeting expressed deep concern over the growing trend of conducting surveys of mosques and dargahs to find temples underneath them and said if this continues , the atmosphere of the country will deteriorate . " <p> He further said , " In the meeting , an appeal was made to the Supreme Court and the government to stop this practice . The Places of Worship ( Special Provisions ) Act of 1991 should be strictly implemented , which states that except the Babri Masjid , every religious place in the country will remain in the same form as it was on August 15 , 1947 . " <p> The board welcomed the recent decision of the Supreme Court regarding the survey of mosques and said this decision is an important step for the safety of mosques and religious freedom . This will strengthen communal harmony and increase the confidence of the minority community , it said . <p> Board chairman Maulana Saim Mehdi said in the last decade , there has been an increase in the trend of anti-social elements pelting stones on the walls of mosques , making provocative slogans and derogatory comments , forcibly putting flags or symbols of other religions on mosques and giving provocative speeches in front of mosques by misusing loudspeakers . <p> " The organisations and anti-social elements doing such acts should be identified and strict action should be taken against them , " he said . <p> Abbas said , " In recent times , cases of targeting mosques have increased , which is a threat to the Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb of the country . It is the responsibility of the governments to ensure the safety of mosques by enforcing the law . " <p> Illegal occupation of waqf properties and their protection were also discussed in the meeting and the Board advocated the creation of a special monitoring mechanism for the protection of waqf properties . <p> Mehdi said , " Protection of waqf properties is a collective responsibility . This is a trust for our future generations , which we have to protect at all costs . " <p> The Board also expressed deep displeasure over the proceedings of the joint committee of Parliament on the Waqf Amendment Bill , 2024 . <p> Abbas said , " The JPC should have taken the opinion of those organisations which are directly associated with the waqf , and not those institutions which have nothing to do with it . " <p> On the Israel and Palestine war , and the political changes in Syria , the Board members stressed that the " genocide " being carried out by Israel in Gaza should be stopped immediately . <p> Abbas said , " A government of the terrorist organisation Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) has been formed in Syria . This government is headed by Abu Mohammad al-Julani , who is a terrorist . In such a situation , a serious threat has arisen to the lives and holy places of minorities in Syria , especially the Shia community . " <p> The Board appealed to the United Nations and human rights organisations to ensure the safety of the holy places in Syria and the Shia community there . 
@@119073720 <p> The case has brought renewed scrutiny to the ICC , igniting questions about its jurisdiction , impartiality , and effectiveness . <p> The ICC prosecutes individuals for genocide , war crimes , and crimes against humanity under the Rome Statute , acting only through referrals from signatory states or the United Nations Security Council ( UNSC ) . The ICC operates as a court of last resort , complementing national criminal justice systems through the principle of ' complementary jurisdiction ' outlined in Articles 17 -- 19 of its statute . This principle limits the ICC 's role to prosecuting crimes only when national courts fail to act due to unwillingness or incapacity . International criminal law jurisprudence , as seen in the cases of Congolese warlord Thomas Lubanga and former Libyan Security Chief Al-Tuhamy Mohamed-Khaled offers precedents . <p> The warrants focus on crimes against humanity and war crimes , specifically an alleged ' starvation strategy ' employed by the Israeli leaders against Palestinian civilians . <h> Jurisdictional questions <p> The ICC 's mandate restricts its jurisdiction to the 124 ' state parties ' that are signatories to the Rome Statute , and Israel is not among them . This raises a challenge to the court 's jurisdiction over alleged crimes involving Israeli leaders . The PTC reiterated that its focus is on crimes committed within a state party -- Palestine -- relying on the 2012 UN General Assembly resolution that recognised Palestine as a non-member observer state capable of ratifying treaties . Israel contests this , arguing that Palestine lacks statehood to confer jurisdiction and that any such jurisdiction should instead align with the Oslo Accords , which limit Palestinian authority over Israeli nationals . The PTC , however , dismissed Israel 's challenge as premature , asserting that jurisdictional challenges can only be made after the issuance of an arrest warrant or summons . The contrasting positions highlight the challenge posed by the non-harmonisation of international agreements , particularly when ICC 's judgments intersect with these frameworks . <p> Even if one were to accept the ICC 's jurisdiction claim , questions arise regarding the applicability of complementary jurisdiction in the Israeli context . Israel has a robust judicial system that acts as a counterweight to its executive and legislature . For instance , the Israeli Supreme Court recently annulled the government 's reasonableness limitation law , marking the first time in the country 's history that one of its Basic Laws was overturned . Similarly , the attorney general has demonstrated principled defiance against alleged attempts by senior leaders to manipulate the justice system in the context of the ICC case . These underscore the resilience of Israel 's legal framework . This makes ICC intervention problematic and raises broader concerns about the court 's interpretation of its mandate . <p> Israel has a robust judicial system that acts as a counterweight to its executive and legislature . <h> Immunity conundrum <p> Personal immunity traditionally shields serving senior officials from prosecution in foreign jurisdictions for actions performed in their official capacity . This principle is rooted in customary international law and supported , in part , by provisions of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations . However , officials , including heads of state , have no immunity under an ICC arrest warrant , even if they are from a non-state party . The tribunals for Yugoslavia ( ICTY ) and Rwanda ( ICTR ) , and the indictments of Russian President Putin and Prime Minister Netanyahu , among others , exemplify this . However , such overrides are fraught with political and legal complexities . State parties often subordinate their obligations under the Rome Statute to their national interests , and international law is subject to multiple interpretations . <p> Mongolia , a state party , refused to arrest President Putin during his recent visit , citing Article 98 of the Statute , which allows states to reject surrender requests if they conflict with their international obligations . Mongolia emphasised that no customary international law rule overrides or negates the immunity of heads of state or governments even in ICC cases . Similarly , in 2017 , Jordan declined to detain then-Sudanese President Omar Al-Bashir , who was attending an Arab League summit there . Jordan argued that it was not obligated to do so because he was a head of state of a non-ICC member and had immunity under the 1953 Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Arab League . The ICC , however , dismissed these arguments , referencing Article 27 of the Statute , per which official capacity does not exempt individuals from accountability . <p> Then , there are dissenting voices from state parties . Prime Minister Petr Fiala of Czechia , criticised the ICC for undermining its authority by equating democratically elected Israeli leaders with terrorist groups . Complicating matters for ICC are proposals such as the Malabo Protocol , which seeks to amend the Statute of the proposed African Court of Justice and Human Rights to include criminal jurisdiction while granting immunity to sitting heads of state and senior government officials . <h> Selective justice ? <p> Over 90 percent of all individuals indicted by the ICC are African , leading to allegations of ' selective application ' of justice . Notably , the inclusion of immunity in the Malabo Protocol has been argued by some as a response to African criticisms of the ICC . Another criticism of the ICC is its perceived deference to powerful states , evidenced by instances such as the UNSC 's 2002 decision to exempt US soldiers from prosecution -- a policy annulled only after global outrage over the Abu Ghraib scandal . Although the US , a non-signatory , opposes ICC investigations into its forces , exemplified by the American Service-Members ' Protection Act , it has selectively supported ICC probes , such as those against Russia . This duality raises questions about the ICC 's ability to act independently of external influences and geopolitical rivalries . Furthermore , the ICC 's limitations in prosecuting leaders of its signatory states , undermine its legitimacy as an impartial arbiter of justice . <p> Complicating matters for ICC are proposals such as the Malabo Protocol , which seeks to amend the Statute of the proposed African Court of Justice and Human Rights to include criminal jurisdiction while granting immunity to sitting heads of state and senior government officials . <h> Merit of charges <p> The charge against Israeli leaders pertains to the use of starvation as a method of warfare and the denial of aid to Gaza 's civilian population , distinct from genocide . The warrant specifically targets Israel 's leadership under the principle of command responsibility , citing public admissions of policies that allegedly caused starvation , as evidence . Notably , Minister Galant 's directive for a ' complete siege ' of Gaza , which included halting supplies of electricity , food , and fuel is referenced . Israel has also been accused of blocking humanitarian aid , rejecting shipments for items like crutches and maternity kits over dual-use concerns . While temporary border crossings were reopened , their effectiveness , it is argued , was undermined by subsequent military actions . <p> International humanitarian law mandates unhindered access to aid for civilians in conflict zones . However , ICC 's assertions in the current case warrant discussion . In mid-2024 , when the prosecutor submitted applications for warrants before the PTC , the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification ( IPC ) Famine Review Committee reported that " the amount of food and non-food commodities allowed into the northern governorates increased " and " the response in the nutrition , water , sanitation and hygiene ( WASH ) , and health sectors was scaled up , " with no evidence of famine . Further , sporadic instances of hindering aid flows or politically charged statements do not meet the ICC 's threshold for a deliberate ' policy ' or ' organised and regular pattern . ' These arguably render the legal basis for the charges more tenuous , with the ICC at risk of overreach by engaging in a politicised interpretation of a complex humanitarian crisis . Ultimately , the ICC 's proceedings will hinge on the sufficiency of evidence to prove intent , balanced against Israel 's assertions of national security in the context of an ongoing conflict . <h> Credibility challenge <p> ICC 's arrest warrants for Israeli leaders and Hamas figures highlight the challenges of delivering justice in contentious environments . While the court aims to hold perpetrators accountable , its actions raise important questions surrounding jurisdiction , complementarity , and legitimacy . The absence of permanent UNSC members -- Russia , China , and the US -- undermines the ICC 's authority , as they can veto referrals . The absence of influential global players like India and the withdrawal of important signatory states constrains the ICC 's jurisdictional scope and diminishes its relevance . Its inconsistent record -- 14 of 32 cases initiated since its creation remains unresolved -- intensifies these challenges . <p> The ICC must foster stronger partnerships with regional courts , like the African Court on Human and Peoples ' Rights , to promote complementary justice systems . <p> The need of the hour is comprehensive reforms through the ICC 's Assembly of State Parties . In addition to an Independent Expert Review to enhance cooperation and case management , a rigorous vetting system for selecting judges and officials , streamlining the admissibility process for cases and increased cooperation with a wider stakeholder set -- especially increased victim participation -- are necessary . Establishing a permanent framework to address allegations of bias could strengthen trust in the court 's neutrality . Importantly , the ICC must foster stronger partnerships with regional courts , like the African Court on Human and Peoples ' Rights , to promote complementary justice systems . It must also engage more with non-signatory states to expand its legitimacy , reach and enforcement capabilities . Above all , the ICC must uphold its commitment to justice while navigating geopolitical realities . <p> Each year , countless lives are lost due to armed conflict . According to the Peace Research Institute Oslo , 2023 witnessed 59 ' state-based conflicts ' across 34 countries -- the highest since 1946 . Further , they reported that 13 national governments were responsible for " one-sided violence " against their citizens . In such settings , where local courts may be unable to provide justice , the ICC has a crucial role . However , without substantial reforms , the ICC risks erosion of credibility and failure to fulfil its mandate of delivering justice for the world 's gravest crimes . <p> Jaibal Naduvath is Vice President at the Observer Research Foundation . <p> Dharmil Doshi is a Research Assistant at the Observer Research Foundation 
@@119073736 <h> Israel Expands Military Operations with Airstrikes in Yemen <p> Israel conducted airstrikes on multiple targets in Yemen early Thursday following the interception of at least one missile over central Israel , marking Yemen as the latest active war front against Israel outside Palestinian territories . The strikes targeted power stations in Sanaa and infrastructure in Hodeidah province , including ports and an oil terminal , resulting in nine reported casualties , according to Houthi-run media . <p> The Israeli military deployed fourteen fighter jets along with support aircraft in what they described as a pre-planned operation aimed at degrading Houthi military capabilities . While damage from intercepted missiles was reported at a school in Ramat Efal , no casualties were recorded . <p> This military exchange occurs against the backdrop of ongoing regional tensions , with the Houthis having launched numerous attacks on maritime vessels in the Red Sea since the outbreak of the Gaza conflict . Despite US-led international coalition efforts , over 90 merchant vessels have been targeted , with multiple ships lost and four sailors killed . <p> The strikes represent a significant expansion of Israel 's military operations , coming after a recent ceasefire with Hezbollah in Lebanon . Hamas praised the Houthis ' actions and called for increased attacks against Israel , while Houthi official Mohammed Al Bukhaiti vowed to continue their campaign until humanitarian aid is allowed into Gaza . <p> The conflict stems from the October 7 attacks on Israel that killed approximately 1,200 people , leading to Israel 's military response in Gaza , which has resulted in over 45,000 Palestinian casualties . The Israeli military maintains these latest strikes were not a direct response to recent Houthi attacks but part of a broader strategic operation planned weeks in advance . <p> After the successful launch of its flagship online portal Orissa Diary in 2004 ( www.orissadiary.com ) . Later We formed the Odisha Diary Foundation Currently several new portals are in operation they are like India Education Diary ( **26;1947;TOOLONG ) , The Energia ( www.theenergia.com ) , www.odishan.com and E-India Education ( www.eindiaeducation.com ) have received increasing levels of visits . 
@@119080355 <h> Story highlights <p> Houthi media said the strikes hit power stations , oil facilities and a port in Hodaidah , killing nine people and injuring others . The strikes came after the interception of a missile fired by Huthi rebels towards Israel . The group has regularly targeted Israel over its military operation in Gaza <p> Israel said Thursday it struck ports and energy infrastructure used by Houthi rebels in Yemen after intercepting a missile fired from the country , warning Huthi leaders it " will reach you too . " <p> Houthi media said the strikes hit power stations , oil facilities and a port in Hodaidah , killing nine people and injuring others . The strikes came after the interception of a missile fired by Huthi rebels towards Israel . The group has regularly targeted Israel over its military operation in Gaza . <p> Israel 's military said it " conducted precise strikes on Huthi military targets in Yemen -- including ports and energy infrastructure in Sanaa , which the Huthis have been using in ways that effectively contributed to their military actions . " <p> " I warn the leaders of the Huthi terrorist organisation : Israel 's long arm will reach you too , " Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz said . Al-Masira , a media channel belonging to the Huthis , said a series of " aggressive raids " were launched in the Yemeni capital of Sanaa and the port city of Hodeidah . <p> It reported raids that " targeted two central power plants " in and around Yemen 's capital Sanaa , while in Hodeidah it said " the enemy launched four aggressive raids targeting the port ... and two raids targeting " an oil facility . <p> It said strikes on the Al-Saleef port had killed seven people , while two more were killed and other injured in the strike on the oil facility . The strikes came after Israel 's military intercepted a missile from Yemen for the second time this week . <p> On Monday , the Houthis claimed a missile launch they said was aimed at " a military target of the Israeli enemy in the occupied area of Yaffa " -- a reference to Israel 's Tel Aviv area . Also Monday , an Israeli navy missile boat intercepted a drone in the Mediterranean after it was launched from Yemen , the military said . <p> The Huthi rebels have said they are acting in solidarity with Palestinians and pledged Monday to continue operations " until the aggression on Gaza stops and the siege is lifted " . <p> Watch : Houthis Claim Hypersonic Missile Strike <p> On December 9 , a drone claimed by Huthis exploded on the top floor of a residential building in the central Israel city of Yavne , causing no casualties . In July , a Huthi drone attack in Tel Aviv killed an Israeli civilian , prompting retaliatory strikes on the Yemeni port of Hodeidah . <p> The Huthis have also regularly targeted shipping in the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden , leading to retaliatory strikes on Huthi targets by United States and sometimes British forces . <p> Israeli military spokesman Daniel Hagari said the group had become a " global threat , " pointing to Iran 's support for the rebels . " We will continue to act against anyone , anyone in the Middle East , that threatens the state of Israel , " he said . <p> Disclaimer : This story has been published from a news agency feed with minimal edits to adhere to WION 's style guide . The headline may have been changed to better reflect the content of the story or to make it more suitable for WION audience . 
@@119092187 <h> ? But market here where the dollar is strong and bond yields are rising which makes it very hard for countries across EM to cut rates . This is just a very tough environment and so I do not think investors should be all that constructive going into 2025 . <p> ETMarkets.com And in this environment , investors will be looking for safe havens and gold will be one of those . <p> " For the first time Chair Powell kind of tipped his hat to that saying we just do not know what is going to go on . So , in this environment with not much in the way of rate cuts , I thought there will only be two actually in the new dot plot . I thought they would be a bit more hawkish . I am surprised the market was so surprised but there you go , " says Geoff Dennis , Independent Emerging Markets Commentator . <p> What should one be prepared for in the year 2025 because given the fact that you had the Federal Reserve go ahead and lowered their dot plot when you talk about the rate cuts come next year . You saw the markets spook . How should one read into all of these signs because yesterday when you saw the US GDP growth as well , they revised it upwards ? Geoff Dennis : It is a difficult environment for emerging markets let me start by saying that and it is summed up by the fact that the Fed is now assumed anyway in terms of the dot plot that the midpoint is two interest rate cuts . <p> So , what the Fed is doing here is they are accepting that the benefits if you like of sharply lower interest rates next year are basically not there anymore and they are therefore being more cautious . There are three things going on . <p> First of all , as you just mentioned the economy is reasonably strong , there does not seem to be a recession on the horizon . Secondly , inflation has seemingly bottomed out between 2.5% and 3% headline , 3% to 3.5% core and , of course , we have the enormous uncertainty of what will happen to tariffs and to the tax situation when President Trump comes in . <p> For the first time Chair Powell kind of tipped his hat to that saying we just do not know what is going to go on . So , in this environment with not much in the way of rate cuts , I thought there will only be two actually in the new dot plot . I thought they would be a bit more hawkish . I am surprised the market was so surprised but there you go . <p> But market here where the dollar is strong and bond yields are rising which makes it very hard for countries across EM to cut rates . This is just a very tough environment and so I do not think investors should be all that constructive going into 2025 . <p> But that is exactly what has happened with China too , they have managed to hold their loan prime lending rates and let us talk about Japan as well . The inflation has peaked to a three-month high there.Geoff Dennis : Yes , with China the story quite frankly is that we need to see the fiscal action and unfortunately in business and in the world you are supposed to under-promise and over-deliver . What the Chinese are doing on fiscal policy is over-promising and under-delivering and the market is not impressed and they are waiting for decent fiscal action . So , minor tweaks to interest rates just would not make any difference in China right now and this is why people have turned a bit more cautious again . <p> On Japan , all it is doing is making further rate hikes or slightly , perhaps I should say , slightly tighter monetary policy going forward , being more likely than the most recent data that you have seen as you mentioned , but they are going very-very slowly . And this is , of course , getting reflected in the weaker yen , which in turn reflects the very-very strong dollar . <p> So , Japan is not being very helpful here . And the Chinese were waiting for something that is really going to be decent enough to support the Chinese economy significantly , particularly the consumer and the property sector and frankly , it has been a long wait . <p> Given the uncertain environment in the equities right now , yes , they did have their ups and downs , but the gold did shine in the whole year of 2024 . So , going ahead in 2025 , do you believe that this asset class is ready to shine even more and the money could be flowing in here ? Geoff Dennis : These are pretty ideal conditions for investing in gold . First of all , inflation has come down , but it is still a little troublesome . Therefore , investors will probably see gold as an inflation hedge , just in case inflation happens to tick back up again in the US and in other countries . As we all know on this programme , the geopolitical tensions around the world are numerous and we then have to deal with incoming president , President Trump in the US , who could introduce major changes in policy towards all sorts of countries , the Ukraine , the Israel-Gaza story , Iran as well . So , gold as a safe haven , will still be well bid and I am sure it would not do as well as it has done this year , but I would not think this is a selling opportunity here , especially given what I think is a very poor outlook for US bonds . I mean , US bond yields are going to go to 5% , 10-year yields . They are heading that way now . It will take a while , maybe a little higher than that . And in this environment , investors will be looking for safe havens and gold will be one of those . 
@@119092525 <h> Parliament Winter Session : From Ambedkar Row To One Election Bill , Issues That Raised Temperature In The House A Recap <h> Parliament Winter Session : Following three days of acrimonious debate over preserving the dignity of BR Ambedkar , the winter session will most likely end on a bitter note with Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha Rahul Gandhi in focus <p> Parliament Winter Session Updates : It all started with a promise of peace from both the ruling and opposition sides , but with a day left for the winter session to end , unprecedented scenes of unruliness were witnessed with rival MPs screaming at and shoving each other on Thursday . <p> There was much action during the winter session this time -- from ' One Nation One Election ' Bill and a now-dismissed impeachment motion against Rajya Sabha chairman Jagdeep Dhankhar to a fiery first speech by Wayanad 's new MP Priyanka Gandhi to Union Home Minister Amit Shah 's controversial speech on the 75th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution . <h> related stories <p> Following three days of acrimonious debate inside the House over preserving the dignity of BR Ambedkar , the winter session will most likely culminate on a bitter note with Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha Rahul Gandhi as the focal point . <p> Here 's a recap : <h> PARLIAMENT SCUFFLE , FIR AGAINST RAHUL GANDHI <p> Congress MP Rahul Gandhi now faces an FIR in connection with the scuffle in Parliament , after two BJP MPs were hospitalised on Thursday ( December 19 ) . A woman MP also accused him of " misbehaviour " . Balasore MP Pratap Sarangi , 69 , had to get stitches in the temple while his colleague Mukesh Rajput was also injured in the head . <p> Tempers and voices rose as BJP and opposition MPs marched towards each other over Amit Shah 's comments on BR Ambedkar . Trouble broke out minutes before both Houses were to convene at 11 am as both sides were protesting at the steps of Parliament 's ' Makar Dwar ' , an entrance and exit reserved for lawmakers . <p> The BJP MPs claimed that Rahul Gandhi tried to push his way through the middle of the stairs where they were standing , ignoring a side passage , and caused injuries in the ensuing jostling . However , some opposition MPs claimed that the BJP members refused to give way to Gandhi who was headed to the Lok Sabha to attend the House proceedings . <p> Both the BJP and Congress held pressers , squarely putting the blame on each other for the fracas . " Rahul Gandhi does not deserve to hold the post of the Leader of Opposition , " said Union minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan , while Congress president Mallikarjun Kharge said he was pushed so violently that he lost his balance and sat down . <h> THE AMBEDKAR CONTROVERSY <p> A massive political row erupted on December 18 as the Congress and other opposition parties launched an all-out attack on Amit Shah for his remarks on BR Ambedkar and demanded his sacking , while Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other top BJP leaders rallied to his defence and said he has exposed the " anti-Ambedkar " stand of the Congress . <p> " Baba Saheb is the architect of the Constitution , a great man who gave direction to the country . The country will not tolerate his insult or the insult to the Constitution framed by him . Home Minister should apologize ! " Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha Rahul Gandhi said . " They are against the Constitution . They had said earlier that we will change the Constitution . They are against Ambedkar and his ideology . Their whole work is to finish off Ambedkar 's contribution and the Constitution . The whole country knows . " <p> As opposition parties unitedly protested against him and stalled both houses of Parliament , alleging that his remarks had insulted Ambedkar and demanding his apology , Shah said the Congress had distorted his comments under a malicious campaign after the discussion on the Constitution " established " that the opposition party was against Ambedkar and reservation . <p> " Abhi ek fashion ho gaya hai -- Ambedkar , Ambedkar , Ambedkar , Ambedkar , Ambedkar , Ambedkar . Itna naam agar bhagwan ka lete to saat janmon tak swarg mil jata ( It has become a fashion to say Ambedkar , Ambedkar , Ambedkar , Ambedkar , Ambedkar , Ambedkar ' . If they had taken God 's name so many times , they would have got a place in heaven ) , " he said in the Rajya Sabha during the debate on the Constitution . <p> Modi , too , hit out at the Congress saying its " rotten ecosystem " and " malicious lies " can not hide its misdeeds and said the home minister had exposed the opposition party 's " dark history of insulting " Ambedkar . <p> " They are clearly stung and stunned by the facts he presented , which is why they are now indulging in theatrics . Sadly , for them , people know the truth , " he said in a series of posts on X. <p> Parties like the Congress , Trinamool Congress , AAP , RJD , SP , Shiv Sena ( UBT ) and the Left protested against Shah inside Parliament and outside . Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien submitted a notice to move a privilege motion against him , followed by Congress president and Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge . <p> " I hereby give a notice of question of privilege against Shri Amit Shah , Minister of Home Affairs under Rule 188 of Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Council of States ( Rajya Sabha ) , " Kharge said in his notice . <p> The uproar in Parliament also spilled onto the streets of the national capital and other states like Maharashtra , Bihar and Tamil Nadu where various parties held protests . In Delhi , AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal led a protest with hundreds of supporters outside the BJP chanting slogans of ' Amit Shah maafi maango , Amit Shah sharm karo ' . <h> ' ONE NATION , ONE ELECTION ' <p> The two ' one nation , one election ' ( ONOE ) bills , including one requiring an amendment in the Constitution , lay down the mechanism to hold simultaneous polls and were introduced in the Lok Sabha on December 17 after a fiery debate . <p> Opposition parties dubbed the draft laws -- a Constitution amendment bill and an ordinary bill -- as an attack on the federal structure , a charge rejected by the central government . Speaking to reporters on Parliament premises , Congress MP Priyanka Gandhi had termed the bills " anti-constitutional " . " It is against the federalism of our nation . We are opposing the bill , " she had said . <p> The BJP and its allies such as the TDP , JD(U) and Shiv Sena have stoutly defended the bills , saying frequent elections are an obstruction to development programmes and simultaneous polling will boost them by cutting down on election expenditure . <p> Priyanka , along with former Union ministers Anurag Thakur and PP Chaudhary from the BJP , are set to be among the 21 Lok Sabha MPs , who will be part of the joint parliamentary committee ( JPC ) that will scrutinise two bills on simultaneous polls . <p> A total of 21 MPs will be part of the committee . The Rajya Sabha will name its 10 members in a separate communication . Among members proposed to be on the committee , 14 are from the BJP-led NDA , including 10 from the BJP . <p> According to official sources , BJP MP Bhartruhari Mahtab is being considered to head the JPC . With the BJP set to get the position of the chair for the crucial panel , they said Mahtab 's parliamentary experience may weigh in his favour . He is a seven-time Lok Sabha member from Odisha and is currently heading the standing committee for the finance ministry . <h> DEBATE ON CONSTITUTION <p> Amid the new Rahul Gandhi controversy and Amit Shah 's alleged insult of BR Ambedkar , the Parliament debate on the 75th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution seems to have taken on a life of its own . But , it was Prime Minister Narendra Modi who set the tone in a searing attack on the Nehru-Gandhi family . <p> On December 14 , Modi alleged generations of the family had assaulted the Constitution leaving its spirit in a " bloodied state " . Responding to the two-day debate on the ' Glorious Journey of 75 Years of the Constitution of India ' , he said first PM Jawaharlal Nehru had " tasted blood " by amending the Constitution and his successive generations kept assaulting the guiding document time and again , leaving it in tatters . <p> " They tasted blood by changing the Constitution and they kept assaulting it . They had tasted blood . They left the spirit of the Constitution in a bloodied state . The seed that was sown by the first prime minister was nurtured by another prime minister Indira Gandhi , " he said . " When Rajiv Gandhi became the prime minister , he continued to attack the Constitution . " <p> He further took potshots at Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi , while claiming that the Constitution was altered 75 times in 60 years of Congress tenure . He said Indira Gandhi imposed Emergency by misusing the Constitution and even clipped the wings of courts through constitutional amendments to capture the judiciary . <p> " The Constitution was torn apart when it was completing 25 years . The Emergency was imposed in 1975 , all constitutional rights were snatched , and the country was turned into a jail . All the rights of the citizens were taken away and there was a clampdown on the media , " he said . " The Congress can not wipe off this sin . Whenever democracy will be discussed across the world , this sin of the Congress will be remembered . " <p> Before his remarks on Ambedkar , Shah more or less made similar observations while concluding the debate . On December 17 , during his speech , he said the Congress treated the Constitution as the " private fiefdom " of one family and " played fraud " with Parliament . <p> " In the last 75 years , the Congress played fraud in the name of the Constitution ... They ( Nehru-Gandhi family ) considered not just the party as their personal property , but also treated the Constitution as their ' private fiefdom ' , " he alleged , adding that it amended the document several times to remain in power . <h> PRIYANKA GANDHI VADRA : NEW MP ON THE BLOCK <p> It looks like Wayanad 's MP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had an interesting Parliament run -- be it her fiery first speech , which set tongues wagging about how she could be a " big threat " to brother Rahul 's political career , or her statement-making bags in support of Palestine and Bangladesh . She even called Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's speech for the debate on Constitution in Lok Sabha boring and like sitting through a " double period of mathematics " in school . <p> During her 32-minute speech in Hindi , Priyanka said Modi has not understood that the Constitution is " Bharat ka Samvidhan " not " Sangh ka Vidhan " . Launching a blistering attack against the BJP , she said had it not been for the Lok Sabha poll results , the ruling party would have started changing the Constitution . <p> She was combative yet restrained , never raising her voice , as she raised the opposition 's key planks . These included the BJP 's alleged attempts to change the Constitution , atrocities on women , incidents of violence in Sambhal and Manipur , and the demand for a nationwide caste census . <p> Slamming the BJP over its alleged divisive politics , the Congress MP said seeds of suspicion and hatred are being sown where the Constitution gave a protective shield of unity . " The suraksha kavach of unity is being broken . The prime minister touches his forehead to the Constitution but when there are cries for justice from Sambhal , Hathras and Manipur , there is not a wrinkle on his forehead , " she said . <p> When it came to her making bold statements , she did so twice by carrying bags in support of Palestine and Bangladesh to Parliament . When she was criticised for her " Palestine bag " , she called it " typical patriarchy " and asserted that no one will decide what she wears. <h> top videos <p> Not only has she previously made her views on the Gaza war public by severely criticising the Benjamin Netanyahu-led Israel , in Parliament , she raised the issue of reported attacks on minorities in Bangladesh . 
@@119092708 <p> New Delhi:Priyanka Gandhi Vadra made headlines with the tote bags she carried in Parliament recently . On Friday , the last day of the winter session , BJP MP Aparajita Sarangi handed Priyanka a bag that had ' 1984 ' written over it in red . She was seen giving the Wayanad MP the bag , days after Priyanka carried a bag with ' Palestine ' written on it . Priyanka took it and moved on . <p> The other day , she came to Parliament with a bag that mentioned about atrocities against Hindus in Bangladesh . <p> The slogan on the bag read , " Stand With Bangladeshi Hindus And Christians . " The ' 1984 ' bag that the BJP MP gave to Priyanka Gandhi was a symbolic attack at the Congress that hinted at the 1984 Sikh riots which has always been a talking point between the BJP and the grand-old party . <p> Earlier on Monday , Priyanka Gandhi Vadra carried a bag to the Parliament that had " Palestine " emblazoned on it . She was seen carrying a handbag with Palestinian emblems , including a watermelon -- seen as a symbol of Palestinian solidarity . The Congress MP has been raising her voice against Israel 's actions in Gaza and expressing solidarity with Palestinians . <p> The BJP hit out at the Congress leader , accusing her of continuing the family 's legacy of " appeasement . " BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said , " The appeasement bag is the reason for their losses in elections . " <p> On BJP 's objection , Gandhi said , " Tell them that they should do something about the atrocities that are happening on minorities- Hindus and Christians - in Bangladesh . Talk to the Bangladesh government and stop these atrocities . " <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from India and around the world . 
@@119093504 <p> When Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi carried a bag to Parliament emblazoned with the name and symbols of Palestine , it ignited more than just visual curiosity -- it sparked a biting reaction from Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath . Mocking her gesture , he boasted about sending 5,600 youth from his state to work on projects in Israel . <p> Interestingly , while delivering an animated speech in the state Assembly , Adityanath emphasised that the youth from Uttar Pradesh going to Israel are taking up skilled jobs , receiving free food and accommodation , and sending back Rs 1.5 lakh each month . He also proudly claimed that these remittances are fuelling the state 's development . <p> Unfortunately , Adityanath remained silent on critical questions : why are youth from Uttar Pradesh risking their lives by migrating to Israel , a region still grappling with conflict ? How was the recruitment process carried out , seemingly bypassing the Ministry of External Affairs ( MEA ) guidelines and safeguards established by the late minister Sushma Swaraj to ensure the safety and rights of Indian labour migrants ? Moreover , he offered no clarity on the nature of the jobs these young workers are undertaking in Israel , leaving a cloud of ambiguity over their working conditions and the risks involved . <h> Israel Remains a Highly Volatile Country <p> According to a document presented in the Parliament on 12 December , there are currently 32,000 Indians working in Israel . Notably , 12,000 of them migrated after October 2023 , when the Hamas-Israel conflict erupted , resulting in over 45,000 Palestinian deaths so far . Khaled Khiari , the Assistant Secretary-General for the Middle East , Asia , and the Pacific in the United Nations Departments of Political and Peacebuilding Affairs and Peace Operations , said on Wednesday that a ceasefire is " long overdue . " <p> In other words , the region remains highly volatile . Yet , it is here that our youth , including 5,600 from Uttar Pradesh , are working under dangerous conditions , risking their lives . Should Adityanath feel proud about this ? No . The testimonies I collected from UP youth standing in the queue for a recruitment drive revealed that many had chosen to migrate out of necessity rather than by choice . <p> A young man from Uttar Pradesh shared his story with me during the recruitment drive . He explained that he had lost his job in the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) during the COVID-19 outbreak and returned to India empty-handed . He attempted farming but found it insufficient to support his joint family of 20 . Desperate for better opportunities , he began exploring options to migrate again . That 's when the Israel recruitment drive caught his attention . <p> He told me that before he could start working in Israel , he was required to pay the equivalent of $1,000 to " the Indian company " that recruited him , in addition to covering the cost of airfare from India to Israel , as outlined in the documents all applicants were required to sign . <p> In short , his migration was driven by necessity , not choice . Moreover , the recruitment was not free either . <h> How the Recruitment Drive Was Carried Out <p> In May 2023 , India and Israel signed an agreement to send over 40,000 Indian workers to Israel . At that time , neither country anticipated that a war between Israel and Hamas , based in Gaza , would erupt just a few months later in October . Despite the outbreak of war , the Indian government honoured the deal . On 19 December 2023 , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu even called Prime Minister Narendra Modi to expedite the arrival of Indian workers . In early 2024 , the National Skill Development Corporation ( NSDC ) launched a recruitment drive in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh . <p> Interestingly , the majority of available jobs were in the construction sector , and there was a specific reason for this . After the Hamas attack , the Israeli government stopped hiring Palestinian workers . As a result , Indian workers began replacing Palestinians in these positions . <p> The NSDC , however , was conducting the recruitment bypassing the guidelines set by the MEA and the eMigrate system , which was established by the late minister Sushma Swaraj to streamline labour migration and safeguard the rights of migrant workers . <p> The NSDC is a public-private partnership company , created in 2008 under India 's Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship . The Indian government holds 49 percent of the company 's shares , while private firms hold 51 percent . According to the NSDC 's ' About Us ' section , the organisation 's mission is to promote skill development by catalysing the creation of large , quality , for-profit vocational institutions . Interestingly , recruitment is not mentioned in the ' About Us ' section . <p> Launched in 2014 , eMigrate aims to protect Indian workers abroad by mandating insurance and ensuring monitoring by Indian embassies and consulates in labour destination countries . Workers migrating through the eMigrate system are required to subscribe to the Pravasi Bharatiya Bhima Yojana , a mandatory insurance scheme that provides coverage of Rs 10 lakh in case of accidental death or permanent disability . The insurance premiums are Rs 275 for a two-year period and Rs 375 for a three-year period . <p> This scheme is compulsory for workers in various professions under Section 2(o) of the Emigration Act , 1983 , regardless of their passport category . Interestingly , workers recruited to Israel must also subscribe to the Pravasi Bharatiya Bhima Yojana . However , as recruitment to Israel through the NSDC is not conducted via eMigrate , these workers are not eligible for the scheme or other benefits . <p> The Indian government data show that 135,882 youth from UP migrated for work to the above listed 17 countries in 2024 . Out of that , 74,174 UP youth had migrated to Saudi Arabia . <p> Despite its ongoing conflict with Hamas , Israel has not been added to the ECR list , but the Indian government has the option to implement eMigrate for workers heading to Israel . Yet , it has refrained from doing so . Migrating to Israel should not be seen as a matter of pride ; Israel remains a war zone with no guaranteed safety for its citizens or workers . Instead of celebrating the migration of youth from Uttar Pradesh to Israel , Yogi Adityanath should reflect on why young people are leaving for Israel , as well as for countries like Saudi Arabia . This migration in large numbers , speaks volumes about the lack of opportunities at home , and it 's time to address the root causes of this outflow . <p> ( Rejimon Kuttappan is an independent journalist , forced labour investigator and author of the book Undocumented : Stories Of Indian Migrants : Stories of Indian Migrants in the Arab Gulf . This is an opinion piece and the views expressed are the author 's own . The Quint neither endorses nor is responsible for them . ) <p> ( At The Quint , we question everything . Play an active role in shaping our journalism by becoming a member today. ) 
@@119094562 <p> Home News Heres A Look At Major Conflicts Some Ongoing Across The Globe In 2024 <h> Here 's a look at major conflicts , some ongoing , across the globe in 2024 <p> Global conflicts have surged over the past five years , reaching nearly 200,000 incidents in 2024 , according to the Armed Conflict Location &amp; Event Data ( ACLED ) . In 2024 alone , at least 233,000 people have been killed , with one in eight people affected by conflict . Palestine is now the most dangerous region , while Ukraine remains the deadliest ongoing conflict . <p> Hyderabad : Global conflicts have doubled in the past five years to nearly 2,00,000 in 2024 , according to the Armed Conflict Location &amp; Event Data ( ACLED ) , an independent international non-profit organisation . <p> * At least 2,33,000 people have been killed in 2024 * 1 in 8 people exposed to conflict * Palestine is the most dangerous and violent place in the world . Ukraine remains the deadliest conflict * Over 90,000 conflicts marked by bombings <h> Ukraine-Russia <p> Russia 's invasion of Ukraine began on February 24 , 2022 . Has triggered the biggest and fastest-growing refugee crisis in Europe since WW II . 6.8 million Ukrainians have fled the country since the war broke out . <h> Israel-Hamas <p> In its 14th month , the death toll in Gaza Strip has surpassed 44,000 , according to Gaza Health Ministry . The war began when Hamas stormed into southern Israel on Oct 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people and abducting another 250 . <h> Middle East Mess <p> The Israel-Hamas war spilt into neighbouring regions with Iran , Egypt , Lebanon , Turkey , Jordan , Saudi Arabia , Kuwait and proxies Hezbollah and Houthis choosing their sides , threatening a regional war . Trade through the Red Sea saw a major disruption . <h> Bangladesh Uprising <p> A peaceful protest by students against a 30% quota in government jobs for family members of veterans who fought in Bangladesh 's 1971 war turned violent marking an end to Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina 's 15-year rule . <h> Sudan Strife <p> The war broke out in April 2023 when tensions between Sudanese military and its rival paramilitary Rapid Support Forces escalated . More than 14 million people , or about 30% of the population , displaced . <h> Myanmar Civil War <p> Pro-democracy guerrillas and ethnic minority armed forces seeking autonomy and the Myanmar army have been battling since 2021 , displacing 3.5 million people , as per UN estimates . <h> Syria Surprises <p> The fall of Bashar al-Assad is the year 's biggest surprise . In barely 10 days , insurgents marched from their stronghold of Idlib province on Nov 28 into Damascus bringing an end to the 50-year rule of the Assad family . 
@@119094868 <h> Egypt reaffirms stance on restoring peace in Middle East <p> Cairo , December 20 ( IANS ) : Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi held several bilateral talks with the leaders of the Middle East countries on the sidelines of the 11th Summit of the Developing Eight Organization for Economic Cooperation held in Egypt 's new administrative capital and reaffirmed the commitment to restore peace in the region . <p> Sisi and his Palestinian counterpart , Mahmoud Abbas , on Thursday , rejected any attempt to forcibly displace the Palestinians or to undermine the Palestinian cause , the Egyptian presidency said in a statement . <p> They reviewed ways to restore calm to the Palestinian territories and talked about Egypt 's efforts to facilitate a ceasefire and the delivery of humanitarian aid to the Gaza Strip to alleviate the humanitarian crisis there and end the bloodshed , reports Xinhua news agency . <p> The two leaders also denounced Israel 's persistent violations in the West Bank , stressing that the West Bank , Gaza , and East Jerusalem constitute the land of the Palestinian state . <p> Al-Sisi reaffirmed Egypt 's unyielding and vigorous efforts to support the Palestinian people and the establishment of an independent Palestinian state along the borders of June 4 , 1967 , with East Jerusalem as its capital . <p> Abbas applauded Egypt 's efforts to achieve a ceasefire in Gaza , acknowledging Egypt 's historic role in supporting the Palestinian people and their legitimate rights . <p> Apart from this , the Egyptian President also met his Iranian counterpart Masoud Pezeshkian , the first Iranian President to visit Egypt in 11 years , to discuss efforts to strengthen bilateral relations and restore peace in the region , the Egyptian presidency said in a statement . <p> During a meeting , Sisi stressed the importance of defusing regional tensions and avoiding escalation , urging all parties to act wisely , in order to protect the region from dangerous confrontations that could have serious repercussions on peace and security in the Middle East and the world as a whole . <p> The meeting also touched on the situation in Palestine , with a review of Egypt 's efforts to implement a ceasefire and deliver humanitarian aid into the enclave . <p> Additionally , Sisi also held talks with Lebanon 's Prime Minister Najib Mikati and emphasised Egypt 's keenness on firming up the implementation of the ceasefire agreement in Lebanon and the full enforcement of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701 . <p> The Egyptian President also reiterated Egypt 's steadfast commitment to offering all forms of assistance to alleviate the suffering of the Lebanese people and support the effective functioning of the country 's institutions . <p> The meeting also touched on regional developments and Egypt 's efforts to achieve a ceasefire in Gaza as a core step toward restoring regional stability . The two leaders expressed their commitment to Syria 's stability , unity , and territorial integrity , as well as the safety and security of its people . <p> They also cautioned against the expansion of the conflict , stressing the need for all parties to act with wisdom and responsibility to restore regional peace . <h> Weekly Poll Question <h> Connect with us <h> Intro footer <p> The Morung Express <p> The Morung Express is a people-oriented alternative newspaper based in Nagaland that was conceived from the Naga people 's historical realities and is guided by their voices and experiences . It emerged from the well-recognized concept that the core of a free press is based on " qualitative and investigative " journalism . Ensuring this is essential for contributing to an informed Naga public that makes sound decisions on issues that affect all spheres of life . 
@@119108687 <h> Lawsuit Calls for US Congressmen to End Gaza Genocide <h> Share : <p> Human rights and anti-war activists along with Palestinian supporters attended a " Taxpayers Against Genocide " press conference and rally on December 19 calling for an end to funding Israel 's genocide in Gaza . It was announced that an unprecedented class action lawsuit was filed this morning at the Phillip Burton Federal Building and United States Courthouse against California Congressmen Mike Thompson ( D ) and Jared Huffman ( D ) for their continuing support for Israel 's war in Gaza . The 500 plaintiffs in the lawsuit represent ten Northern California counties in the representatives ' districts and persons from all ethnicities , religious backgrounds and walks of life . <p> Activists and supporters of ending the genocide , being frustrated by the lack of response from either of the representatives , through their constituents ' repeated actions , protests , demonstrations , letter writing and call campaigns along with frequent office visits are now looking to the courts for relief . <p> The continued support of funding Israel 's war in Gaza by Thompson and Huffman in turn involuntarily makes their constituents complicit in war crimes and genocide by using federal taxpayers ' money . The lawsuit is asking the court for declaratory relief , wherein , according to the lead attorney for the plaintiffs , Dean Royer of Szeto &amp; Wong Law , " The court would make a declaration of statement in terms of the rights that have been violated and constitutional violations . " <p> The lawsuit is also seeking injunctive relief through " a court order to put an end to the allocations of funding for what has resulted in the ongoing genocide in Gaza . " And finally , for a judgement of compensation for those constituents who have " suffered harm in various and significant ways " along with emotional damage done by the ongoing genocide through their representative 's support thereby making them complicit . Several of the speakers told of mental health problems , emotional trauma and depression over the senseless killings of so many civilians and children vowing that any monies awarded them would be donated to the rebuilding of Gaza . <p> Both Thompson and Huffman are accused by activists of " illegally abusing their tax and spend authority " for continuously voting in favor of supplying $26.38 billion to the Israeli government in military aid and weapons enabling and prolonging the ongoing genocide . <p> Norman Solomon , executive director for the Institute for Public Accuracy and national director of Rootsaction.org , said " Two weeks ago Amnesty International issued a report that Israel is engaged in genocide . " Today " Human Rights Watch issued a report concluding that Israel is engaged in genocide . It is incontrovertible that Israel is engaged in genocide using our tax dollars to do that . There are many , many , many aspects of what is sickening , disgusting and outrageous about defenders of continued military aid to Israel trying to rationalize that aid . This lawsuit filed today is a beginning to challenge support to genocide ; it is certainly not the end . " <p> In answering a question of how long it will be before a decision by the court is forthcoming , plaintiffs ' attorney Royer went on to say that it could be " a long haul " but " we will stay in this as long as it takes . " <p> Inspiration for the lawsuit announced today was a direct result of another lawsuit filed in United States District Court for The Northern District of California on November 13 , 2023 , against U.S. government officials , naming President Joe Biden , Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken and Lloyd James Austin III , Secretary of Defense , for " their failure to prevent and for complicity in , " Israel 's genocide in Gaza . <p> That lawsuit ended with the court 's panel finding in July that it had no standing respective to U.S. foreign policy , saying " The district court dismissed the complaint because plaintiffs ' claims raised non-justiciable political questions . " And going further by saying that " Though federal courts decide cases with political overtones , we do not decide political questions . " <p> As word of today 's lawsuit has become widely known , plaintiffs have heard from activists across the country who are desirous of filing similar actions naming their representatives in holding them accountable to end funding for Israel and for their being made complicit in the genocide . One speaker noted that recent polls show that most Americans no longer support funding for Israel 's war in Gaza . <p> Just last week a study conducted in June by the Community Training Centre for Crisis Management ( CTCCM ) with support from the War Child Alliance and the Dutch Relief Alliance announced that in a survey involving 504 families in Gaza they found that " 96% of children feel their death is imminent , and nearly half have expressed a desire to die . " <p> UNICEF Executive Director Catherine Russell on November 14 , in addressing the unspeakable dire situation of children in Gaza , called for " ... all parties to the conflict , and on those with influence over them , to take decisive action to end the suffering of children , to release all hostages , to ensure children 's rights are upheld , and to adhere to obligations under international humanitarian law . " <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The horrific consequences of which have seen the entire population of Gaza reduced daily by bombings , missile attacks and killings by the Israeli military in its quest to ethnically cleanse the entire Gaza Strip of its Palestinian population . The war thus far has had an overwhelming and profound life altering psychological effect on the children who have had to live in a war zone for the past 14 months . <p> Because of today 's lawsuit filing , activist Leslie Angeline , who was present , announced she has was ending her 31-day Gaza solidarity hunger strike . <p> Palestinian Territory -- A new investigation conducted by Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor has revealed a massacre committed by the Israeli military , killing over 15 Palestinians and injuring others , including women , children , ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119108688 <p> The Israeli military claimed , without providing evidence , that the deadly attacks carried out on the two school shelters were a " precise strike " that targeted " terrorists who were operating in command and control centres " in the buildings . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Since the start of the ongoing genocide , the Israeli military has repeatedly targeted schools-turned-shelters across Gaza . These attacks have included shelling , direct shootings , and the killing of forcibly displaced people and their families or making them leave the schools under fire and/or with orders to flee . <h> Related Posts <p> Human rights and anti-war activists along with Palestinian supporters attended a " Taxpayers Against Genocide " press conference and rally on December 19 calling for an end to funding Israel 's genocide in ... <p> Palestinian Territory -- A new investigation conducted by Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor has revealed a massacre committed by the Israeli military , killing over 15 Palestinians and injuring others , including women , children , ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119108689 <h> Why A Civil Society Tribunal On Gaza Genocide Is Necessary <h> Share : <p> Prefatory Note : The questions and responses were made a month ago and now presented in a modified form . The original intention was to cooperate with Aida Naouel Kara Mohammed of The Interviews Office of Aljazeera.net based in Doha Qatar that was gathering information for a report about the newly formed Gaza Tribunal . <p> 1-How and when the idea of making " Gaza Tribunal " came ? <p> The idea of a peoples or civil society tribunal on the persisting genocidal assault on the entrapped and blockaded Palestinian civilian population has long been conceived of as a valuable initiative . Yet a specific proposal with adequate funding only came to our attention when my wife , Hilal Elver , and I were approached in Turkey during May of 2024 by a group of concerned Turkish citizens associated with the Islamic Cooperation Youth Forum inviting and encouraging us to embark on such a project and asked me to serve as president , and Hilal to act as chief coordinator . We carefully deliberated upon whether we should accept such a proposal given the time-consuming complexities of organizing and carrying out such a project , and considering the political complexities of dealing with an undertaking of this magnitude . <p> During negotiations we insisted upon a strict pledge of political independence from interference by sponsors and funders , and above all , and by the Turkish Government . As well as independence from all governments . We also made clear that we would only proceed if assured about the exclusion of active politicians or diplomats . Such assurances were given in a persuasive form , and in August 2024 , as the genocide intensified and the UN and US seemed in the first case unable and in the second case unwilling to even establish a ceasefire , we accepted this invitation and have been planning the organization , structure , and activities ever since . A successful launch meeting of the Gaza Tribunal Project was held in London on October 31-November 1st with many prominent scholars and activists taking part , including giving great attention to the work of Palestinian civil society grassroots organizations working under harsh conditions prevailing throughout Occupied Palestine . <p> 2-Many nongovernmental organizations participate in this initiative , how do they coordinate and cooperate with each or other ? <p> As a civil society initiative oriented toward lending support to the Palestinian struggle for self-determination and other basic rights , we have sought participation from a wide range of Palestinian NGOs , and have been encouraged by their strongly positive response as evidenced by their participation . We have established a Palestinian Civil Society Working Group as well as Global Civil Society Advisory Council to ensure that there are clear channels for participation and influence . To date there has been excellent cooperation among participating Palestinian organizations and in relation to the global CSOs , and of course we hope this will continue and be reflected in the final judgment of the Gaza Tribunal . The identity of the Gaza Tribunal is global in its orientation , aiming to mobilize support throughout the world for global solidarity initiatives . <p> 3-What are some of the prominent active organizations ? <p> To varying degrees representatives of many organizations are active and or influential in the work of the GT , including notable Palestinian civil society actors : Al Haq , Palestinian Center of Human Rights , Addameer , and Al Mezan Center of Human Rights . We have a special working group in the project composed of representatives of Palestinian grassroots and solidarity organizations . We on the Steering Committee of the GTP will turn to them for guidance throughout the entire GT process . We also are responsive to the valuable contributions of such global civic society organizations Amnesty International , Human Rights Watch , Doctors Without Borders , and other civil society organizations and activists wherever situated , including in Israel . We also intend to involve journalists , observers , and experts with a clear knowledge and experience of the violence that has been directed both toward the people of Gaza , but also toward international health and humanitarian aid workers , and indeed any individual of conscience , including poets , novelists , and artists . <p> 4-What are the main goals that the Gaza Tribunal aspires to achieve ? <p> I think a consensus exists among the conveners and sponsors of the Gaza Tribunal Project that we hope to organize the tribunal in such a manner that its final judgment gives primary emphasis to the particulars of the crime of genocide as perpetrated in Gaza by Israel delimited by international law and the Genocide Convention . It also seeks to complement the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) by acting more quickly and by producing texts that are technically competent yet readable by any concerned person without the obstructions of the sort of obscure legalism and boundaries that tend to be characteristic of ICJ judgments . The GT will operate without the guard rails of normal national and international courts , especially those affecting jurisdiction to decide , the scope of criminality that is to be pronounced upon , and especially the professional discipline of giving equal opportunity to complainants and defendants . A peoples tribunal is activated only by a sense of widespread injustice that is not being adequately addressed by the intergovernmental structures of world and their institutional policy tools for implementation ( as center in the UN System ) . <p> Additional to the text itself and wider than any proceeding before the tribunal is the overall goal of producing an accurate and comprehensive record of what has transpired in Gaza ( and spillover combat regionally ) since the Hamas attack of October 7 , 2023 , which itself should be contextualized in terms of prior Israeli provocations over the decades , intensified from the time the Netanyahu took control of Israeli governance at the start of 2023 . It is a documentation of the criminal course of action free from jurisdictional restrictions on scope of inquire and from legalistic proceedings that impose boundaries on what kind of evidence and arguments are acceptable . <p> A further objective is to create a civil society template for a critical understanding and treatment of international law , including the world order significance of the GT experience for the development of an alternative pedagogical paradigm for the teaching and apprehension of international law that seeks to be critical of standard approaches and more dedicated to forging linkages between law and justice . As matters currently stand , the ICJ despite ' justice ' being in its name veers sharply toward a strictly legalistic and positivist framing of issues it is called upon to resolve . Of course , in extreme circumstance such as Gaza legalistic and populist approaches to international law tend to converge , and the professionalism of the judges at the ICJ gives legitimacy and legal prestige to their rulings even if , as here , the obligatory features of their rulings are neither respected , nor observed , by Israel . <p> A further goal is to explain and justify a ' judicial ' proceeding that does not accord due process to the defendant or adversary . Such partisan jurisprudence fills the gap created by the shortcomings of intergovernmental judicial processes even if operating free from geopolitical interference . Again , if competently and objectively done , this mode of populist adjudication deserves respect , and implementation by private sector solidarity initiatives . For instance , BDS or cultural , sporting , and academic steps responsive to calls for populist modes of ' enforcement . ' The effective of implementation depends on the degree to which a civil society undertaking has a mobilizing effect on people . The struggle against South African apartheid contains many reasons to believe that global expressions of solidarity strengthens the will and prospects on a national struggle for basic rights . <p> 5-Do you think that your efforts will exert a meaningful influence ? <p> Yes , if the quality of performance at various stages of the GT live up to its diverse aspirations and potential . A civil society tribunal lacks any direct enforcement capabilities , but it can encourage solidarity initiatives that exert pressure . This seems to have been instrumental in the case of the anti-apartheid movement that differed from the Palestinian situation because the UN exerted an important delegitimizing influence , including by way of several Advisory Opinions of the ICJ . Also organized elements in civil society including faith-based groups , labor unions , and university protest movement supportive of divestment and boycott exerted pressure on the apartheid regime . As well , as with Occupied Palestine , an array of anti-racist pro-constitutional human rights actors were active and effective in delegitimizing apartheid South Africa . <p> One such established effort in the Palestinian struggle along these lines is the BDS Campaign which was initiated in 2005 by a coalition of Palestinian activists and grassroots organization . A strong judgment by GT , if widely distributed will add legitimacy to such civil society initiatives and give rise to other meaningful non-governmental undertaking including cultural and sports boycotts , and cooperative academic projects involving exchange programs and other interactions with Israel 's university . <p> The success or disappointment of our efforts will of course reflect the contextual situation , especially whether there continues to be widespread concern about the behavior of Israel toward Palestinian basic rights as well as whether Israel will continue under present or similar leadership . It is possible if Israel implements its increasing overt plans to annex the West Bank , Gaza in whole or in part , and deny any prospect of agreeing to the emergence of a Palestinian state of equivalent sovereignty , the impact of our GT Tribunal could be considerable even if indirect . <p> Also quite possible is a Zionist led pushback against the GT probably under its familiar tactic of weaponizing antisemitism . There exists a substantial prospect that a Trump presidency will encourage the demonization of the GT and those closely associated . So far , such dark prospects have not discouraged participation in its activities by those whose contributions we have solicited , which include persons prominent in the civic life of their respective country . The US as a geopolitical leader and the principal supporter of Israel despite the transparency in real time of the genocide is an important battleground in the Legitimacy War being waged effectively on behalf of the Palestinian struggle but at great costs if measured in terms of human suffering and traumatized alienation endured by the entire civilian population of Gaza . A recent report on the condition of the mental health of children in Gaza reached the conclusions that 96% of children believe that they will soon die , 49% have lost the will to live , and 100% of surviving children will need psychological help to restore their mental health . Study and Report of Gaza Community Centre for Crisis Management , supported by the UK-based War-Child Alliance . <p> 6-Some believe that people have lost hope in such initiatives , what do you respond to them ? <p> Such initiatives have always had to swim against the currents of geopolitical hard power and the mainstream media 's establishment alignments that were dismissive or hostile to such populist challenges . Such statist attitudes were present from the inception of civil society tribunals as a policy instrument of persons opposed to the behavior of states and their institutions . The serious development of this populist approach to law goes back to the formation of the Russell Tribunal in the mid-1960s addressing the alleged crimes associated with the conduct of the Vietnam War . This first instance of a people 's tribunal did not have a discernable effect on the US conduct of the war , although it energized to some extent anti-war activism in the US and Europe , and pioneered a model of legitimacy challenges that has been emulated in numerous subsequent instances , including tribunal initiatives concerned with nuclear weapons , interventions in the Global South , gender equality , environmental protection , and corporate wrongdoing . In this sense , this civil society format has emerged as a pedagogical model of soft power resistance with variable educational , media , and activist impacts depending on the issue , overall political context , and the skills of the organizers in disseminating the outcome of their tribunal . <p> The Palestinian struggle and Israel 's genocide is in many ways a special case , which makes its likely effects either less than hoped for or greater . For one thing Israel learned from apartheid South Africa to use major resources to shape effectively the public discourse relevant to its behavior , including resorting to ' a politics of distraction ' to divert attention from substantive allegations and criticism by mounting defamatory attacks on the messenger to divert attention from the message . In this respect Netanyahu and other Israeli leaders have consistently dismissed UN authority , including of the ICJ , with contrary-to-fact defamatory attacks irresponsibly charging UN antisemitism . <p> Further , the historical background- of Jewish victimization climaxing with the Holocaust continues to inhibit criticism or identification with the Palestinian struggle particularly in Germany but also in the Western democracies , especially the US , that emerged from World War II with a guilty conscience because these governments did so little to oppose Nazi antisemitism culminating in the Holocaust before and during the Second World War . This liberal guilt led to an Orientalist sequel in the postwar context in which Europe 's long history of extreme persecution of Jews were addressed at the expense of people resident in a Global South nation , making Palestinian Arabs themselves persecuted strangers in their own homeland . This is the deep roots of a process that culminated in genocide when Palestinian resistance persisted despite Israeli apartheid policies and practices . Such a pattern of recourse to genocide is embedded in the experience of settler colonialism that long preceded Israeli genocide . While eliminating or marginalizing the resistance of native peoples , settlers from Europe coupled their state-building operations with genocidal tactics in the breakaway British colonies of North America , Australia , and New Zealand in systematic processes . I have labeled this dynamic as ' genocide before genocide , ' that is before the word ' genocide ' was invented by Rafael Lemkin and widely adopted throughout the world in the post-Holocaust , written into international law in a widely ratified treaty , International Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide ( 1948 ) . <p> Finally , we who are devoting time and mainstream reputations to the GT acknowledge the uncertainty as to its usefulness . In part , we make this major commitment in response to Michelle Obama 's pre-election imperative then directed at Democrats in the US 2024 pre-electoral setting : ' Do Something ! ' Also , even if a direct impact on Israel 's behavior fails , we are confident that there will be secondary impacts of a high-quality tribunal in relation to future legal education , especially in the Global South . The compilation of a historical record and archive is itself a contribution to a people-oriented approach to the study and application of international law in global security contexts . <p> I suspect that most of those ' who lost hope ' never had much hope or belief in ' such initiative . ' <p> 7- Why was the Gaza Tribunal Project launched it in London exactly ? <p> The principal reason for locating the November 1 launch in London was to signal and underscore our intention to be global rather than to appear Turkish or even Palestinian . The diverse background of the London participant in this initial meeting of the GT Advisory Council gave full expression to this issue of global identity . London was also logistically convenient . We plan future meetings in other national settings . <p> 8- It 's known at the international level that such initiatives are symbolic , will be there any legal obligations to punish the perpetrators ? <p> Whenever the obligations of international law clash with strong strategic interests of geopolitical actors , especially in relation to war/peace and global security issues , the impacts of even formal governmental or international institutions has been principally symbolic . Israel defies international law and the UN and there is no political will to counteract or even censure such behavior . At most , a non-judgmental call for a ceasefire and a concern about the humanitarian catastrophe being inflicted on the previously entrapped and abused civilian population of Gaza for over 14 months . <p> And yet , Israel is sufficiently sensitive to the impact of adverse judgments by the ICJ , International Criminal Court ( ICC ) , and the General Assembly as to use all its influence to blunt the effects , including hyperbolic defamation as instanced by characterizing the UN as ' a vile cesspool of antisemitism ' and trying to use backroom influence to cancel or otherwise nullify the ICC issuance of arrest warrants for Israeli leaders as recommended by the Chief Prosecutor , Karim Khan . As the Israel historian Tom Segev writes , " Not every criticism against Israel is antisemitic ... The moment you say it is antisemitic hate ... you take away all legitimacy from the criticism and try to crush the debate . " This is exactly descriptive of the Netanyahu tactics at the UN repeatedly referring to this organization of the world peoples and their governments as an ' Anti-Israel Flat Earth Society ' and calling the UN ' a swamp of antisemitic bile . ' Indeed , the UN deserves criticism as weak and incapable of upholding its own Charter and exhibiting no capacity or will to challenge ' the primacy of geopolitics . ' At least , the president of Turkey , Recep Tayyip Erdogan , has mounted muted criticism of the UN with his catchy slogan ' the world is greater than five . ' <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> In this sort of context of geopolitically supported lawlessness , the main path leading to effectiveness for law is symbolic , but the symbolic effects of legitimate political actors , whether inter-governmental or not , are real as evidenced by targeted states doing everything in their power to prevent and discredit them . I have long believed that symbolic arenas of lawmaking should not be trivialized or derided as I argue most emphatically with respect to the existence and activities of the GT . It is always worth remembering that the anti-colonial wars since 1945 have all been won by nationalist forces on the symbolic battlefields of legitimacy . In other words , victors in Legitimacy Wars have controlled political outcomes in war while competing with militarily superior colonial armies . This is a prime lesson of history , which ' political realists ' that dominate foreign policy circles and arms merchants wanted to be banned throughout the lifetime education of their citizenries . <p> If nothing else , the Gaza Tribunal Project can offer an alternative , TWAIL , or sub-altern pedagogical model of how the interplay of law , morality , and war should be configured and interpreted at this time of planetary danger . <p> Richard Anderson Falk ( born November 13 , 1930 ) is an American professor emeritus of international law at Princeton University , and Euro-Mediterranean Human Rights Monitor 's Chairman of the Board of Trustees . He is the author or coauthor of over 20 books and the editor or coeditor of another 20 volumes . In 2008 , the United Nations Human Rights Council ( UNHRC ) appointed Falk to a six-year term as a United Nations Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Palestinian territories occupied since 1967 . Since 2005 he chairs the Board of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation . <h> Related Posts <p> Human rights and anti-war activists along with Palestinian supporters attended a " Taxpayers Against Genocide " press conference and rally on December 19 calling for an end to funding Israel 's genocide in ... <p> Palestinian Territory -- A new investigation conducted by Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor has revealed a massacre committed by the Israeli military , killing over 15 Palestinians and injuring others , including women , children , ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119108692 <h> Share : <p> Al-Hassan Mosque in the Tuffah neighbourhood of Gaza City , with the damaged house nearby after the Israeli air strike ( Photo : Euro-Med Monitor team ) <p> Palestinian Territory -- A new investigation conducted by Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor has revealed a massacre committed by the Israeli military , killing over 15 Palestinians and injuring others , including women , children , and the elderly , in an air strike targeting a mosque in Gaza City during dawn prayers . <p> Euro-Med Monitor investigated the Israeli attack on Al-Hassan Mosque in Al-Tuffah neighbourhood , Gaza City , during dawn prayers on 16 November 2023 , concluding that no evidence was found of any military targets , such as objects or armed individuals , inside the mosque or in its surrounding area at the time of the attack . <p> According to the investigation 's findings , at approximately 4:45 am on Wednesday , 16 November 2023 , Israeli aircraft struck Al-Hassan Mosque in the Al-Sanafur area of Al-Tuffah neighbourhood , east of Gaza City , without any prior warning . The attack involved one or two heavy , high-explosive bombs and occurred just as worshippers began their dawn prayers . <p> The Israeli air strike destroyed the mosque , one of the largest in the area , within seconds , collapsing it onto the worshippers inside . Only remnants of its entrance and the two surrounding minarets remained . The attack resulted in the deaths of all worshippers present , with most of the bodies reduced to fragments . <p> The attack also resulted in casualties and injuries of varying degrees in a house adjacent to the mosque . Additionally , several nearby structures , including garages used for car repairs , carpentry , and washing , were destroyed . The air strike also caused damage to residential buildings and facilities surrounding the mosque in the area . <p> As part of its investigation into the military attack , Euro-Med Monitor employed its standard investigative methodology , beginning by collecting preliminary data related to the incident . Field teams were dispatched to the attack site to document the human and material damage and verify the absence of any military presence or armed activities in the area at the time of the attack . <p> The field team conducted personal interviews with survivors and eyewitnesses , including testimonies from six residents of the area and relatives of the victims who remained in the neighbourhood despite the forced displacement of most of its population following the mosque 's targeting . The team also documented the names of the deceased and injured . <p> In addition to on-site visits and gathering testimonies from survivors and witnesses , Euro-Med Monitor 's team analysed video footage and photographs capturing the aftermath of the attack and the crime scene . Satellite imagery was also reviewed , revealing the extent of the massive destruction to the site before and after the air strike . <p> Ezz Al-Din Maher Kraim , an 18-year-old resident of the area and the son of one of the massacre 's victims , recounted to Euro-Med Monitor 's team : " When we entered the mosque after the Israeli bombing , we found no trace of anyone who was inside at the time . All of them were torn into pieces , there was no sign of anyone . " <p> Euro-Med Monitor was able to identify 10 of the victims , including a young girl , a woman , and eight men , two of whom were elderly . Some victims remain unidentified as their bodies were torn apart or remain buried under the rubble . <p> The Israeli attack on the mosque lacked any justification based on military necessity . Moreover , the Israeli army has offered no explanation or justification for this crime . The attack constitutes a flagrant violation of international humanitarian law principles , including distinction , proportionality , and the obligation to take precautions -- fundamental rules that Israel is required to uphold at all times without exception . <p> As such , this attack constitutes a cluster of fully-fledged war crimes committed by the Israeli army against civilians protected under international humanitarian law , as well as against a place of worship classified as a civilian object safeguarded by the same law . <p> This crime , which directly targeted civilians with death and injury , also amounts to a crime against humanity due to its occurrence within the context of a widespread and systematic military campaign carried out by Israel against Gaza 's civilian population for over a year . Furthermore , this massacre qualifies as an act of genocide , part of Israel 's ongoing campaign since 7 October 2023 to destroy the Palestinian population in Gaza . <p> Therefore , Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor reiterates its call to the international community to fulfil its legal international obligations by working to halt the ongoing genocide in Gaza using all available means . The prevention and punishment of this crime are international legal obligations incumbent upon all states without exception . This is an absolute obligation towards all , ensuring the withdrawal of the Israeli occupation forces from all Palestinian territory , including Gaza , and the dismantling of all Israeli military bases , barriers , and checkpoints . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Furthermore , Euro-Med Monitor urges the International Criminal Court to examine and investigate all crimes committed by Israel in Gaza , including the Hassan Mosque massacre , as well as the thousands of other massacres carried out by the Israeli army in the strip . It also calls for the expansion of investigations into individual criminal responsibility for these crimes to include all those accountable , and for the swift issuance of arrest warrants against all perpetrators . <h> Related Posts <p> Human rights and anti-war activists along with Palestinian supporters attended a " Taxpayers Against Genocide " press conference and rally on December 19 calling for an end to funding Israel 's genocide in ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119108693 <h> The Genocide Grinds On <h> Share : <p> It has become background noise . We know it is happening , but we can almost forget that it continues at a barbaric rate . The United Nations deputy special coordinator for Palestine , Muhannad Hadi , released a statement on December 13 , 2024 , that simply makes no sense : " I am very concerned about the rapidly deteriorating security and humanitarian situation in Gaza . " How can anything deteriorate in Gaza ? Is n't the situation as bad as it could get , the genocidal war of the Israelis grinding on ? <p> If you are paying attention , you will find that every day there are more and more reports of bombing in northern Gaza . These bombings pulverize entire buildings and massacre entire families . On December 17 , the commissioner-general of the UN Palestinian Agency ( UNRWA ) Philippe Lazzarini put the situation clearest : " We are getting out of words to describe the situation in Gaza .... My colleagues when they come back , they basically describe a post-apocalyptic environment , and people are just living among garbage , sewage water , in the rubble , and struggling because they are confronted on a daily basis with death , hunger , and disease . " <p> Dead Bodies <p> The day before Hadi made his statement , an Israeli airstrike hit a housing development in the Nuseirat refugee camp and killed large numbers of the al-Sheikh Ali family . It has become part of counting the death toll to track the elimination of entire families by Israeli bombs . A Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor report from October 2024 showed that 3,500 Palestinian families in Gaza " have suffered multiple losses since October 2023 . Of these , 365 families have lost more than 10 members , while over 2,750 families have lost at least three . " These numbers will need to be updated . The Euro-Med report is called De-Gaza : A Year of Israel 's Genocide and the Collapse of World Order . <p> On December 11 , 2024 , before this round of bombardments and killings , a startling press briefing was given by Mounir al-Bursh ( director general of the Palestinian Ministry of Health ) and Mahmoud Basal ( spokesman for the Palestinian Civil Defense Agency ) . Al-Bursh said that the Israeli troops fired on ambulances and prevented rescue workers from getting to the buildings to recover the injured and the dead . As a result , he said , " bodies are left in the streets and are eaten by dogs . " Basal , meanwhile , said that many of the injured were dying under the rubble because the rescue teams no longer had regular access to the bombed buildings and did not have the equipment to save people . This means that the Israelis are not only bombing residential areas and killing unarmed civilians , but they are also preventing the injured from being rescued and the dead from an honorable burial . Journalist Hossam Shabat , reporting from northern Gaza , wrote , " Due to the rising Israeli bombings and killings in northern Gaza , we have run out of body bags to bury the dead , and now we resort to using any piece of clothing or a blanket for their burial . " <p> Reports <p> Over the past few months , two reports have been published whose honesty enables the reader to feel the atrocities being committed against the Palestinians in Gaza . <p> First , in October 2024 , the remarkable UN special rapporteur on Palestine , Francesca Albanese , published her 32-page report for the UN General Assembly . Her finding is clear : " The current genocide is part of a century-long project of eliminatory settler colonialism in Palestine , a stain on the international system and humanity , which must be ended , investigated , and prosecuted . " The legal case for the end not only of genocide but its basis , the occupation , is made very strongly . Anyone who reads Albanese 's report with an open mind will come to that conclusion . <p> Second , in December , Amnesty International released a 296-page document called You Feel Like You Are Subhuman : Israel 's Genocide Against Palestinians in Gaza . The most painful section to read is the evidence presented clinically by Amnesty of the genocidal words of Israeli officials that are then enacted by their soldiers . It is worth reading a few sentences from the Amnesty report : <p> Amnesty International analyzed 102 statements made by Israeli government officials , high-ranking military officers , and members of the Knesset made between October 7 , 2023 , and June 30 , 2024 which dehumanized Palestinians , or called for , or justified genocidal acts or other crimes under international law against them . Of these , it identified 22 statements that were specifically made by members of Israel 's war and security cabinets , who included Prime Minister Netanyahu , then Minister of Defense Gallant and other government ministers , by high-ranking military officers and by Israel 's president between October 7 , 2023 , and June 30 , 2024 . These statements appeared to call for , or justify , genocidal acts . <p> Also , the language used by Israeli officials was frequently repeated , including by soldiers in Gaza , apparently explaining the rationale for their behavior . This is evidenced by Amnesty International 's analysis of 62 videos , audio recordings , and photographs posted online showing Israeli soldiers in which they made calls for the destruction of Gaza or the denial of essential services to people in Gaza , or celebrated the destruction of Palestinian homes , mosques , schools , and universities . <p> For example , before the Israeli offensive on Rafah , Israeli minister of finance Bezalel Smotrich said at a public event , " There are no jobs half done . Rafah , Deir al-Balah , Nuseirat , destruction ! Blot out the memory of the people of Amalek from under heaven . " This genocidal language was then replicated on the ground . Amnesty 's report affirms strongly that there is no other way to understand the Israeli campaign against the Palestinians in Gaza than as a genocide . <p> Rascal Children <p> The Ministry of Health in Gaza says that since the genocide began , the Israelis have killed at least 45,059 Palestinians . Of them , at least 17,000 are children . Israel and its Western allies have spent considerable funds to deny these numbers . The right-wing Henry Jackson Society ( based in the United Kingdom ) has published a 40-page report that belongs in a juvenile debate . To complain about this or that individual case and not to see the extent of the bombardment and destruction , as revealed by reputed human rights organizations , is disingenuous . They would like to justify the killing of children by their dispute over statistics . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> In 2014 , during a previous terrible bombing of Gaza by the Israelis , the Palestinian poet Khaled Juma wrote about the children being killed then . Then , the Israelis killed 551 children , as recorded by the official UN inquiry . This time the number is 30 times as high and climbing . No debate about the exact numbers will change that . <p> Oh , rascal children of Gaza , You who constantly disturbed me with your screams under my window , You who filled every morning with rush and chaos , You who broke my vase and stole the lonely flower on my balcony , Come back -- And scream as you want , And break all the vases , Steal all the flowers , Come back , Just come back ... <h> Related Posts <p> Human rights and anti-war activists along with Palestinian supporters attended a " Taxpayers Against Genocide " press conference and rally on December 19 calling for an end to funding Israel 's genocide in ... <p> Palestinian Territory -- A new investigation conducted by Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor has revealed a massacre committed by the Israeli military , killing over 15 Palestinians and injuring others , including women , children , ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119108694 <h> Share : <p> " Pleasure " Israeli journalist Yotam Zimri comments on Israel 's destruction of Rafah in southern Gaza . Months ago , before Israeli forces invaded Rafah in May , Rafah sheltered most of Gaza 's more than 2 million people . Today it is a dust-covered ghost town . <p> The utterly unforgivable Jewish Israeli-imposed Gaza Genocide continues remorselessly . By the end of 2024 Gaza Genocide deaths from violence and imposed deprivation are estimated as follows : 340,000 deaths ( total ) , 243,000 ( children ) , 67,000 ( men ) and 31,000 ( women ) . The World is moving to stop this carnage . To that end and for ultimate justice and reparations it is important to estimate the complicity of the citizens of key countries involved as exampled below . <p> ( A ) . Polling , electoral and other assessment of Jewish Israeli , US , UK , and Australian public complicity in the horrific , unforgivable and continuing Gaza Genocide . <p> ( 1 ) . Apartheid Israel . <p> A pro-Palestinian human rights Israeli friend repeatedly tells me that fewer than 1% of Jewish Israelis are opposed to the war on Gaza . A new Pew Research Center survey ( March -- April 2024 ) finds that 39% of Israelis say Israel 's military response against Hamas in Gaza has been about right , while 34% say it has not gone far enough , 19% think it has gone too far , and 7% do n't know . Israeli Arabs ( 21% of the Israeli population ) are much more likely than Jews to say the country 's military response has gone too far ( 74% versus . 4% ) . Thus only 4% of Jewish Israelis think it has gone too far but of these it seems likely that most would nevertheless support the war per se 1 . My Israeli friend appears to be correct -- about 99% of Jewish Israelis support the killing , including those who want a temporary humanitarian cessation of the killing in exchange for 100 remaining Israeli hostages ( noting that there are over 10,000 Palestinians in Israeli military prisons and that before 7 October 2023 there were 5.6 million Occupied Palestinians held hostage without human rights under Zionazi military rule 2 ) . <p> ( 2 ) . America . <p> Well before the present Gaza Massacre , in 2021 a survey commissioned by the Jewish Electorate Institute found that 25% of Jewish American voters agreed that Israel is an apartheid state ( 38% among those under age 40 ) and that 22% agreed that Israel is committing genocide against Palestinian ( 33% of the under 40s ) 3 . Polling in 2024 by the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs found that 30% of US Jews thought that Israel was committing genocide in Gaza , with younger respondents more likely to agree with the genocide accusation ( 38% of those under 44 versus 22% of those over 44 ) 4 . Over 60% supported a 2-state solution but mostly with conditions ( e.g. a de-militarized Palestinian state ) 4 . <p> Of course correct perception of reality is based on evidence and not on polling . Thus we know from the astronauts that the Moon is not made of green cheese . Likewise we know that genocide is defined by the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide as " acts committed with intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group " 5 and that is exactly what has been happening in Gaza -- an estimated 335,500 deaths ( mostly children ) from violence and imposed deprivation or 15% of the pre-war population killed by the end of 2024 6 . Similarly , Apartheid involves suppression of one group by another and in Palestine while Indigenous Palestinians represented 51% of the Subjects of Apartheid Israel ( before the Gaza Massacre ) and the ruling Jewish Israelis only 47% , 73% of these Indigenous Palestinian Subjects ( the Occupied Palestinians ) are excluded from voting for the government ruling them , and the Israeli Palestinian 27% of the Indigenous Palestinian Subjects can vote but only for approved candidates and as Third Class citizens under 65 Nazi-style , race-based , discriminatory laws 7-9 . The 70-75% of US Jews denying the patent realities of Jewish Israeli-imposed genocide and apartheid are simply complicit in these awful crimes by lying -- complicity in genocidal racism and egregious lying in gross violation of the core Kindness and Truth ethos of civilized Humanity . <p> Kid Killing Kamala ( KKK ) Harris was part of the Genocide Joe Biden/ Kid Killing Kamala ( KKK ) Harris Administration that fervently backed genocidally racist Apartheid Israel and hence Apartheid , supplied 75,000 tons of bombs to the child-killing Jewish Israelis , and supported Apartheid Israel diplomatically at the UN and elsewhere . Trump is even more pro-Israel than the Democrats , and is fanatically supported by anti-science Biblical literalist Christian Zionist fanatics . <p> Trump stated in the Trump-Biden debate ( June 2024 , by which time 40,000 Gazans had been killed according to Gaza authorities ) : " As far as Israel and Hamas , Israel 's the one that wants to go -- he said the only one who wants to keep going is Hamas . Actually , Israel is the one . And you should let them go and let them finish the job . He Biden does n't want to do it . He 's become like a Palestinian . But they do n't like him , because he 's a very bad Palestinian . He 's a weak one " 11 . <p> In the Trump-Harris debate ( September 2024 ) Trump stated : " But when she mentions about Israel all of a sudden -- she hates Israel . She would n't even meet with Netanyahu when he went to Congress to make a very important speech ... She hates Israel . If she 's president , I believe that Israel will not exist within two years from now . And I 've been pretty good at predictions . And I hope I 'm wrong about that one . She hates Israel . At the same time in her own way she hates the Arab population because the whole place is going to get blown up , Arabs , Jewish people , Israel . Israel will be gone ... Look at what 's going on in the Middle East . This would have never happened . I will get that settled and fast " 12 . Child-killing Harris unequivocally supported Apartheid Israel ( " I have my entire career and life supported Israel and the Israeli people " ) but made dishonest noises in a vain attempt to regain the Arab and Muslim vote : " And so absolutely , I said then , I say now , Israel has a right to defend itself . We would . And how it does so matters . Because it is also true far too many innocent Palestinians have been killed . Children , mothers . What we know is that this war must end . It must when , end immediately , and the way it will end is we need a cease-fire deal and we need the hostages out " 12 . Child-killing Harris is damned by her own words because " far too many innocent Palestinians have been killed " clearly implies that " many innocent Palestinians " should have been killed . <p> ( 3 ) . United Kingdom . <p> While Apartheid Israel is a Zionazi-run democracy-by-genocide ( democratic Nazism ) , the US , UK and Australia are corporatocracies and lobbyocracies in which Big Money buys public perception of reality , votes and hence more political power 13-15 . The US is ruled by a Democrat/Republican Duopoly , the UK by a Labour/Conservative Duopoly , Australia by a Labor/Liberal-National Party Coalition Duopoly and in all cases there is rule by the rich for the super-rich Establishment . The Western Establishments are dominated by genocidally racist Christian Zionist and Jewish Zionist billionaires who presently fervently support Apartheid Israel and hence the utterly evil crimes of Apartheid and genocide that are condemned by the International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid 16 and Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide 17 , respectively . <p> While Australia has a world-leading and exquisitely fair compulsory and preferential voting system , the US and UK have non-compulsory voting and first-past-the-post electoral systems . Thus in the recent UK elections Labour won a landslide victory with 411 seats from 33.7% of the vote as compared to the Conservatives ( 121 seats with 23.7% of the vote ) and the Liberal Democrats ( 72 seats from 12.2% of the vote ) 18 . <p> However the major UK parties are united in their support for genocidally racist , Zionazi-run , child- , mother- and women-killing Apartheid Israel and hence for the utterly vile crime of Apartheid . Those supporting Apartheid Israel and hence neo-Nazi Apartheid ( most members of the UK House of Commons ) are utterly unfit for decent company , public life and public office in an internally human rights-observant and one-person-one-vote democracy like the US , UK and Australia . <p> Of course the UK has had over a century to develop its utterly disgusting fervent support for genocidal Zionism ( Zionazism ) and anti-Arab anti-Semitism ( Islamophobia ) . Oil was discovered in Iran in 1908 , the London-based Anglo-Persian Oil Company ( APOC ) was formed in 1909 , the British confected war with Turkey by seizing a British-built battleship ordered by Turkey , and invaded Iraq in 1914 . In 1916 the Sykes-Picot Agreement divided the Ottoman Turkey-ruled Arab world between British and France . 2 days after the 31 October 1917 Australian and New Zealand Army Corps ( ANZAC ) victory over the Turks at Beersheba ( Palestine ) , on 2 November 1917 the British issued the Balfour Declaration that granted Palestine as a Homeland for Jews 19-21 . Over a century later , in 2024 Zionists occupy all of Palestine plus big parts of Lebanon and Syria , have been saturation bombing Gaza , Lebanon and Syria , and are conducting a merciless Gaza Genocide in which the US has supplied 75,000 tons of bombs , the UK is complicit ( aerial surveillance for Apartheid Israel ) 22 , and US lackey and Zionist-subverted Australia is complicit in 20 ways 23 and lies for Apartheid Israel in 35 ways 24 . The UK-initiated and century-long Palestinian Genocide has been associated with 3 major ethnic cleansing atrocities ( 0.8 million Palestinians expelled from their homes in 1948 , 0.4 million in 1967 and 2.3 million in 2024 ) , and 2.5 million Palestinian deaths from violence ( 0.1 million ) and imposed deprivation ( 2.4 million ) 21 , a Palestinian Holocaust similar in magnitude to the Nazi-imposed WW2 Jewish Holocaust ( 5-6 million Jews killed by violence and imposed deprivation ) and the WW2 Bengali Holocaust ( WW2 Indian Holocaust , WW2 Bengal Famine ; 6-7 million Indians deliberately starved to death for strategic reasons in Bengal , Bihar , Assam and Odisha by the British with food denying Australian complicity ) <p> The UK , like the US , Australia and US Alliance countries , has been thoroughly subverted and perverted by virulent , mendacious and genocidally racist Zionists . Rational and humane opposition to this obscenity whether from anti-racist Jews or anti-racist non-Jews is falsely reviled by Zionist psychopaths as " antisemitism " , " hate speech " , " blood libel " etc . Notable courageous opponents of genocidal Zionism ( Zionazism ) in the UK include many anti-racist Labour activists such as Tony Greenstein , outstanding former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn and George Galloway . Like many others around the world , including many former colonial subjects of the UK , I love and admire British culture , innovation , social progress , literature , poetry , theatre , art , language , music , science , scenery , scholarship , sports and , of course , British eccentricity and humor . However the Zionists and their traitorous acolytes have soiled that appreciation just as genocidally racist Zionism by false conflation has soiled the wonderful 3 millennium Jewish humanitarian tradition from the Ten Commandments and Jesus ' " love thy neighbor as thyself " to wonderful present era Jewish humanitarian scholars from Hannah Arendt to Howard Zinn ( see " Jews Against Racism Zionism " 25 ) . <p> Of course the real purpose of the UK creation of Apartheid Israel was as a Western Crusader fortress in the heart of the Arab world as revealed by the British , French and Apartheid Israeli invasion of Egypt in 1956 . The US put an end to that vile imperialist adventure but with Apartheid Israeli acquisition of nuclear weapons by the mid-1960s and the conquest of all of Palestine and parts of its neighbors in 1967 , the US became increasingly beholden to Apartheid Israel and the traitorous Zionist Lobby . As a dirty tricks surrogate of the US , Zionazi Apartheid Israel was very likely directly involved in the 9/11 atrocity , an event that required the resources of a major nation state . 32 million Muslims died from violence ( 5 million ) and imposed deprivation ( 27 million ) in 20 countries invaded by the US Alliance since the US Government 's 9/11 false flag atrocity that killed 3,000 innocent Americans 26 , 27 . The UK was variously involved in the War on Terror ( in actuality a War on Muslims ) that devastated the Muslim world from West , North and East Africa and through the Middle East to Central , South and South East Asia 28 . UK Labour PM Tony Blair played a dirty role in supporting US lies that enabled the devastating Iraq War ( 2.7 million dead from violence and deprivation ) 28 and the Afghan War ( 6.8 million dead from violence and deprivation ) 29-38 . <p> While UK Establishment power , Zionist perversion , US subversion and mendacious Mainstream media mean that UK MPs overwhelmingly support genocidally racist and Zionazi Apartheid Israel , a small rump of decent Labour MPs ( and a much greater proportion of Labour Party members ) support Palestinian human rights . UK polling indicates that 60% of Brits think that the Israeli military response to 7 October 2023 has gone " too far " 39 . However , this is rather like Kid-Killing Kamala ( KKK ) Harris ( with Genocide Joe Biden the supplier of 75,000 tons of bombs to the genocidal Jewish Israelis ) saying in the Trump-Harris Debate that " far too many innocent Palestinians have been killed " ( obscenely implying that " many innocent Palestinians " should have been killed ) 12 , 40-42 . <p> ( 4 ) . Australia . <p> In the 19th and early 20th century Australia became one of the first countries in the world to have one-person-one-vote parliamentary democracy , ballot papers , free , compulsory and secular education , free trade unions , female suffrage , public access universities , basic human rights and the rule of law for ordinary citizens , and the 8 hour working day -- for White people . Thus Indigenous Australians were subject to merciless genocide for over 2 centuries , the last massacres occurring in about 1930 in Central Australia . Indigenous Australians were only counted as citizens after a Referendum in 1967 ( being previously counted under a Flora and Fauna Act ) . In the first century of colonization the Indigenous population fell from about 1 million to 0.1 million through violence , dispossession , deprivation and introduced disease . The death toll in the Aboriginal Genocide was 2 million involving 0.1 million killed through violence and the remainder killed through imposed deprivation and disease . In one of history 's biggest ethnocides , the pre-Invasion 700 unique Indigenous languages and dialects in 1788 was reduced to about 100 today with all but 25 severely endangered . Assimilatory ethnocide was significantly promoted by the Stolen Generations obscenity in which about 0.1 million Indigenous children were forcibly removed from their mothers -- it was the subject of an official Australian Government " Sorry " by PM Kevin Rudd in 2008 but continues today with continuing removal of Indigenous children from their impoverished mothers and communities at record rates on the basis of " child protection " . Indigenous Ethnocide is also being encouraged through opposition to bilingual teaching and imposed harsh living conditions in remote Indigenous communities . Today Indigenous Australians suffer a continuing and deadly " Gap " compared to non-Indigenous Australians in relation to health , housing , education , employment , income , incarceration , smoking , drinking , domestic violence , infant mortality , health and life expectancy 43-59 . <p> Whether a child is killed violently ( by bashing , bullets or bombs ) or dies from imposed deprivation , the death is just as final and the perpetrator just as guilty . Violent deaths in Gaza now reportedly total about 50,000 60 but Professor Devi Sridhar ( chair , global health , University of Edinburgh ) has estimated that 335,500 people would be killed by violence and imposed deprivation in Gaza by the end of 2024 ( i.e. in the15 months since the Palestinian Breakout from the Gaza Concentration Camp on 7 October 2023 ) 6 . Under-5 infant deaths are about 70% of total avoidable deaths from deprivation 32 . Using this information it is estimated that violent and non-violent Gaza deaths in the first year of the Gaza Massacre then total 194,499 ( children ) , 24,588 ( women ) and 53,861 ( men ) for a total of 272,948 deaths 61 . By the end of 2024 one can proportionally estimate the following Gaza deaths : 340,000 deaths ( total ) , 243,000 ( children ) , 67,000 ( men ) and 31,000 ( women ) . <p> This horrifying death toll of children in particular in the Jewish Israeli-imposed Gaza Genocide demands some comment about the Jewish Israeli perpetrators and those complicit through supporting genocidal Apartheid Israel or through Silence . My endlessly repeated mantra is " Peace is the only way but silence kills and silence is complicity " . Indeed on 19 December 2024 I sent the following strong Letter to major Mainstream Australian media ( it is extremely unlikely to be published in Zionist-perverted Australia ) : <p> LETTER . " About 2,000 years ago Jewish King Herod allegedly massacred all under-2 male Palestinian children in and about Bethlehem in the hopefully fictional Massacre of the Innocents ( Holy Bible , Matthew 2.16 ) . It is expertly estimated that by New Year 's Day 2025 about 340,000 Gazans ( 15% of the pre-war population and mostly children ) will have been killed by Jewish Israeli-imposed violence and deprivation ( eminent Professor Devi Sridhar , chair , global health , University of Edinburgh ) . The perpetrators and those complicit in this unforgivable atrocity through support of genocidal Apartheid Israel or through Silence have departed from decent Humanity and have utterly cursed themselves , their self-imposed curse being endlessly renewed every time they see their reflection and at the going down of the sun and in the morning " . END LETTER . <p> Those engaged in " support of genocidal Apartheid Israel " include 99% of Jewish Israelis , many citizens of the US , UK and Australia ( as analysed here ) and many citizens of the 35 member countries of the anti-Arab anti-Semitic , anti-Jewish anti-Semitic , holocaust ignoring and all-European IHRA ( International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance ) that fervently supports pro-Apartheid neo-Nazi Israel and indeed includes the US , UK and Australia 62-74 . In addition to the horrendous mass murder of children by genocidal Jewish Israelis ( the genocidal ultimate in child abuse ) there is the horrific traumatizing abuse of all Gaza children 75-80 . Thus Amira Mohamed Taha and colleagues ( 2024 ) : " Since Oct 7 , 2023 , escalating violence in Gaza has intensified a mental health crisis among its 2.1 million residents , of whom 67% are refugees and 65% are younger than 25 years . Constant bombardment and displacement and the loss of family members are predisposing many children to anxiety , depression , post-traumatic stress disorder ( PTSD ) , and other adverse mental health conditions . In fact , a 2020 study showed that 53*5% of Gazan children had PTSD even before this conflict " 76 . <p> The Guardian : " A new study of children living through the war in Gaza has found that 96% of them feel that their death is imminent and almost half want to die as a result of the trauma they have been through . A needs assessment , carried out by a Gaza-based NGO sponsored by the War Child Alliance charity , also found that 92% of the children in the survey were " not accepting of reality " , 79% suffer from nightmares and 73% exhibit symptoms of aggression " 77 . War Child on its latest report ( 2024 ) : " The findings in this study are stark . Caregivers report that 96% of children feel death is imminent , and nearly half believe they will die because of the war . Many children exhibit symptoms of aggression , fear , withdrawal , and severe anxiety , alongside a pervasive sense of hopelessness . Years of displacement , loss , and relentless bombing have left children psychologically scarred and their families in dire circumstances " 78 . The War Child report summary ( 2024 ) : " The needs assessment study -- which interviewed over 500 children , parents and caregivers , from families where at least one child is disabled , injured or unaccompanied -- shows that over a year of displacement , loss , and relentless bombing have left the most vulnerable children in Gaza seriously psychologically traumatised , with their families on the brink of survival . For the most vulnerable children in Gaza , caregivers report that : 96% of children feel death is imminent , 92% of children are not accepting of reality , 87% display severe fear , 79% suffer from nightmares , 77% of children avoid talking about traumatic events , 73% of children exhibit symptoms of aggression , 49% of children wish to die because of the war , and many more show signs of withdrawal and severe anxiety , alongside a pervasive sense of hopelessness " 79 . <p> Australia has appalling record of ongoing child abuse through removal of Indigenous children from their mothers , and de facto slavery of Indigenous children as well as of Indigenous adults lasting into the 1970s . About 25% of Australians are sexually abused as children , as compared to 18% of Israeli children and 18% of American children 81-90 . <p> As a UK or US lackey Australia has invaded 85 countries as compared to Britain 193 , France 82 , the US 72 ( 52 after WW2 ) , Germany 39 , Japan 30 , Russia 25 , Canada 25 , Apartheid Israel 13 , China 2 and North Korea 1 91-95 . Indeed in living memory Australia has violated all 80 Indo-Pacific countries variously through war , military presence , assistance in US-backed covert coups ( 8 ) , and as a leading climate criminal country that existentially threatens Humanity and the Biosphere 96 , 97 . Between 1901 and 1974 White Australia insulted the 80% of the world who are not European by its racist White Australian Policy . However old habits die hard . White Australia was involved in all 1950 onwards US Asian Wars ( atrocities associated with 40 million Asian deaths from violence and war-imposed deprivation ) 32 . The Right-Far Right Liberal Party-National Party Coalition ( presently in Opposition ) supported all of these wars but the Centre-Right Labor Party ( presently in government ) supported all except for the Iraq War and the Afghan War 32 . Australia treats adult and child boat-borne non-European refugees appallingly ( highly abusive indefinite detention in remote , offshore prisons without charge or trial ) and has helped the US devastate Asia since WW2 . While Whites and non-Whites are now 76% and 24% , respectively , of the Australian population , they represent 94.9% and 5.1% , respectively of the senior leadership of major Australian organizations and institutions ( e.g. corporations , parliament , and universities ) . Australia is currently being rocked by huge scandals in the 4 Big Banks in which Whites and non-Whites average 89.7% and 10.3% , respectively , of Board members . Lack of cultural diversity evidently facilitates corporate malfeasance 98 , 99 . <p> Australia as a US lackey has committed immense war crimes in utterly impoverished Occupied Iraq and utterly impoverished Occupied Afghanistan in gross violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention that demands that an Occupier must provide life-sustaining food and medical services to its conquered Subjects " to the fullest extent of the means available to it " 100 , 101 . However US lackey and Zionist-subverted racist White Australia simply looks the other way , and apart from the Left to progressive Centre Alternative media has an entrenched culture of lying by omission , especially concerning genocidal Apartheid Israel and Zionist-perverted America . For a website documenting a huge number of things that Australian Mainstream media do not want Australian to see , know about or think about see " Australian Mainstream media lying &amp; censorship " 102 ( see also 103-106 ) . <p> One can readily understand that a genocidal racism-based and British **25;1634;TOOLONG Australia would find common cause with similarly genocidal racism- and **25;1661;TOOLONG America and Apartheid Israel . Thus Australia under either a Labor Government or a Coalition Government is second only to the US as a fervent supporter of Apartheid Israel , is complicit in the Gaza Genocide in 20 ways 23 , lies for Apartheid Israel in 35 ways 24 , and is committed to this utterly disgusting course despite the fact that Australia is violated by traitorous Zionists and Zionazi Apartheid Israel in about 50 ways 107 . <p> For about 14 months the Australian Labor Government ( together with the even worse pro-coal , Right- Far Right Coalition aka the COALition ) has opposed an immediate and permanent Ceasefire in Gaza , a disgusting position adopted by all Federal MPs except for 15 Greens and 4 decent Independents , ex-Green Senator Lidia Thorpe , ex-Labor Senator Fatima Payman , Dr Helen Haines and Andrew Wilkie , a mere 19 out of a total of 227 Federal MPs ( 76 Senators and 151 Members of the House of Representatives ) 108-110 . <p> However there is a mounting backlash from anti-racist Jewish , non-Jewish , young , Palestinian , Arab and Muslim Australians who naturally enough are distressed by the Jewish Israeli mass murder of children , mothers and women . Australia has a world 's best compulsory and preferential voting system . For a valid vote the voter must numerically indicate the order of preference for all candidates . If a candidate fails to get 50% of the vote then second preferences are taken into account . Thus in the 2022 Federal Elections Center-Right Labor got 77seats with 32.6% of the first preference vote , the Right-Far Right Coalition got 58 seats with 35.7% of the vote and the Left-Centre Greens got 4 seats with 12.3% of the vote -- however Labor won because it got most of the second preferences of the Green voters 111 , Labor getting a winning " Two-Party Preferred Vote " ( TPV ) of 52.1% and the Coalition losing with only 47.9% . The latest opinion polls suggest a reversal of this position with the Coalition getting a TPV of 51% and Labor only 49% 112 . <p> As summarized below , the cowardly , unprincipled , Zionist perverted and US lackey Australian Labor Government after 14 months of blindly supporting Apartheid Israel has finally voted for " an immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire " ( item #12 below ) and " Israel to end to its unlawful presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory " ( item #14 in the detailed analysis below ) 113 . Labor clearly wants to try to appease Palestinian , Arab and Muslim voters in working class suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne . However as the carnage mounts in Gaza and Apartheid Israel bombs and invades Lebanon and Syria the anger is not going away . Young people recognize genocide when they see it -- thus the famed Oxford Union voted overwhelmingly for the proposition that " This house believes Israel is an apartheid state responsible for genocide " 114 . The utterly appalling Coalition has declared that it wo n't arrest ICC-sought war criminal Netanyahu under the ICC-issued arrest warrants and cowardly and dishonest Labor is too scared to explicitly say yea or nay 115 . For this new position Labor has been condemned by the Coalition , Zionists and ICC-sought war criminal Netanyahu as " anti-Israel " and " antisemitic " for voting for International Law and Palestinian human rights . Pathological liar , genocidal racist , thief and child killer Netanyahu absurdly accused fervently pro-Israel Labor of being " anti-Israel " and thence asserted that " anti-Israel sentiment is antisemitism " 116 . However after an utterly deplorable Melbourne synagogue arson in Melbourne and arson of cars and anti-Israel graffiti in Sydney ( all by persons unknown ) , Labor joined the Zionist chorus of " antisemitism " , " terrorism " , " hate speech " and " damage to social cohesion " and is moving to further constrain free speech and weekly Sunday Rallies for Palestinian human rights 116 . <p> While Labor 's belated support for the UNGA Resolutions for " an immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire " and " Israel to end to its unlawful presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory " is welcome , many decent Australians will vote 1 Green or Socialist and put the awful , climate criminal and anti-Palestinian human rights Liberal Party -- National Party Coalition last and Labor second last in Australia 's compulsory and preferential voting system . Indeed The Age ( the leadingqualityMelbourne newspaper ) published a colour photo of one of the weekly Sunday Rallies ( 12 noon , Victorian State Library , every Sunday since the beginning of the Gaza Genocide on 7 October 2023 ) showing me holding a huge 2-sided placard saying " BOYCOTT APARTHEID ISRAEL , LABOR , LIBS " ( the other side saying " WORLD : STOP PALESTINIAN GENOCIDE , ZIONISM " ) 117 . <p> ( B ) . Set out below are details of how Apartheid Israel , the UK , the US and pro-Apartheid Australia voted on 16 Palestine-related Resolutions at the UN General Assembly in 2024113 . Item #13 about " Assistance to the Palestinian People " was passed by consensus . In relation to the other 15 Resolutions ( at Plenary Sessions or at pre-Plenary Committee , Israel voted No to all 15 , and ) the US voted No to all except for #3 ( " Assistance to refugees " ) on which it Abstained . The UK and Australia importantly mostly voted Yes , and in particular voted Yes to " an immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire " ( item #12 below ) and " Israel to end to its unlawful presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory " ( item #14 , but nevertheless showed their continuing loyalty to genocidal and International Law-violating Zionazi Apartheid Israel by variously voting No or Abstaining for some other Palestine-related Resolutions upholding International Law ( Australia 5 and the UK 6 ) 113 . <p> Marked with an asterisk ( * ) below are votes in which my country Australia departed from civilized Humanity and voted No or Abstained . You can use this compilation 113 to see how your country voted . <p> * ( 1 ) . " The occupied Syrian Golan " A/C.4/79/L.15 ( " Determines that all legislative and administrative measures and actions taken or to be taken by Israel , the occupying Power , that purport to alter the character and legal status of the occupied Syrian Golan are null and void ... " ) , Plenary vote : Australia Abstained , UK Yes , Israel No , US No ( 152 Yes ( including UK and all of the EU ) , 5 No ( United States , Israel , Argentina , Tonga , Papua New Guinea ) , 23 Abstained ) . <p> ( 2 ) . " Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , including East Jerusalem , and the occupied Syrian Golan " A/C.4/79/L.16 ( " Reaffirms that the Israeli settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , including East Jerusalem , and in the occupied Syrian Golan are illegal and an obstacle to peace and economic and social development ... Recalling the advisory opinion rendered on 19 July 2024 by the International Court of Justice on the legal consequences arising from Israel 's policies and practices in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , including East Jerusalem , and from the illegality of Israel 's continued presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory " ) , Plenary vote : Australia Yes , UK Yes , Israel No , US No ( 152 Yes ( Including UK , Canada , &amp; most of EU ) , 9 No ( including US , Israel , Argentina , Hungary ) , 19 Abstained ) . <p> ( 4 ) . " Palestine refugees ' properties and their revenues " A/C.4/79/L.14 ( " Reaffirms that the Palestine refugees are entitled to their property and to the income derived therefrom , in conformity with the principles of equity and justice ... " ) , Plenary vote : Australia Yes , UK Yes , Israel No , US No ( 164 Yes ( including UK , Canada , &amp; all of EU ) , 6 No ( including US , Israel , Argentina ) , 9 Abstained ) . <p> * ( 5 ) . " The risk of nuclear proliferation in the Middle East " A/C.1/79/L.2 ( " Recalling that Israel remains the only State in the Middle East that has not yet become a party to the Treaty " . Israel is the only Middles Eastern country which has nuclear weapons and is a non-signatory to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty ) , Plenary vote:Australia Abstained , UK Abstained , Israel No , US No ( 153 Yes , 5 No ( Israel , US , Argentina , Palau , Micronesia ) , 27 Abstained ) . <p> ( 6 ) . " Oil slick on Lebanese shores " A/C.2/79/L.9 ( " Reiterates , for the nineteenth consecutive year , its deep concern about the adverse implications of the destruction by the Israeli Air Force of the oil storage tanks in the direct vicinity of the Lebanese Jiyeh electric power plant for the achievement of sustainable development in Lebanon ... " ) , Pre-Plenary Committee vote : Australia Yes , UK Yes , Israel No , US No ( 161 Yes , 7 No ( including United States , Canada , Israel , Argentina ) , 9 Abstained ) . <p> ( 8 ) . " The right of the Palestinian people to self-determination " A/C.3/79/L.49 ( " Recalling the advisory opinion rendered on 19 July 2024 by the International Court of Justice on the legal consequences arising from Israel 's policies and practices in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , including East Jerusalem , and from the illegality of Israel 's continued presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory " , Pre-Plenary Committee vote : Australia Yes , UK Yes , Israel No , US No ( 170 Yes ( Including UK , Canada , &amp; all of EU ) , 6 No ( Israel , US , Argentina , Paraguay , Micronesia , Nauru ) , 9 Abstained ) . <p> ( 9 ) . " Admission of new Members to the United Nations " A/RES/ES-10/23 ( " Reaffirming its resolutions 43/176 of 15 December 1988 and 77/25 of 30 November 2022 and all relevant resolutions regarding the peaceful settlement of the question of Palestine , which , inter alia , stress the need for the withdrawal of Israel from the Palestinian territory occupied since 1967 , including East Jerusalem ... Calls for renewed and coordinated efforts by the international community aimed at achieving without delay an end to the Israeli occupation that began in 1967 " ) , Plenary vote : Australia Yes , UK Abstained , Israel No , US No ( 143 Yes , 9 No ( including US , Israel , Argentina , Hungary , Czechia ) , 25 Abstained ) . <p> * ( 10 ) . " Illegal Israeli actions in Occupied East Jerusalem and the rest of the Occupied Palestinian Territory " A/RES/ES-10/24 ( " Demands that Israel brings to an end without delay its unlawful presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , which constitutes a wrongful act of a continuing character entailing its international responsibility , and do so no later than 12 months from the adoption of the present resolution ... Demands that Israel comply without delay with all its legal obligationsunder international law , including ... withdrawing all its military forces from the Occupied Palestinian Territory , including its airspace and maritime space " ) , Plenary vote : Australia Abstained , UK Abstained , Israel No , US No ( 124 Yes , 14 No ( including US , Israel , Argentina , Hungary ) , 43 Abstained ) . <p> ( 11 ) . " Support for the mandate of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East " A/ES-10/L.32 ( " Deplores the legislation adopted by the Israeli Knesset on 28 October2024 ... Deeply concerned also about attempts to discredit the Agency , as well as attempts to undermine and terminate its operations in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , including East Jerusalem ... Underscores the imperative of reparations , in accordance with international law , for all losses , damage and destruction sustained by the Agency in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , and calls upon the Secretary-General to undertake the necessary assessments to this end " ) , Plenary vote : Australia Yes , UK Yes , Israel No , US No ( 159 Yes ( including UK , Canada , &amp; most of EU ) , 9 No ( including US , Israel , Argentina , Paraguay ) , 11 Abstain ( Including Austria , Netherlands , Hungary , Bulgaria , Cameroon , Czechia ) ) . <p> ( 12 ) . " Demand for ceasefire in Gaza " A/ES-10/L.33 ( " Recalling the orders of provisional measures of the International Court of Justice in the case concerning the application of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide in the Gaza Strip ... given its determination that there is a real and imminent risk that irreparable prejudice will be caused to the rights found by the Court to be plausible , namely the right of the Palestinians in Gaza to be protected from acts of genocide ... recalling also the advisory opinion rendered on 19 July 2024 by the International Court of Justice on the legal consequences arising from Israel 's policies and practices in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , including East Jerusalem , and from the illegality of Israel 's continued presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory ... Demands an immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire , to be respected by all parties , and further reiterates its demand for the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages " ) , Plenary vote : Australia Yes , UK Yes , Israel No , US No ( 158 Yes ( including UK , Canada , &amp; most of EU ) , 9 No ( including United States , Israel , Argentina , Hungary , Czechia ) , 13 Abstained ( Including Ukraine , Slovakia , Cameroon , Georgia , Albania ) . <p> ( 13 ) . " Assistance to the Palestinian people " A/79/L.41 ( " Aware that development is difficult under occupation and is best promoted in circumstances of peace and stability . Noting the great economic and social challenges facing the Palestinian people and their leadership " ) , no plenary vote and a consensus decision i.e. Australia Yes , UK Yes , Israel Yes , US Yes ( but ( gross hypocrisy for the US that delivered 75,000 tons of bombs to Israel that were then dropped on Gaza ) . <p> ( 14 ) . " Peaceful settlement of the question of Palestine " A/79/L.23 ( " Reaffirming the illegality of Israeli settlement activities and all other unilateral measures aimed at altering the demographic composition , character and status of the City of Jerusalem and of the Occupied Palestinian Territory as a whole , including the wall and its associated regime , and demanding their immediate cessation , and condemning any use of force against Palestinian civilians in violation of international law , notably children ... Demands that Israel , the occupying Power , comply strictly with its obligations under international law , including as reflected in the advisory opinion of the International Court of 19 July 2024 , including to bring an end to its unlawful presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory ... 15 . Calls for : ( a ) The withdrawal of Israel from the Palestinian territory occupied since1967 , including East Jerusalem ; ( b ) The realization of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people , primarily the right to self-determination and the right to their independent State ; ( c ) A just resolution of the problem of Palestine refugees in conformity with its resolution 194 ( III ) of 11 December 1948 ; " ) , Plenary vote : Australia Yes , UK Yes , Israel No , US No ( 157 Yes ( Including UK , Canada , &amp; most of EU ) , 8 No ( Including United States , Israel , Argentina , Hungary ) and 7 Abstained ) . <p> * ( 16 ) . " Division for Palestinian Rights of the Secretariat " A/79/L.24 ( " Considers that , by providing substantive support to the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People in the implementation of its mandate , the Division for Palestinian Rights of the Secretariat continues to make a constructive and positive contribution ... " " Requests the Division ... to organize international meetings and activities in support of the Committee 's mandate ... to liaise and cooperate with civil society and parliamentarians , including through the Working Group of the Committee , to develop and expand the ' Question of Palestine ' website " ) , Plenary vote : Australia Abstained , UK No , Israel No , US No ( 101 Yes , 27 No ( including US , Germany , UK , Canada , Italy , Israel , Austria , Switzerland ) , 42 Abstained ) . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Final comments and conclusions . <p> The Gaza Genocide must be halted and the Jewish Israeli perpetrators made to immediately leave Gaza and all Occupied Territories to permit entry of ( a ) life-sustaining water , food , winter clothing , shelter , electricity , fuel , medicine , and medical care teams , ( b ) UN peacekeepers to keep order and protect the surviving population and service providers , ( c ) reconstruction teams and materials for vital housing and infrastructure reconstruction , and ( d ) forensic teams to determine all who have died and how they died . <p> The World must apply rigorous and comprehensive Boycotts , Divestment and Sanctions ( BDS ) against Apartheid Israel and all its supporters -- all the people , politicians , parties , collectives , companies and countries complicit in this horrific atrocity . <h> Related Posts <p> Human rights and anti-war activists along with Palestinian supporters attended a " Taxpayers Against Genocide " press conference and rally on December 19 calling for an end to funding Israel 's genocide in ... <p> Palestinian Territory -- A new investigation conducted by Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor has revealed a massacre committed by the Israeli military , killing over 15 Palestinians and injuring others , including women , children , ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119108720 <h> Hamas Fighter Kills 4 Israeli Soldiers in Face-to-Face Combat <h> Share : <p> One Hamas fighter , killed an Israeli officer and three other soldiers on the streets of Jabalia , north Gaza in a turnaround posture in this bloody war on the Palestinian enclave . <p> The killing , Thursday morning , was a face-to-face operation as the lone Izz Al Din Al Qassam fighter first stabbed the Israeli soldiers , took away their weapons and armor and quickly vanished from the scene . <p> This is the first-time that a direct man-to-man fighting at zero-distance between Palestinian fighters and Israeli soldiers since the onslaught on Gaza that began soon after 7 October , 2023 . <p> Observers see such a move as a major qualitative step of hand-to-hand combat . Up till now , and it has been 14 months of fighting , Hamas and Palestinian resistance operatives have been fighting the Israeli army from a distance -- throwing grenades , missiles at their tanks , troop carriers and/or bulldozers . They were not operations as this latest one . <p> Through the Hamas 's operatives , the latest action was different , aiming for bodily contact which has never done before , on the Gaza Strip , nor at anywhere else in the world , one analyst pointed out for the latest " knifing " with a blunt instrument , showed the Palestinian resistance were now daring the Israeli soldiers to come and fight in open warfare . <p> It is seen as a major development in what has long been turned into a war of attrition on the streets of Gaza between Hamas fighters and the Israeli army . <p> It shows the spunk of the Palestinian fighters after Israeli militarily in-roaded north Gaza since 5 October 2024 and had been trying to end the presence of the Palestinian resistance there but to no avail . Of course , the Israeli army including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu keeps boasting about the end of Hamas being near but what is happening on the ground does n't show that at all but the complete opposite . <p> Also on Thursday , a Hamas sniper killed an Israeli soldier in the Tawam residential neighborhood , north of Gaza city to the west of Jabalia . He was part of a group of soldiers on top of a building , when he was sniped and instantly killed . <p> Brigadier-General Elias Hanna -- a military analyst in Al Jazeera -- say the latest military combat proves the Palestinian resistance have not been beaten but on the contrary , they are continually changing their military tactics and ways of fighting . He added it reflects the transition to a new qualitative phase of zero-distance targeting . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> He added that from now on they could be aiming to fight man-to-man if indeed such operations as that happened in Jabalia continues to occur on a frequent basis from now on . <p> Israeli soldiers have been steadily falling over the past months because of the resistance despite the fact that there are currently three Israeli military divisions operating in the area as Hanna points out . <h> Related Posts <p> Human rights and anti-war activists along with Palestinian supporters attended a " Taxpayers Against Genocide " press conference and rally on December 19 calling for an end to funding Israel 's genocide in ... <p> Palestinian Territory -- A new investigation conducted by Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor has revealed a massacre committed by the Israeli military , killing over 15 Palestinians and injuring others , including women , children , ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119108721 <h> Share : <p> One year into the Israel-U.S. genocidal war on Gaza , Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar was killed in combat in Tal al-Sultan in Rafah . For Palestinians ( and Arabs generally ) , he was a man of principle , who spoke clearly and defiantly as he affirmed the right of Palestinians to live free of Israeli domination . Unlike other leaders on a national scale -- most recently Hezbollah leader Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah and Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh , among many others -- he was not assassinated but rather died in combat , an end for which he had expressed a preference . He commanded the militias that roared out of Gaza on Oct. 7 , broke through the structure meant to encage them , neutralized Israel 's southern command , captured prisoners of war and took them to Gaza , to use them as bargaining chips to end the siege on Gaza and to release Palestinians in Israeli prisons . That turned out to be the opening salvo in the Palestinian war of liberation . <p> I read Sinwar 's two-part novel , The Thorn and the Carnation , because I hoped that the text might provide some insight into this remarkable man from Gaza whose movement has defied the Israeli-U.S. genocide against the Palestinian people in Gaza , now underway for more than 14 months . Sinwar wrote his novel in prison while serving four life sentences , charged in 1989 with killing two Israeli soldiers and some Palestinian collaborators with Israel . He was 27 . He had no way of knowing if or when he would be released ( although he might have retained hope that he would be , knowing that the Palestinian resistance never turns its back on its imprisoned cadres ) , and so he was using the novel to communicate with his countrymen . ( As it turned out , he was released in a prisoner exchange in 2011 after serving 22 years of his sentence , an exchange he helped to negotiate . ) The novel was completed in 2004 , the year Sheikh Ahmad Yassin , founder of Hamas and a wheelchair-bound quadriplegic , was assassinated . For readers today , the ongoing genocide in Gaza provides what amounts to a sequel to the novel ; we see a clear trajectory from the events described in the book to the moment we find ourselves in now and that knowledge gives the novel added depth and poignancy . <p> The novel begins in 1967 , when Sinwar 's main character , 5-year-old Ahmad , finds himself living under Israeli occupation ; it ends in 2001 or so , during the second intifada . Through the events affecting Ahmad and his impoverished family , Sinwar explores several topics , only a few of which will be mentioned here : direct Israeli occupation and the establishment of the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) ; the prison experience ; the rise of Islamist activism ; the character of the freedom fighter ; and the scourge of collaborators . <p> One senses that Sinwar is attempting to provide a historical record for Gaza 's young population about the brutality of the Israeli occupation : what it was like to live through the Israeli night patrols , the rounding up of men , the extended curfews and the mass destruction of homes in the early 1970s . Gaza was home to a refugee population that needed UNRWA services to survive , but it was also a site of resistance , and neighborhoods developed a system of shouting harmless phrases when Israeli patrols entered their areas without warning , by way of alerting militants to the threat . He describes the discussions that took place when Israel opened its labor market to Gaza . People weighed their need for income against their rejection of interacting with the occupation in any way ; practical needs won out , and soon working in Israel was normalized . Sinwar relays this without moral judgment . Years later , the PLO signed the Oslo Accords , and Sinwar portrays the heated arguments between the PA supporter and Islamists within Ahmad 's family . Today the battles raging in Gaza and in the West Bank are the inevitable outcome of that shameful sellout . <p> The Israeli prison system hovers over the lives of the occupied Palestinians . ( It has been estimated that about 40 percent of the male population of the occupied territories has spent time in an Israeli prison between 1967 and 2012 . ) Sinwar describes the torture methods used in the prisons as well as the practice of using other detainees as informants to extract information in more relaxed conversations in prison spaces . He recounts that by way of explaining the need to remain alert and not let one 's guard down , almost like delivering survival tactics to ( young ) readers who might find themselves in such situations . The prisons are also sites of political education , organization and resistance , a place where leaders are formed . <p> Sinwar himself did much more than merely survive in prison -- he studied Hebrew and learned it well enough to read biographies of Israeli leaders and to translate text into Arabic . His immersion into the world of Israeli history and biographies made him a match for any Israeli he had to deal with . ( Seven months into the current genocide , an Israeli analyst would say , " Sinwar squeezes us like a lemon ; he reads the political and military map of Israel better than we do . " ) <p> Today , Israel mass arrests Palestinians and takes them to torture centers , where the extraction of resistance information is of lesser significance than the thrill of torturing Palestinian bodies . In the past , the Israeli population could remain ignorant of the occupation regime 's prisons ; but now , Israeli torturers live stream their brutality against Palestinian bodies to sadistic Israeli viewers who clamor for more . <p> Sinwar 's discussion of student activism offers a fascinating insider 's view of young men charting a political course under conditions of constant threat . Palestinians developed the first university in Gaza when Egypt closed its doors to Palestinian students in the wake of President Anwar Sadat 's normalizing of relations with Israel . Ahmad and his cousin would attend that university , which resembled a high school with a skeletal staff . Several decades later , Gaza could boast 17 higher education institutions , and by mid-April 2024 , all of them had been either completely or partially destroyed , and at least 95 professors had been killed , generally with their families . As Israel 's crimes against Palestinians are tallied , add scholasticide to the crimes of genocide and ecocide . <p> In the novel , Ahmad 's brother Mahmoud is aligned with Fatah ; another brother , Mohammad , is an Islamist ; and so is Ahmad 's favorite cousin , Ibrahim . Sinwar does not shy away from depicting the criticism of Islamists in the 1970s : that they did not accept the Palestine Liberation Organization as the representative of the Palestinian people ( recognition of which had been a hard-fought struggle ) and were slow to take up armed struggle . Israel tolerated their early organizing , seeing the Islamist movement as a tool to splinter the Palestinian population into two antagonistic camps . In Part 2 , the Islamists are beginning to make their own weapons and attack Israelis wherever they can -- mostly soldiers and settlers , but noncombatants as well . Reading the novel in 2024 , as the beleaguered Palestinian resistance led by Hamas forges ahead in year two of a battle against Israel financed by the United States -- 14 months during which it has prevented Israel from achieving a single war objective -- one has to marvel at the evolution of the organization . Today it fights with a range of home-made weapons , and its fighters are creating legends . No other liberation struggle -- not Algeria or Vietnam or South Africa -- has had to struggle against such staggering odds . <p> While describing the evolution of the Islamist movement , Sinwar depicts the personal characteristics of the ideal revolutionary in the characters of Ahmad 's role models : his brothers and his cousin Ibrahim . Piety is a key ingredient ; so are self-sacrifice , discipline and asceticism . Being a good listener and negotiator are necessary for anyone who aspires to lead . Integrity and having an unwavering moral compass are essential qualities . This depiction initially struck me as somewhat idealized . Upon further reflection , I realized that today 's fighters are providing the evidence not only of skill and determination on the battlefield but also of a code of conduct unknown to their enemies . <p> Western leaders , pundits and the corporate media demonize or dismiss the Palestinian resistance fighters , but many details in the official narrative of " Hamas terrorism " are contradicted by statements of Israelis or the videos taken by the fighters themselves . For example , some Israeli prisoners released in the initial exchange have had positive things to say about their captors -- how they were protected by them during times of intense shelling , treated humanely and fed whatever was available to their captors . When they were released to the custody of the Red Cross , they looked relatively relaxed -- at least when compared to traumatized Palestinians released from jail who had clearly lost weight and expressed concern for their comrades in prison because of the sadistic torture they were subjected to . <p> A recent item published on Resistance News Network purports to be a letter from Israeli captive Alexander Trufanov to the Israeli public , in which he expresses fear that his government will kill him or at best , write him off ; he says that " the fighters of Islamic Jihad have saved my life several times to keep me from dying . Some of them were wounded , and others lost their lives while trying to protect me . " And this after the fighters ' own family members have been targeted for extermination . <p> Another example of the principled resistance of the fighters : in the videos released by the resistance groups , we see what they see , including medical evacuations of wounded and dead Israeli soldiers . ( Resistance video clips are shown and discussed during the Electronic Intifada 's weekly webcast . ) Never do the fighters attempt to impede the evacuations even though they have the Israelis in line of sight . It is truly remarkable , especially when compared with the depraved conduct of Israeli soldiers , executing patients , shooting children in the head , shelling hospitals and raping men and women snatched from the street . <p> Contending with Palestinian collaborators with Israel is a recurring theme in the novel . As depicted , when evidence of collaboration with the Israeli authorities is confirmed , a social crisis presents itself : the collaborator can not be allowed to live freely because of the threat he poses to the resistance and to the society at large . In the novel , collaborators were hapless Palestinians who either need movement permits or had committed some moral transgression that made them open to blackmail ; today the threat to militants comes from an institution installed to serve the Israeli occupation . Palestinians seethe when learning that PA forces raid refugee camps in search of militants wanted by Israel after these same militants had successfully warded off an Israeli military assault on the camps . Reading the novel as militants in West Bank camps are contending with both Israeli and PA attacks , one understands why Sinwar depicts collaboration with the enemy as a threat that colonized people can not tolerate . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Yahya Sinwar will be remembered not only for the way he lived his life and the resistance movement he led , but also for the manner in which he met his end : in combat , his head wrapped in a kuffiyeh to hide his identity ( he most likely did not want to be captured alive ) , defiant until the end . Killed by an Israeli soldier who did not recognize him , his body was taken for an autopsy , and the Israelis announced that he had n't eaten in three days . That detail , as much as anything he wrote about in his novel , is so characteristic of the man who endured the same hardships as the fighters he led , who described in his novel the lived experience of a nation at the mercy of Israeli-U.S. colonization and who gave his life to the struggle against that brutal regime . <p> Ida Audeh is senior editor of the Washington Report on Middle East Affairs magazine . <h> Related Posts <p> Human rights and anti-war activists along with Palestinian supporters attended a " Taxpayers Against Genocide " press conference and rally on December 19 calling for an end to funding Israel 's genocide in ... <p> Palestinian Territory -- A new investigation conducted by Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor has revealed a massacre committed by the Israeli military , killing over 15 Palestinians and injuring others , including women , children , ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119122302 <h> Story highlights <p> As per media reports , the tunnels were uncovered by the IDFs Kfir Brigade , operating under the command of the 162nd Division . During the operation , soldiers recovered military equipment that had been seized by Hamas fighters during the attacks on 7 October 2023 . Maps of Israeli communities near the Gaza border were also found , as per Jerusalem Post . <p> The Israeli Defence Forces ( IDF ) announced on Friday ( December 19 ) , that they had destroyed three tunnel routes in the northern Gaza city of Beit Lahia . According to the military , these tunnels spanned a combined length of 7.5 kilometres . <p> As per media reports , the tunnels were uncovered by the IDF 's Kfir Brigade , operating under the command of the 162nd Division . During the operation , soldiers recovered military equipment that had been seized by Hamas fighters during the attacks on 7 October , 2023 . Maps of Israeli communities near the Gaza border were also found , as per Jerusalem Post . <p> In another development , an article published by the Israeli newspaper Haaretz , citing anonymous soldiers , accused Israeli forces of carrying out random killings of Palestinian civilians in the Netzarim Corridor in Gaza . The corridor has been designated as a military zone . <p> The report suggested that commanders were given exceptional authority in Gaza , enabling or ordering the killing of unarmed civilians , including women and children . <p> The IDF firmly rejected these claims . " All activities and operations conducted by IDF forces in Gaza , including in the Netzarim Corridor , adhere to structured combat procedures , plans , and operational orders approved by the highest ranks in the army , " the military told AFP . <p> IDF said that all strikes in the area ( of Netzarim ) are conducted in accordance with the mandatory procedures and protocols , including targets that are struck in an urgent time frame due to essential operational circumstances where ground forces face immediate threats " . The military added that any concerns regarding potential deviations from orders or ethical standards are thoroughly investigated . <p> The ongoing conflict in Gaza has caused significant casualties . According to the Gaza Health Ministry , 45,206 Palestinians have been killed , and 107,512 injured since Israel began its military offensive on 7 October , 2023 . <h> Sweden axes funding for United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees <p> In a separate development , Sweden has announced it will stop funding the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees ( UNRWA ) . The country said that it will redirect its support to Gaza through other humanitarian channels , Swedish Aid Minister Benjamin Dousa told broadcaster TV4 . <p> Dousa said that Sweden would consider organisations such as the UN World Food Programme to provide aid . The decision follows repeated accusations by Israel that UNRWA was complicit in Hamas ' attacks on 7 October , 2023 , which marked the start of the 13-month-long conflict . Israel has stated it will ban UNRWA 's operations in the country starting January . <p> Disclaimer : WION takes the utmost care to accurately and responsibly report conflicts in West Asia involving Israel , Iran , Syria , Iraq , and non-state actors like the Islamic State , among others . In this context , claims and counterclaims are being made online and offline . WION can not independently verify the authenticity of all statements , social media posts , photos and videos . 
@@119122332 <h> Story highlights <p> Israel , which will ban UNRWAs operations in the country from late January , has repeatedly accused the agency of being involved in the Oct. 7 , 2023 Hamas-led attacks on Israel that triggered the ongoing war in Gaza . <p> Israel , which will ban UNRWA 's operations in the country from late January , has repeatedly accused the agency of being involved in the Oct. 7 , 2023 Hamas-led attacks on Israel that triggered the ongoing war in Gaza . <p> Sweden 's decision to end funding for UNRWA was in response to the Israeli ban , as it will make channelling aid to the Palestinians via the agency more difficult , Dousa said . <p> Sweden plans to increase its overall humanitarian assistance to Gaza next year , he added . <p> " There are several other organisations in Gaza , I have just been there and met several of them , " the minister said , naming the U.N . World Food Programme as one potential recipient . <p> The United Nations General Assembly threw its support behind UNRWA this month , demanding that Israel respect the agency 's mandate and " enable its operations to proceed without impediment or restriction " . <p> ( $1 = 11.0323 Swedish crowns ) <p> Disclaimer : This story has been published from a news agency feed with minimal edits to adhere to WION 's style guide . The headline may have been changed to better reflect the content of the story or to make it more suitable for WION audience 
@@119131118 <h> PM Modi visits Kuwait to chalk out road map for a futuristic partnership <p> Prime Minister Narendra Modi embarked on a two-day visit to Kuwait , aiming to strengthen ties with the Gulf nation . Discussions will focus on trade , energy , regional security , and prosperity . Modi emphasized the historical connection between the two countries and the shared interest in West Asian stability . He also visited an Indian labor camp and attended the Gulf Cup opening ceremony . <p> NEW DELHI : PM Narendra Modi arrived in Kuwait Saturday for a two-day visit , saying in his departure statement earlier in the day that India and the Gulf Cooperation Council ( GCC ) nation are not just strong trade and energy partners , but also have shared interest in peace , security , stability and prosperity in the West Asia region.Modi said the visit would be an opportunity to chalk out a roadmap for a futuristic partnership for the benefit people in both countries and the Gulf region . " We deeply value the historical connection with Kuwait that has been nurtured over generations . I look forward to my meetings with His Highness the emir , the Crown Prince and the Prime Minister of Kuwait , " said Modi . The bilateral talks will take place on Sunday.TOI had first reported on Tuesday Modi would visit Kuwait over the weekend , extending his Gulf outreach to the only GCC country he had not visited so far . <p> Home to a million-strong Indian community , Kuwait is a reliable source of crude and LPG for India . Kuwait currently also holds GCC presidency and recently hosted a summit of member-states in which it strongly sought a ceasefire in Gaza . India also has maintained for the past several months that a ceasefire in Gaza is its foremost concern and has continued to back a two-state solution.Modi also visited a labour camp in Kuwait with a workforce of around 1,500 Indians . The PM also participated in a Gulf Cup football opening ceremony . 
@@119131260 <p> Contributing to talent , tech and tradition ' : PM Modi hails Indian diaspora in Kuwait <h> Contributing to talent , tech and tradition ' : PM Modi hails Indian diaspora in Kuwait <h> Calling Kuwait an important trade and energy partner , a day ahead of his bilateral meetings with the Emir and Crown Prince of the Gulf nation , Prime Minister Narendra Modi also highlighted the role of the Indian diaspora in the country in terms of " talent , technology and tradition " . Addressing a large gathering of the Indian community ... <p> Calling Kuwait an important trade and energy partner , a day ahead of his bilateral meetings with the Emir and Crown Prince of the Gulf nation , Prime Minister Narendra Modi also highlighted the role of the Indian diaspora in the country in terms of " talent , technology and tradition " . <p> Addressing a large gathering of the Indian community in Kuwait in a special event ' Hala Modi ' at the Sheikh Saad Al-Abdullah Indoor Sports Complex , Modi said , " The relationship that culture and commerce had built in the past is moving towards new heights in the new century . Today , Kuwait is a very important energy and trade partner of India . India is also a big investment destination for Kuwaiti companies . " <p> He also recalled what the Crown Prince said during their recent meeting in New York : " When You Are In Need , India Is Your Destination " , recalling Indian assistance to Kuwait during the pandemic times , and also how Kuwaiti authorities came forward to help during the fire accident in Mangaf earlier this year where more than 40 Indian workers lost their lives . The PM also visited the Gulf Spic Labour Camp , where more than 90% inhabitants are Indians , and interacted with them . <p> He landed in Kuwait on Saturday evening for a two-day visit , marking the first visit to the Gulf nation by an Indian PM in 43 years . " Landed in Kuwait to a warm welcome . This is the first visit by an Indian PM in 43 years , and it will undoubtedly strengthen the India-Kuwait friendship across various sectors , " Modi said in a post on X. <p> At a time when the tension in West Asia is still simmering , Modi also said that India and Kuwait have a " shared interest in peace , security , stability and prosperity in the West Asia region " . His visit to Kuwait is taking place two weeks after the collapse of President Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria and the continuing Israeli offensive in Gaza . <p> Modi said his talks with top Kuwaiti leadership would be an opportunity to chalk out a roadmap for a futuristic partnership with India . " We are not just strong trade and energy partners but also have shared interest in peace , stability and prosperity in the West Asia region , " he said . <p> On Sunday , PM Modi will be accorded a ceremonial guard of honour at the Bayan Palace ( Emir 's palace ) , following which he will hold separate meetings with the Emir of Kuwait and the Crown Prince of Kuwait Sabah Al-Khalid Al-Sabah . There will be delegation-level talks with the PM of Kuwait as well . <p> Advertisement <p> During these discussions , PM Modi will review with the leadership of Kuwait " the entire spectrum of our bilateral relations -- trade , investment , energy , culture , and people-to-people ties , and the steps that both sides need to take to further enhance them " , the MEA said . Kuwait is among India 's top trading partners , with bilateral trade valued at $10.47 billion in 2023-24 . <p> Divya A reports on travel , tourism , culture and social issues - not necessarily in that order - for The Indian Express . She 's been a journalist for over a decade now , working with Khaleej Times and The Times of India , before settling down at Express . Besides writing/ editing news reports , she indulges her pen to write short stories . As Sanskriti Prabha Dutt Fellow for Excellence in Journalism , she is researching on the lives of the children of sex workers in India . ... Read More 
@@119131616 <h> Elon Musk criticises Germany for refusing to extradite Saudi suspect <p> Elon Musk has criticised Germany 's decision not to extradite a Saudi suspect , describing the move as " insane . " His remarks have drawn attention to the country 's rising political tensions , especially in the context of his support for the far-right Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) party . The incident highlights the complexities of international relations and extradition policies . <p> Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday landed in Kuwait for a two-day visit at the invitation of Sheikh Meshal Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah , the Amir of the State of Kuwait . PM Modi 's visit to Kuwait , the first by an Indian prime minister in 43 years , comes two weeks after the collapse of Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria and amid signs of a possible ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas in Gaza . The last Indian prime minister to visit Kuwait was Indira Gandhi in 1981 . <p> Congress workers in Rajasthan on Saturday took out a rally in protest against Union Home Minister Amit Shah 's remarks about Babasaheb Ambedkar . Demanding immediate resignation and apology from Shah , the Congress protest was also joined by Congress general secretary Sachin Pilot . The Congress reiterated its demand for a public apology from Shah over his remarks , which it claimed were an " insult " to Ambedkar , and called for his resignation . <p> The ED has received sanction from Delhi Lt Governor VK Saxena for the prosecution of former Delhi Chief Minister and AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal in the liquor policy case , sources said . The development comes weeks ahead of the crucial Delhi Assembly elections , where the AAP is aiming to secure a fourth term in the face of an upbeat BJP . Citing a November 6 Supreme Court judgment , the ED sought sanction for prosecution under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act ( PMLA ) , 2002 , on December 5 . In its letter to the Lt Governor , the ED said it found a " huge level of corruption in framing and implementation " of the excise policy . 
@@119132078 <p> Historically , the Red Sea route has been a major waterway to provide India with a maritime engagement link to the Gulf region and north Africa . Now , with the attacks by the Houthis the Red Sea has become another evolving flashpoint in the wider canvas of security in the Gulf region <p> New Delhi : The recent launch of Indian navy 's lethal marine commandos ( MARCOS ) to free an Indian merchant vessel with its crew from sea pirates in the Red Sea area , has shown that India will now onwards refuse to be a passive observer to events in the Red sea , which is now an area of confrontation between stakeholders in that region . <p> And India - must look beyond a white water coastal defence role in its west - should plan to go alone even as the US and UK use their fighter jets to pound Houthi bases in Yemen . <p> It is unclear what the US led air attacks can achieve except to show a muscular foreign policy approach . Such air strikes are easy to implement , but as reports indicate , they have n't achieved much against a rag-tag militia , like the Houthis . But this will slowly and steadily push the Western powers and the so-called Axis of Resistance backed by Iran - comprising the Houthis , Hamas and Hezbollah - towards a situation that 's incendiary . <p> Historically , the Red Sea route has been a major waterway to provide India with a maritime engagement link to the Gulf region and north Africa . Now , with the attacks by the Houthis the Red Sea has become another evolving flashpoint in the wider canvas of security in the Gulf region , following the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict . And if not contained , it can in all certainty , explode into a wider regional conflict that 'll draw the US and its allies into a confrontation with Iran that is backing the Houthis , Hamas and Hezbollah . <p> By targeting , the Red Sea and Suez Canal route , that carries 12 percent of the world 's maritime trade , and for India , a one trillion dollar plus merchant ship based trade , sea pirates and the Houthis -- a Shia group -- see India 's recent alignments with the Sunni Arab states like the UAE , Saudis and even Israel ( I2U2 ) , in conflict with their anti- Israel and anti-US agenda . The dynamics of the geo-political equations , evolving rapidly following the Israel-Hamas conflict has provided India a new set of diplomatic opportunities for India . <p> The Costs Of Larger Conflict In The Gulf Region <p> By raising the possibility of a conflict -- as Americans love a good war - President Biden has nothing to lose , with his popularity ratings rather low . If anything , he would probably give another headache to the upcoming White House occupant , by not hesitating to take the war to Iran , if its proxies get too emboldened to attack ships in the Red Sea . <p> It could cause further turmoil to the global economy that 's on the edge already , after the Israel-Hamas conflict , that will lead to a conflict premium , and a major hike in oil prices . <p> In the past , Iran has benefitted from higher oil prices -- as the fear of a bigger conflict adds to the premium on Oil prices and the insurance costs of shipping oil in troubled waters . As of now , ships are charging both for the 15 to 20 days extra travel time and the detour of about 5000 km , by avoiding the Red Sea and the Suez Canal , to travel to West via the Cape of Good Hope , that lies at the bottom tip of Africa . In turn , the deliveries of shipped products are delayed , causing supply chain disruptions . <p> What Do The Houthis Want ? <p> Iran , that has close ties with Russia and China , India too has a diplomatic dialogue going with Iran along with India 's oil imports , its investments in the Chabahar port and the North South Transport Corridor , from Russia to the Arabian sea , India can play a balancing act between the agendas of the US and West on one side , and Russia-China on the other . And with the Gulf countries , following the recent IME-EC ( trade corridor initiative ) , India is a much sought after partner for the Gulf region . <p> The Houthis have decided to spread their foot print in the area beyond the coast line of Yemen -- where they control at least half its territory and the capital , Sana'a -- into the Red Sea region . This is a crucial waterway for ships to ferry goods to Israel . By blocking it , the Houthi rebels want to exercise leverage in the region , as a proxy for its patrons , Iran . Until food , and medicines are allowed into the Gaza strip by Israel , the Houthis will continue to target ships of Israel and the US in particular , even if they are n't headed to Israel . <p> And finally to put pressure on Saudi Arabia , since Riyadh has for several years led a badly implemented military campaign , bombing on an already poor and famished people of Yemen , that has had little success in eliminating Houthis . Now , with Iran back missiles and drones , the Houthis have attacked ships around Yemen , drawing the ire of the US and UK . But unless there is a collective effort to contain them , it is unlikely the Red Sea attacks will cease soon . <p> Merchant Shipping Giants Pause Activities In Red Sea <p> Four of the world 's five major shipping firms -- Maersk , Hapag-Lloyd , CMA CGM Group and Evergreen -- along with oil giants like BP have paused shipping through the Red Sea amid fears of Houthi attacks -- moves that 'll cause oil and gas prices to rise . Oil prices are often held hostage by brokers to tensions on the shipping lanes . <p> " If a large part of Strait of Hormuz flows were to be halted , it would present up to three times the impact of the 1970s oil price shocks and over double the impact of the Ukraine war on gas markets , atop already fragile supply chains and stock levels , " Reuters quoted Saul Kavonic , an energy analyst at MST Marquee , as saying . <p> More than 20 million barrels of oil move through the Strait of Hormuz each day which is equivalent to around 20 per cent of global consumption , the report quoted ING analysts as saying . But the bigger concern could be inflation , which has been above the central bank 's comfort zone of 4% since the end of 2019 . " Higher global freight and insurance rates , possible upside risk to oil and global trade and re- emergence of potential supply chain would mean cost push inflation pressures , " she said . <p> Impact On India 's Economy <p> India 's economy too has felt the heat of these attacks . The threats have pushed Indian exporters to hold back around 25% of the outbound shipments transiting through the Red Sea , according to Ajay Sahai , director general of the Federation of Indian Export Organizations , which falls under India 's Trade Ministry . " In many cases , both buyers and exporters are also renegotiating contracts to adjust to surging freight charges , " he said . <p> India usually exports a variety of goods including petroleum products , cereals , and chemicals using the Red Sea route . Other major commodities include steel , engineering goods , textiles , vehicles , and agro-products , which are exported from India to Europe and the West via the Red Sea route . The Red Sea disruption could hit margins for India 's oil and auto sectors , says Madhavi Arora , an economic analyst . <p> RBB Ship Chartering , a company dealing with ship chartering services , has said that shipping costs have gone up manifold . " These incidents in the Red Sea are a cause for concern for the shipping industry . The Europe-bound containers of cargo companies are taking the Cape of Good Hope route instead of the Suez Canal after these incidents on sea came to light . However , this re-routing of the shipping assets has led to a tripling of the transportation cost " , its CEO Raajesh Bhojwani explained . <p> " Several insurance companies have jacked up premiums by 100 times for the ships sailing in the Red Sea while some have stopped offering insurance cover altogether . " <p> The prevailing situation has put Indian exporters at risk of becoming non-competitive in other market segments " he said . When reports assessing the potential fallout on India 's wider economic outlook due to these attacks , pegging the losses of up to $30 billion dollars in its cumulative total exports in FY24 , it is in India 's and West Asia 's interest that these skirmishes over vital maritime trade routes is resolutely beaten back or resolved at the earliest . <p> The UAE and India bilateral relationship is of critical importance in ensuring that there persists a calmer atmosphere in resource-rich West Asia , and China is incapable of playing that role with any of its Arab partners . Socotra is Yemeni territory but it largely depends on tourism and funding from the UAE . The Emiratis have built a port and airport at Hadiboh , which was in a strategically sound move later followed by a military base as well . <p> In the future , India too could be allowed access to bolster the maritime surveillance and protection of maritime trade in partnership with the UAE . It is only with strategic partners like France which has its overseas territories in the Indian Ocean Region and also the UAE , can India truly and effectively counter its anti-piracy efforts and also keep China 's growing maritime ambitions in check . <h> India 's future options <p> It 's the general election season in India , and a push in domestic inflationary pressures will cause further unease to Indians and especially , its ruling dispensation . India can carve out its own alliances with her strategic partners in the Gulf and ensure that it is a part of an amicable solution or at least be ready to show and sustain her defensive and offensive naval prowess as an instrument of protecting its people in West Asia and also its economic interests in the volatile region . <p> India can aim to have a deeper strategic foothold in the Red Sea , the island of Socotra situated between the Gulf of Aden and the Arabian Sea , not just for protecting its economic interests but also as an attempt to blunt China 's growing presence in the region that is expanding around the vital chokepoint . <p> ( Disclaimer - The views expressed in this article are personal and solely that of the author 's . They do not necessarily reflect the publication 's views ) <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from Opinion and around the world . 
@@119132080 <h> Essay On The World In 2024 : A Geopolitical Outlook <p> The Russian President is here to stay and the way Zelensky is being beleaguered on the battlefield and the US Congress , it 's going to get only more difficult for Ukraine to sustain losses of men and equipment without any robust commitment by its NATO ' partners ' and more prominently the US . <p> The Hamas-Israel conflict will drag on well into the next year , more so as Netanyahu -- fearing that he will be shown the door soon- is unwilling to pull back . <p> Photo : AP <p> In the post-Covid era , the world has witnessed a rapid deterioration of long-held principles of how global trade should be conducted , how wars can be fought and how people can be manipulated through disinformation . And 2024 could be another watershed year as we need to prepare for any of the above three eventualities . <p> Gone are the days of a unipolar or bipolar world , where superpowers could enforce their writ without the fear of any consequences . Multipolarity is here to stay . The major countries of the Global South and their pivotal roles in maintaining a semblance of strategic equilibrium in an ever-increasingly volatile world will come into greater focus . India , Saudi Arabia , Turkey , South Africa and Brazil are going to be the major swing states that will play a leading role in collectively managing the domains where the interests of each country overlaps with the other , especially on the critical issues of climate change and economic cooperation . <h> 2024 will also be a year of many crucial elections <p> In South Asia , PM Modi aims to attain a 3rd term in office ; in Bangladesh , PM Sheikh Hasina looks to do the same , but for the fourth consecutive time ; and in Pakistan , it hardly matters which puppet comes to power as the Pak ' Deep State ' will always have the remote control to stage manage the country 's affairs . And if the trend continues , then we could be looking at another 1971 redux in the West , as the country is teetering on the precipice of another accelerated internal rebellion in Sindh and Balochistan . In the US , the Presidential elections slated for November 5 next year could truly be a turning point in America 's recent history . Perhaps the outcome of that election will determine if America 's decline is going to be slower than anticipated or not . <p> Indonesia , another Asian powerhouse goes to elections this February , Joko Widodo will not be able to achieve a hat trick as President . Both their President and the Vice President are allowed to hold office only for 10 years , i.e. two 5 year terms , but this does n't bar him from trying to make political calculations to suit his legacy even when not in office , as he has selected a former military general for his political campaign and Widodo has also ensured that his son is the VP candidate . And another crucial election that everyone will be keenly watching is the Taiwan general election slated to be held next month , that China will be watching keenly too . <h> War in the Ukraine will continue <p> The Russian President is here to stay and the way Zelensky is being beleaguered on the battlefield and the US Congress , it 's going to get only more difficult for Ukraine to sustain losses of men and equipment without any robust commitment by its NATO ' partners ' and more prominently the US . Bipartisan support that Ukraine enjoyed at the start of the war and in the subsequent months is being eroded recently , with the US Republican Party questioning the purpose of sending Ukraine another tranche of aid worth $61 billion . This month , the Hungarian PM Viktor Orban too blocked a $55 billion EU package of financial aid for Ukraine . Even then , the Russia-Ukraine war will drag on , if the West does n't take a hard relook at its policies which should aim at achieving a ceasefire and a dialogue to settle this conflict . Perhaps for that to happen , either Zelensky has to go or he has to realize the fact that the eastern regions of Ukraine annexed by Russia should be accepted as fait accompli and come to the negotiating table . <h> Conflicts at present , in the future <p> The Hamas-Israel conflict will drag on well into the next year , more so as Netanyahu -- fearing that he will be shown the door soon- is unwilling to pull back . Now the conflict has become harder to contain , and the US should change tack to seek new options : instead of supplying weapons to Israel to pulverize the Gaza Strip , maybe they should attempt to douse this fire , and focus more on the war in Ukraine and to prevent a possible Chinese attack on Taiwan . If the continuous escalation of rhetoric backed by offensive manoeuvres conducted by the Chinese naval forces with the Philippines are signs of things to come , any miscalculation can spiral out of control . Aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson ( CVN-70 ) and its escorts are presently stationed in South East Asia . With the Taiwan elections round the corner , a lot is at stake in the region . With an increasingly belligerent China , a skirmish is in the offing , if not in early 2024 , but soon hereafter . <p> Even as the Quad foursome deliberate on their role in the high seas , at present every major maritime route crucial for trade is under pressure due to conflicts that have engulfed the regions these routes pass through , the Red Sea , the Strait of Hormuz , the Strait of Malacca , the Taiwan Strait , the Black Sea and the Suez Canal . Perhaps , China , saddled with a falling economy too , would want to test the waters with Taiwan and try something dangerous during the outgoing President Biden 's last term and last year in office . And just like US and its Indo-Pacific partners must be prepared for any eventuality , India too has adopted a robust posture at the LAC to deter any attempt at misadventure by the PLA . 2024 could be another action-packed year on the geopolitical stage . <h> Artificial Intelligence and its increasing role <p> Yet another inescapable development that has caught the world 's attention for better or worse , is the almost indispensable application of Artificial Intelligence ( AI ) in every major domain of world affairs , from fighting wars , to disseminating information or disinformation , right down to its everyday use in our personal and professional lives . Regulating the ethical use of AI would be another big hurdle -- since the rules for AI uses are yet unclear - as many countries want to weaponize it for their own strategic interests . <h> And finally the UN must be re-invented <p> Above all else , there could be a push to re-invent the UN and its role , as this over-rated global body has failed all expectations as a peacemaker , in big and small wars . Equally important would be cooperation of like-minded countries in ensuring that the West considers their interests as well , when attempting to de-risk the global economy from disruption of supply chains that are in concentrated clusters or select countries and make it more diverse and equitable at the same time so as to ensure that in case another black swan event occurs , the world would be ready to better address the unique socio-economic and health-related challenges that may arise in the future . <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from Opinion and around the world . 
@@119132082 <h> Without Reforms , Could The United Nations Be Staring At Irrelevance ? <p> Recently , the UN has n't been able to find a common ground to even attempt to bring about an agreement acceptable to the countries involved in bitter wars - like , in Ukraine and Gaza- to hold even r a temporary truce . <p> Nothing illustrates the need for the UN to develop more teeth , than the stalemate in the conflict in Ukraine and now the Gaza conflict . This has led to frustration with the UN , leading to some -- like this writer -- to call the UN an " outdated and over-rated debating society " . With the disproportionate Israeli bombing of civilian infrastructure , which includes hospitals and targeting ambulances , flattening of refugee camps ( most recently the bombing of the Jabalia refugee camp by Israel , which resulted in over 100 fatalities according to the Gazan Health Ministry ) , diplomats apart , there is considerable frustration with the UN . <p> And as if that was n't enough , the Human Rights Watch ( HRW ) on December 18th accused Israel of intentionally starving civilians in the Gaza Strip as a part of its ongoing offensive against Hamas militants . Israel has thus lost much of the sympathy that it received in the aftermath of the Hamas attacks . In their report , the HRW called starvation a war crime , and said that : " Israeli forces are deliberately blocking the delivery of water , food , and fuel , while wilfully impeding humanitarian assistance , apparently razing agricultural areas , and depriving the civilian population of objects indispensable to their survival " . <p> Recently , the UN has n't been able to find a common ground to even attempt to bring about an agreement acceptable to the countries involved in bitter wars - like , in Ukraine and Gaza- to hold even r a temporary truce . And the veto holding powers , i.e the five permanent members of the UN Security Council ( the P5 nations ) ; and their geo-political rivalries , are a major hindrance at arriving at any kind of consensus . This has diminished the relevance of the UN even further . <p> In the past , there was much faith in the ability of the UN to resolve conflicts ; but not so now . The United Nations in its more than 70 years of existence has navigated through complex humanitarian crises , wars and conflicts and it has done so with considerable dexterity . But if we were to just look back at the last three years : the Azerbaijan and Armenia conflict over the disputed region Nagorno Karabakh region , which was followed by the Russia and Ukraine conflict and the third major conflict between Hamas and Israel , all of them have been protracted by the warring parties and their patrons through their respective belligerent and non-cooperative positions at the global body . <p> In fact , the UN has been held hostage by great power rivalries and splintering of it into many factions or axis that aim to outsmart each other , through vetoes that make any kind of consensus virtually impossible to achieve . The 2003 US led invasion of Iraq , the 2011 NATO led invasion of Libya , the 2014 intervention in Syria , the 2017 genocide in Myanmar of the Rohingya ; all of these global events that created turmoil , and on each occasion the UN has been found ineffective . It was however the P-5 veto wielding powers that left the UN paralysed , as is the case now , over Ukraine and Gaza conflicts . <p> And any resolutions adopted aimed at mitigating the conflicts end up being disagreed upon more often than not , even if that comes from the UN Secretary General himself . A case in point , is the recent invoking of Article 99 by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres . Article 99 of the UN charter allows the UN chief to raise to the Security Council 's attention " any issue that may aggravate existing threats to the maintenance of international peace and security . " In his letter to the ( 5+10 ) 15-member council , he urged for the body to " press to avert a humanitarian catastrophe " and unite in a call for a full humanitarian ceasefire in the ensuing Hamas-Israel conflict . But what did that achieve ? <p> The present Indian government has developed a good rapport with the Palestinian leadership , and it can afford India to be seen as an able partner to attempt mediation between the warring parties . Whereas , China for all its diplomatic one-upmanship vis- ? -vis India and the US , has thrown its hat into the cauldron of West Asian regional rivalries and is attempting to portray itself as a peacemaker . India should seize this critical opportunity to assert itself as a sincere facilitator <p> of dialogue as this was the sentiment shared by the Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi on 6 November in his telephonic conversation with PM Modi , where requested India to use ' all its capacities ; to end the Israeli actions in Gaza . ' <p> Under the UN Charter which was ratified by the P5 nations after its creation , which created a General Assembly for all the other member countries , keeping the UNSC , the Security Council the most important decision-making arm of the UN , it was entirely beholden to just the P5 nations . Herein , lies the dichotomy . While the resolutions passed by the member nations of the General Assembly are consultative in nature which represent the collective will of the nations and it does carry moral weight , even though it ca n't be pushed through as international binding law . On the other hand , the P5 nations any advisory they chose to not veto and agree on a consensus , that can be enforced as international law . <p> The UNGA has 193 nations . The most radical reform that the UN can attempt to do is make the UN body more equitable when it comes to presiding over the most critical conflicts , wars , humanitarian missions and mitigation efforts for climate change , is to curb the veto wielding power of the P5 nations and redistribute it amongst the entire 193 member countries . Any intransigent member of the P5 group , if insists on vetoing on issue of great importance then , that nation has to win the majority of the votes in its favour to push its veto . This could be a good start to curb the geopolitical rivalries at the UNSC high table . Yet the irony is that for any credible reform to materialize it is the P5 nations of the UNSC , who would have to initiate it to form a review committee . <p> Murmurs of change are afoot nonetheless . " It is evident that in order to continue fulfilling its mission for future generations , the United Nations needs an upgrade , " said the German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock earlier this September , paving the way for a preparatory meeting for the UN Future Summit planned for September 2024 . She also attended a meeting of representatives of the G4 , comprising Brazil , Germany , India , and Japan , the four countries that support each other 's bids for permanent seats on the United Nations Security Council . UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres gave Germany 's UN chief Antje Leendertse the job of planning the Future Summit that would lay the foundation for a comprehensive reorientation of the UN in late 2024 . <p> Addressing the 78th United Nations General Assembly in New York earlier this September , India 's External Affairs Minister , Dr S Jaishankar , called on the United Nations to make reforms to stay relevant in the modern world and said that the issue can not remain " indefinite " and " unchallenged " . <p> The EAM did n't mince his words and said , " In our deliberations , we often advocate promotion of a rules-based order . From time to time , respect for the UN Charter is also involved . But for all the talk , it is still a few nations which shape the agenda and seek to define the norms . This ca n't go on indefinitely nor will it go unchallenged . A fair , equitable and democratic order will surely emerge once we all put our minds to it . And for a start , that means ensuring that rule-makers do not subjugate rule-takers . " He further added that : " When the UN was established , the world at that time was completely different from today . At that time there were 51 founding members in the UN . Today the number of countries included in the UN is around 200 . Despite this , the permanent members in UNSC are still the same , " he said . <p> The minister was referring to the fact that when the UN was created , 10% of its members , 5 of them - all on the winning side in World War -II - were given permanent membership of the all-powerful UN security council with veto powers . By that 10% yardstick , the UN security council 's size should be 20 permanent members , a pitch that India has been making since the 1990s ; though only to be ignored , at the UN , even though there 's been reluctant support for India 's claim by all the P-5 powers , but for China . Ironically , when India 's case was being aggressively pushed by the US in the early 1950s , Pandit Nehru waived it off , stating India was in no hurry , and that China should be given India 's place instead ! <p> Today , China opposes India 's entry into any UN body or any counter terror initiatives that could nail Pakistan . India 's size as one of the largest countries and as a democracy , impressive contributions in UNPK ( peacekeeping operations ) makes India 's case as good as any for a seat in an expanded UN security council to make the UN more representative of the current world order . And now is as good a time as any for it to do so . Could 2024 be a defining year for the UN ? <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from Opinion and around the world . 
@@119132088 <h> Will Qatar Be The Indispensable Mediator In The Israel-Hamas Conflict ? <p> Qatar , a tiny Arab Sheikhdom , has been wielding a lot of diplomatic heft over its ' mediation ' capabilities in some of the most intractable conflicts , as it is attempting to do in the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict . <p> Will Qatar Be The Indispensable Mediator In The Israel-Hamas Conflict ? <p> Photo : AP <p> In recent years , Qatar 's standing in the world has steadily risen , whether as the negotiator with the Taliban , that allowed the US a half decent exit from Afghanistan , and now Doha , could be the go-to capital , to allow Israel a face saving end to its operations in Gaza that everyone except the US and few of America 's lackeys still support . As a country Qatar is enormously wealthy due to its enormous reserves of liquid gas , but it is still not taken seriously in the Arab world 's geo-politics like Saudi Arabia and the UAE . But as it supplies Gas to the EU in large quantities after the West blocked Russian supplies of LNG as part of the post Ukraine invasion sanctions , Qatar was the obvious choice -- as the Saudis and UAE already had contractual obligations to fulfil -- which Doha happily undertook . <p> Qatar , a tiny Arab Sheikhdom , has been wielding a lot of diplomatic heft over its ' mediation ' capabilities in some of the most intractable conflicts , as it is attempting to do in the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict . It is treading a middle path , as it is dependent on the US for military protection and weapons platforms . Some years ago , when then then US president Donald Trump visited the Gulf region -- on a ' rent collection ' trip -- and Qatar did n't give in to US pressure to give a $500 million order for US arms , Mr Trump labelled Qatar a sponsor of terrorism ! Since then Qatar has made amends -- apart from being the host for a successful Football world cup championship . But apart from providing the US a military base from the time of the first Gulf war in 1990 , Qatar now hosts the largest US base in the region , the Al Udeid airbase , and it has also been a major non-NATO ally . <p> Since then , Qatar is seen as a reliable facilitator for talks between warring parties , like in the case of the current Israel-Hamas war . But this important role has come with a host of controversies , with some American and European politicians accusing Qatar of supporting a group like Hamas . Qatar also hosts Taliban 's political offices , and its role as an interlocutor between the Taliban regime and the international community were vital , for this small nation whose majority of the population is that of expatriates and immigrant labourers , a unique distinction . <p> With its vast reserves of oil and natural gas , a robust sovereign wealth fund and also its close alliance with the US , are some of the major things acting in Qatar 's favour to accord it the international influence it wishes to wield . Oman and Egypt too have excellent reputation in mediating in some of the most complex issues that plague the region ; today Qatar has taken up the role of being the region 's indisputable mediator , as also , Qatar has donned the hat of a mediator in different and equally complicated mediation efforts which also included , the factional fights in Sudan and granting political patronage to the pariah Taliban regime in Afghanistan to name a few , to initiate and sustain the complicated dialogue . <p> Similarly , Qatar has been hosting Hamas ' political office since 2012 . Qatar has a history of handling negotiations with controversial entities on its soil . It was also the first Arab Gulf State to open diplomatic relations with Israel in 1996 . Earlier this year , Doha had also mediated in the landmark deal between Iran and the US this September , which resulted in the release of five Americans from Iranian detention . The prisoner release agreement was part of a wider deal that included the US unfreezing $6 billion in Iranian . <p> Qatari role was also instrumental on Iran 's nuclear issue , where it facilitated indirect talks between Tehran and Washington last year . ' Qatar has long had a pragmatic approach where it has used financial incentives to manage and de-escalate various rounds of tensions and war between Israel and Hamas , ' says Sanam Vakil , director of the Middle East and North Africa Program at the UK-based think tank Chatham House opined . Vakil saw Qatar as a natural go-between to secure the hostages and find entry points to de-escalate and protect people on the ground as the humanitarian issue worsens . ' Qatar operates in a kind of grey zone ' , says Joel Simon , a US journalist and author of the 2019 book , ' We Want to Negotiate : The Secret World of Kidnapping , Hostages , and Ransom ' he opined . Though the country officials say that they are guided by humanitarian principles and a desire to reduce conflict and promote stability , ' they have clearly used their leverage to gain influence and visibility , a posture which they believe enhances their security in a volatile region ' he explained . Playing both sides makes Qatar a valuable ally and Qatar knows it , he concluded . <p> Since Qatar also pays public sector salaries in Gaza , which is a part of a $30 million dollars per month stipend for families and fuel for electricity , which apparently is vetted by Israeli authorities before such payments are transferred , according to Qatari officials . Herein , also lies another controversy : where Qatari financial help is labelled as a helping hand to Hamas for its funding . However , Qatar 's relationship with Hamas could also become a liability . " This ( Qatar 's ) relationship with Hamas has been a key component of the mediation strategy , " said Andreas Krieg , an associate professor at King 's College London who focuses on Gulf States . <p> " It 's a place where Qatar has a monopoly over that relationship , has a monopoly over that conflict because it can speak to both sides in a way that no other player in the world can " says Andreas Krieg . Even though , the Egyptians and Qataris have long squabbled over the roles they could play as mediators in the region , it 's a delicate diplomatic tightrope that Qatar has managed to navigate with poise and also with its fair share of controversies and doubts , but if one has to attempt to find solutions for conflict resolution , interlocutor nations like Qatar , play an indispensable role whether one likes it or not . <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from Opinion and around the world . 
@@119132478 <p> Israelis protest against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's government and call for the release of hostages held in the Gaza Strip AP <p> Gal Ferenbook , an Israel Defense Force ( IDF ) soldier arrived in Sri Lanka hoping to relax after a tour in Gaza . It is safe to assume that he was shocked when he got a call from his higher-ups back home on Wednesday . He was told to get out of the island nation if he did n't want to go from the cushiness of the beach resort room to the darkness of a prison cell ! <p> Gal Ferenbook , in a video that went viral on the internet , was seen being hailed by a colleague as the " Terminator " from the safety of what looked like an IDF facility . He had a broad smile on his face as his colleague zoomed the camera towards a screen in front of them which showed a Palestinian man lying motionless . Ferenbook was being hailed as a " Terminator " for taking down a Palestinian and there was no sign of the victim being armed . <p> The video which was taken as a trophy to celebrate a remorseless act , came back to haunt Gal Ferenbook as Hind Rajab Foundation , a Belgium-based pro-Palestine organisation , confirmed his presence in Sri Lanka and raised alarm . It demanded the Sri Lankan authorities detain " war criminal " Ferenbook and tipped off the International Criminal Court , and Interpol , reports said . <p> Israel , who understood which way things were heading , asked its soldier to cut his vacation short and come back home . <h> OSINT missions against IDF soldiers <p> Israel had warned its soldiers fighting in Gaza against shooting and sharing videos or photos from the frontlines on social media . At a time when the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his former defense minister Yoav Gallant for alleged war crimes , it is no safer for the soldiers to avoid posting photos from Gaza online . Such materials available online are being gathered by anti-Israel activists and groups to be used against IDF in war crimes proceedings . <p> Right groups are spending hours online monitoring the social media accounts of IDF personnel to download any such material as soon as they are posted . Later , if these soldiers decide to make an international trip for leisure or other private purposes , their social media activities are again used to pinpoint their location . The activists will file they proceed and complaints against them locally , Israel found out . <p> The Times Of Israel identified recent instances of IDF soldiers being forced to leave Cyprus , Slovenia , and the Netherlands under similar circumstances . Dozens of fighters were told to avoid international vacations by Israel in the light of war crimes complaints filed against them , the report said . <p> In Gal Ferenbook 's case , the controversial video was posted on August 9 on his Instagram account , Times Of Israel said in a report . " Today , the #HindRajabFoundation has formally sent the ICC complaint against Gal Ferenbook to the governments of #SouthAfrica , #Ireland , and #Spain , urging them to issue arrest warrants and request Interpol Red Notices should he leave #SriLanka freely . Gal Ferenbook , a soldier with blood on his hands , is responsible for the killing of a Palestinian civilian and boasts about his actions in widely documented footage ( see video ) . As a war criminal , he must not be allowed to enjoy impunity . The Hind Rajab Foundation calls on the international community to act decisively and ensure accountability for his crimes , " the Belgian group said on X on December 18 . <p> From the comment section , it seems like the Israeli man made it out of Sri Lanka safely . <h> Can Israel protect its soldiers from arrest in foreign lands ? <p> Tel Aviv clarified that it will throw its weight behind its soldiers if anti-Israel groups decide to carry on with this modus operandi . Its diplomatic offices in respective countries will give asylum to any soldier who is arrested or asked to come in for questioning or feels threatened while abroad , the Israeli media . " The IDF does everything it can and uses all available means to protect its service members at home and abroad , " the report added . 
@@119132500 <h> Five casualties , including children , were reported following an Israeli airstrike in Nuseirat , Gaza . Concurrently , Gaza 's health ministry reported severe bombing at Kamal Adwan Hospital , a key medical facility . This attack , described as unprecedented , came without warning and involved explosives and tank fire , endangering medical staff and patients . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> In a devastating incident , five people , among them two children , lost their lives in an Israeli airstrike targeting a home in the Nuseirat refugee camp within Gaza 's central region , according to medic reports shared with Reuters . <p> Simultaneously , a report from Gaza 's health ministry disclosed the ongoing heavy bombardment of the Kamal Adwan Hospital , located in northern Gaza , describing the situation as ' unprecedented ' and delivered without prior alert . This facility is one of the three remaining operational hospitals on the northern periphery , where Israeli military actions have been underway since October . <p> The health ministry alleged that the assault involved explosives and tank fire aimed directly at the hospital as medical personnel were present inside , posing significant risks to both staff and patients . 
@@119132501 <h> At least 10 Palestinians , including children , died in Israeli airstrikes on the Gaza Strip . The assaults hit residential areas and hospitals , escalating tensions . The Gaza health ministry reported ongoing attacks on the Kamal Adwan Hospital without prior warning , targeting medical facilities with explosives and tank fire . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> In a tragic development , Israeli airstrikes claimed the lives of at least 10 Palestinians , including two children , in central Gaza . The strikes targeted homes in the Nuseirat refugee camp and Deir Al-Balah city , as confirmed by local medics on Saturday . <p> Concurrently , Gaza 's health ministry reported severe bombings at the Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , describing the attacks as unprecedented and executed without any prior notice . The hospital , one of the few operational in the northern enclave , faces extreme danger amid ongoing military operations by the Israeli army since October . <p> The ministry stated , ' The bombing is being conducted with explosives and tank fire , directly targeting us while we are present inside the hospital departments , ' underscoring the dire situation and raising international concerns . 
@@119132558 <h> Tragedy Strikes Nuseirat : Airstrike Claims Five Lives <h> An Israeli airstrike hit a house in the Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza , resulting in the deaths of five people , including two children . This recent incident was reported by local medics to Reuters and adds to the ongoing conflict in the region , highlighting the humanitarian crisis unfolding . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> Country : <p> Egypt <p> SHARE <p> In a devastating incident on Saturday , an Israeli airstrike targeted a residence in the Nuseirat refugee camp , located in the central Gaza Strip . According to medics , the attack resulted in the deaths of five individuals , including two children . <p> The strike on the refugee camp underscores the escalating conflict that continues to grip the region , amplifying the humanitarian crisis that has captured international attention . The situation remains tense as casualties mount and the need for diplomatic resolution becomes increasingly urgent . <p> This tragic event in Nuseirat is a part of a broader pattern of violence and unrest that has plagued the area . Media outlets like Reuters continue to bring such developments to the forefront , urging a global examination of the conflict 's impacts on civilian lives . 
@@119132560 <p> The International Labour Organization ( ILO ) has announced the expansion of its emergency employment programme in Gaza , a critical initiative to address the dire economic and humanitarian challenges exacerbated by ongoing conflict . This effort forms part of the ILO 's broader Emergency Recovery Plan ( ERP ) for the Occupied Palestinian Territory , including Gaza and the West Bank , and aims to provide immediate income support , rebuild infrastructure , and deliver essential public services . <p> In early 2024 , the ILO piloted its emergency employment scheme , engaging over 150 workers and creating 13,500 workdays to deliver essential services such as health support and municipal operations . The pilot , conducted in collaboration with the UN Development Programme , laid the foundation for a scaled-up initiative that is now in motion . <p> This expanded programme , carried out in partnership with the Palestinian Employment Fund ( PEF ) , focuses on critical projects like water sewage cleaning , waste management , and other municipal operations . By August 2025 , the initiative aims to employ 1,245 workers and generate more than 112,000 workdays , directly addressing Gaza 's soaring unemployment and infrastructure challenges . <h> Addressing Unemployment and Public Health Crises <p> Gaza 's unemployment rate surged to nearly 80% following the outbreak of war in October 2023 , leaving the majority of the population without income . The emergency employment programme is designed to address both income generation and urgent humanitarian needs . Initiatives such as maintaining water and sewage systems not only provide jobs but also mitigate the risk of widespread public health crises in a region where infrastructure has been devastated . <h> A Multifaceted Recovery Approach <p> The ILO 's $20 million ERP is structured into three interconnected phases : <p> Early Recovery : Rebuilding jobs , enterprises , and critical infrastructure in Gaza and the West Bank . <p> The ongoing emergency employment initiative falls under the ERP 's third phase , aiming to promote job creation , strengthen social protection , and revive businesses . <h> Leadership Speaks on the Programme 's Impact <p> ILO Regional Director for Arab States Ruba Jaradat emphasized the organization 's role in rebuilding Gaza and fostering economic resilience . " Through partnerships with UN agencies , national organizations , and local communities , we are committed to restoring livelihoods , rebuilding infrastructure , and promoting inclusive development in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , " said Jaradat . <h> Devastation and the Path to Recovery <p> The ongoing conflict in Gaza has left over one million people homeless and displaced more than 75% of the population . Key infrastructure , including housing , industrial facilities , healthcare systems , and utilities , has been destroyed . The ILO 's emergency employment programme aims to alleviate these challenges by providing immediate job opportunities and contributing to long-term recovery efforts . <h> Aligning with Global Recovery Frameworks <p> The ILO 's ERP aligns with the **30;559;TOOLONG nexus , leveraging the United Nations ' wider relief and recovery strategies . By focusing on rebuilding critical infrastructure and promoting decent work opportunities , the programme seeks to restore economic stability and foster resilience in Gaza and the West Bank . <p> As the region continues to grapple with unprecedented challenges , the ILO 's initiative stands as a beacon of hope for millions , demonstrating the power of employment to rebuild lives , communities , and economies in the wake of crisis . 
@@119132566 <h> Precision Strikes : U.S. Military Targets Houthi Facilities in Yemen <h> The U.S. military executed precision airstrikes on Houthi facilities in Yemen , targeting missile storage and command centers . The operations aimed at diminishing Houthi capacities that threaten U.S. naval operations . Strikes included drones and missiles , counteracting ongoing Houthi attacks linked to conflict with Israel . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> The United States military launched precision airstrikes on Saturday , targeting Houthi-operated missile storage and command facilities in Sanaa , Yemen . The strikes are part of efforts to disrupt and disable Houthi operations in the region . <p> According to a statement from the U.S. military 's Central Command , the airstrikes were intended to impede Houthi attacks on U.S. Navy ships and merchant vessels , occurring predominantly in the Southern Red Sea , Bab al-Mandeb , and Gulf of Aden . The operations also targeted multiple drones and an anti-ship cruise missile over the Red Sea . <p> The Iran-backed Houthi group has been accused of disrupting commercial shipping for over a year in an attempt to enforce a naval blockade on Israel , purportedly to show support for Palestinians amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza . 
@@119132929 <p> Israeli emergency services work at the scene of a missile strike that , according to Israel 's military , was launched from Yemen and landed in Jaffa , south of Tel Aviv , Israel , December 21 , 2024 . Photo : REUTERS/ Stoyan Nenov <p> Israeli emergency services work at the scene of a missile strike that , according to Israel 's military , was launched from Yemen and landed in Jaffa , south of Tel Aviv , Israel , December 21 , 2024 . Photo : REUTERS/ Stoyan Nenov <p> The Israeli military on Saturday claimed that it failed to intercept a missile launched from Yemen that fell in the Tel Aviv-Jaffa area . According to Israel 's ambulance service , as reported by news agency Reuters , 14 people were injured . But news channel Al Jazeera has put the number at 16 , quoting authorities concerned . <p> However , the injuries , majorly caused by sharpnels , were described as mild . Some victims were taken to the hospital for further treatment . <p> " Following the sirens that sounded a short while ago in central Israel , one projectile launched from Yemen was identified and unsuccessful interception attempts were made , " the Israeli military stated on its Telegram channel , as per reports . <p> Since the Gaza war began over a year ago , Yemen 's Houthi rebels have launched several missile attacks on Israel . Majority of the attacks have been intercepted by Israeli defense systems . In retaliation , Israel has struck multiple targets in Yemen , including ports and energy facilities under Houthi control . <p> A statement from Israeli police confirmed the missile landing . " A short time ago , reports were received of a weapon falling in one of the settlements within the Tel Aviv district , " Al Jazeera reported , citing the statement . <p> The Houthi group , which is supported by Iran , has regularly fired missiles and drones at Israel . It frames these actions as acts of solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza . <p> Just days earlier , Israel launched airstrikes on ports and energy infrastructure in Houthi-controlled areas of Yemen and warned of further military action against the group . <h> Number of Injured in Tel Aviv Missile Attack Rises to 16 <p> According to Al Jazeera , Israel 's Magen David Adom ambulance service later updated the number of injuries from the missile strike and reported that at least 16 people were lightly injured , mostly due to broken glass caused by the blast . <h> Houthi Official Comments on Strike 's Significance <p> The successful missile strike on Tel Aviv has led a Houthi official to argue that Israel 's military defense systems are not as invulnerable as previously thought . Hezam al-Asad , a member of the Houthi Supreme Political Council , suggested that the failure of Israel 's defense systems demonstrated the limits of the country 's billion-dollar aerial defense capabilities . <p> In posts on both Arabic and Hebrew social media , al-Asad said , " The failure of all Israeli defence systems means that the heart of the Zionist enemy is no longer secure . " <p> He further taunted Israel by claiming that the interception systems , which cost billions of dollars , were ineffective and caused additional damage . " There is no longer any use for interception systems that cost billions of dollars , " he added . <h> Continued Tensions and Retaliation <p> The missile strike came amidst rising tensions between Israel and the Houthi-controlled areas of Yemen . As reported by Reuters , Israel has warned of more attacks following its recent strikes against Yemeni ports and infrastructure . <p> The ongoing exchange between Israel and the Houthis highlights the broader regional conflict that has been exacerbated by the war in Gaza and the support of various groups for their respective allies . 
@@119133176 <p> PM Modi 's Kuwait visit : First by an Indian Prime Minister in 43 years What 's on agenda <h> PM Modi 's Kuwait visit : First by an Indian Prime Minister in 43 years What 's on agenda <h> PM Narendra Modi will become the first Indian Prime Minister to visit Kuwait in 43 years . PM Modi will address ' Hala Modi ' event at the Sheikh Saad Al Abdullah Sports Complex . He will also visit a labour camp . <p> PM Modi embarked on a two-day visit to Kuwait , becoming the first Indian Prime Minister to tour the Gulf nation in 43 years . On Saturday , the PM said that India and the Gulf nation have a shared interest in peace , security and stability of the West Asian region . <p> Invited by Amir Sheikh Meshal Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah , PM Modi will meet Kuwait 's top leadership , which includes the meeting with the Crown Prince and the Prime Minister . In another notable engagement , the PM will visit a labour camp which houses blue-collar Indian workers . The PM will also address the Indian diaspora at the Sheikh Saad Al Abdullah Sports Complex in the ' Hala Modi ' event . <h> From Hala Modi to labour camp visit : Top agenda <p> On Modi 's visit to the labour camp , Ministry of External Affairs Secretary , Arun Kumar said , " We have a community of around one million in Kuwait . The idea of the visit to the labour camp is to express the amount of importance the government of India attaches to our workers who are working in a foreign country . " <p> Before PM Modi 's visit , the MEA said that discussions are underway between both nations on a bilateral investment treaty and a defence cooperation pact . The MEA in this weekly media briefing expected that PM 's visit will bolster India-Kuwait ties . <p> Notably , PM Modi 's visit to Kuwait is taking place two weeks after the collapse of President Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria and the continuing Israeli offensive in Gaza . <p> Moreover , the visit is also crucial for strengthening India-Gulf Cooperation Council ( GCC ) ties . GCC is an important bloc , comprising nations like Saudi Arabia , United Arab Emirates , Oman , Qatar , Bahrain , and Kuwait . <h> Here 's what the PM said <p> In a departure statement , PM Modi said that his talks with Kuwait 's top leadership will be an ' opportunity to chalk out a roadmap for a futuristic partnership ' between both countries . <p> " We deeply value the historical connection with Kuwait that has been nurtured over generations . e are not just strong trade and energy partners but also have shared interest in peace , security , stability and prosperity in the West Asia region , " he said . <p> " It would be an opportunity to chalk out a roadmap for a futuristic partnership for the benefit of our people and the region , " he said . " I eagerly look forward to meeting the Indian diaspora in Kuwait who have immensely contributed to strengthening of bonds of friendship between the two nations , " he added . 
@@119133533 <h> At least 18 killed in Israeli airstrikes on Gaza <p> Gaza , December 21 ( IANS ) At least 18 Palestinians were killed in Israeli airstrikes on the central and northern Gaza Strip , according to Palestinian sources . <p> Local sources and eyewitnesses reported that Israeli warplanes targeted an apartment in the multi-story " Yaffa " tower in the al-Nuseirat camp , located in central Gaza . <p> A statement from Al-Awda Hospital in the camp confirmed that eight people were killed and 14 others injured , some seriously , in the attack . <p> In northern Gaza , Israeli shelling struck a house belonging to the " Khilla " family in Jabalia Al-Balad , killing 10 people and injuring several others , according to the Gaza Strip 's Civil Defence . <p> The Israeli army has not commented on these incidents , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> Also on Friday , the military wing of Hamas , Al-Qassam Brigades , announced that one of its fighters had carried out a suicide attack targeting an Israeli force of six soldiers in Jabalia refugee camp , northern Gaza . <p> The Israeli army has not issued a comment on this incident . <p> Earlier on Thursday at least 16 Palestinians were killed by Israeli bombings in northern Gaza , the Palestinian official news agency WAFA reported . <p> At least 10 people were killed on Wednesday night and some others injured when the Israeli aircraft bombed the house of the Al-Najjar family in the town of Jabalia , WAFA said . <p> Six more people were killed due to Israeli bombing on the house of the Al-Zaytouniya family near the Al-Tabi'in School in the Al-Daraj neighborhood , east of Gaza City , it added . <p> The Israeli army has not commented on these incidents , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> Israel has been conducting a large-scale offensive against Hamas in Gaza in retaliation for the October 7 , 2023 Hamas assault on southern Israel , which resulted in approximately 1,200 deaths and 250 hostages taken . <p> As of Friday , the Palestinian death toll from ongoing Israeli attacks in Gaza has risen to 45,206 , according to Gaza-based health authorities . <h> Connect with us <h> Intro footer <p> The Morung Express <p> The Morung Express is a people-oriented alternative newspaper based in Nagaland that was conceived from the Naga people 's historical realities and is guided by their voices and experiences . It emerged from the well-recognized concept that the core of a free press is based on " qualitative and investigative " journalism . Ensuring this is essential for contributing to an informed Naga public that makes sound decisions on issues that affect all spheres of life . 
@@119133659 <p> Kuwait City : Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that India and Kuwait share a deep and historic bond , asserting that the two nations are poised to transform their traditional buyer-seller relationship into a strategic partnership by exploring opportunities across the entire oil and gas value chain . <p> Modi arrived in Kuwait on Saturday on a two-day visit , the first by an Indian prime minister in over four decades . <p> In an interview to the Kuwait News Agency ( KUNA ) , Modi voiced willingness to help efforts that could lead to an early restoration of peace in Gaza and Ukraine , asserting solutions to such conflicts can not be found in the battlefield . <p> He emphasised the importance of sincere and practical engagement between the stakeholders for bridging differences and achieving negotiated settlements . <p> Modi also reiterated India 's support for a negotiated two-state solution towards the establishment of a sovereign , independent and viable state of Palestine within secure and recognised borders , according to the interview . <p> With Kuwait standing as India 's sixth largest crude supplier and fourth largest LPG supplier , Modi said the scope for further collaboration is immense as his country emerges as the third biggest global energy , oil and LPG consumer . Kuwait holds around 6.5 per cent of global oil reserves , he said . <p> Modi said that the petrochemical sector offers another promising avenue for collaboration as India 's rapidly growing petrochemical industry is set to become USD 300 billion by 2025 . <p> The energy partnership between the two countries is not only a pillar of economic relationship but also a driver for diversified and sustainable growth , setting a path towards a future of shared prosperity , he said . <p> Modi described the Gulf Cooperation Council ( GCC ) , an organisation of six Middle East countries , including Kuwait , having vital significance for India . <p> India 's relationship with the Gulf is rooted in historical , cultural and trade linkages , with the GCC region accounting for around one-sixth of India 's total trade and hosting around one-third of the Indian diaspora , he said . <p> Around nine million Indians residing in the region are contributing positively to its economic growth , he added . <p> The prime minister said the Indian community acts as a living bridge between the two countries . <p> Trade and commerce , which have been on an upswing , have served as important pillars of their bilateral relationship , he said . <p> In the interview , he expressed happiness with ' Made in India ' products , particularly in automobile , electrical and mechanical machinery and telecom sector , making inroads in Kuwait . <p> He said India today is manufacturing world-class products at a most affordable cost , stressing that diversification to non-oil trade is key to achieving greater bilateral trade . <p> Modi added that there is a considerable potential to expand bilateral cooperation in the pharmaceutical , health , technology , digital , innovation and textile sectors . <p> India and Kuwait share a deep and historic bond and the relationship between both countries has always been one of warmth and friendship , he said , adding that the crosscurrents of history and exchanges through ideas and commerce have brought people close and together . <p> The two countries have traded with each other since time immemorial , Modi said . <p> Modi is set to meet the Emir , the Crown Prince , and the Prime Minister of Kuwait on Sunday . <p> ( Except for the headline , this story has not been edited by Republic and is published from a syndicated feed. ) 
@@119144063 <h> Israel targets Gaza refugee camps and kills more than 100 in 2 days <h> Share : <p> Palestinians mourn their relatives killed in the Israeli bombardment of the Gaza Strip at a hospital morgue in Deir al-Balah , Friday , November 1 , 2024 . AP Photo/Abdel Kareem Hana <p> The murderous Israeli onslaught on Gaza continued Friday , as dozens of Palestinians were killed by airstrikes that targeted homes in refugee camps over a 24-hour period . <p> The Washington Post reported that Palestinian health officials said 77 people were killed in missile strikes in the Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza and the Jabalya refugee camp in the north . Other media have reported more than 100 were killed in two days . <p> Staff at the two hospitals near Nuseirat where bodies were brought reported eight people killed . At the Jabalya camp , Gaza civil defense force spokesman Mahmoud Bassal said 10 people were killed , including seven children , and 15 others were injured . <p> The Post reported , " In a civil defense force video sent out after the Jabalya strike , Bassal holds up the lifeless body of a small child . ' Why do they kill ? Why are these children killed ? ' he asks , his voice full of grief and anger . ' Imagine this little girl is your daughter , imagine she is your child . ' " <p> The Associated Press said an Israeli missile struck the Jaffa residential tower in the Nuseirat refugee camp . <p> Speaking from Nuseirat , United Nations Relief Works Agency ( UNRWA ) emergency officer Louise Wateridge said aid was needed in Gaza to support people who have been uprooted multiple times by Israeli attacks and have little to protect themselves from the cold and rain . <p> Wateridge said , " The world is not seeing what 's going on with these people -- it 's impossible for families to shelter in these conditions , " as more heavy rain was expected to hit Gaza on Friday evening . <p> " Most people are living under fabric . They do n't even have waterproof structures , and 69 percent of the buildings here have been damaged or destroyed . There 's absolutely nowhere for people to shelter from these elements . " She said that the horrific conditions across Gaza show , " An entire society here is now a graveyard . <p> " Over 2 million people are trapped . They can not escape . And people continue to have basic needs deprived , and it just feels like every path here that you could possibly take is leading to death , " Wateridge said . <p> Late Friday , Palestinian media reported an Israeli aircraft had launched a raid on Sabra , southwest of Gaza City , and there are also reports of Israeli artillery shelling that targeted Beit Lahiya in the northern Gaza Strip . <p> The Gaza Health Ministry has confirmed at least 45,206 Palestinians have been killed by Israel since the genocide began in October 2023 . The ministry also reported 107,512 injured . The death and injury toll are likely many multiples higher than these numbers due to the numbers of dead and injured not being accounted for or adequately counted . <p> In July , a report published in the medical journal The Lancet estimated that the actual number of Palestinians killed in the Gaza genocide could be as high as 186,000 or more . This figure has no doubt grown significantly higher in the last five months . <p> Al Jazeera also reported that an Israeli drone was launched against Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza . The Palestinian Information Center also reported that Israeli artillery targeted the hospital 's gate . <p> Kamal Adwan Hospital , which is in the town of Beit Lahiya , has been the target of repeated brutal attacks by the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) going back to December 2023 , including the arrest and disappearance of medical staff , the bulldozing of tents of displaced Palestinians outside the facility , the arrest and torture of the hospital director and , most recently , tank artillery and air strikes . <p> On Friday , a report published by Haaretz quoted Israeli soldiers describing the blatant murder of Palestinian civilians in Gaza . Unnamed soldiers , including career officers and reservists , told the Israeli daily that commanders were given unprecedented authority to operate in Gaza . <p> According to Al Jazeera , the soldiers said commanders had " ordered or allowed the killing of unarmed women , children and men in the Netzarim Corridor , a seven-kilometer-wide ( 4.3-mile-wide ) strip of land that cuts across Gaza from Israel to the Mediterranean , and which has been turned into a military zone . " <p> The Haaretz report quoted an officer who recounted an incident , where a commander had announced that 200 fighters were killed , when actually " only 10 were confirmed as known Hamas operatives . " The soldiers told Haaretz they received questionable orders to open fire on " anyone who enters " Netzarim . <p> The report also quoted a soldier , who said his battalion commander told them , " Anyone crossing the line is a terrorist -- no exceptions , no civilians . Everyone 's a terrorist . " <p> The Haaretz report confirms allegations made against Israel since last October that the Zionist regime of Benjamin Netanyahu is engaged in a campaign of ethnic cleansing and extermination of Palestinians in Gaza . <p> The IDF justified its war crimes by claiming that the barbaric measures in the Netzarim Corridor " are carried out in accordance with structured combat procedures , plans and operational orders approved by the highest ranks in the ( army ) . " <p> On Friday , Communication Specialist Rosalia Bollen of the United Nations International Children 's Emergency Fund ( UNICEF ) gave a press briefing at the Palais des Nations in Geneva in which she said : <p> Children in Gaza are cold , sick and traumatized . Hunger and malnutrition , and the dire living conditions more broadly , continue to put the lives of children at risk . Right now , over 96 percent of women and children in Gaza can not meet their basic nutritional needs . Most are surviving on rationed flour , lentils , pasta and canned food -- a diet that slowly compromises their health . <p> As winter sets in , Bollen said the conditions of Gaza 's children has " drastically diminished . " <p> In the West Bank , fascist Israeli settlers set fire to a mosque and vandalized property in the north on Friday , according to the head of the Palestinian village council . <p> Associated Press reported , " Nasfat al-Khafash , the head of the council in Marda where the attack occurred , said a group of settlers arrived early in the morning , setting the mosque on fire and scrawling hateful messages on it . " <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Associated Press video showed spray-painted stars of David and the words in Hebrew , " the mosque will burn , the temple will be built , " an apparent reference to the ultranationalist desire to establish a Third Temple for Jews in Jerusalem at the holiest and most contested site in the Holy Land . <p> " These slogans reflect their upbringing and hatred towards Palestinians and Arabs , " said al-Khafash , adding that the settlers received " full support " from the government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu -- the furthest-right government in Israel 's history . " <p> Human rights and anti-war activists along with Palestinian supporters attended a " Taxpayers Against Genocide " press conference and rally on December 19 calling for an end to funding Israel 's genocide in ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119144067 <p> The missile is being described as a direct hit which the Israeli air defences such as David 's Sling and the Cardboard Dome failed to intercept as admitted by the Israeli army in much commentary on the social media <p> Meanwhile the Israeli Haaretz newspaper reported that ambulance teams transferred more than 20 injured settlers to the Wolfson and Ichilov hospitals after a rocket from Yemen fell in Tel Aviv as reported in Quds Press . <p> The Israeli police confirmed as well that " damage " occurred to a number of homes as a result of the rocket explosion in the Bnei Brak area to the east of Tel Aviv . <p> Houthi military spokesperson Yahya Saree announced , in a statement , that their fighters carried out " a military operation targeting a military site of the Israeli enemy in the occupied Jaffa area with a hypersonic ballistic missile . " <h> Related Posts <p> The murderous Israeli onslaught on Gaza continued Friday , as dozens of Palestinians were killed by airstrikes that targeted homes in refugee camps over a 24-hour period . The Washington Post reported that Palestinian ... <p> Human rights and anti-war activists along with Palestinian supporters attended a " Taxpayers Against Genocide " press conference and rally on December 19 calling for an end to funding Israel 's genocide in ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119144094 <h> Share : <p> In Palestine , Iraq , Libya , Syria , Lebanon and elsewhere , the Arab people , including women and children , have suffered massive violence and cruelties in recent times . There is a famous Hindi poem by Dushyant Kumar which says -- when the sorrow has become ( as massive as ) the Himalayan mountains , a river ( of resistance for reducing this distress ) must surely arise from this . <p> Certainly a lot of Arab resistance has already existed at so many levels , but all this taken together has not been able to prevent Arabs from suffering violence and distress in the most cruel ways as well as the destruction of entire countries . Hence it is time for the Arab people to start thinking of new forms of resistance based on much greater and broader unity , non-violence and sustainability as well as continuity for a long time . These struggles must be able to get the approval and support of all people worldwide who value justice and peace . <p> Such a path definitely would need a clear vision for the Arab people and region based on a future of peace and justice , inclusive and sustainable development and environment protection . Such a vision should seek to take along other ethnicities of the region , such as the Kurd people , and closer cooperation with several neighboring countries such as Iran should be sought . <p> Forces of justice and peace all over the Arab world should mobilize to create a clear vision of what a united Arab world , united not by opposition of anyone in particular but instead united by devoted pursuit of what is best for the welfare of its own people based on inclusivity , justice including gender justice , peace , non-discrimination , sustainable development , protection of environment and biodiversity . An important aspect of this vision would be to work out how the resources of the region can be best used and prioritized for the welfare of all people , taking equal care also of all ethnic and religious minorities as well . <p> Such a vision should be taken to as many people as possible in the form of not just reports but also in the form of literature , music and cinema and various educational programs so that more and more people start thinking and discussing in terms of such an alternative vision of Arab society and are inspired by this , instead of their thinking remaining in the narrow sphere of what people have seen and experienced in most of their life . <p> The Arab region has enough resources to meet adequately and on sustainable basis the needs of all people including of course the Palestinians . Yet what has been seen in recent times is that several countries and vast areas have been destroyed . In countries and lands where despite several problems people were able to meet their needs in satisfactory ways and lead secure life , what has happened is that several million of these people are denied such satisfactory and secure life now and several million have been displaced and uprooted from their homes . Several hundred thousand people have died prematurely in very painful ways and this is something that was clearly avoidable . What really happened ? Who is responsible ? <p> When such questions are asked and debated people get worked up , understandably , and want to do something very quickly . Sometimes they manage to get some short-term results but more often the hurry and the anger stand in the way of achieving any durable and significant good results . Hence it is important first to have a clear understanding of what is the alternative society that must be aimed at . While this will certainly involve peaceful , firm , principled resistance to all oppressors , this will also involve self-reform so that people can get rid of their narrowness such as sectarianism , the Shia-Sunni and other divisions etc . Such efforts include struggle and resistance on the one hand and various kinds of constructive work and social reform on the other hand . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> While there are many difficulties on this path , this is also a path of great satisfaction and solidarity , of creativity and commitment . This is why if such efforts are made with adequate planning and care , after a certain stage there will be many committed people in this caravan to take forward the vision of a new Arab land and region based on justice , inclusivity , peace and environment protection . <p> This effort should also reach out to all true forces and organizations of justice and peace in all parts of the world , not excluding the USA and Israel . <p> Bharat Dogra is Honorary Convener , Campaign to Save Earth Now . His recent books include Protecting Earth for Children , Man over Machine , Planet in Peril and A Day in 2071 . <h> Related Posts <p> The murderous Israeli onslaught on Gaza continued Friday , as dozens of Palestinians were killed by airstrikes that targeted homes in refugee camps over a 24-hour period . The Washington Post reported that Palestinian ... <p> Human rights and anti-war activists along with Palestinian supporters attended a " Taxpayers Against Genocide " press conference and rally on December 19 calling for an end to funding Israel 's genocide in ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119144605 <p> Congress general secretary in-charge communications Jairam Ramesh , in a rhyming post on X , said , " Such is their fate , As Mr. Modi refuses to find a date , The people of Manipur continue to wait , While the Frequent Flyer PM is off to Kuwait . " <p> Congress leader Jairam Ramesh took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi , saying the " frequent flyer PM " is off to Kuwait while the people of Manipur continue to wait for him to visit the violence-hit state . PM Modi embarked on a two-day visit to Kuwait on Saturday to boost ties in a range of areas including defence and trade . <p> Congress general secretary in-charge communications Jairam Ramesh , in a rhyming post on X , said , " Such is their fate , As Mr. Modi refuses to find a date , The people of Manipur continue to wait , While the Frequent Flyer PM is off to Kuwait . " The Congress has repeatedly urged Modi to visit Manipur , stressing that it would help restore peace and normalcy in the strife-torn state . <p> The ethnic violence in Manipur first broke out on May 3 last year after a tribal solidarity march in the hill districts of the state to protest against the majority Meitei community 's demand for Scheduled Tribe status . <p> Since then , more than 220 people belonging to Meitei and Kuki communities and security personnel have been killed in the violence . <p> Meanwhile , PM Modi 's visit to Kuwait , the first by an Indian prime minister in 43 years , comes two weeks after the collapse of Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria and amid signs of a possible ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas in Gaza . The last Indian prime minister to visit Kuwait was Indira Gandhi in 1981 . <p> In a departure statement , Modi said his talks with the top Kuwaiti leadership would be an opportunity to chalk out a roadmap for a futuristic partnership between India and Kuwait . <p> ( Except for the headline , this story has not been edited by DNA staff and is published from PTI ) 
@@119149714 <h> PM Modi embarks on 2-day visit to Kuwait <p> New Delhi : As he embarked on a two-day visit to Kuwait , Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday said India and the Gulf nation have shared interest in peace , security and stability of the West Asian region . <p> Modi 's visit to Kuwait is taking place two weeks after the collapse of President Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria and the continuing Israeli offensive in Gaza . <h> Also Read <p> In a departure statement , Modi said his talks with top Kuwaiti leadership would be an opportunity to chalk out a roadmap for a futuristic partnership between India and Kuwait . <p> " We deeply value the historical connection with Kuwait that has been nurtured over generations . We are not just strong trade and energy partners but also have shared interest in peace , security , stability and prosperity in the West Asia region , " he said . 
@@119154934 <h> Possibility to reach a deal ' closer than ever ' if Israel stops bringing new terms : Hamas <h> Story highlights <p> The delegation of leaders from Hamas , Palestinian Islamic Jihad , and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine met on Friday in Cairo to discuss the ongoing negotiations for a ceasefire and hostage release deal . <p> Palestinian militant group Hamas on Saturday ( Dec 21 ) said that the possibility of reaching a ceasefire deal with Israel is " closer than ever " if the enemy stops setting new conditions . <p> The delegation of leaders from Hamas , Palestinian Islamic Jihad , and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine met on Friday in Cairo to discuss the ongoing negotiations for a ceasefire and hostage release deal . <p> All these three groups have been holding hostages throughout Gaza . <p> The Hamas statement read that the factions " stressed everyone 's keenness to stop the aggression against our people " , apparently referring to its demand for a permanent ceasefire . <p> The key area of disagreement in the talks is the nature of the ceasefire deal , with Hamas demanding a permanent end to the fighting , while Israel is seeking a temporary pause during which some of the hostages would be released followed by a resumption of its fighting . <p> This has been demanded in order to finish demolishing the Palestinian group 's military and governing capabilities , an Arab diplomat told The Times of Israel . <p> Israel has sought an agreement that " ends the military operation " . Meanwhile , Hamas is insisting that the text states that the ceasefire will " end the war " . <p> The statement further read that all the sides appreciated the Egyptian effort to strike a reconciliation deal between the various Palestinian factions . <p> The delegation is scheduled to hold another meeting as soon as possible . <p> Earlier this week , Hamas said that talks in Qatar 's Doha aimed at a truce and hostage-prisoner exchange in Gaza were " serious and positive . " <p> Israel and Hamas have been fighting a war in the Gaza Strip since October 7 , 2023 . Since the Gaza war began , Qatar , along with the United States ( US ) and Egypt , has been working for months to secure a truce and hostage release deal . <p> Disclaimer : WION takes the utmost care to accurately and responsibly report conflicts in West Asia involving Israel , Iran , Syria , Iraq , and non-state actors like the Islamic State , among others . In this context , claims and counterclaims are being made online and offline . WION can not independently verify the authenticity of all statements , social media posts , photos , and videos . <p> ( With inputs from agencies ) <h> Mansi Arora <p> Ardent geopolitical news writer with a keen eye for global affairs . With passion for illuminating the complexities of global dynamics , Mansi explores her interests b 
@@119163295 <h> India , Kuwait elevate ties to strategic partnership <p> Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's visit to Kuwait , the first in 43 years , resulted in a strategic partnership and a defense cooperation agreement . The nations condemned terrorism , agreeing to enhance counter-terrorism efforts . Discussions included trade , investment , and the West Asia situation , with Kuwait supporting India-GCC cooperation . <p> Narendra Modi 's visit to Kuwait , the first by an Indian Prime Minister in 43 years , was marked by the two sides signing a significant agreement to boost defence cooperation and also elevate relations to a strategic partnership . The defence agreement is in line with efforts by Indian govt in recent times to boost security and defence cooperation with Gulf nations . " The agreement will institutionalise bilateral cooperation in the area of defence , " said the Indian govt , adding that key areas of cooperation will include joint military exercises , training of defence personnel , coastal defence , maritime safety , joint development and production of defence equipment.Importantly for India , Kuwait joined India in unequivocally condemning terrorism in all its forms and manifestations , including cross-border terrorism and called for disrupting terrorism financing networks and safe havens , and dismantling of terror infrastructure . Expressing appreciation of their ongoing bilateral cooperation in security , both sides agreed to enhance cooperation in counter-terrorism operations , information and intelligence sharing and , among other things , to strengthen cooperation in law enforcement , anti-money laundering , drug-trafficking and other crimes.Modi held bilateral talks with Kuwait PM Sheikh Ahmad Al-Abdullah Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah , looking to finalise a roadmap to bolster strategic partnership in political , trade , investment , energy , defence and security ties . <h> India , Kuwait believed to have discussed West Asia situation <p> During his Kuwait visit , PM Modi also met the Amir , Sheikh Meshal Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah , and Crown Prince Sheikh Sabah Al-Khaled Al-Sabah Al-Hamad Al-Mubarak Al-Sabah.Modi 's visit to Kuwait took place in the middle of renewed efforts for a ceasefire in Gaza . Kuwait , which holds the GCC presidency , strongly called for a temporary ceasefire at a recent GCC summit it hosted . While neither side officially said anything on Gaza or the overall West Asia situation , it 's believed there was a discussion on the issue with Indian govt reiterating its support for a ceasefire and also two-state solution . <p> On Modi 's meeting with the Amir , Indian govt said that the leaders recalled the strong historical and friendly ties between the two countries and re-affirmed their full commitment to further expanding and deepening bilateral cooperation . " In this context , they agreed to elevate the bilateral relationship to a ' strategic partnership ' , " said an Indian readout . Modi also thanked him for ensuring the well-being of over 1 million-strong Indian community in Kuwait and invited him to visit India . " The Kuwaiti side as the current Chair of GCC assured full support for deepening of India-GCC cooperation under the recently adopted ' joint action plan ' in areas , including health , trade , security , agriculture and food security , transportation , energy , culture , amongst others . Both sides also stressed the importance of early conclusion of India-GCC Free Trade Agreement , " said a joint statement.Both sides also noted that trade has been an enduring link between the two countries and emphasised on the potential for further growth and diversification in bilateral trade . " They also emphasised on the need for promoting exchange of business delegations and strengthening institutional linkages , " said the statement , adding Kuwait agreed to explore investment opportunities in India in a range of areas . 
@@119163578 <h> Two US Navy pilots shot down over Red Sea in ' friendly fire ' incident : US military <h> According to reports , both the pilots were alive after they were recovered though one of them suffered minor injuries . <p> The US military had conducted precision airstrikes against Iran backed Houthi rebels in Yemen on Saturday . ( AP Photo/ Representational ) <p> In an apparent " friendly fire " incident over the Red Sea , two US Navy pilots were shot down , the US military said in a statement . <p> According to Associated Press , both the pilots were alive after they were recovered though one of them suffered minor injuries . The US military had conducted precision airstrikes against Iran backed Houthi rebels in Yemen on Saturday . <p> " The guided missile cruiser USS Gettysburg , which is part of the USS Harry S. Truman Carrier Strike Group , mistakenly fired on and hit the F/A-18 , which was flying off the USS Harry S. Truman , " the US Central Command said in a statement . <p> Advertisement <p> Elaborating on its airstrikes against Houthi rebels , the US Central Command said that it targeted a missile storage facility and a command-and-control facility operated by the rebel group in Sana'a , Yemen . <p> In a post on X , the US Central Command said " CENTCOM forces conducted deliberate strikes to disrupt and degrade Houthi operations , such as attacks against U.S. Navy warships and merchant vessels in the Southern Red Sea , Bab al-Mandeb , and Gulf of Aden . " <p> The airstrike on Houthi rebels involved US Air Force and US Navy assets , the military stated . <p> Since the Gaza based Hamas militant group 's surprise attack on Israel in October 2023 , which killed over 1,200 people and saw 250 others taken hostage , the Houthi rebels have targeted about 100 merchant vessels with missiles and drones. 
@@119163763 <h> Israel 's Defence Minister inspected troops in Lebanon . He oversaw preparations for the next phase of the Hezbollah ceasefire . The Minister warned of crushing consequences if Hezbollah violates the agreement . Hezbollah is required to withdraw south of the Litani River . The Lebanese Armed Forces and UN will deploy along the border . Hezbollah attacks followed the Hamas attacks in October . <p> " We have extracted the serpent 's fangs , and if Hezbollah does not withdraw beyond the LitRiver and attempts to violate the ceasefire , we will crush its head , " Katz stated . " We will not allow Hezbollah to rebuild its terror infrastructure in southern villages , ensuring the safety and security of the residents of northern Israel . " <p> During the visit , he conducted a situational assessment with division commanders and spoke with soldiers . <p> Under the terms of a two-month ceasefire that went into effect on November 27 , Hezbollah is supposed to withdraw its armed presence from areas of southern Lebanon south of the Litani River . Israeli forces will also withdraw from southern Lebanon in stages . The Lebanese Armed Forces is to be deployed in southern Lebanon including along the 120 km border with Israel , as will monitors from the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon . <p> After the Hamas attacks of October 7 , 2023 , Hezbollah began launching rockets and launching drones at northern Israel communities daily . More than 68,000 residents of northern Israel are displaced from their homes . Hezbollah leaders have repeatedly said they would continue the attacks to prevent Israelis from returning to their homes . <p> According to United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701 , which ended the 2006 Second Lebanon War , Hezbollah is forbidden from operating in southern Lebanon south of the Litani River . <p> At least 1,200 people were killed , and 252 Israelis and foreigners were taken hostage in Hamas 's attacks on Israeli communities near the Gaza border on October 7 . Of the 97 remaining hostages , more than 30 have been declared dead . Hamas has also been holding captive two Israeli civilians since 2014 and 2015 , and the bodies of two soldiers killed in 2014. 
@@119163909 <h> ' Younger people have a different narrative on Israel now , ' says Joe Sacco <h> Summary <p> The graphic novelist reflects on the evolving legacy of his work on Palestine and his need to respond to the violence there <p> This is a Mint Premium article gifted to you . Subscribe to enjoy similar stories . <p> Joe Sacco has been called the heir to Art Spiegelman ( Maus ) and his award shelf creaks under the weight of trophies ( Eisner Award for Best Original Graphic Novel , Ridenhour Book Prize , American Book Award , etc . ) . But the scale of achievements casts no shadow on the man himself . When hordes of fans turned up at his brief appearances in two Delhi bookstores last month , the response surprised the 64-year-old Maltese-American graphic novelist . Wearing an unfaltering smile under a black fedora , he gracefully shook hands , signed copies and obliged selfie requests . Sacco is known around the world for his comics journalism , a genre unique enough even without his choice of subjects -- the Bosnian War , indigenous North America , Israel-Palestine relations . For many Indians , his two graphic novels on Palestine -- released in the 1990s and the aughts -- were the first accessible and immersive reports from the region that did not conform to the existing media narrative . In the wake of the current violence , Palestine and Footnotes in Gaza have acquired another lease of life , informing a whole new generation about the history of a besieged people . Sacco speaks to Lounge about the current situation . Edited excerpts : <h> Amnesty International recently concluded that Israel is committing a genocide in Palestine . You spent a lot of time in Gaza to report your stories . Did you ever think that violence would take such a shape against the Palestinians ? <p> I ca n't say I thought there 'd be a genocide . I thought what they ( Israel ) euphemistically call a " population transfer " might take place at some point . I thought the long-term goals of Israel might be to remove the Palestinians from various areas -- whether it was Gaza or parts of the West Bank .... Though if you look back , you see the impunity with which Israel has behaved over decades , the people they have killed in their various assaults in Gaza , even my own research into the massacres of Palestinians in 1956 , the logic of it was there . <h> Do you think something has shifted in the world 's perception of Israel and Palestine during this last year ? <p> Younger people do n't have the romanticised view of Israel that people of my generation and older had : This scruffy little nation " besieged by the Arab world " and " making the desert bloom " . They saw the bloodshed and carnage on their phones and got it right away . ... They started to examine the issue and see that there was a great unfairness historically . Younger people have a different narrative on Israel now , and we can see the power that narrative is developing -- Western governments have started to feel incumbent upon themselves to throttle that ( narrative ) , to threaten the people with that viewpoint , to expel them from schools , to say that they 'll never work after they 've graduated . People are losing jobs over their viewpoint . That demonstrates how powerful this new narrative is . <p> View Full Image <p> Sacco is known around the world for his comics journalism . ( Getty Images ) <h> Survivor accounts from Palestine in the form of photos and videos have been ignored and/or discredited by some media outlets . In this context , do you fear that comics journalism is even easier to discredit by someone so inclined ? <p> No , I think it 's the opposite . We see a photo and we tend not to trust it . We think , " Oh , this can be manipulated . " Even voice can be manipulated . But with the drawn image , the reader knows straightaway that this is filtered through someone 's hand . It 's clear that it 's a subjective viewpoint .... because I 've drawn this , people already know that they 're seeing this through my eyes . <h> You 've mentioned before that your form of journalism takes time . Years , instead of hours or days or weeks . What does that kind of timeline lend to the narrative and what are the limitations of it ? <p> Sometimes I wish that the books I 'm working on could be done in an instant . What written journalism has over what I do is that you see something one day and a day or two later , people are reading about it . That 's the power of newspaper reporting . When I studied journalism , I wanted to be a reporter who worked quickly . I liked working under deadline pressure . But I 've had to conform to the medium , and this medium requires time . I 'm very interested in getting the details right , drawing the buildings accurately , and that requires time . So instead of saying that I 'd like to do this quicker , I have decided to focus on the advantages of " slow journalism " . ... The longer time I spend there , the more people get to know me , see me around asking questions , and understand why I 'm there . ... I tend to look for universal sources of stories . What happened in 1956 was important to talk about because it 's a historical event . I 'm also showing what 's happening now -- that too is now a historic event . I think I practise journalism through a historical lens . <h> Given that you often represent people who are traditionally under-represented and oppressed , do you struggle with the question of realistic representation versus caricature in your comics ? <p> When I first started doing the book Palestine , it was serialised . I was criticised for the first issue I did by a Jewish person I did n't know and a Palestinian I did n't know . Both said that I had drawn them as caricatures . I had to think about that . The truth is I never learnt to draw realistically . I always tended to draw everything in a grotesque fashion . It had its appeal . But I also realised that to do journalism , or something aspiring to a journalism standard , I had to learn to draw more realistically . So , over time I began to shift how I drew . I listened to those lessons and learned to draw more realistically , which is not natural to my hand . <h> Did this realistic style shift only impact your books on Palestine or has it affected all of your work since ? <p> It 's seeped into all of my work . Even when I 'm doing funnier stuff on the side , I try to get the realistic line out of my hand . But your hand tends to do what it 's trained to do . ( Initially ) I beat it up so that it could draw realistically . And now I beat it up when I need to draw more cartoon-y . My poor hand ! <h> You 've covered horrific stories of violence through your career and immersed yourself into these stories drawing them . How do you balance the demands of your work and your mental health ? <p> Well , you should never think that I 'm so experienced in all this that I 'm not shocked . I never became inured to any of this stuff . It 's always unpleasant to see things , hear stories and draw them , especially to draw . Drawing is sometimes harder on you than being in the place , in the emotional toll it takes on you . The genocide in Gaza right now affects me like it affects everyone . It 's so horrific . There 's a part of me that really wants to turn away from it . Over decades of working with this sort of material I have recognised that because I have n't become calloused to it , I want to shift away from it . ... For my own mental health , I do want to move away from it . But I should say that I have a pretty good home life , good friends , a couple of martinis over the weekend . There are ways everyone copes , and I 'm lucky for the things that allow me to cope . <h> You say that you want to shift away from these stories . But as an artist who has reported on Gaza before , do you also feel compelled to respond to this event ? <p> I did about 32 pages of comics ( https : **36;267;TOOLONG ) that was n't reporting but my pontificating about what was going on . One of my friends in Khan Younis managed to get out of Gaza after 60 days of bombardment and got in touch with me . He said , " Please lift up your voice . " So , I felt compelled to do something . It 's sort of a critique , maybe less so of Israel than of the US , and our complicity in this .... and there 's more in the works . If I wanted to think about my mental health I 'd just go off and do my side projects that I have been dying to get to for decades but I also have obligations . <h> Any Palestinian writers or artists you 'd like to recommend to our readers ? <p> Rashid Khalidi , the Palestinian-American historian who wrote The Hundred Years ' War on Palestine ; Mohammad Sabaaneh , a Palestinian cartoonist -- I particularly like his black-and-white work ; Refaat Alareer , a Gazan poet whose work still resonates -- he was killed with family members by an Israeli bomb a year ago . 
@@119164332 <h> Netanyahu says Israel will continue to act against the Houthis <h> " Just as we acted forcefully against the terrorist arms of Iran 's axis of evil , so we will act against the Houthis , " he said in a video statement a day after a missile fired from Yemen fell in the Tel Aviv area , causing a number of mild injuries . <p> Reuters <p> December 22 , 2024 / 21:58 IST <h> Netanyahu says Israel will continue to act against the Houthis <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Sunday Israel would continue acting against the Iran-backed Houthis in Yemen , whom he accused of threatening world shipping and the international order , and called on Israelis to be steadfast . <p> " Just as we acted forcefully against the terrorist arms of Iran 's axis of evil , so we will act against the Houthis , " he said in a video statement a day after a missile fired from Yemen fell in the Tel Aviv area , causing a number of mild injuries . <p> On Thursday , Israeli jets launched a series of strikes against energy and port infrastructure in Yemen in a move officials said was a response to hundreds of missile and drone attacks launched by the Houthis since the start of the Gaza war 14 months ago . <p> On Saturday , the U.S. military said it conducted precision airstrikes against a missile storage facility and a command-and-control facility operated by Houthis in Yemen 's capital , Sanaa . <p> Netanyahu , strengthened at home by the Israeli military 's campaign against Iran-backed Hezbollah forces in southern Lebanon and by its destruction of most of the Syrian army 's strategic weapons , said Israel would act with the United States . <p> Advisory Alert:It has come to our attention that certain individuals are representing themselves as affiliates of Moneycontrol and soliciting funds on the false promise of assured returns on their investments . We wish to reiterate that Moneycontrol does not solicit funds from investors and neither does it promise any assured returns . In case you are approached by anyone making such claims , please write to us at **25;515;TOOLONG or call on 02268882347 
@@119164413 <h> Druze leader Walid Jumblatt was a longtime critic of Syria 's involvement in Lebanon and blamed Assad 's father , former President Hafez Assad , for the assassination of his own father decades ago <p> A prominent Lebanese politician held talks on Sunday with the insurgent who led the overthrow of Syria 's President Bashar Assad , with both expressing hope for a new era in relations between their countries . <p> Druze leader Walid Jumblatt was a longtime critic of Syria 's involvement in Lebanon and blamed Assad 's father , former President Hafez Assad , for the assassination of his own father decades ago . He is the most prominent Lebanese politician to visit Syria since the Assad family 's 54-year rule came to an end . <p> He held talks with Ahmad al-Sharaa , formerly known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani , who led the Sunni Islamist rebels who swept into Damascus earlier this month and forced the younger Assad from power . <p> " We salute the Syrian people for their great victories and we salute you for your battle that you waged to get rid of oppression and tyranny that lasted over 50 years , " said Jumblatt , a key figure in Lebanon 's Druze minority and the former leader of a leftist party . <p> He expressed hope that Lebanese-Syrian relations " will return to normal . " Jumblatt 's father , Kamal , was killed in 1977 in an ambush near a Syrian roadblock during Syria 's military intervention in Lebanon 's civil war . The younger Jumblatt was a critic of the Assads , though he briefly allied with them at one point to gain influence in Lebanon 's ever-shifting political alignments . <p> " Syria was a source of concern and disturbance , and its interference in Lebanese affairs was negative , " al-Sharaa said , referring to the Assad government . " Syria will no longer be a case of negative interference in Lebanon , " he said , pledging that it would respect Lebanese sovereignty . <p> Al-Sharaa also repeated longstanding allegations that Assad 's government was behind the 2005 assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri , which was followed by other killings of prominent Lebanese critics of Assad . <p> Last year , the United Nations closed an international tribunal investigating the assassination after it convicted three members of Lebanon 's Hezbollah -- an ally of Assad -- in absentia . Hezbollah denied involvement in the massive February 14 , 2005 bombing , which killed Hariri and 21 others . <p> " We hope that all those who committed crimes against the Lebanese will be held accountable , and that fair trials will be held for those who committed crimes against the Syrian people , " Jumblatt said . <p> Iran 's leader predicts trouble for new Syrian rulers Separately , Iran 's supreme leader said that young Syrians will resist the new government emerging after Assad 's overthrow as he again accused the United States and Israel of sowing chaos in the country . <p> Iran had provided crucial support to Assad throughout Syria 's nearly 14-year civil war , which erupted after he launched a violent crackdown on a popular uprising . Syria had long served as a key conduit for Iranian aid to Hezbollah . <p> Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said in an address on Sunday that the " young Syrian has nothing to lose " and suffers from insecurity following Assad 's fall . <p> " What can he do ? He should stand with strong will against those who designed and those who implemented the insecurity , " Khamenei said . " God willing , he will overcome them . " He accused the United States and Israel of plotting against Assad 's government in order to seize resources , saying : " Now they feel victory , the Americans , the Zionist regime and those who accompanied them . " Iran and its militant allies in the region have suffered a series of major setbacks over the past year , with Israel battering Hamas in Gaza and landing heavy blows on Hezbollah before they agreed to a ceasefire in Lebanon last month . <p> Khamenei denied that such groups were proxies of Iran , saying they fought because of their own beliefs and that the Islamic Republic did not depend on them . " If one day we plan to take action , we do not need proxy force , " he said . <p> Advisory Alert:It has come to our attention that certain individuals are representing themselves as affiliates of Moneycontrol and soliciting funds on the false promise of assured returns on their investments . We wish to reiterate that Moneycontrol does not solicit funds from investors and neither does it promise any assured returns . In case you are approached by anyone making such claims , please write to us at **25;631;TOOLONG or call on 02268882347 
@@119164552 <h> Missile Fired from Yemen Strikes Tel Aviv , 16 Injured <p> A missile fired from Yemen struck Tel Aviv early on Saturday , marking a rare instance of a failed interception over the city . ( Photo : AP ) <p> A missile fired from Yemen struck Tel Aviv early on Saturday , marking a rare instance of a failed interception over the city . The projectile landed in Tel Aviv 's southern Jaffa area , causing damage and injuring at least 16 people , according to Israeli emergency services . While no fatalities were reported , several residents sustained minor injuries , mostly from flying glass and seeking shelter during the attack . <p> The missile strike occurred after sirens were triggered in Tel Aviv , Israel 's commercial and diplomatic hub . The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) attempted to intercept the incoming missile , but the interception failed , a rare occurrence given the city 's advanced air defense systems , including the Iron Dome , which typically provides effective protection against such threats . <p> In a statement , the Iran-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen claimed responsibility for the attack , saying they fired a hypersonic ballistic missile , named " Palestine 2 , " aimed at Israeli military targets in the Jaffa area . The group asserted that the missile struck its target accurately and that Israel 's defense systems failed to prevent the attack . <p> Israel 's Magen David Adom ( MDA ) emergency services reported that at least 16 people were injured , with the majority suffering from minor wounds caused by glass shards when windows were shattered by the blast . In addition to these injuries , 14 people were treated for slight injuries sustained while taking cover , and seven others were treated for panic-related issues . <p> One resident , 69-year-old Beth Shahai , recounted hearing the sirens but being unable to reach shelter before the missile exploded . " The missile exploded before I had time to flee , " she told Reuters . <p> This missile strike is a rare instance of a direct hit in Tel Aviv , which has generally been shielded by Israel 's robust air defense systems . The attack is seen as a significant escalation , as the Houthis have increasingly targeted Israeli interests in retaliation for the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas in Gaza . The missile 's failure to be intercepted highlights vulnerabilities in even the most advanced defense systems . <p> Israeli officials have vowed to strengthen their defense capabilities in response to this and similar attacks , while tensions in the region continue to rise . 
@@119164596 <h> Seeking middle ground in Middle East <p> The collapse of assumptions is like the end of the world -- or worldview . We assumed conventional battles and nuclear bombings ended with the 20th century . But wars in Russia-Ukraine , Gaza , Yemen , Sudan , Somalia and Lebanon prove us wrong . Western defence officials now raise the nuclear threat level . Britain 's armed forces chief Tony Radakin declared , " We are at the dawn of a third nuclear age . It is defined by proliferating nuclear and disruptive technologies and the almost total absence of the security architectures that went before . " <p> Such warnings are ominous . But western threat perceptions are also fuelled by false narratives , a kaleidoscope of selective evidence and wilful distortions . Russia threatens to use tactical nuclear weapons if NATO crosses its redlines in Ukraine . Mainstream west unreservedly accuses Russia of invading Ukraine . But respected American and European historians , left and rightwing groups , openly blame NATO expansion for triggering this war . <p> Nuclear drumbeat increases , but there is no mention of the US unilaterally withdrawing from its nuclear and missiles treaties with Russia in 2019 . Radakin said Russia 's induction of North Korean troops into Ukraine is dangerous . But equally dangerous was deploying British agents into Ukraine to invade Russia 's Kursk region . The west sees threats from China 's growing nuclear stockpiles and maritime fortifications . Is n't that what ascending powers do ? No mention that China 's nuclear arsenal and naval bases do n't compare with the US . Radakin blamed Iran for not cooperating with international efforts , when it was Britain 's " special friend " Donald Trump who scuppered the nuclear deal . <p> Imaging : Deni Lal <p> Geopolitical changes challenge assumptions . Perched on tanks , victorious rebels raced into Damascus , cheering and jeering , shouting and shooting . Statues of the fallen Syrian dictator and founders of his dynasty were toppled , heads severed and kicked like football on streets strewn with shattered glass . Bearded men blazing guns and praising God invariably bring long-term misery to ordinary citizens . This is not prediction , it is d ? j ? vu . We have seen such triumphal scenes before . They did not end well , not in Iraq , not in Libya , Sudan or Afghanistan . <p> The Middle East meltdown threatens the world as nation states disintegrate , their leaders assassinated or banished . Syria has now fallen to a scattershot patchwork of rebels , jihadists , nationalists , mercenaries , militias and terrorists with links to the Islamic State and al-Qaeda . They hail from competing geographies , feuding histories and incompatible ideologies . " It 's a pretty toxic brew , " said Democratic Senator Chris Van Hollen . <p> The long arm of the US and its great games stir these toxic brews . The covert CIA operation Timber Sycamore to topple Syria 's Bashar al-Assad was launched a decade ago by the Obama regime . As weapons and money flowed , Syria became a honeypot for swarming regional gunmen , its opposition overrun by gangsters and terrorists . Like Saddam Hussein and Muammar Gaddafi , Assad used brute force to keep his diverse country together . Now Syria risks being balkanised , disintegrating into separate fiefdoms tacitly controlled by big powers -- the US , Russia , Turkey , Israel and a weakened , isolated Iran . Shadowy hands now rock the cradle of civilisation . <p> Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu 's decades-long , self-proclaimed ambition is redrawing the Middle East map . He has devastated Gaza , invaded Lebanon and Syria . Iraq , Libya and Sudan were already destroyed . War with Iran remains . As president again , Trump may reduce the nuclear threat from Russia , but increases it from Iran . The US is complicit , the UN toothless , regional Sunni powers , treacherous . Iran 's allies are distracted , dismembered or destroyed . Shia-Iran is a cornered power with nuclear weapons . Threat levels rise , alarm bells ring . What it may do is best left unimagined . 
@@119164607 <h> The beleaguered Kamal Adwan Hospital in the Gaza Strip faces forced evacuation amid heavy conflict . With 400 patients , including neonatal cases , safety is precarious due to insufficient ambulances . Medics plead for aid under severe conditions , while Israel 's military targets Hamas militants and responds to humanitarian concerns . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> The conflict in Gaza has reached a critical point with the ordered evacuation of the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya . The hospital is one of the last partially operational medical facilities amid the ongoing military pressures in the region . <p> Husam Abu Safiya , the hospital 's head , described the situation as nearly impossible due to the lack of ambulances to evacuate approximately 400 civilians , including vulnerable neonates dependent on life-support systems . He voiced these concerns amid heavy bombardment and impending threats to fuel tanks , which could result in catastrophic explosions . <p> Israel 's military has defended its actions , claiming to have supplied essential resources and coordinated evacuations with groups like the Red Cross . However , broader tensions persist with accusations of depopulation tactics by Palestinians and ongoing militant engagements . Efforts for a ceasefire continue as humanitarian crises unfold . 
@@119164995 <h> Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is Loitering in Grand Style <p> " Like Grandfather Nehru ... " posted a Pakistani politician who was a minister in the Imran Khan regime . Fawad Hussain , clearly in awe of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra , whose Palestine Tote bag and black &amp; white check sari made an emphatic if controversial political statement , and will likely launch a fashion trend , too , if not anywhere else , at least in her parliamentary constituency Wayanad and places nearby where " All eyes On Rafa " has been trending for months since Hamas terrorists fled to Rafa and the Israel Defence Forces followed in hot pursuit . <p> And who said Pakistan and India are two-nations ? They are n't . Not after Fawad Hussain and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra spoke in one voice . Also , both are as secular as the French and Palestinians are . Hamas , too , if it had n't jumped the border and carried out ' October 7 ' -- dragged away over 200 hostages including young women , one of whom the Israeli Defence Forces " rescued " and she turned out to be a " Yazidi slave " of a West Bank Palestinian family , " bought from the ISIS . " <p> Indeed , life in Palestine is full of surprises . From the beehive of tunnels , stretching right into Israel , to the underground bunkers and the arsenal stored under the operating rooms of Gaza hospitals , which keep count of those killed and injured in Israeli bombings . It ca n't be Priyanka Gandhi Vadra 's fault that she did n't know all this ? There was too much happening in India to keep track . . <p> To her credit , though , Priyanka Gandhi Vadra went ahead and voiced her solidarity with the people of Palestine , especially the children of Gaza , who the Israeli Defence Forces bombed to death in the thousands . Priyanka met the Palestine Charge-d ' -affairs in New Delhi and within the week , she was attired to kill in Palestinian keffiyeh ! To those who have n't seen it , Priyanka Gandhi Vadra made a pretty picture ! <p> Of elegance and purpose . Questioned by a wayward reporter , she retorted , " Now , I have to be told what to wear , too ? ' The statement she made with the Palestine bag resounded inside and outside Parliament . Pakistanis heard it on the other side of the Wagah . Fawad Chaudhary termed Pakistani MPs spineless for not doing a " Priyanka " in the Pakistan National Assembly , for not coming out bold and clear in solidarity with the " oppressed people of Palestine . " <p> Just like Priyanka Gandhi , who is today more popular in Pakistan than Bushra Imran Khan . Also to her credit , Priyanka Gandhi Vadra steered clear of Hamas , the vile terrorists who still roam the underground tunnels of Gaza and Rafa , living like rodents deep in the underground warrens . Analysts are asking why Priyanka Gandhi Vadra forgot Hamas while praising the Palestinians ? They are questioning Priyanka ? <p> Point is , Priyanka Gandhi Vadra kept her focus on Palestine and Palestinians . And that made her speak of the plight of Bangladesh 's Hindus . Priyanka 's ire was on the Modi government 's total inaction in alleviating the lives of Bangladeshi Hindus ? She did n't question the Modi government 's apathy towards the Palestinians . She questioned Modi 's handling of the Bangladesh crisis . <p> And she put the focus on Israel 's war on Gaza 's babies ? Fawad Hussain identified with Priyanka Gandhi Vadra . Modi 's ministers did not . Fawad heaped praises on Priyanka Gandhi Vadra . Modi 's ministers could not see anything beyond their flared-up nostrils . They only saw the Palestine-emblazoned black tote bag that Priyanka carried to Parliament and with it , Palestine ! <p> BJP MP and spokesperson Sambit Patra sat like Buddha and cast asides at Priyanka Gandhi Vadra , calling her now-iconic Palestine bag , ' Bag of Appeasement ! ' Patra did n't call it ' Bag of Muslim Appeasement ' , very much aware when not to cross the line . Modi 's NDA government and before that the Modi government has been walking a tightrope on Palestine and Israel , racing with the hare and running with the hound . The Modi government is a cleft stick . And it 's always on Modi 's side , always . <p> Priyanka Gandhi Vadra , however , is totally on the Palestine side , begging the question , has any of the Nehru-Gandhi family members ever visited Palestine ? Should n't Priyanka Vadra invite herself to Palestine ? As it is , Priyanka is known to the Palestinian embassy in New Delhi . It will be crowning glory if she makes a historic trip . <p> Priyanka Gandhi Vadra 's black tote bag with Palestine emblazoned on it has on its bottom right corner the image of the Jordan River , and the Sea ! Who has n't heard of ' From the River to the Sea ' , which makes Palestinians raise their fist in solidarity and Israelis clench their fist in anger ? Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is lucky she has n't heard of ' from the river to the sea ' , an allusion to how numbered the days are for the Israelis . Priyanka Gandhi Vadra could n't have been any more emphatic about her support for the Palestine cause . <p> Priyanka Gandhi Vadra 's ' Palestine Bag ' should be preserved and protected ; kept in a Parliament vault to send a message as that sent by Bhagat Singh and his bunch of freedom-fighters . Fawad Hussain saw Priyanka " standing up against Israel and showing courage " and asked , " What else could we expect from a granddaughter of a towering freedom fighter like Jawaharlal Nehru ? Priyanka Gandhi has stood tall amidst pygmies , such shame that to date , no Pakistani member of Parliament has demonstrated such courage . " <p> Pakistani Fawad Chaudhary not only saw ' Palestine ' emblazoned on Priyanka Gandhi Vadra 's tote bag , he also saw the slice of the watermelon , one of many Palestinian emblems . AIMIM MP Asaduddin Owaisi took his oath with a ' Jai Palestine ' and but for Priyanka Gandhi Vadra 's ' Palestine bag ' , the people of India would n't have heard of the " atrocities against Hindus in Bangladesh . " Right ? ( IPA Service ) 
@@119165051 <h> 2 US Navy Pilots Shot Down Over Red Sea In ' Friendly Fire ' <p> Both pilots were recovered alive , with one suffering minor injuries , but the incident underlines just how dangerous the Red Sea corridor has become over the ongoing attacks on shipping by the Iranian-backed Houthis despite US and European military coalitions patrolling the area . <p> Two US Navy pilots were shot down Sunday over the Red Sea in an apparent " friendly fire " incident , the US military said , marking the most serious incident to threaten troops in over a year of America targeting Yemen 's Houthi rebels . <p> Both pilots were recovered alive , with one suffering minor injuries , but the incident underlines just how dangerous the Red Sea corridor has become over the ongoing attacks on shipping by the Iranian-backed Houthis despite US and European military coalitions patrolling the area . <p> The US military had conducted airstrikes targeting Yemen 's Houthi rebels at the time , though the US military 's Central Command did not elaborate on what their mission was and did not immediately respond to questions from The Associated Press . <p> The F/A-18 shot down had just flown off the deck of the USS Harry S. Truman aircraft carrier , Central Command said . On Dec 15 , Central Command acknowledged the Truman had entered the Mideast , but had n't specified that the carrier and its battle group was in the Red Sea . <p> " The guided missile cruiser USS Gettysburg , which is part of the USS Harry S. Truman Carrier Strike Group , mistakenly fired on and hit the F/A-18 , " Central Command said in a statement . <p> It was n't immediately clear how the Gettysburg could mistake an F/A-18 for an enemy aircraft or missile , particularly as ships in a battle group remain linked by both radar and radio communication . However , Central Command said that warships and aircraft earlier shot down multiple Houthi drones and an anti-ship cruise missile launched by the rebels . <p> Since the Truman 's arrival , the US has stepped up its airstrikes targeting the Houthis and their missile fire into the Red Sea and the surrounding area . However , the presence of an American warship group may spark renewed attacks from the rebels , like what the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower saw last year . That deployment marked what the Navy described as its most intense combat since World War II . <p> The Houthis have targeted about 100 merchant vessels with missiles and drones since the Israel-Hamas war in the Gaza Strip started in October 2023 after Hamas ' surprise attack on Israel that killed 1,200 people and saw 250 others taken hostage . <p> Israel 's grinding offensive in Gaza has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians , local health officials say . The tally does n't distinguish between combatants and civilians . <p> The Houthis have seized one vessel and sunk two in a campaign that has also killed four sailors . Other missiles and drones have either been intercepted by separate US- and European-led coalitions in the Red Sea or failed to reach their targets , which have also included Western military vessels . <p> The rebels maintain that they target ships linked to Israel , the U.S. or the United Kingdom to force an end to Israel 's campaign against Hamas in Gaza . However , many of the ships attacked have little or no connection to the conflict , including some bound for Iran . 
@@119165412 <h> Nine killed , many injured as Israel bombards refugee camp in Gaza <p> Israeli soldiers stand guard on the Palestinian side of the Kerem Shalom crossing as reporters tour the area where aid is awaiting pickup in the Gaza Strip . -- Photo:AP <p> Gaza : At least nine people were killed in Israeli shelling on the Gaza Strip , according to Palestinian sources . Israeli warplanes targeted in the morning a gathering of Palestinians west of the al-Shati refugee camp on Saturday , said Mahmoud Basal , spokesman for Civil Defence in Gaza . <p> Basal told Xinhua that seven people were killed and some others injured in the strike , all of whom were taken to the Baptist Hospital in Gaza City . Medical workers also recovered a body and a number of wounded persons after an Israeli airstrike on a house in the vicinity of al-Ta'min school in central Gaza , according to Basal . Meanwhile , in southern Gaza 's Rafah , medics said that a Palestinian was killed by an Israeli drone in the Khirbet al-Adas area , north of the city , Xinhua news agency reported . <h> Also Read <p> Sources and eyewitnesses reported the Israeli army has been blowing up residential buildings in the al-Janina neighbourhood , east of Rafah , since morning hours . The Israeli army has not commented on these incidents . Also on Saturday , Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahia , northern Gaza , warned of the seriousness of the situation inside the hospital . <p> " Shells landed Friday on the third floor and at the doors . Fortunately , there were no casualties reported . However , it caused terror and fear among the wounded and children , " Abu Safiya said . " Until now , we have not received all the necessary electricity , water , and oxygen supplies , " he complained . Abu Safiya noted that the Israeli army " has not agreed to allow the entry of all the required medical supplies , and medical staff are prevented from entering . " <p> The Palestinian death toll from ongoing Israeli attacks in the Gaza Strip has risen to 45,227 , Gaza-based health authorities said in a statement on Saturday . 
@@119165467 <h> The USS Gettysburg shot down a F/A-18 F Super Hornet as it was taking off from USS Harry S. Truman . Incident occurs as US forces strike Houthi 's storage facilities in Yemen . <p> New Delhi : A US Navy ship accidentally shot down a F/A-18 F Super Hornet in a case of friendly fire , forcing the two pilots to eject in the Red Sea late Saturday evening , a statement by the American Central Command said , adding that the pilots were safe . <p> " The guided-missile cruiser USS Gettysburg ( CG 64 ) , which is a part of the USS Harry S. Truman Carrier Strike Group , mistakenly fired on and hit the F/A-18 , which was flying off the USS Harry S. Truman , " the statement from the US Central Command ( CENTCOM ) said . <p> The two pilots were safely recovered , with one suffering minor injuries . An investigation is underway , it said . <p> On 15 December , the USS Harry S. Truman Carrier Strike Group came under Central Command 's area of responsibility , according to its statement . <p> The Central Command 's area of responsibility includes Yemen . Just before the statement of friendly fire , CENTCOM announced that it had carried out " precision airstrikes " against a missile storage facility in Sanaa , Yemen , which is under the control of the Houthi rebel group . <p> " CENTCOM forces conducted the deliberate strikes to disrupt and degrade Houthi operations , such as attacks against US Navy warships and merchant vessels in the Southern Red Sea , Bab al-Mandeb , and Gulf of Aden , " said the CENTCOM . <p> The statement added : " During the operation , CENTCOM forces also shot down multiple Houthi one way attack uncrewed aerial vehicles ( OWA UAV ) and an anti-ship cruise missile ( ASCM ) over the Red Sea . " <p> F/A-18 Super Hornets were a part of the operation along with other assets of both the US Air Force and Navy . The CENTCOM statement did not mention what other assets were used in the strike . <p> The Houthis , backed by Iran , have been disrupting shipping in the Red Sea in support of Palestinians in the Gaza Strip since Israel launched its retaliation to the 7 October 2023 attacks carried out by the Hamas group . <p> The Houthis have used uncrewed aerial vehicles to attack commercial ships linked to Israel , the US and the UK . Earlier this year , it had attacked a ship carrying goods to India . <p> The Indian Navy has been involved in patrolling the region since the Houthi strikes against merchant shipping began in November last year . In March , the Indian Navy rescued crew members of a commercial vessel that was attacked by Houthi missiles . 
@@119175386 <h> Israel Orders Evacuation of Kamal Adwan Hospital in Northern Gaza <h> Share : <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - The Israeli army has ordered the evacuation of Kamal Adwan Hospital , the only functioning hospital in northern Gaza , to evacuate immediately . The order comes as the hospital faces relentless attacks , with bombs dropping on its facilities and snipers targeting patients and medical staff . <p> Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of the Kamal Adwan Hospital , discusses the catastrophic situation at the hospital after it was targeted by Israeli airstrikes , with staff and patients already exhausted by over 70 days of Israeli siege . **26;1026;TOOLONG <p> Significant damage has been caused to Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza following the Israeli army 's explosion of a bomb-laden robot near the hospital , amid continuous airstrikes targeting the area . **26;1054;TOOLONG <p> Footage from inside Kamal Adwan Hospital shows the ICU and neonatal ward and patients sheltering in the corridors after the Israeli occupation army ordered the hospital , the only functioning hospital in northern Gaza , to evacuate immediately under the threat of bombing . **26;1082;TOOLONG <p> The Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza is under dire circumstances as it 's under constant Israeli bombardment following the occupation order to evacuate the hospital under the threat of bombing , where patients and medical staff are taking shelter in the corridors . **26;1110;TOOLONG <p> Medical teams warn that evacuation is impossible . " Removing patients from the hospital means certain death , " said Dr. Marwan Al-Hams , director of Gaza 's field hospitals . He condemned the attacks on the only operating hospital in northern Gaza as deliberate and inhumane , calling them an " intentional killing of the sick and injured . " <p> Bombs have damaged key hospital sections , and sniper fire has paralyzed movement within its premises . Dr. Abu Safiya reported that the hospital 's walls have been breached , causing extensive damage . Communication with some medical staff has been lost , raising fears of casualties among doctors and patients . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The Ministry of Health has called on the international community to intervene . " The world must act to stop this crime against humanity , " the ministry said in a statement . Despite repeated appeals , organizations like the World Health Organization and UNRWA have not responded effectively to the crisis . <p> Kamal Adwan Hospital remains a lifeline for northern Gaza 's civilians . The continued bombardment threatens to destroy this last refuge for the sick and injured , as global silence persists in the face of this genocide . <p> Bethlehem ( Quds News Network ) - The Bethlehem Municipality announced that this year 's Christmas events will be limited to prayers and religious rituals . The decision aims to show solidarity with Gaza and ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119175387 <h> Share : <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - At least 8 Palestinians were killed and dozens injured in an Israeli attack overnight on a school sheltering hundreds of displaced families in Gaza City . <p> Local sources and medics reported that most of the victims were women and children . The attack hit the Musa bin Nusair school in the Daraj neighbourhood of Gaza City . <p> A Palestinian child was murdered following the Israeli attack on the Musa bin Nusair School sheltering hundreds of displaced families in the Al-Daraj neighborhood in Gaza City . **26;1138;TOOLONG <p> Since the start of the ongoing genocide , the Israeli military has repeatedly targeted schools-turned-shelters across Gaza . These attacks have included shelling , direct shootings , and the killing of forcibly displaced people and their families or making them leave the schools under fire and/or with orders to flee . <p> Bethlehem ( Quds News Network ) - The Bethlehem Municipality announced that this year 's Christmas events will be limited to prayers and religious rituals . The decision aims to show solidarity with Gaza and ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119175388 <p> Footage showing the destruction caused by the Israeli bombing of the Abu Samra family 's home in Deir al-Balah , central Gaza , last night . At least 10 civilians were slaughtered in the attack . **26;1166;TOOLONG <p> Medical sources have reported that at least 19 people have been killed in Israeli attacks since dawn . The strikes targeted multiple areas across the besieged and bombarded territory as Israel intensifies its offensive . <h> Related Posts <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - The Israeli army has ordered Kamal Adwan Hospital , the only functioning hospital in northern Gaza , to evacuate immediately . The order comes as the hospital faces relentless attacks , ... <p> Bethlehem ( Quds News Network ) - The Bethlehem Municipality announced that this year 's Christmas events will be limited to prayers and religious rituals . The decision aims to show solidarity with Gaza and ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119175391 <h> Sudan : 2024 , a deadly year amid complete international impunity <h> Share : <p> The population in Sudan is being forced to leave their areas under threats of death and abduction , and are subjected to arbitrary detention , including women and girls , without legal grounds <p> Geneva -- The year 2024 has been catastrophic for the Sudanese people , marked by a sharp escalation in crimes and violations against civilians in areas affected by armed conflict . The ongoing war , now in its 19th month , has caused a severe deterioration in humanitarian conditions , representing a blatant violation of international law . <p> In conflict areas across Sudan , particularly Darfur and Kordofan , civilians have been subjected to field executions , forced displacement , and starvation . Perpetrators have committed war crimes and crimes against humanity amid ongoing international silence , enabling the continuation of these violations , worsening the humanitarian crisis , and deepening the suffering of millions . <p> It is estimated that more than 130,000 people have been killed in Sudan as a result of the internal conflict , both directly and indirectly , making it one of the deadliest conflicts in the world in modern times . <p> In addition to the deliberate killings of civilians , the conflict zones in Sudan are witnessing horrific crimes of starvation against approximately 25 million civilians , including women and children . Ninety-seven percent of Sudanese people are facing severe levels of hunger , an unprecedented figure in modern history . The use of starvation as a weapon constitutes a full international crime that demands accountability and international action . <p> Furthermore , the deliberate obstruction of humanitarian aid is being used as a systematic method to impose hunger on civilians . These civilians are facing severe difficulties in accessing and receiving aid , further exacerbating their suffering . Serious violations against humanitarian workers have been documented , including killings , abductions , and intimidation , aimed at disrupting their work and preventing aid from reaching civilians . This constitutes a grave violation of international rules designed to protect humanitarian and relief workers . <p> Sudanese civilians are also facing repeated forced displacement , being coerced to leave their areas under the threat of death and abduction . Civilians , including women and girls , are subjected to arbitrary detention without legal grounds , with UN sources reporting more than 1,140 cases of arbitrary detention against civilians by mid-year , including at least 162 women and 87 children . <p> Despite the horrific situation civilians are facing in Sudan , women and children , particularly girls , are in the most dangerous and vulnerable conditions . Women and girls in Sudan are subjected to rape , sexual violence , and even sexual slavery , which are grave violations of international humanitarian law and constitute war crimes and crimes against humanity , as they are committed as part of a widespread attack against civilians in Sudan . <p> The Monitor calls on the United Nations to take urgent action to halt hostilities in Sudan by all parties to the conflict , prevent further crimes , and protect civilians , including deploying peacekeeping forces to provide effective protection and ensure stability in the country . <p> It also urges the UN Security Council to expand the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court to include all of Sudan 's territory to ensure justice and accountability for all committed violations . Additionally , the Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor calls for strengthening and supporting the work of the Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Sudan to collect evidence , document violations , and pave the way for holding perpetrators accountable and delivering justice for the victims . <p> Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor calls on states to impose an immediate comprehensive arms embargo on all parties to the conflict and refrain from providing any support to these parties , including intelligence , financial , and logistical assistance . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Euro-Med Monitor also urges the international community to ensure the immediate and effective delivery and distribution of humanitarian aid to meet the needs of affected civilians and alleviate their suffering . It calls for the prompt return of forcibly displaced individuals to their homes and demands full support for the victims , particularly those who have suffered from rape and other forms of sexual violence . Furthermore , the Monitor stresses the need to utilize all available means to ensure the accountability and prosecution of those responsible for these crimes in both international and national courts , providing justice and compensation to the victims . <p> Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor is a Geneva-based independent organization with regional offices across the MENA region and Europe <p> Palestinian Territory -- A new investigation conducted by Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor has revealed a massacre committed by the Israeli military , killing over 15 Palestinians and injuring others , including women , children , ... <p> Palestinian territory - Israel is systematically closing hospitals in northern Gaza through direct military targeting , a suffocating siege , and the killing , injuring , and arresting of patients , wounded individuals , and medical personnel .... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119175407 <h> Pope Francis Condemns Israeli genocide in Gaza , Calls it " Cruelty " <h> Share : <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - Pope Francis criticized Israel 's bombing of children in Gaza , calling it " cruelty . " He spoke on Saturday after reports of an Israeli airstrike that killed 10 members of a family , including seven children , in northern Gaza . <p> " Yesterday children were bombed . This is cruelty , not war , " Pope Francis said during his annual Christmas address . He also condemned Israel for blocking the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem from entering Gaza to visit Catholics . <p> " Yesterday they did not let the Catholic bishop of Jerusalem enter Gaza , as they had promised ... This is cruelty , this is not war " <p> At his annual address to Vatican cardinals , Pope Francis condemns Israel 's continued murdering of Palestinian children in Gaza after seven ... **26;766;TOOLONG <p> Since the Gaza genocide began on October 7 , 2023 , the Pope has repeatedly called for peace . Recently , he has taken a stronger stance against Israeli crimes . In November , he accused " the invader 's arrogance " of replacing dialogue in Palestine . <p> His remarks have angered Israeli officials . Amichai Chikli , Israel 's Minister for Diaspora Affairs , criticized the Pope in an open letter , accusing him of trivializing the term genocide . <p> The Holy See recognized the State of Palestine in 2013 and supports a two-state solution . While the Vatican often avoids taking sides in conflicts , the Pope 's recent comments show growing concern over Gaza . <p> The Israeli military claimed it had approved the Latin Patriarch 's visit to Gaza . Officials said he would enter on Sunday if security conditions allowed . <p> Last month , the Pope suggested the situation in Gaza might meet the definition of genocide . He urged further examination of the issue . Israeli authorities rejected that . <p> Bethlehem ( Quds News Network ) - The Bethlehem Municipality announced that this year 's Christmas events will be limited to prayers and religious rituals . The decision aims to show solidarity with Gaza and ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119175408 <h> Bethlehem Limits Christmas Celebrations to Prayers in Solidarity with Gaza <h> Share : <p> Bethlehem ( Quds News Network ) - The Bethlehem Municipality announced that this year 's Christmas events will be limited to prayers and religious rituals . The decision aims to show solidarity with Gaza and protest the ongoing genocide against the Palestinian people by Israeli forces . <p> Bethlehem Governorate emphasized that canceling the celebrations rejects the injustices in Gaza and across Palestine . Mayor Anton Salman confirmed the decision , saying , " We chose to restrict Christmas celebrations to prayers as a stand against the oppression faced by Gaza and all of Palestine . " <p> Salman strongly condemned the continued assault on Gaza . He criticized the international community 's silence in the face of Israeli massacres . He called for serious and immediate action to end Israeli violations . <p> The mayor highlighted Bethlehem 's struggles under strict Israeli restrictions since October 7 , 2023 . He noted that these measures have isolated the city from its Palestinian surroundings , halted tourism , and closed its doors to pilgrims . " Economic hardships have worsened , and residents feel increasingly isolated , " Salman said . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Christmas celebrations in Bethlehem traditionally peak with a midnight mass at the Church of the Nativity from December 24 to 25 for Western denominations , while Eastern churches celebrate on January 7 . Prayers will continue at the Church of the Nativity , believed to stand above the grotto where Jesus was born . <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119175409 <h> Children in Gaza are " Cold , sick and traumatized " : UNICEF <h> Share : <p> UNICEF/UNI463117/El Baba A boy sits on a mattress in the courtyard where displaced persons have taken shelter in the State of Palestine . <p> AMMAN/GENEVA , 20 December 2024 -- " Children in Gaza are cold , sick and traumatized . Hunger and malnutrition , and the dire living conditions more broadly , continue to put the lives of children at risk . Right now , over 96% of women and children in Gaza can not meet their basic nutritional needs . Most are surviving on rationed flour , lentils , pasta , and canned food -- a diet that slowly compromises their health . <p> " In November , an average of 65 truckloads of assistance entered Gaza , compared to 500 truckloads daily , before the war -- and when Gaza still had internal food production capacity . The most northern part of Gaza has been under a near total siege for 75 days now . Humanitarian assistance has been largely unable to reach the children in need for more than 10 weeks . <p> " Gaza must be one of the most heartbreaking places on earth for humanitarians . Every small effort to save a child 's life is undone by fierce devastation . For over 14 months , children have been at the sharp edge of this nightmare , with more than 14,500 children reportedly killed , thousands more injured . <p> " Last week I met with Saad , five years old . He lost his eyesight in a bombing , and sustained a head injury and burns . When I met him this week , he told me : " my eyes went to heaven before I did " . As we were talking , a plane flew overhead . He froze , screamed , and clutched for his mother . Seeing this boy , recently rendered blind , in such deep distress was unbearable . <p> " As we approach the end of the year , a time when the world strives to celebrate family , peace , and togetherness , in Gaza the reality for over a million children is fear , utter deprivation and unimaginable suffering . <p> " The war on children in Gaza stands as a stark reminder of our collective responsibility . A generation of children is enduring the brutal violation of their rights and the destruction of their futures . <p> " The stories I heard over the past months will torment me forever . Let me share one : this summer we met with a baby boy , also named Saad , he was seven months old . His mother 's miracle after years of trying to conceive . He weighed just 2.7 kilograms at 7 months -- a fraction of what a baby his age should . Eleven days ago , his fragile body gave out after not getting enough nutritious food . He was born in war and left this world without being given a chance to live in peace . I can not even start to imagine the depth of suffering of his parents . The suffering is not merely physical . It is also psychological . <p> " Winter has now descended on Gaza . Children are cold , wet , and barefoot . Many still wear summer clothes . With cooking gas gone , many are searching through rubble for scraps of plastic to burn . Diseases are ravaging the little bodies of children all while hospitals are destitute and continuously attacked . Health care is on its knees : hospitals lack medicines , medical supplies and doctors . This is worsened by the continuation of a near total electricity black out , making hospitals and other critical infrastructure entirely dependent on meagre fuel imports . <p> " There are immediate things we can all do today to make life just a little more bearable for these children . <p> " We can use our voices , use our political capital and our diplomatic leverage , to push for the evacuation of grievously injured children and their parents to leave Gaza and seek life-saving medical care in East Jerusalem or elsewhere . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> " As so many of us head into the celebrations of Christmas and the New Year , surrounded by so much , let 's take a moment to think of these children , who have so little and yet continue to lose more , day by day . Use your power , use your influence , to push for a ceasefire , and for the entry of aid at scale . <p> " Every day without action steals another day from Gaza 's children . Every delay costs more lives . This war should haunt every one of us . Gaza 's children can not wait . <p> Bethlehem ( Quds News Network ) - The Bethlehem Municipality announced that this year 's Christmas events will be limited to prayers and religious rituals . The decision aims to show solidarity with Gaza and ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119175430 <h> Share : <p> According to a report by Independent TV ( December 12 , 2024 ) and confirmed by Democracy Now , Save the Children , Common Dreams , The Guardian , Relief Web , and numerous other sources , 96% of children in Gaza fear imminent death , and 50 % of them do not want to live . Others showed " symptoms like aggression , withdrawal , and pervasive anxiety . " Severe psychological damage to children is the result of seeing their parents , siblings , and other family members blown to bits by Israel 's indiscriminate bombings . <p> Norman Finkelstein has described Israel 's killing of 45,000 Palestinians as " high-tech murder . " Nearly half of the dead are children and women . During the first year of its genocidal campaign , Israel has killed at least 17,000 children who had nothing to do with this war . The killing of children and other Palestinians continues on a daily basis . Israel 's President , Prime Minister , and military leaders have said repeatedly that they do not make any distinction between the Palestinian militants and civilians . Helen Pattinson of War Child UK said : <p> " This report lays bare that Gaza is one of the most horrifying places in the world to be a child . Alongside the levelling of hospitals , schools and homes , a trail of psychological destruction has caused wounds unseen but no less destructive on children who hold no responsibility for this war , " <p> She added : <p> " The international community must act now before the child mental health catastrophe we are witnessing embeds itself into multi-generational trauma , the consequences of which the region will be dealing with for decades to come . A ceasefire must be the immediate first step to allow War Child and other agencies to effectively respond to the intense psychological damage children are experiencing . " <p> According to Washington Post , dated November 3 , 2024 , the " Entire northern Gaza population is ' at imminent risk ' of death . " <p> How to Stop This Ongoing Slaughter of Innocent Children and Women <p> In the United States and across the globe , the grassroot movements have been doing an admirable work . People who have not joined any movement and continue to suffer in silence on the sidelines should become activists without any further delay . This step is especially necessary for American citizens because it is their government that is enabling Israel to continue this genocide and many other aggressions , such as its killing of hundreds of civilians in Lebanon by bugging the electronic devices that civilians use every day , its incessant bombing and destruction of Syria , and its continued violations of international law . <p> Steps that everyone can taketo end this genocide and other aggressions by Israel <p> 1 ) Ask Your Government to Sever Ties with Israel <p> Wherever in the world you live , pressure your government to expel the Israeli ambassador and recall their ambassadors to Israel . In addition , your governments should cut off all trade relations and other ties with Israel to strengthen the Boycott , Divestment , and Sanctions movement against Israel . At least thirteen countries , including Jordan , Bahrain , Turkey , Bolivia , Colombia , Honduras , Chile , Belize , Brazil , South Africa , Chad , Cuba , and North Korea have recalled their ambassadors to Israel or severed ties altogether . <p> The diplomatic ties can be restored after Israel complies with the UN Security Council 's and UN General Assembly 's resolutions calling for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , accompanied by the deployment of UN personnel to oversee the distribution of humanitarian aid to the people of Gaza . A pre-condition to restoration of ties with Israel should be its compliance with U.N . Security Council 's unanimously passed Resolution 242 that requires Israel 's withdrawal to its pre-June 1967 border . <p> 2 ) Urge Your Government to Honor the Verdict of the International Criminal Court <p> Ask your government to make a statement that it will honor the International Criminal Court 's warrant of arrest against Israel 's PM Benjamin Netanyahu and the former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant . The Hamas militant named in the ICC ruling has already been killed by Israel . On November 22 , 2024 , The Newsweek released this list of countries that will honor the International Criminal Court 's arrest warrants : Italy , the Netherlands , Spain , Switzerland , Canada , Ireland , South Africa , Turkey , Jordan , Norway , and Sweden . Other sources have added the names of Belgium , Austria , and Slovenia to that list . <p> The ICC is recognized by 124 member nations . Technically , the two Israeli leaders could be arrested if they visit any of those countries . According to Reuters ' report of Nov 28 , 2024 , the European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell advised all EU member states to respect the International Criminal Court 's decision regarding the arrest warrant . " We can not undermine the International Criminal Court . It is the only way of having global justice . " He added that ICC 's decisions are not political . " It 's a legal body formed by respected people who are the best among the profession of judges . " <p> Unfortunately , the veto power of five UN member states is almost impossible to abolish because all five veto-holding states have to agree to surrender that power . However , nonamendment reform of the UN is possible , which can enable the world body to act effectively in crises when the Security Council is paralyzed by the veto . As suggestedby Oona A. Hathaway , Maggie M. Mills , and Heather Zimmerman in their July 15 , 2024 , article , " How to Reform the UN Without Amending Its Charter , " in Carnegie 's Global Order and Institutions Program , the UN General Assembly can impose any or all of the following penalties on the offending state : <p> " ... suspension from a UN committee , organ , or subsidiary organ ; loss of the right to speak at the general debate of the General Assembly or suspension from meetings held on UN grounds ; reduction in the number of positions its nationals hold in the UN ; loss of funding from UN agencies ; or even suspension from membership at the UN altogether . " <p> 4 ) If you are an American citizen , you should pressure the President and your representatives in Congress to arrange an immediate and permanent ceasefire in Gaza , followed by an unequivocal statement and action by U.S. government that a viable Palestinian state will be created urgently . It is important to remember that Israel 's genocide could have been stopped on December 8 , 2023 , with the U.N . Security Council 's resolution calling for an immediate ceasefire , but the U.S. vetoed it , thus giving Israel the green light to continue its barbaric genocide of Palestinians . Since then , the U.S. government has vetoed three more ceasefire resolutions . Those U.S. actions have given Israel the time and means to continue its killing of Palestinians in full view of the world . <p> The reason U.S. has given for its vetoes is Israel 's security and the fear that a ceasefire might allow Hamas to regroup and attack Israel again as it did on October 7 , 2023 . As all sensible and experienced political leaders , such as two former U.S. Presidents Jimmy Carter and Barack Obama , Senator Bernie Sanders , and numerous others , have stated repeatedly , Israel 's security is only possible if Palestinians are given their rights and their independent , viable state . Israel 's murderous campaigns with U.S. support will be counterproductive and result in more attacks on Israel . <p> Make your government understand that the October 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack on Israel was an isolated incident to break out of the 17-year strangulation of Israel 's siege . Even though it ended in the death of 1250 Israelis , it was not aimed at genocide of Israelis . On the contrary , Israel has been carrying out a declared genocide of Palestinians with United States ' help , a step that has isolated the U.S. , with 153 out of the 193 U.N . members opposing the U.S. actions . <p> 5 ) For Americans in High Tax Brackets <p> If you are a taxpaying American , tell the President and your representatives in Congress that since Israel is carrying out this genocide of Palestinians with American money , you are not going to bloody your hands in this genocide and will have to postpone paying federal taxes if your government does not arrange an immediate and permanent ceasefire in Gaza , followed by steps toward a viable Palestinian state . It is a practical and effective strategy to pressure the government to change its destructive policies and protect American lives at home and abroad . This step is meant only for those Americans who are affluent , pay high taxes , and can afford the penalty that late payment of taxes might entail . <p> Abdul Jabbar has taught English and Interdisciplinary Studies for 36 years on a full-time basis , including a course on Politics of the Middle East for fifteen years , at City College of San Francisco . He was also a visiting professor of English at University of California , Berkeley . Recipient of a Fulbright scholarship , he has also received two National Endowment for the Humanities awards . He received his Ph.D in English from Case Western University , Cleveland , Ohio . He has published three books and many articles on literary , political , and similar topics . <p> Bethlehem ( Quds News Network ) - The Bethlehem Municipality announced that this year 's Christmas events will be limited to prayers and religious rituals . The decision aims to show solidarity with Gaza and ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119175431 <h> Gaza 's Afflictions ( a Proem ) <h> Share : <p> At least 15 displaced people were killed and several others injured in the attack targeting the two shelters , including children . Dawoud Abu Alkas/Reuters <p> May I never see in the patient anything but a fellow creature in pain . ( Oath of Maimonides ) <p> Empathy will never be exhausted as gaza schools and hospitalsare torn asunder by pilots in fighter jets , their grievances <p> transposed from another time and place into strafing refugeevillages with clinical precision ; <p> All good gained from sufferings of times long past , all dissipated by the voracious bombing of innocents as tens of <p> thousands of women and children are slain with impunity in a violence that rains down upon terrified heads ; <p> A puzzled drone operator in Gaza asked " when will theIsraeli public wake up to the conflagration that has been taking place <p> in their name while turning Gaza into rubble ... what is itwith these kippah-wearing part-time soldiers with their comments : <p> " Nova was their Nakba " I see children crawling out fromunder rubble looking for remnants and yet we keep bombing ; <p> Israeli strike kills grandfather of ' soul of my soul ' his grand-daughter Reem having been killed by an earlier air strike ... Ten more killed in one family in Gaza airstrikes on Dec 17 ; " Israeli strike In Deir al-Balah in the central Strip killed 10 people , including the city 's mayor , Diab Al-Jaru ( Haaretz ) <p> Palestinians have had a millennium of agriculture and olive grovesand goat herds with multiple generations of shared <p> Values , but eighty years ago dispossession of six million acrestook place with 700,000 forced into becoming refugees ; The <p> vacuously cruel insistence that Gazans are human animals , such phrases resonated among a leadership destitute of <p> empathy for what was being perpetrated , an inversion of realityallowing victimizers to victimize the unprotected while ignoring <p> the bestial state of mind that justifies the lethality of bombing , smothering truth with unfeeling biblical hair-splitting ; <p> According the Oxford Handbook of Genocide Studies , and The Cambridge World History of Genocide , colonial policies included the deliberate genocide of indigenous peoples in North America ... Genocide intent includes spreading of disease via the ' reduction ' of natives to densely crowded and unhygienic settlements ... population removals to barren ' reservations ... deliberate starvation and famine , exacerbated by destruction and occupation of the native land base and food resources ... " Economics should never be above moral issues and human rights issues " ( Eitay Mack , Israeli lawyer &amp; activist ) ) <p> but soon a time comes when they are unable to relieve themselvesof guilt and shame nor can they continue to <p> manufacture counterfeit glee , excusing themselves from the barbarismof murdering children ; thus do the <p> perpetrators of afflictions extend their excuses into themoral complexities of trauma , while split-personalities are <p> rife with vengeful zealotry , a moral decay that can not be atonedfor multiple generations ; This holocaust we are <p> witnessing puts to rest " never again " by leaders who projectevils upon their adversaries , while their own annihilating <p> contentiousness is blindingly obvious to the discerning ; Will they have recourse to the wailing wall to absolve themselves , <p> or will they continue to resort to biblical self-praisingwhile conflating 45,000 massacred civilians , including 16,000 <p> children with 1500 Israelis killed or taken hostage ; War crimes become genocide when demonizing permits normalizing the <p> daily erasure of a people by punishing them with gross afflictions ; Yet zealots possess a moral schizophrenia <p> and an ethical decay that will infuse generations , even though genetically entwined and historically linked : <p> I 'll tell you what should have been done already yesterday , and many months ago : to shout out for a cease-fire , not only to obtain a hostage deal ... but also to protect the Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank ... We need to protect the Palestinians in the name of a shared future ..... Israeli philosopher Omri Boehm <p> America 's leaders have wrought upon their children 's heads a blamethat can not be erased with well-groomed words ; <p> Essential thinking is necessary to awaken to conciliation and healing ; Did not the Sermon on the Mount preach <p> selflessness and love reflecting Hillel 's golden rule that " what is hateful to you , do not do to your fellow man ; <p> that is the whole torah " ; One hundred peace groupsin Israel acknowledge the golden rule but only one member in a recent <p> session of the Knesset supported the genocide case against Israel , and he was suspended , indicating that some minds <p> can be elevated above the cruel thoughtlessness of militant leaders ; Did not Freud say that Yahweh is one-half volcano god ? <p> Was not Christ born a Hebrew in Palestine ? Are we not allhaunted by the Law of Unintended Consequences ? <p> " It 's like a Ponzi Scheme that collapses when you stop making a profit . Netanyahu is a believer in magical thinking . He supports a war against Iran , but such a war would be a disaster for Israel . These leaders around him are resorting to biblical thinking. , no longer acting rationally ... Its an eschatological end-times thinking which they want to believe . ( Alistair Crooke ) <p> Consequences take place in the deep recesses of consciousness , where the majority , in their indifference , gnaw <p> upon a mountain of platitudes : tectonic plates move slowlybut when they erupt in volcanic action the sudden conflagration <p> can change the nature of the world , killing not only the innocentbut also the guilty in the holy land ; The scales of justice are <p> finely balanced between vice and virtue but out of the traumasis a reckoning ; The deadly weapons of mass destruction <p> have resulted in the intense trauma suffered by civilians whileten thousand children 's limbs are torn apart by lethal weapons <p> to float in ghostly parables and nightmarish dreams as the rabbiniczealots of upside-down thinking confront truth-telling ; <p> The redoubtable Rabbi Yaakov Shapiro noted : " Zionism is poisonfor the Jews ; it is a suicidal ideology , and a liability " ; it does not <p> represent Judaism , it is mythological nationalism ; Israel is no longera safe place but a foreign country , not the promised land " . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Israel is deeply divided , it is on the brink of an institutional collapse as the law ... a wall between the kingdom of Judah and Israel all over again ... Radical rabbis rely on oral Talmud that they maintain is the true Talmud .... the clash is profound .... all based on magical thinking ... Armageddon with Iran means to attack the head of the octopus , while in Gaza the aim is ethnic cleansing so as to plant 50 settlements . ( Alaisdair Crooke ) <p> No matter if the " greater good " is called upon to justify horrors , there is nothing holy in massacring humans , <p> since holiness is a quality to strive for , not a volcano to feed ; Ignoring finely balanced scales of justice brings calamities so <p> that when the golden rule is so blatantly flaunted it will inevitablyresult in a reckoning for gross misdeeds and vast <p> atrocities ; The pain and suffering and the taking of land rightlybelonging to others shouts out for profound remorse and infinite atonement . <p> Hugh Curran is a lecturer in Peace &amp; Reconciliation Studies at the University of Maine . <p> Bethlehem ( Quds News Network ) - The Bethlehem Municipality announced that this year 's Christmas events will be limited to prayers and religious rituals . The decision aims to show solidarity with Gaza and ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119180207 <p> Israel has ordered the evacuation of one of the last partially functioning hospitals in northern Gaza . Medics have described the task as " next to impossible " with a lack of ambulances and heavy bombardment , with nearly 400 patients , including babies , at risk . <p> Israel has ordered the evacuation and closure of one of the few remaining hospitals still partially functioning in the northern Gaza Strip , a move that has been met with urgent appeals from medical staff . The Kamal Adwan hospital in Beit Lahiya , located on the northern edge of Gaza , has been a critical lifeline for civilians in a region under intense Israeli military pressure for nearly three months . <p> Even so , health staff at the grass roots are sounding the alarm that it is " almost impossible " to implement the evacuation order . <h> Medics Battle To Evacuate Patients <p> Through text message , Husam Abu Safiya , the head of Kamal Adwan hospital , voiced his concerns with Reuters : . " We now have almost 400 civilians in the hospital-including newborns in the neonatal unit-whose life depends on oxygen and incubators . We can not move these patients out without any help , equipment , or time for evacuation , " he said Abu Safiya while stressing that the bombardment made things even more complex . <p> The location of the hospital , in one of the most contested areas of Gaza , puts patients at grave risk . Abu Safiya added that fuel tanks at the facility were directly targeted , warning that any damage to them could lead to a catastrophic explosion , risking even more lives . <p> " We are sending this message under heavy bombardment and direct targeting of the fuel tanks , which if hit will cause a large explosion and mass casualties of the civilians inside , " he stated , underlining dangers to patients as well as medical staff . <h> Ongoing Military Actions <p> The Israeli military did not respond to a request for comment regarding Abu Safiya 's concerns but maintained that it had provided fuel and food supplies to the hospital on Friday . In addition , Israel claimed it had assisted in the evacuation of over 100 patients and caregivers to other hospitals in Gaza , some of which were coordinated with the Red Cross for safety . <p> The hospital was shut down yesterday as part of a wide-ranging military operation against Hamas militants in northern Gaza , which has seen its troops intensify over the last three months . Palestinians accused Israel of trying to leave the area demographically vacant and to establish a buffer zone . Israel dismissed those claims , saying its aim was to neutralize Hamas and other militant groups . <p> Northern Gaza has now become a dire situation , where the military operations have damaged most civilian infrastructure , including hospitals . The military actions have largely destroyed much of the region , and most of the population of Gaza has been displaced . Although Israel had insisted that its operations target militants , humanitarian organizations are raising alarms over the mounting toll on civilian lives . <p> In addition to the hospital evacuation , a recent Israeli airstrike on a school sheltering displaced families in Gaza City resulted in at least 24 Palestinian casualties , including children . The Israeli military claimed that the strike targeted Hamas militants operating inside the school , but Hamas denied the allegations , asserting that its fighters do not operate among civilians . <p> The current deterioration is part of a general conflict that started in October of 2023 when the Hamas-led fighters attacked Israel 's communities , killing more than 1,200 people and taking over than 250 hostages . Then , Israel started a military campaign in Gaza , during which more than 45,200 Palestinians have reportedly been killed according to Gazan authorities . The conflict has ravaged much of the coastal enclave , displacing nearly all of its 2.3 million residents . 
@@119185477 <h> Hamas has offered ' signs of life ' for several Israeli hostages : Report <h> Story highlights <p> IDF said that Hamas was using the Musa Bin Nusair school as a base to plan and launch attacks on Israeli forces and territories . The building had also been serving as a shelter for displaced Gazans . <p> As negotiations between Israel and Hamas continue to secure a hostage deal in Gaza , an Israeli official has told The Times of Israel that Hamas has offered " signs of life " for several of the hostages . <p> The official said that Israel is aware of the locations of most hostages but did not confirm whether Hamas had shared a list identifying those who are alive . <p> The official further clarified that Israel is not considering ending the war as part of any agreement but is open to a " prolonged ceasefire " arrangement instead . <p> In a separate development , the Israel Defence Forces ( IDF ) said that it conducted an overnight airstrike on Sunday ( December 22 ) , targeting a group of Hamas militants at a command centre located within a former school in Gaza City . <p> The military said that Hamas was using the Musa Bin Nusair school as a base to plan and launch attacks on Israeli forces and territories . The building had also been serving as a shelter for displaced Gazans . <p> Palestinian medical officials have reported that at least six people were killed in the strike . <h> Reports on a potential hostage exchange deal <p> Meanwhile , an Egyptian news outlet has reported on ongoing negotiations for a possible hostage-ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas . According to unnamed sources cited in Al-Ghad 's report , Hamas is demanding additional compensation to release 11 male hostages requested by Israel in the first phase of the deal . <p> The proposed deal reportedly involves the release of 250 Palestinian prisoners from Israeli jails in exchange for children held captive in Gaza , five female soldiers , and elderly or ill captives . Israel is said to have requested the release of 34 hostages in total , including the 11 men considered by Hamas to be soldiers . <p> The report suggests that Hamas has agreed to the inclusion of these 11 hostages in exchange for " special consideration . " As per the report , other points under discussion reportedly include reopening the Rafah Border crossing between Gaza and Egypt , withdrawal of Israeli forces from the Netzarim Corridor , and return of Gazan civilians to northern areas of the Strip . <h> Pope Francis criticises Israeli actions in Gaza <p> Pope Francis has again criticised Israel for strikes on Gaza , calling them acts of " cruelty . " Speaking after his weekly Angelus prayer , the pope said , " And with pain I think of Gaza , of so much cruelty , of the children being machine-gunned , of the bombings of schools and hospitals . What cruelty . " <p> Israel 's Foreign Ministry has strongly rejected the pope 's comments , describing them as " disappointing " and accusing him of failing to acknowledge the context of Israel 's fight against what it describes as jihadist terrorism , which began after the October 7 attacks . <p> In another development , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is holding a meeting with his security cabinet in northern Israel , the Times of Israel reported . <p> Disclaimer : WION takes the utmost care to accurately and responsibly report conflicts in West Asia involving Israel , Iran , Syria , Iraq , and non-state actors like the Islamic State , among others . In this context , claims and counterclaims are being made online and offline . WION can not independently verify the authenticity of all statements , social media posts , photos and videos . 
@@119234772 <h> Israel has responded with three rounds of airstrikes in Yemen during the ongoing war and has vowed to increase pressure on the Houthis until the attacks cease . <p> Ismail Haniyeh , known for leading Hamas 's negotiation efforts for a ceasefire in Gaza , was killed on 31 July in a guesthouse in Tehran . ( File Photo ) <p> Israel has confirmed that its military killed Ismail Haniyeh , the former Hamas political chief , in Tehran earlier this year . The assassination was revealed by Defence Minister Israel Katz , who also issued a warning to Yemen 's Houthi rebels , stating that their leadership could face a similar fate . <p> " We will strike hard at the Houthis ... and decapitate their leadership -- just as we did with Haniyeh , Yahya Sinwar , and Hassan Nasrallah in Tehran , Gaza , and Lebanon , " Katz said , according to The Guardian . <p> Haniyeh , known for leading Hamas 's negotiation efforts for a ceasefire in Gaza , was killed on July 31 in a guesthouse in Tehran . Reports indicate that an explosive device , planted by Israeli operatives weeks earlier , was used in the assassination . <p> Advertisement <p> A senior Hamas official condemned the killing , calling it a " cowardly act that will not go unpunished . " Mediators from Qatar and Egypt warned that the act would delay ceasefire negotiations and talks on the release of hostages held in Gaza . <p> The Iranian-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen have been launching missile and drone attacks on Israel as acts of solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza . These attacks have included a missile strike on Tel Aviv on Saturday that injured at least 16 people . <p> Israel has responded with three rounds of airstrikes in Yemen during the ongoing war and has vowed to increase pressure on the Houthis until the attacks cease . <p> The Guardian also reported that Haniyeh 's assassination follows the killing of other key leaders , including Hezbollah 's Hassan Nasrallah in Beirut on 27 September and Hamas 's Yahya Sinwar in Gaza on 16 October . <p> Advertisement <p> Sinwar was accused of masterminding the October 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack on Israel , which triggered the current conflict in Gaza . 
@@119234955 <h> Needed : A star not just above Bethlehem <h> Bethlehem faces a tense Christmas due to the Gaza war , affecting tourism significantly . Hotel occupancy has dropped drastically and visitor numbers are down . Meanwhile , RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat urges caution against disrupting temple-mosque issues . This blends into the wider context of religious conflicts and their impact , stressing the need for peace and kinship . <p> It 's no small irony that religions - essentially branded sets of behaviour for ' being and doing good ' - are also the purported source of discord , disputes and conflicts . Within this paradox lies the matter of quarrels of proprietorship over ' sacred sites ' . Today being Christmas , let 's take Bethlehem , revered as the place where Christ was born some 2,022 years ago . Thanks to the ongoing war in Gaza , this city in Israeli-occupied West Bank is having a tense , sombre Christmas for the second time in so many years . Tourism was once the city 's mainstay , fuelling 70% of its economy . Hotel occupancy is down to 3% . Pre-Covid visitor numbers of 2 million in 2019 are now under 10,000 in 2024 . This town , reenacted in countless nativity scenes across the world , will be in war-imposed lockdown this Christmas while we celebrate . <p> Closer home , RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat recently cautioned against an ' unacceptable trend of wannabe Hindu leaders raking up temple-mosque issues at various sites ' . Predictably , this has drawn flak from ' both sides ' - from those who think he is ' unduly getting soft ' , as well as from those who believe him to indulge in double-speak . Some religious leaders have also stated that matters of faith should be decided by ' dharmacharyas ' , not leaders of ' cultural organisations ' like RSS . As if in India , culture and religion is kept in separate , airtight silos . <p> The fact is , who says something matters as much as - if not more than - what is being said . So , Bhagwat 's warning against right-wing groups moving courts seeking the demolition of mosques they claim to have been built on ancient temple sites is welcome . Lest it be forgotten , religions exist to arouse peace and kinship , with all the differences that exist in the world . 
@@119234980 <h> ' Just as Israel did to Haniyeh ... ' : Def Min Katz admits for first time Hamas chief 's killing in Tehran <p> ET Online 24 Dec 2024 , 11:35 AM IST <p> Israel 's defence minister has confirmed that the IDF assassinated former Hamas political chief Ismail Haniyeh in Tehran earlier this year , and warned that the military would also " decapitate " the leadership of Yemen 's Houthi rebels . " We will strike hard at the Houthis ... and decapitate their leadership -- just as we did with Haniyeh , Yahya Sinwar , and Hassan Nasrallah in Tehran , Gaza , and Lebanon , we will do so in Hodeida and Sanaa , " Israel Katz said on Monday . His remarks , at an event at the defence ministry , mark the first public acknowledgement that Israel was behind the killing in late July of Haniyeh in the Iranian capital . Israel was widely believed to be behind the blast and leaders have previously hinted at its involvement . Iran and Hamas had blamed it for the Hamas political leader 's death . " Anyone who raises a hand against Israel will have his hand cut off , and the long arm of the IDF Israeli military will strike him and hold him accountable , " Katz said , according to a statement issued by the ministry . 
@@119235126 <p> Merry Christmas 2024 Wishes Live : States like Goa and Kerala ( in pic ) are well-known for their colourful celebrations . ( Image : Shutterstock ) <p> Merry Christmas 2024 Wishes , Quotes , Images Live Updates : Christmas festivities kicked off across the globe on Christmas Eve , with families and communities coming together to celebrate the holiday season . In cities and towns worldwide , people have started gathering for festive meals , church services , and traditional celebrations . Midnight masses have organised special significance in many places , marking the spiritual essence of the holiday . Homes and streets are illuminated with dazzling lights , creating a joyful atmosphere . The spirit of togetherness , giving , and joy filled the air , as people of all ages eagerly anticipated Christmas Day . Meanwhile , children are excited to receive their gifts from Santa Claus . <h> LIVE FEED <p> In his Christmas message , Archbishop of Goa and Daman Fr Filipe Neri Cardinal Ferrao on Tuesday said in a world often overshadowed by war , division and suffering , the birth of Jesus Christ is the eternal reminder that God has not abandoned us . <p> The Archbishop , in the festival-eve message , said as the Church comes together once again to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ , " we are reminded of the eternal hope that His coming brings to the world " . <p> " And I would like to connect the profound mystery of Christmas with the beautiful theme our beloved Pope Francis has proposed for the Jubilee Year 2025 : Pilgrims of Hope , " he said . <h> Spending Christmas Alone This Year ? How To Make The Most Of It <p> Traditionally , the holidays are for spending time with family and friends , perhaps with a varying degree of religious rituals or practices . There 's also pressure not to miss certain family celebrations , but there will be times you ca n't make it -- whether by choice or circumstance . <p> So , if you 're spending the holidays alone this year , you 're actually not alone in wondering if it 's OK to be alone . You hold the ticket to your happiness , even if you 're spending the holidays ( or any special day of the year ) in a less conventional way -- all by yourself . There 's no correct formula for how to spend the holidays , experts say , and keeping that in mind is key when you 're not going to be around your loved ones . <h> Kerala Governor , CM , LoP Extend Christmas Greetings <p> Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday extended greetings to the people of the state on the eve of Christmas and wished that the celebration inspires everyone to build a more harmonious and compassionate society . <p> In his message , the Governor urged people to reflect on the divine message of peace , love , and forgiveness that Jesus Christ imparted to the world . <p> The CM said , " Christmas comes with the message of equality and brotherhood " . <h> Cheers to Christmas : The Ultimate Beer Pairing Guide <p> As the scent of freshly baked plum cake mingles with the fragrance of cinnamon rolls and the warm glow of fairy lights twinkles around us , Christmas arrives , a time for joyous gatherings and feasts with loved ones . What better way to elevate the celebrations than with a thoughtfully chosen brew that complements the rich tapestry of flavors on the Christmas table ? Enjoy each sip responsibly , savoring the moment and the company you share . <p> President Droupadi Murmu on Tuesday greeted citizens on the eve of Christmas and hoped that the " forces of trust and forgiveness " will be strengthened around the world , bringing people closer to each other . <p> " As we celebrate this sacred day , let us imbibe Jesus Christ 's message of love and harmony in our lives . His teachings of brotherhood and welfare of all continue to light the path to a better world . This festival inspires us to foster unity and peace , " she said . <p> In this season of peace , " I hope the forces of trust and forgiveness will be strengthened around the world , bringing people closer to each other , " Murmu said . <p> Christmas , the holly , jolly time of the year , is here . December has finally arrived , bringing with it the joyous sounds of Christmas , a celebration of joy , love and togetherness . For millions around the world , Christmas is a time of unparalleled joy , a celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ . This is an opportunity to come together with loved ones , sing carols , decorate the tree and make unforgettable memories . <p> Christmas fashion is all about the bold hues of red which is just in line with the festive spirit . A lot of fashion girlies are ditching the bold shade for other colours lately . While they are making fashion statements by staying away from the classic palettes , red has always been the colour of Christmas . Take a look at the outfits worn by these seven Bollywood divas who have shown how to slay in red . You can take inspiration from their looks for all the upcoming Christmas parties . <p> It 's that time of the year again when the twinkling lights adorn homes and streets , the aroma of freshly baked cookies fills the air , and the melodious carols echo through the night . As the countdown to Christmas begins , excitement is quite palpable among kids worldwide who eagerly await the arrival of Santa Claus . And like every year , the North American Aerospace Defense Command ( NORAD ) has been tracking Santa Claus . <h> Do You Know Why Santa Claus Wears Red &amp; White ? <p> Have you ever wondered why Santa Claus , the gift-bearing icon , only wears red and white ? Has it always been his attire ? Not really . Santa Claus ' red and white suit has been influenced by several factors over time , with most notable being St Nicholas who was known for his red robes . Santa Claus ' predecessors also include Netherland 's Sinterklaas , the hooded French patriarch P ? re No ? l , and the German gift-giving baby Jesus , Christkindl , among many others . <p> It is Christmas Eve . As the Christmas spirit takes over the world , celebrities have started to gear up to welcome the festive spirit . Among them is Kendall Jenner who recently gave her fans a peek into how she had decked her house for Christmas . Located in Beverly Hills , her stunning mansion exudes warm and cosy vibes which is just in line with the spirit of Christmas . <h> Merry Christmas 2024 Wishes Live : Bethlehem Is Set To Mark A Second Subdued Christmas During The War In Gaza <p> Bethlehem prepared Tuesday to mark another somber Christmas in the traditional birthplace of Jesus under the shadow of war in Gaza . <p> The excitement and cheer that typically descends on the Palestinian town in the occupied West Bank on Christmas were nowhere to be found : The festive lights and giant tree that normally decorate Manger Square were missing . Throngs of foreign tourists that usually fill the square were n't expected and youth marching bands that gather each year to mark the holiday were absent , reported AP . <p> Palestinian security forces arranged barriers near the Nativity Church , built atop the spot where Jesus is believed to have been born , and a worker cleared garbage bins <p> Keir Starmer has said he will be hoping for peace in the Middle East , the birthplace of the Christmas story , and a brighter future for all in his first festive message since being elected British Prime Minister . <p> In a video message released by Downing Street ahead of Christmas Day on Wednesday , Starmer attempts to strike an optimistic tone and encourages people to " look after those around us " . He extended his special gratitude to the armed forces and frontline workers who will be helping people up and down the country . <p> " This Christmas , I will be hoping for peace , particularly in the Middle East as the birthplace of the Christmas story , " said Starmer . <p> Since the festive day is a commemoration of the birth of Lord Jesus , the celebrations also hold immense religious and spiritual importance for Christians across India . Celebrated every year on December 25 , Christmas festivities also include other communities in many states and it 's not only limited to the followers of Lord Jesus . Read More <p> Food is one thing that adds to the celebratory spirit , and when prepared at home , it makes one 's heart full . From the delectable plum cake to the unique spicy delicacies , India 's diverse culinary landscape offers a delightful array of Christmas treats . Read more <p> American singer Mary Millben has praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for honouring Jesus Christ as a teacher of " love , harmony , and brotherhood " while participating at a Christmas event organised by the Catholic Bishops ' Conference of India in New Delhi . Taking to X , Millben wrote , " The teachings of Lord Christ celebrate love , harmony , and brotherhood . It is important that we all work to make this spirit stronger- PM Modi . " <p> As the festive season approaches , many are gearing up for celebrations while also managing essential errands . Among the common concerns during Christmas is the availability of banking services . If you 're planning financial transactions , here 's everything you need to know about the bank holiday status for Christmas Day 2024 . As Christmas is a nationwide holiday , in-person banking services , including branch operations and counter transactions , will be unavailable . Customers are advised to plan to avoid any disruptions during this period . <p> On Tuesday , Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan extended his Christmas greetings to the people of the state , hoping the celebrations inspire a more harmonious and compassionate society . <p> In his message , he encouraged everyone to reflect on the divine teachings of peace , love , and forgiveness shared by Jesus Christ . <p> " As we celebrate the birth of Lord Jesus Christ , let us contemplate the divine message of peace , love , and forgiveness he brought to the world . May this occasion strengthen our unity and motivate us to create a more compassionate and harmonious society , " the Governor stated . <p> The use of ginger at Christmas is linked to its warming properties . With temperatures in western countries often dipping to minus degrees , ginger in cakes and cookies helps keep the body warm . Moreover , gingerbread has become associated with festivals and happiness , with some people considering it auspicious . <p> Christmas is a joyful time of year when people gather together and celebrate by exchanging heartfelt greetings and displays of affection . Every year , Christmas is grandly observed on December 25 . With Christmas approaching , you need a means to wish your friends and family a happy holiday season . Stickers are a fantastic tool for doing that . They convey your feelings and are simple to communicate . Additionally , they save you the trouble of copying and pasting greetings into every private or group conversation . 
@@119235386 <p> Defense Minister Israel Katz said his country will " damage their strategic infrastructure , and we will behead their leaders " . " Just as we did to Haniyeh , Sinwar and Nasrallah in Tehran , Gaza and Lebanon -- we will do it in Hodeidah and Sana'a , " Katz said during an evening honoring defense ministry personnel . <p> Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh was killed in an airstrike at his residence in Iran in July . <p> Israel , for the first time , publicly admitted to killing of Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh in Iran in July . The admission from Defense Minister Israel Katz admitted is likely to further escalate tensions in a region shaken by Israel 's war in Gaza and the conflict in Lebanon . <p> " These days , when the Houthi terrorist organization is firing missiles at Israel , I want to convey a clear message to them at the beginning of my remarks : We have defeated Hamas , we have defeated Hezbollah , we have blinded Iran 's defense systems and damaged the production systems , we have toppled the Assad regime in Syria , we have dealt a severe blow to the axis of evil , and we will also deal a severe blow to the Houthi terrorist organization in Yemen , which remains the last to stand , " said Katz , according to news agency Reuters . <p> In a stern warning to Houthis , Katz said Israel will " damage their strategic infrastructure , and we will behead their leaders " . " Just as we did to Haniyeh , Sinwar and Nasrallah in Tehran , Gaza and Lebanon -- we will do it in Hodeidah and Sana'a , " Katz said during an evening honoring defense ministry personnel . <p> Yemen-based Houthis , which is backed by Iran , has been attacking commercial shipping in the Red Sea for more than a year to try to enforce a naval blockade on Israel . The group has stepped up its attack to protest Israel 's year-long war in Gaza . <p> Ismail Haniyeh was killed in a airstrike on his home in Tehran " after he participated in the inauguration of Iran 's new president . " . <p> Since October 2023 , Haniyeh had lost several family members to Israeli airstrikes on Gaza . In October , an airstrike on his family home in Gaza City killed 14 family members , including his brother . The following month , he lost a granddaughter and later his eldest grandson . <p> On April 10 , 2024 , three of Haniyeh 's sons -- Hazem , Amir , and Mohammad -- were killed when an Israeli airstrike struck the car they were driving . Four of his grandchildren also died in the attack . On April 13 , Haniyeh informed his wife , who was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Doha , about their sons ' deaths . A photograph showed the couple smiling and signaling a V with their fingers . <p> Most recently , on June 25 , 2024 , ten more members of his family , including his 80-year-old sister , were killed in an Israeli airstrike in the al-Shati refugee camp . 
@@119236352 <h> Just In <h> Israel orders ' impossible ' evacuation <h> Even as its forces are attacking one of North Gaza 's last hospitals <p> If Kamal Adwan Hospital is decommissioned , there will be no way of preserving conditions of life to the remaining 75,000+ civilians in north Gaza . We call on the world to witness these crimes of extermination and act now , says hospital director Dr Husam Abu Safiya . The Israeli military has ordered evacuations from the hospital , but they have also created an intimidating environment that makes people feel it 's unsafe to leave <p> The Israel Defense Forces have ordered one of the last partly operating hospitals in northern Gaza to shutter and evacuate , even as hospital staff say there are not enough ambulances to do so safely and persistent firing on the facility makes people afraid to leave . <p> Israel launched bomb , artillery , and sniper attacks on the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahia beginning Saturday , as the Wafa news agency reported . The attacks killed three people in the area and wounded several , according to Wafu . On Sunday , an Israeli drone strike on the hospital 's fuel tanks and power generator shut off its electricity , the Anadolu Agencyreported . <p> " We currently have nearly 400 civilians inside the hospital , including babies in the neonatal unit , whose lives depend on oxygen and incubators , " hospital director Dr Husam Abu Safiya said in a statement on Sunday . " We can not evacuate these patients safely without assistance , equipment , and time . " " Every bomb that slams into Kamal Adwan Hospital , every nurse forced to watch a child slip away , every life lost from denied treatment indicts us all . " Abu Safiya described the onset of what he called an " unprece-dented " attack in a message Saturday evening local time : <p> The Israeli military has targeted the Kamal Adwan Hospital with different types of weapons without prior warning . " We are being directly attacked , the ICU unit , along with the maternity and nursing depart-ments , are coming under fire . The bombing is being conducted with tank fire and quadcopters , directly targeting us while we are present inside the hospital departments . We do n't know why we are being targeted at this hour . What we are seeing now is a deliberate attack on the health facility , " Al Jazeera 's Hani Mahmoud reported from Deir el-Balah . " The Israeli military has ordered evacuations from the hos-pital , but they have also created an intimidating environment that makes people feel it 's unsafe to leave . Mahmoud said he lost contact with the hospital Saturday night . <p> Responding to reports from the hospital on Saturday , World Health Organization ( WHO ) director Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called for a cease-fire around the hospital and for the protection of patients and staff . " Tonight 's reports of bombardment near Kamal Adwan Hospital and order to evacuate the hospital are deeply worrisome , " Ghebreyseus wrote on social media . " The hospital has been in the midst of fighting for too long , and the lives of patients are at risk . " <p> Also on Saturday , the Palestine Mental Health Networks and Doctors Against Genocide issued a state-ment in support of Abu Safiya and Kamal Adwan , demanding that the international community act to open a humanitarian corridor in Gaza , protect healthcare facilities and staff , and end the blockade on the besieged enclave . <p> Arguing that the " relentless assaults on Kamal Adwan Hospital -- a sanctuary meant to save lives in northern Gaza -- are part of a deliberate genocidal campaign , " they wrote : " Humanity can not pretend not to see . Neutrality in the face of genocide is complicity . Every bomb that slams into Kamal Adwan Hospital , every nurse forced to watch a child slip away , every life lost from denied treatment indicts us all . The world is watching . Will it once again stand idly by as another hospital crumbles , another child 's breath is silenced , another fragile hope is extinguished ? Or will it finally rise to restore the sanctity of life and the universal right to health ? " <p> In a video message shared by Drop Site News early Sunday morning Gaza time , Abu Safiya said that he had been ordered to evacuate patients to the Indonesian Hospital , but that this would be " impossible " since the hospital needs ambulances to transport the wounded and would need to move supplies as well . He said a successful evacuation would take days . <p> In a second message on Sunday , he linked the IDF 's attacks on Kamal Adwan to similar attacks on hospi-tals throughout Gaza . In October , a report from the United Nation 's Independent International Commis-sion of Inquiry on the Occupied Palestinian Territory concluded that " Israel has perpetrated a concerted policy to destroy Gaza 's healthcare system , " carrying out nearly 500 attacks on healthcare facilities be-tween October 7 , 2023 and July 30 , 2024 . <p> Abu Safiya said that the IDF did not provide hospitals with the support they needed when it ordered evacuations , such as equipment and safe passage : " We call on the world to witness this pattern once again . We have repeatedly requested assistance and have openly invited the occupation to see for themselves the internal workings of our hospitals so that we may continue to serve our population without fear of attack and death . These calls were rejected . We also call on the world to witness , that if Kamal Adwan Hospital is decommissioned , there will be no way of preserving conditions of life to the remaining 75,000+ civilians in north Gaza . We call on the world to witness these crimes of extermination and act now . " <p> Safiya also said the IDF was targeting the hospital 's fuel tanks , which would explode if hit , causing " mass casualties . " Gaza 's Government Media Office urged the WHO to visit the hospital on Sunday , saying the attack was part of a concerted attempt to destroy Gaza 's healthcare system . " These attacks are ongoing and have not stopped for nearly 80 days since the ground aggression on the northern Gaza Strip Gover-norate began , which has claimed the lives of thousands of martyrs , left many missing , wounded , or de-tained , " the statement said . In response to the reports from the hospital , the IDF told The Washington Post that it had not targeted Kamal Adwan on Saturday to its knowledge . It also said separately that it was operating in Beit Lahia . Israel has intensified military operations in northern Gaza over the past three months , according to Reu-ters . The IDF further told Reuters on Friday that it had helped to evacuate more than 100 patients from Kamal Adwan and provided fuel and food to the hospital . It did not respond to a request for comment about Saturday 's attacks . <p> Also on Sunday , the Gaza Health Ministry reported that Israeli attacks had killed 32 people and wounded 54 in the last 24 hours . At least eight people , including children , were killed in a strike on a school-turned-shelter in Gaza City . <p> " We came out to see the scale of destruction , with dead bodies , blood , and body parts all over the place . Israeli warplanes fired three missiles on this school . The explosion was huge and frightening to us and to our children , " witness Um Aref Ahel , who has been displaced by the war , told Al Jazeera . " We appeal to the whole world to bring this war to an end . " The official Gaza Health Ministry death toll from Israel 's war on Gaza , which began October 7 , 2023 in response to a deadly Hamas attack on Southern Israel , stands at over 45,000 , though many remain un-accounted for beneath the rubble . This month , both Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch issued reports labelling Israel 's assault a genocide. 
@@119236360 <h> Just In <h> Israel intercepts missile from Yemen , says IDF <h> The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) announced on Tuesday that it had intercepted a missile launched by Houthi forces in Yemen . <p> Jerusalem : The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) announced on Tuesday that it had intercepted a missile launched by Houthi forces in Yemen . <p> The missile , which was aimed at Tel Aviv , triggered air-raid sirens across central and southern Israel , forcing millions of residents to seek shelter just before 2 a.m. local time ( 0000 GMT ) . <p> " A projectile launched from Yemen was intercepted prior to crossing into Israeli territory , " the IDF said in a statement , adding that the sirens were activated as a precaution due to the possibility of falling shrapnel from the interception . <p> Magen David Adom , Israel 's emergency service , said that a woman was seriously injured after falling while rushing to a shelter , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> This missile attack came just a day after Houthi forces launched a drone strike on Israel , which was also intercepted , according to the IDF . The Houthis have sporadically targeted Israel since October in support of Palestinians in Gaza . <p> In retaliation , Israel has launched several large-scale airstrikes on Yemen , with the most recent one occurring on Thursday . <p> Since November 2023 , the Houthis have been carrying out rocket and drone attacks on Israeli cities and disrupting ' Israeli-linked ' shipping in the Red Sea to show solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza amid the Israel-Hamas conflict there . <p> The Houthi group has been controlling much of Yemen since late 2014 , forcing the internationally recognised Yemeni government out of the capital Sanaa. 
@@119236435 <h> Israel confirms assassination of Hamas top leader Ismail Haniyeh <h> Share <h> Israel confirms assassination of Hamas top leader Ismail Haniyeh <p> Israel 's defense minister has confirmed that Israel assassinated Hamas ' top leader last summer and is threatening to take similar action against the leadership of the Houthi rebel group in Yemen . <p> The comments by Israel Katz appeared to mark the first time that Israel has acknowledged killing Ismail Haniyeh , who died in an explosion in Iran in July . Israel was widely believed to be behind the blast and leaders have previously hinted at its involvement . <p> In a speech Monday , Katz said the Houthis would meet a similar fate as the other members of an Iranian-led alliance in the region , including Haniyeh . He also noted that Israel has killed other leaders of Hamas and Hezbollah , helped topple Syria 's Bashar Assad and destroyed Iran 's anti-aircraft systems . <p> " We will strike ( the Houthis ' ) strategic infrastructure and cut off the head of the leadership , " he said . <p> " Just like we did to Haniyeh , Sinwar and Nasrallah in Tehran , Gaza and Lebanon , we will do in Hodeida and Sanaa , " he said , referring to Hamas and Hezbollah leaders killed in previous Israeli attacks . <p> The Iranian-backed Houthis have launched scores of missiles and drones at Israel throughout the war , including a missile that landed in Tel Aviv on Saturday and wounded at least 16 people . <p> Israel has carried out three sets of airstrikes in Yemen during the war and vowed to step up the pressure on the rebel group until the missile attacks stop . 
@@119236642 <p> The Israeli Defence Minister also threatened to take similar action against the leadership of the Houthi rebel group in Yemen . Katz also warned that the Houthis would meet a similar fate . The warning against the Houthis came as the Iran-backed outfit has launched scores of missiles and drones at Israel throughout the war . <p> For the first time since the assassination of Hamas Chief Ismail Hanieh in Iran 's capital Tehran in July , Israel 's defense minister Israel Katz confirmed that Israel was behind the attack . Despite the delay in confirmation , Israel was widely believed to be the perpetrator as leaders previously hinted at its involvement . <p> The Israeli minister also threatened to take similar action against the leadership of the Houthi rebel group in Yemen . Katz also warned that the Houthis would meet a similar fate . " We will strike ( the Houthis ' ) strategic infrastructure and cut off the head of the leadership , " he said . <p> " Just like we did to Haniyeh , Sinwar and Nasrallah in Tehran , Gaza and Lebanon , we will do in Hodeida and Sanaa , " he said , referring to Hamas and Hezbollah leaders killed in previous Israeli attacks . <p> The warning against the Houthis came as the Iran-backed outfit has launched scores of missiles and drones at Israel throughout the war . In retaliation , Israel has carried out three sets of airstrikes in Yemen during the war and vowed to step up the pressure in future . <p> According to the Associated Press , the agents with their masks on face and altered voices spoke with CBS ' 60 Minutes ' in a segment aired Sunday night . <p> One of the agents said the operation started 10 years ago using walkie-talkies laden with hidden explosives , which Hezbollah did n't realise it was buying from Israel , its enemy . The walkie-talkies were not detonated until September , a day after booby-trapped pagers were set off . <p> According to him , the Phase two of the plan that involved using the booby-trapped pagers , kicked in in 2022 after Israel 's Mossad intelligence agency learned Hezbollah had been buying pagers from a Taiwan-based company , the second officer said . <p> The pagers had to be made slightly larger to accommodate the explosives hidden inside . They were tested on dummies multiple times to find the right amount of explosive that would hurt only the Hezbollah fighter and not anyone else in close proximity . <p> Mossad also tested numerous ring tones to find one that sounded urgent enough to make someone pull the pager out of their pocket . <p> The second agent , who went by the name " Gabriel , " said it took two weeks to convince Hezbollah to switch to the heftier pager , in part by using false ads on YouTube promoting the devices as dustproof , waterproof , providing a long battery life and more . <h> Airstrikes kill 22 in Gaza ; Vatican envoy visits Christians <p> Israeli airstrikes killed at least 22 people across the Gaza Strip while Gaza 's small Christian community celebrated a pre-Christmas Mass . According to Palestinian medical officials , the deceased included five children . The ever-present buzz of Israeli drones was heard outside the Mass . <p> Right ahead of Christmas , the Israeli authorities allowed a rare Gaza visit by the leader of the Catholic Church in the Holy Land , Cardinal Pierbattista Pizzaballa for the Mass . <p> One of the latest Israeli strikes hit a school housing displaced people in Gaza City and killed at least eight , including three children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry . Israel 's military said it struck Hamas militants sheltering there . <p> A strike on a home in the central city of Deir al-Balah late Saturday killed at least eight , including three women and two children , according to Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital . Israel 's military said it struck an Islamic Jihad militant . Another six people were killed in separate strikes on Sunday , according to local hospitals . 
@@119237610 <p> Jerusalem , December 24 ( IANS ) Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that " there has been progress " in efforts to secure a ceasefire-for-hostages deal with Hamas , but cautioned that the timeline for reaching an agreement remains unclear . <p> Speaking before the Knesset on Monday , the Israeli parliament , Netanyahu said , " I do not know how long it will take , " while vowing to " continue to act in every possible way until we bring everyone home . " <p> Earlier on Monday , Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar outlined parts of the deal during a closed meeting of the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee , describing it as " a phased , gradual framework . " <p> Israeli and Palestinian media reported that efforts led by Qatari , Egyptian , and US mediators have shown progress , though a breakthrough remains elusive . <p> Israel 's Diaspora Minister Amichai Chikli told Kan Reshet Bet public radio that there had been " some " progress toward an agreement , adding that the sides are closer to a deal than in recent months . He said the initial phase would be " a humanitarian phase , " involving a 42-day ceasefire and the release of some hostages . <p> " This ceasefire could last six months or 10 years , depending on the dynamics that develop on the ground , " Chikli said . <p> The length of the ceasefire has been a key sticking point in previous failed negotiation attempts . Hamas seeks to end the war entirely , while Israel insists on removing Hamas ' control over Gaza before any resolution and maintaining a military presence in the Palestinian enclave even after the ceasefire . <p> Hamas launched an assault on southern Israel on October 7 , 2023 , killing about 1,200 people and kidnapping approximately 250 others . About 100 Israeli and foreign hostages are still being held by Hamas in Gaza , and dozens of them are believed to be dead , according to Israeli estimates . <p> Israel responded with an extensive military campaign , reducing much of the Gaza Strip to rubble . At least 45,317 people have been killed by the Israeli strikes in Gaza , according to an update released on Monday by the Gaza-based health authorities . <h> Connect with us <h> Intro footer <p> The Morung Express <p> The Morung Express is a people-oriented alternative newspaper based in Nagaland that was conceived from the Naga people 's historical realities and is guided by their voices and experiences . It emerged from the well-recognized concept that the core of a free press is based on " qualitative and investigative " journalism . Ensuring this is essential for contributing to an informed Naga public that makes sound decisions on issues that affect all spheres of life . 
@@119237795 <h> Yemen 's Houthis on Tuesday said that they have launched a " hypersonic " ballistic missile at a military target in Jaffa near Tel Aviv , Israel . <p> Sanaa : Yemen 's Houthis on Tuesday said that they have launched a " hypersonic " ballistic missile at a military target in Jaffa near Tel Aviv , Israel . <p> Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said that " the heads of the Houthis " would face a similar fate to " Yahya Sinwar in Gaza , Ismail Haniyeh in Tehran , and Hassan Nasrallah in Beirut , " referencing the leaders of Hamas and Hezbollah . <p> Israel has struck both civilian and military infrastructure in Yemen without targeting specific individuals . During a visit to an Arrow air defense system battery , which intercepted the Houthi missile over Israel overnight , Defense Minister Israel Katz declared : " Just as we dealt with Sinwar in Gaza , Haniyeh in Tehran , and Nasrallah in Beirut , we will address the heads of the Houthis in Sanaa or anywhere in Yemen , " according to a report in Times of Israel . <p> " We will target both their infrastructure and their leadership to eliminate the threat , " Katz added , emphasizing that " those sponsoring Houthi terrorism in Hodeidah or Sanaa will also pay the full price . " 
@@119247185 <h> Christmas : It is a message of hope and joy for all <p> The birth of Jesus Christ marks a profound and transformative moment in human history . Emmanuel -- " God with us " ( Matthew 1:23 ) -- entered the world , revealing infinite possibilities and offering humanity a path to redemption . Faced with the consequences of sin and its pervasive effects on creation , God enacted an unparalleled plan of grace : He became human . Through His incarnation , Jesus exemplified the depths of divine love and the transformative power of a life lived in selfless service . His message , rooted in healing and renewal , remains an enduring call to all people . The angel Gabriel 's announcement of Jesus ' birth to the shepherds carries a lesson of humility and universality . Gabriel proclaimed : " Do not be afraid . I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all the people " ( Luke 2:10 ) . These shepherds , simple and unassuming , were the first to witness the arrival of the Good Shepherd . Their awe-filled response reminds us that the message of Christmas transcends social status , power , or privilege . It is a message of hope and joy for all , particularly the humble and marginalized . <p> Christmas : A Celebration of Hope <p> Christmas is fundamentally a celebration of light triumphing over darkness . The luminous Christmas lights , twinkling against the backdrop of winter nights , symbolize hope and the promise of joy amidst life 's challenges . They remind us of the sacred permission to be happy and to resist despair . This defiance against darkness encapsulates the essence of Christmas -- a call to shine brightly in the confidence that God 's presence is enduring and transformative . This message is especially poignant in a world marred by conflict and suffering . From the ongoing war in Ukraine to the struggles in Gaza , Syria , and other regions , humanity faces profound trials . While these challenges may appear insurmountable , the message of Christmas offers an alternative vision . Instead of yielding to hopelessness , we are invited to respond with love , hope , and a commitment to peace . As Scripture assures us , " For with God nothing shall be impossible " ( Luke 1:37 ) . This season calls us to rise above adversity and embody the divine virtues of love , compassion , and unity . <p> The Humility and Universality of Christmas <p> The birth of Jesus in a stable , rather than a palace , is a powerful symbol of humility and inclusivity . It underscores that true greatness lies not in material wealth or social status but in service , love , and selflessness . This profound act of humility challenges us to embrace unity over division and to extend goodwill to all , regardless of differences . " Blessed are the peacemakers , for they shall be called children of God " ( Matthew 5:9 ) . Christmas also emphasizes the power of giving over materialism and greed . The shepherds ' response to the birth of Christ -- marked by worship and joy -- offers a model of simplicity and generosity . In contrast to the acquisitiveness that often dominates contemporary celebrations , Christmas invites us to find fulfillment in giving and in acts of kindness . As Jesus Himself taught , " It is more blessed to give than to receive " ( Acts 20:35 ) . <p> A Call to Reflection and Renewal <p> At its heart , Christmas is not merely a ritual or tradition but a profound revelation of eternal truths . It is a celebration of God 's love , the promise of peace , and the hope for a transformed world . This sacred season invites us to reflect on these truths and to renew our commitment to living lives marked by humility , generosity , and compassion . May this Christmas inspire us to become bearers of light and hope in a world often shrouded in darkness . Like the shepherds , may we approach the story of Christ with awe and gratitude , allowing its transformative message to guide our actions . Let us embrace the call to be peacemakers and ambassadors of goodwill , striving toward a world where love , unity , and peace prevail . In doing so , we honor the true essence of Christmas and reflect the enduring light of Emmanuel -- God with us . <p> ( Author is an Assistant Professor in XITE Gamharia ( Autonomous ) College . The views expressed are personal. ) 
@@119249495 <h> Share : <p> " I felt like , like , like a Nazi ... it looked exactly like we were actually the Nazis and they were the Jews " , a soldier who suffered from mental consequences has reportedly said . <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - A recent article published in Haaretz sheds light on the sadism of Israeli soldiers and the impact of government rhetoric on their behavior . The article , written by Professor Yoel Elizur , an Israeli psychologist with experience in military mental health , explores how Israeli soldiers , influenced by a toxic culture of hatred and revenge , committed war crimes in Gaza long time before October 7 , 2023 . <p> Soldiers , who were part of repressing the first Intifada , experience guilt , shame , depression , and suicidal thoughts , according to Elizur . The army 's Rear Rehabilitation Centers ( RRCs ) provide support , but many of the soldiers are discharged as unfit for duty due to the trauma they endure . <p> While Israel 's society views the Israeli army as a moral army , Elizur argues that atrocities committed by soldiers have been minimized or ignored . He highlights research conducted by Nuphar Ishay-Krien during the First Intifada , which identified several groups of soldiers based on their responses to violence and brutality . Some soldiers felt empowered by the power they held , seeing themselves as untouchable in Gaza , which encouraged their sadism . One soldier 's chilling account stated , " It 's like a drug ... you feel like you are the law , you make the rules . As if from the moment you leave the place called Israel and enter the Gaza Strip , you are God . " <p> Elizur presents accounts from soldiers who engaged in pure sadism without remorse . One soldier described shooting an unarmed Palestinian in the back four times in cold blood . " X shot an Arab four times in the back and got away with a self-defense claim . Four bullets in the back from a distance of ten meters ... cold-blooded murder . We did things like that every day . " <p> Another soldier recounted a horrific instance of a soldier kicking a woman in the groin , leaving her unable to have children . " I have no problem with women . One threw a slipper at me , so I gave her a kick here ( pointing to the groin ) , broke all this here . She ca n't have children today . " <p> " An Arab just walked down the street , about 25 years old , did n't throw a stone , nothing . Bang , a bullet in the stomach . Shot him in the stomach , and he was dying on the sidewalk , and we drove away indifferently " , another soldier said . <p> These soldiers , according to Elizur , viewed violence as a sign of masculinity and strength . " I felt like , like , like a Nazi ... it looked exactly like we were actually the Nazis and they were the Jews " , a soldier who suffered from mental consequences has reportedly said . <p> " A new commander came to us . We went out with him on the first patrol at six in the morning . He stops . There 's not a soul in the streets , just a little 4-year-old boy playing in the sand in his yard . The commander suddenly starts running , grabs the boy , and breaks his arm at the elbow and his leg here . Stepped on his stomach three times and left . We all stood there with our mouths open . Looking at him in shock ... I asked the commander : " What 's your story ? " He told me : These kids need to be killed from the day they are born . When a commander does that , it becomes legit " , a soldier stated . <p> Elizur also revealed that soldiers who opposed brutality and reported crimes to their superiorswere marginalized . This is particularly evident in the current Gaza genocide , where soldiers continue to commit atrocities , including the shooting of civilians and the abuse of detainees . Reports of these crimes , such as those from the Sde Teiman detention facility , highlight the normalization of violence and dehumanization in the military . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The social pressure to conform and engage in violence and sadism has taken its toll on many soldiers . One female reservist described how witnessing the abuse of detainees left her feeling numb , while another soldier remarked on the disturbing ease with which soldiers detached themselves from the humanity of their victims . <p> As evidence of war crimes continues to mount , including shooting civilians with white flags and abusing prisoners , Elizur 's article is a powerful reminder of the moral injuries that go hand in hand with violence and the need for accountability in the IDF . <h> Related Posts <p> by Alain Alameddine and Seth Morrison Seventy-six years of occupation , ethnic cleansing and settler-colonisation leading up to today 's genocide in Gaza can not disappear overnight . In light of this , does the ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119249496 <h> Can Palestinians And Israelis Coexist In A Single Democratic State ? <h> Share : <p> A view of the West Bank separation barrier , which separates Bethlehem from Jerusalem , has become the site of many artists ' drawings to depict the Israeli attacks on Palestinians , on November 12 , 2024 in Bethlehem , West Bank Image by Wisam Hashlamoun <p> Seventy-six years of occupation , ethnic cleansing and settler-colonisation leading up to today 's genocide in Gaza can not disappear overnight . In light of this , does the historical Palestinian and anti-Zionist Jewish vision for a single democratic state where Palestinians and previous Israelis coexist make any sense ? How would such a state guarantee the security of its citizens -- would n't previous oppressors and victims be at each other 's throats ? <p> Zionism claims that Jews have always been and will always be persecuted . Accordingly , it presents a model for a state exclusive to Jews as the only solution and promotes this apartheid throughout the world by taking advantage of the long history of European anti-Semitism to encourage Jewish immigration to Palestine to leave their societies , cleansing non-Jews from Palestine using different means of violence and even supporting similar identitarian projects in Algeria , Sudan , Lebanon , Syria and other countries . In other words , Zionism claims that violence is inherent to having different identities and that separation is the only solution . The Palestinian liberation movement , on the other hand , has historically declared that violence in the region is the outcome of an oppressive settler colonial project and that dismantling it is the solution . <p> Who is right ? Could a democratic state guarantee peace and security for all its citizens ? And what do historical cases of colonisation and decolonisation have to teach us ? <p> Dismantling colonial relations of power , establishing the legitimacy of the democratic state <p> In Ghassan Kanafani 's Returning to Haifa , the Palestinian child raised by Israeli settlers ended up joining the occupation forces . One could also easily imagine a settler 's son raised by Palestinians joining the resistance . This shows that violence , both the occupiers ' and the occupied 's , results from a political structure rather than any inherent qualities . The fact that over 90 per cent of Jewish Israelis side with the genocide in Gaza and that most Palestinians side with armed resistance is the result of colonial relations of power that were imposed by a colonial state . In other words , the role of the decolonial democratic state is not to " inherit " a cohesive society but to build and develop cohesion within it . In the words of Frantz Fanon : " Decolonisation brings a natural rhythm into existence ... Decolonisation is the veritable creation of new men . " This required understanding how the settler state imposed colonial relations of power and then determining what policies would dismantle them . The democratic state is a democratising state . <p> For example , the state will grant Palestinians the rights that the Zionist state had deprived them of , particularly the right of return and the right to compensation , without being unjust to Jews . It will implement a model that would be fair to all , regardless of socio-economic status . It will abrogate racist laws such as the Basic Law or Citizenship Law , ensuring that all are totally equal before the law , and will criminalise political Zionism and all kinds of settler colonial ideologies . Instead of having different school curricula for Jews and non-Jews , it will unify the curriculum and will make sure that universal civic values replace Zionist values in it . At the socio-economic level , it will establish a comprehensive safety net with universal free education , universal health care and full equality in hiring and wages , closing today 's income , poverty and education gaps . Previous war crimes will also have to be investigated , although the mechanisms will need to be determined by the future citizens of that state -- both Palestinians and their Israeli partners . <p> The state will also have a monopoly on violence , which includes disarming segments of the population that are currently armed . To quote Ner Kitri in his article , " The transition from a Jewish state to true democracy will benefit all " , it will use this monopoly to " protect its citizens ' lives rather than colonial privileges . " Finally , the state will commit not to use its armed forces for expansionist purposes as Israel historically has . As in the cases of Kenya , South Africa and Algeria , which we will discuss in more detail below , deportation will not be on the table . Israelis who feel a genuine connection to the land ( be it for religious , cultural or other reasons ) will enjoy life as equals in a dezionised Palestine , while those who choose to leave will be able to do so peacefully . <p> By eliminating colonial privileges while guaranteeing rights to all , the new Palestinian state will establish and solidify its legitimacy in the eyes of its society . Crucially , instead of legitimising its existence on the basis of representing sectarian interests , it will do so on the basis of its functional capacity to administer the affairs of its society and to guarantee its citizens ' rights -- rights that Israel denies Palestinians and failed to deliver to Jews . This change -- this decolonisation , in the fullest sense of the word -- will signal a rupture with Zionism and the global colonial project . The result will be a society where tribal identities will melt away , and citizens will not merely " coexist " but actually live together , the two previous demographic groups forming a single " mosaic of life " , as Ilan Pappe expressed it . <p> This said -- is this a realistic vision of what could happen ? What does the history of Palestine , as well as historical cases of decolonisation , have to teach us ? <p> Violence under colonisation and after it : Historical examples <p> Palestine has always been the home of Christians , Muslims , Jews , Bahai and observers of many different religions who lived together in peace . Before colonial Zionists , Palestine welcomed non-Palestinians such as Kurds , Armenians , Circassians and European Jews . For example , the Zionist education initiative " TBTN " indicates that there was an : " Important and vital Jewish community in Gaza during the early Muslim period " and that " the Jewish community experienced a period of prosperity under Ottoman rule . " TBTN explains this peace was disturbed on two occasions : First , in 1799 , when Jews fled Gaza ahead of Napoleon 's invasion of Palestine : " Marking the temporary end of a Jewish presence in the area . " These Gazans returned in the 19th century and the city was again an " important Jewish centre " . This ended in the 1920s when , following the mass migration of Jews to Palestine and Balfour 's promise to establish " a national home for Jews in Palestine " , riots started throughout Palestine and Gazan Jews fled once again . In both cases , violence was the result of European colonial interference , not of inherent religious or cultural differences . As expressed in the Palestinian letter " To Our Other " : " It is Zionism that has stood in the way of life , common life , on the basis of freedom and fairness . " <p> Some recognise the above and understand that Jews and Palestinians can coexist in a dezionised land but fear that in this specific case -- over 76 years of oppression -- it will prove impossible for previous oppressors and victims to live together . Feelings of supremacy on the one hand and of revenge on the other are to be expected . Interestingly , historical cases of decolonisation seem to reveal a pattern : when the balance of forces tips in favour of the indigenous , a transition that is more or less rough happens , a large number of settlers leave and those willing to let go of colonial privileges remain in peace . In other words , history shows that although the process of liberation can be violent , the liberation actually ends , not increases , violence between previous enemies . <p> Kenya is one such example . The Mau Mau uprising began in the early 1950s and was a significant and violent resistance movement against British colonial rule . After years of unrest and increasing pressure , the British government was forced to negotiate the independence of Kenya with the native liberation movement . The new state promoted a policy of forgiveness and reassured settlers that they could stay and contribute as equals . Many settlers left , fearing reprisals . Those who stayed had to relinquish privileges , particularly regarding land and resource redistribution , but there were zero cases of large-scale revenge . <p> The ? vian Accords that ended the French colonisation of Algeria stated that Europeans could depart , remain as foreigners , or take Algerian citizenship . In his article " The Liberation of Palestine and the Fate of the Israelis " , Eitan Bronstein Aparicio explains that following the announcement : " A violent terrorist organisation named OAS ( Organisation Arm ? e Secr ? te or " Secret Army Organisation " ) emerged and caused many casualties , mainly Algerians but also anti-colonial French , in an attempt to prevent the liberation of Algeria . " <p> This violence subsided within two months . After which , Aparicio continues : " Most settlers chose to leave Algeria . They ran away in panic , out of fear of the day their domination would be over . But in fact , there was no real existential threat to them . They left because they were captive in their own colonial identity . In other words , they could not imagine a situation in which they would live in equality with the Algerians . And they paid a huge price for being uprooted from their home due to their own occupier mentality ... While 200,000 French decided to stay and live in the liberated Algeria . From their testimonies , we learn that they saw Algeria as their home and had no reason to leave . " <p> The end of apartheid in South Africa followed the same pattern . The negotiations between the apartheid government and the African National Congress ( ANC ) were accompanied by considerable violence and unrest , including clashes between rival political groups , police crackdowns and incidents like the Boipatong massacre and the assassination of Chris Hani , a prominent ANC leader . The first democratic elections , however , were marked by a high turnout . The government enacted decolonial policies such as Black Economic Empowerment and land reforms that stripped settlers of a number of their privileges , and settlers who chose to remain as citizens did so peacefully . <p> The Truth and Reconciliation Commission also provided an interesting model , investigating past abuses and allowing perpetrators of human rights violations who provided full disclosure of their actions and demonstrated that their crimes were politically motivated ( truth ) to apply for amnesty ( reconciliation ) , thus judging the colonial political programme that had caused the crimes rather than the human tools it had used to do so . <p> Other cases of decolonisation seem to follow the same pattern , showing that what we need to fear is not the dismantling of the colonial Israel state or the establishment of a democratic Palestinian state but the unfolding of the transitionary period between them . This danger can be minimised , or even averted , by learning from and improving on the South Africa and Kenya models when the Palestinian liberation movement and their Israeli partners for decolonisation and peace work together on it . <p> " We were led to believe we could not live without the nation-state , lest we not only be denied its privileges but also find ourselves dispossessed in the way of the permanent minority . The nation made the immigrant a settler and the settler a perpetrator . The nation made the local a native and the native a perpetrator , too . In this new history , everyone is colonised -- settler and native , perpetrator and victim , majority and minority . Once we learn this history , we might prefer to be survivors instead . " -- " Neither Settler Nor Native " , Mahmood Mamdani . <p> Alain Alameddine is a decolonial praxicist with a focus on Palestine and the Sham region and a coordinator at the One Democratic State Initiative . He is happy to be reached at email protected . <p> Seth Morrison is an American Jewish anti-Zionist activist supporting pro-Palestine organisations , including Jewish Voice for Peace . Organisational information for identification only . He writes in his personal capacity . email protected <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119249498 <p> At Kamal Adwan hospital in northern Gaza , Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya has become a symbol of resilience in the face of unimaginable horror . That horror is ongoing as the hospital and surrounding area remained under Israeli attack this past weekend . Injured , traumatized and fearful people taking shelter there are facing the threat of forced evacuation . <p> The pediatrician and hospital director has endured weeks of relentless Israeli bombardment , the death of his 15-year-old son , Ibrahim , and even his own injury , all while refusing to abandon his patients . Amid the siege of his hospital -- with Israeli bombardment continuing over this past week -- Abu Safiya 's story underscores the human cost of war and the extraordinary courage it takes to preserve life in the face of death . <p> Since the beginning of October , Israel 's military campaign in northern Gaza has devastated towns like Jabaliya , Beit Lahiya and Beit Hanoun , displacing approximately 100,000 -- 130,000 Palestinians and killing hundreds . The region 's three hospitals , including Kamal Adwan hospital in Beit Lahiya , have borne the brunt of these attacks , pushed to the brink of collapse under siege and bombardment . Israel has justified its operations with unsubstantiated claims of militant activity within these facilities , allegations vehemently denied by local medical staff and humanitarian organizations . <p> The lives of two children in the intensive care unit were claimed by the resulting oxygen failure . Hours later , Israeli troops stormed the facility , detaining hundreds of patients , staff and displaced civilians sheltering within its walls . <p> Abu Safiya was among those briefly detained during the raid . <p> " The Israeli army detained me and demanded that I evacuate the hospital , " Abu Safiya told The Electronic Intifada in a telephone interview -- and other journalists as well . " I refused and assured them that there were only patients inside . But they arrested 57 staff members , leaving us with a severe shortage of doctors , especially surgeons . Now , only I and one other pediatrician remain , " he said after the assault . <p> The cost of Abu Safiya 's defiance was personal and devastating . During the raid , an Israeli drone targeted his 15-year-old son , Ibrahim , killing him at the hospital entrance . <p> " I refused to leave the hospital and sacrifice my patients , so the army punished me by killing my son , " Hussam Abu Safiya shared with journalists contacting him about the situation at his hospital . In the aftermath , he buried Ibrahim near the hospital wall so his son could remain close to him . <p> The days following the 28 October withdrawal of Israeli forces brought no respite . Attacks on the hospital resumed , temporarily culminating on 31 October when shelling destroyed another shipment of medical supplies provided by the World Health Organization ( WHO ) . <p> According to a WhatsApp press statement shared by Abu Safiya , as he often does , a WHO delegation came to evacuate patients on 3 November during which the pediatric ward was targeted by Israeli fire , wounding several people , including a 13-year-old girl . On 4 and 5 November , repeated strikes damaged water tanks , further compounding the hospital 's dire conditions . <p> Lifeline <p> Despite these hardships , Kamal Adwan hospital remains a critical lifeline for the people of northern Gaza . The hospital in early November accommodated more than 120 patients , with wounded civilians continuing to arrive daily , often carried on makeshift stretchers or in animal-drawn carts . <p> " Ambulances are out of service after repeated attacks , " Abu Safiya explained . " We are forced to choose between patients due to the overwhelming numbers of wounded . I never imagined living through such tragic moments . " <p> On the night of 23 November , the hospital faced another direct attack . A drone strike targeted Abu Safiya 's office moments after he exited the operating room , leaving him seriously wounded with shrapnel injuries to his leg . <p> Medical staff struggled to provide adequate care due to the lack of specialists and equipment . " Our healthcare system is on the verge of collapse , " said a nurse , describing the hospital 's inability to perform even basic diagnostics or surgical interventions . <p> Speaking from his hospital bed in a WhatsApp press statement on 24 November , Abu Safiya declared , " This will not stop us . I was injured at my workplace , and that is an honor . My blood is no more precious than that of my colleagues or the people we serve . I will return to my patients as soon as I recover . " <p> The attacks on Kamal Adwan hospital are part of a broader strategy that has seen Israel intensify its assault on Gaza since 7 October 2023 . Backed by American support , the campaign has killed over 45,000 Palestinians ( approximately two percent of Gaza 's population ) , displaced hundreds of thousands and left much of the enclave in ruins . <p> Health services are collapsing under the strain , with humanitarian corridors blocked and medical personnel targeted . <p> The Israeli military claimed its actions were based on " precise intelligence " and alleged the presence of militants posing as hospital staff . However , the only evidence presented was the coerced testimony of a detainee and photographs of weapons allegedly found near the hospital . <p> Abu Safiya dismissed these accusations , telling The Electronic Intifada : " This is a hospital . We do not ask patients for their political affiliations . Our mission is to provide care to all who need it . " <p> On 4 December , Abu Safiya released a WhatsApp audio statement to the media describing the ongoing conditions at his hospital . " Drones are dropping bombs filled with shrapnel , injuring anyone in their path . The situation has become extremely dangerous . Kamal Adwan hospital has been subjected to a barbaric assault by drones , and once again , the occupation focuses its aggression on medical teams . " <p> He added , " Just moments ago , three members of our medical staff were injured . One of them is in critical condition and is currently undergoing a complex surgical procedure in the operating room . " <p> The pediatrician , however , remains steadfast in his commitment to his patients , even as the hospital faces the threat of complete destruction . <p> " We are a health institution serving the sick and wounded , not a battleground , " he said by telephone to The Electronic Intifada . " The continued targeting of this hospital is a deliberate attempt to silence us . But I will not back down . My profession is my duty , and I will continue to deliver my humanitarian message until my last breath . " <p> Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya 's courage and perseverance shine through the darkness of Gaza 's ongoing siege . As Kamal Adwan hospital teeters on the edge of collapse , his story stands as a testament to the resilience of those who fight not with weapons , but with compassion and humanity . <p> Latest horrors <p> The Electronic Intifada spoke by telephone one further time last Wednesday with Abu Safiya to discuss the developments of the previous day which he described as " one of the darkest , most difficult and bloodiest days at Kamal Adwan hospital . " The doctor shared much the same message with other journalists . <p> The hospital , he said , was " targeted by warplanes , which struck more than eight buildings in its vicinity . One of these buildings was inhabited . " Some of the fleeing people were " engulfed in flames . " Describing the incident as a " horrific attack , " Abu Safiya said eight people were killed and that " children remain trapped beneath the charred rubble . " <p> The situation further deteriorated when " bulldozers and tanks entered the area , firing directly at the hospital from all directions . " <p> The damage to the hospital was severe . " The intensive care unit , located on the western side , was directly hit . Tank shells struck the unit , igniting a fire that forced us to evacuate patients urgently . Miraculously , we managed to save the oxygen cylinders in the emergency room . Unfortunately , the isolation ward was completely burned down . " <p> With limited resources the fire was difficult to control . " By the grace of God , we managed to extinguish the fire with our bare hands , as no fire extinguishers were available , and the water supply had been cut off . We used blankets and our bare hands to control the flames . " <p> Despite the devastating scene , Abu Safiya and his colleagues continue to persevere notwithstanding an intensive care unit he describes as resembling " a war zone , with bullets piercing equipment , walls and windows . " <p> He remains stunned by the intense Israeli violence targeting his hospital and the silence of so many in the face of weeks of his hospital being bombarded . <p> " It is incomprehensible why we are being targeted in such a brutal manner . For over 75 days , we have been calling out to the world , yet nothing has been done . This apathy enables the occupiers to escalate their violence , and I fear they will continue targeting other departments , potentially destroying the hospital before the eyes of the world . Tragically , this is our reality . " <p> The reality continued to worsen over this past weekend with some 400 people , including patients , at the hospital facing the threat of evacuation under perilous circumstances . <p> Journalist Islam Ahmed from inside the hospital told The Electronic Intifada on Sunday that the number of patients had risen from 66 to 85 over the weekend and that approximately 10 bodies were lying in the street north of the hospital . On Monday , Abu Safiya put the number of patients at 91 while saying that " the bombing has not ceased throughout the night , destroying homes and surrounding buildings . " He described an " extremely horrifying situation " and called for " urgent international intervention before it is too late . " <p> In a follow-up conversation on Monday , Ahmed said three bodies inside the hospital over the weekend , including that of Ameena al-Mufti , a girl hit in an Israeli drone strike , had been buried earlier in the day under extremely difficult circumstances . <p> Stepping outside the hospital , Ahmed says , is life-threatening . Sounds of gunfire could be heard during The Electronic Intifada 's interview with him Sunday night . <p> Dr. Hussam Abu Safiyeh and his team have begun the impossible task of evacuating patients from Kamal Adwan Hospital to the Indonesian Hospital after receiving verbal evacuation orders via loudspeakers . <p> Tonight 's reports of bombardment near Kamal Adwan Hospital and order to evacuate the hospital are deeply worrisome . The hospital has been in the midst of fighting for too long and the lives of patients are at risk . <p> Abu Safiya in a weekend statement insisted that evacuation as called for through an Israeli loudspeaker would take days , not hours , if even possible . The Indonesian hospital in Beit Lahiya , he said , would have to be readied and there was a lack of ambulances to transport patients . <p> Once again , as on so many occasions in recent weeks , he appealed to an unlistening world . <h> Related Posts <p> by Alain Alameddine and Seth Morrison Seventy-six years of occupation , ethnic cleansing and settler-colonisation leading up to today 's genocide in Gaza can not disappear overnight . In light of this , does the ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119249501 <h> A Mourner 's Prayer for Gaza <h> Share : <p> Strange now to think of you while I read the words of a Jewish poet long gone on his boat of metaphors and flowers for the constant beat of time and all it brings forth . I think of you and how once you flourished there beside the sea despite the ever-tightening constraints placed upon you by the hateful gods of Zion . They tried to make you yield to oppression . They took away your freedom . They took away your land , parcel by parcel . They torched your olive trees , burned your crops , bulldozed your homes , sexually assaulted your men and women , killed your children , invaded your towns and villages , while the world looked on and looked away and excused your crimes , your wanton destruction as the necessary acts of a persecuted people fighting back against the terrorists in their midst -- you , the people of Gaza . <p> They said your children are destined to become terrorists , so even newborns are legitimate targets . So too are the mothers who have brought them into the world and will turn them into killers and haters of Israeli Jews , decreed the gods of Zion . But you will never be gone no matter how many martyrs they make , no matter how many loved ones they take from you while their people cheer the killing , salute the killers , treat them as heroes , bring their children to watch you dying , teach them to see you as vermin , animals , sub-humans not worth a single shekel of mercy . There are days when I can understand how Aaron Bushnell , a U.S. Air Force servicemember , could light himself on fire in front of the Israeli Embassy in Washington D.C. The genocide was more than he could bear . And his fiery exit from our world was an expression of his principled opposition to this genocide . <p> Who can doubt his death by self-immolation was also a cry from the heart for the suffering of your people , Gaza . The flames that engulfed Aaron are the same flames rising among families in Gaza , families sheltering in tents or huddling in whatever homes have not yet been bombed , shelled , hit with a Hellfire missile . Like Aaron , like so many others , I grieve . Am filled with rage for what could only happen with the full approval and backing of my own government , a willing accomplice to genocide . <p> While an entire people is being inexorably exterminated , I go about my life feeling powerless to make any significant difference in the lives of Palestinians stripped of dignity , herded into enclaves where the killers can more easily and comfortably complete their tasks with no limit on the amount of suffering they can inflict . I can rail against the murderers and their overlords and those who cheer them on from Washington to Tel Aviv . But what good does railing do when so many are starving , bleeding out on hospital floors , caught in the gunsights of snipers and quadcopter drones , torn to pieces or incinerated in the flames from a missile attack while lying asleep in some thin tissue of a tent . It is the children who weigh most heavily on my heart . Your children , Gaza . Not even their tender , untested lives are safe from the bullet 's wrath , the bomb 's fiery breath , the hatred that pours from the very souls of those people we claim are only defending themselves . Children . Like the children I see every day in the town where I live . I watch them in the local bakery whooping with delight at displays of beautifully crafted pastries . Some of them come straight from their dancing class still dressed in slippers and tights and skirts trimmed with sparkling costume jewels . And the parents , credit cards at the ready , are quick to indulge their children 's sweetest tooth . There are almost no bakeries left in your towns and villages , Gaza , where children can pick out their favorite sweet or pastry and hold it in their hands as the children do here knowing after it 's gone , there will always be another . Those bakeries that have not been destroyed have had to close their doors because of flour and fuel shortages caused by Israel 's blockade . In the north , there was one bakery where families could find bread . And then the Israelis bombed the warehouse where the flour was kept . In March , they gunned down men and women waiting for a convoy of trucks to deliver priceless bags of flour and other forms of aid . How can I not think of you , Gaza , each time I cut into a loaf of bread or lift a sweet roll to my lips . I see your children holding out empty bowls and pots as they clamor around a charity kitchen and push for a helping of the day 's fare . But the day may come when there will no more such kitchens and no more cauldrons of soup or vegetable stew . Already a famine is spreading from one end of your land to the other , and starvation , the weapon of choice by Zion 's holy warriors , may very well " finish the job . " And should that happen , clean-up crews from the Promised Land will scrub the stones till no trace of blood remains . Tons of rubble will give rise to lofty towers and luxury apartments . On holidays , settler families will take their kids down to the sea and let them scour the beach for trinkets -- a doll , a bracelet , a shiny ring . Things from a time when other children , long gone from Gaza , played in the waves and flew their kites on ocean breezes as signs of their presence and the angels who loved them . While the ghosts of all the martyrs , scooped from their graves , will haunt the wind with a long lament for the life they lost when the killers came . <p> Have I arrived at the place where Aaron Bushnell came to , the place where he knew he could no longer accept the deliberate immolation of families by America 's closest ally and the refusal of the world 's greatest power to lift a finger in defense of Palestinian life ? No . I walk on , yet ashamed to be a citizen of this place , my country . As I was ashamed at 25 and traveling overseas with a freshly printed passport while my country was at war in Vietnam , a war the International War Crimes Tribunal in 1967 found met the definition of genocide . And again , 25 years later , in Iraq 's public hospitals , the same shame followed me as I visited the pediatric wards . The wards were strangely , unnaturally silent . Mothers and grandmothers could do nothing but hold the hands of their loved ones or wipe their brows with a damp cloth because no medicine would be coming , and it was only a matter of time before the children would all be dead . That time , in Iraq , it was n't Israel withholding aid but America , and as in Gaza , it was the young , the elderly , the sick , the poor who were the first to suffer and to die . <p> I walk on , knowing there is no justification for what Israel has done , is doing to your children , Gaza . From afar , I see men searching for survivors of another attack . One of the men finds a child by a pile of rubble . As he lifts her up , her arms collapse at her side . Her head falls back . Her eyes , once glistening with life and the light of childhood , stare up at the heavens where no gods reside and the only inhabitants are stone-cold killers throwing down whatever will deprive your people , Gaza , of the will to live ... of life itself . <p> So , yes , I rage . I grieve . But my grief is nothing next to those who find their spouses or their children wrapped in bloody shrouds and left among the dead . My grief is nothing beside the mother whose child is withering away , his body a mere outline of bones , his heart a tattered flag soon to be set free , his arms too weak to even lift his voice beyond a whispered cry . But she has no food to give him . It has all been taken away as part of a glorious plan to which Yahweh has given His seal of approval , or so the story has been told and the generals of Zion agree . What would I do if I were sheltering in a school among dozens of families hoping to survive another night under relentless bombardment ? And should the school be hit , and men , women , and children ripped apart , decapitated , how then would I grieve in the midst of this carnage ? For that matter , if the people I most dearly love were among the dead in whatever is left of this shelter , would I have the strength to carry on or would my grief , like a bird of prey , sink its talons into me and not let go till it drops me into a pit of my own oblivion ? <p> Here , in this sun-filled room , I have no fear of winter . No matter how cold it gets , I can simply adjust the thermostat in my home or put another blanket on the bed . But for you , Gaza , there are no thermostats and no cozy , indoor gatherings of families and friends , sharing glasses of steaming hot tea and slices of crunchy , sugary knafeh . Ninety percent of your people are displaced and facing another winter of harsh rains and falling temperatures without adequate shelter , warm blankets , sources of heat , and enough food to prevent malnutrition . Families in tent encampments along the coast have no defense against rising tides that can flood the tents and wash away clothing and bedding , and even pull little children out to sea . No matter how immiserated the people of Gaza become , no matter how violently they shiver night after winter night in leaky , patched up tents , their suffering is never too much for the armed forces of Zion . The bombs continue to fall , the missiles continue to find their mark , and extended families continue to be blown apart in the name of fighting Hamas -- that elusive , shape-shifting entity whose command centers can magically assume the form of a school or hospital , and just as easily shape shift into an outdoor market or apartment building where extended families may be sheltering . <p> I saw footage of a field trip in which students came to the Israeli town of Sderot to " watch the genocide " from an observation deck . Using coin-operated binoculars , the students searched for signs of the suffering taking place in northern Gaza in which thousands of Palestinians are trapped and being deliberately starved to death . But the horror was n't visible , and the students came away disappointed . They would need a different set of eyes to see what you 're going through , Gaza . And even then , they might not understand or be moved . <p> Fourteen months of war have left behind an estimated 46 million tons of rubble . That much can be seen with the naked eye . What ca n't be seen are the estimated 10,000 victims -- from the very young to the very old -- buried under concrete slabs , twisted metal rods , tin roofs , asbestos , and other contaminants . The amount of debris is so great , if it could be bulldozed into one enormous heap , there would be enough material to fill Egypt 's largest pyramid 11 times . The bodies of the men , women , and children entombed within that ravaged land may never be recovered or given a proper burial . <p> To paraphrase a line from the poet Wallace Stevens , there is the rubble we can see and the rubble we ca n't . I am many , many times removed from the extreme suffering your people face each day of their lives , Gaza . I can only imagine that in their hearts , that other kind of rubble exists -- a great expanse of smoldering fires , heaps of shattered dreams , jagged shards of trauma and loss , bloody pieces of a life that once was whole . And no place safe to go , not even in the furthest depths of one 's very soul . There are no machines that can clear away this sort of rubble or convert it into new , life-giving , life-supportive structures where hopes and aspirations can once again take root and flourish . But there is compassion and mercy , the promise of peace and the path to restorative justice . <p> Should a time ever come when Netanyahu , his generals , and his accomplices in Berlin and Washington D.C. are called to account for their crimes , a god worthy of the name would need to look very deeply into the hearts of those who have destroyed Gaza . Would she find within her otherworldly being the capacity to forgive the Israeli soldiers who murdered children in cold blood , stormed the hospitals , ordered the evacuation of patients , including those who could barely walk or were desperately ill ? Would she forgive the pilots flying drones or actual aircraft who deliberately bombed civilian targets , whether a school , a hospital , even tents sheltering families who had nowhere else to go but a designated " safe zone " -- in effect , a kill zone ? Would she forgive the military masterminds who drew up the battle plans , the members of the Knesset who sanctioned genocide and called it self-defense ? Would she forgive Joe Biden and other Western leaders who continued to arm Israel even as it committed war crimes and crimes against humanity ? And what of the Israeli citizens for whom the daily massacres of your people , Gaza , were occasions to celebrate , to rejoice in the power and glory of the IDF and the blessed patrimony handed down from God to the chosen people , according to the Torah and other sacred Jewish texts ? <p> I raise these questions but have no answer . Nor can I proclaim the greatness of God as I would if I were a religious Jew reciting the Kaddish for someone who has died . I can , however , proclaim the greatness of the Palestinian people , their strong ties to the land of their ancestors , and their refusal to submit to occupation and oppression . I praise the families of Gaza who have endured hunger , illness , displacement , trauma , and the cruelty of Israel 's assault that spares no one , not even the newborn child , or the old man or woman forced to evacuate whatever shelter has become their home . I can not even begin to fathom the depth of the suffering of these families or the reserves of courage and faith that must sustain them . But I can imagine that within their suffering , there must be a much greater force , one that draws its power from the land and the culture that has shaped them . And it is this force , this fire that must not be extinguished for it is the thing that gives hope to marginalized , dispossessed people . <p> I praise the many Palestinian doctors , nurses , medics , first responders who risk their lives every day that others may live . I praise the teachers in Gaza who continue to set up makeshift classrooms so children can continue their education even while schools have been systematically destroyed by the Israeli military . I praise the Palestinian journalists who do not let the murder of their colleagues keep them from reporting the truth about Israel 's reign of terror . I praise Fadel Nabhani , a young man in Gaza . Besides caring for his family , he is doing all he can to provide food for cats and other animals that would otherwise die from hunger . Fadel also tries to take care of sick cats even though medicine , like food , is increasingly unavailable . <p> I praise Luay and Najah , adult siblings who are lifelong farmers . Originally from north Gaza , they have been displaced four times with their respective families . One day , while searching for firewood in the southern city of Rafah , it occurred to Najah that she and her brother could continue doing what had always given their lives purpose and meaning -- farming . With seeds they had brought with them from Beit Lahiya in the north , they planted radishes , wild garlic , Swiss chard , beans , tomatoes , and herbs , including mint and thyme . Najah has said that each time she places a seed in the soil she prays to God to feed their families and also the birds . Despite the constant threat from Israeli missiles , their hard work yielded an abundant harvest -- enough to sustain themselves , their relatives , and their neighbors . That mattered more to them than selling their crop in the market . <p> The fourth time they were displaced , Najah , Luay , and their families ended up living in tents on barren land mostly consisting of sand . They could have given up and relied on whatever food supplies made it through the Israeli checkpoints . Instead , they got to work , reciting a prayer for each seed they planted . Once again , their devotion to the land , their love of farming , and their desire to provide for as many people as they could ... bore fruit . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> This too exemplifies the spirit of resistance that is up against the tanks , bombs , missiles , and bottomless cruelty of the Israeli state , its violation of international human rights law , and its ongoing program of ethnic cleansing in Gaza . I stand with those who recognize this gross disparity , support the right of Palestinians to resist the annexation of their land and the destruction of their society , and oppose the U.S. role in arming the perpetrator of genocide . <p> Amen . <p> <p> George Capaccio is a writer , performer , and activist now living in Durham NC since migrating from the Boston area . His concern for the people of Iraq under U.S.-imposed sanctions led him to make numerous trips to Iraq as a witness to the effects of those sanctions . At home , he advocated for their lifting through writing and public speaking while raising funds for Iraqi families . George appreciates hearing from readers . He can be reached by email : email protected <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119249503 <h> Israel Invades Syria : Who Will Stop Israel ? <h> Share : <p> The United States , Turkey and Israel all responded to the fall of the Assad government in Damascus by launching bombing campaigns on Syria . Israel also attacked and destroyed most of the Syrian Navy in port at Latakia , and invaded Syria from the long-occupied Golan Heights , advancing to within 16 miles of the capital , Damascus . <p> The United States said that its bombing campaign targeted remnants of Islamic State in the east of the country , hitting 75 targets with 140 bombs and missiles , according to Air Force Times . <p> A long-standing force of 900 U.S. troops illegally occupy that part of Syria , partly to divert Syria 's meagre oil revenues to the U.S. 's Kurdish allies and prevent the Syrian government regaining that source of revenue . U.S. bombing badly damaged Syria 's oil infrastructure during the war with the Islamic State , but Russia has been ready to help Syria restore full output whenever it recovers control of that area . U.S. forces in Syria have been under attack by various Syrian militia forces , not just the Islamic State , with at least 127 attacks since October 2023 . <p> Meanwhile , Turkiy ? is conducting airstrikes , drone strikes and artillery fire as part of a new offensive by a militia it formed in 2017 under the Orwellian guise of the " Syrian National Army " to invade and occupy parts of Rojava , the autonomous Kurdish enclave in northeast Syria . <p> Israel , however , launched a much broader bombing campaign than Turkey or the U.S. , with about 600 airstrikes on post-Assad Syria in the first eight days of its existence . Without waiting to see what form of government the political transition in Syria leads to , Israel set about methodically destroying its entire military infrastructure , to ensure that whatever government comes to power will be as defenseless as possible . <p> Israel claims its new occupation of Syrian territory is a temporary move to ensure its own security . But while Israel bombed Syria 220 times over the past year , killing about 300 people , Syria showed restraint and did not retaliate for those attacks . <p> The pattern of Israeli history has been that land grabs like this usually turn into long-term illegal Israeli annexations , as in the Golan Heights and the Occupied Palestinian Territories . That will surely be the case with Israel 's new strategic base on top of Mount Hermon , overlooking Damascus and the surrounding area , unless a new Syrian government or international diplomacy can force Israel to withdraw . <p> Egypt , Jordan , Iraq , Saudi Arabia , Qatar , Iran , Russia and the UN have all joined the global condemnation of the new Israeli assault on Syria . Geir Pedersen , the UN Special Envoy to Syria , called Israel 's military actions " highly irresponsible , " and UN peacekeepers have removed Israeli flags from newly-occupied Syrian territory . <p> The Qatari Foreign Ministry called Israel 's actions " a dangerous development and a blatant attack on Syria 's sovereignty and unity as well as a flagrant violation of international law ... that will lead the region to further violence and tension . " <p> The Saudi Foreign Ministry reiterated that the Golan Heights is an occupied Arab territory , and said that Israel 's actions confirmed " Israel 's continued violation of the rules of international law and its determination to sabotage Syria 's chances of restoring its security , stability and territorial integrity . " <p> The only country in the world that has ever recognized Israel 's annexation of the Golan Heights is the United States , under the first Trump administration , and it is part of Biden 's disastrous legacy in the Middle East that that he failed to stand up for international law and reverse Trump 's recognition of that illegal Israeli annexation . <p> As people all over the world watch Israel ignore the rules of international law that every country in the world is committed to live by , we are confronted by the age-old question of how to respond to a country that systematically ignores and violates these rules . The foundation of the UN Charter is the agreement by all countries to settle their differences diplomatically and peacefully , instead of by the threat or use of military force . <p> As Americans , we should start by admitting that our own country has led the way down this path of war and militarism , perpetuating the scourge of war that the UN Charter was intended to provide a peaceful alternative to . <p> As the United States became the leading economic power in the world in the 20th century , it also built up dominant military power . Despite its leading role in creating the United Nations and the rules of the UN Charter and the Geneva Conventions , it came to see strict compliance with those rules as an obstacle to its own ambitions , from the UN Charter 's prohibition against the threat or use of military force to the Geneva Conventions ' universal protections for prisoners of war and civilians . <p> In its " war on terror , " including its wars on Iraq and other countries , the United States flagrantly and systematically violated these bedrock foundations of world order . It is a fundamental principle of all legal systems that the powerful must be held accountable as well as the weak and the vulnerable . A system of laws that the wealthy and powerful can ignore can not claim to be universal or just , and is unlikely to stand the test of time . <p> Today , our system of international law faces exactly this problem . The U.S. presumption that its overwhelming military power permits it to violate international law with impunity has led other countries , especially U.S. allies but also Russia , to apply the same opportunistic standards to their own behavior . <p> In 2010 , an Amnesty International report on European countries that hosted CIA " black site " torture chambers called on U.S. allies in Europe not to join the United States as another " accountability-free zone " for war crimes . But now the world is confronting a U.S. ally that has not just embraced , but doubled down on , the U.S. presumption that dominant military power can trump the rule of law . <p> The Israeli government refuses to comply with international legal prohibitions against deliberately killing women and children , by military force and by deprivation ; seizing foreign territory ; and bombing other countries . Shielded from international accountability behind the U.S. Security Council veto , Israel thumbs its nose at the world 's impotence to enforce international law , confident that nobody will stop it from using its deadly and destructive war machine wherever and however it pleases . <p> So the world 's failure to hold the United States accountable for its war crimes has led Israel to believe that it too can escape accountability , and U.S. complicity in Israeli war crimes , especially the genocide in Gaza , has inevitably reinforced that belief . <p> U.S. responsibility for Israel 's lawlessness is compounded by the conflict of interest in its dual role as both Israel 's military superpower ally and weapons supplier and the supposed mediator of the lopsided " peace process " between Israel and Palestine , whose inherent flaws led to Hamas 's election victory in 2006 and now to the current crisis . <p> Instead of recognizing its own conflict of interest and deferring to intervention by the UN or other neutral parties , the U.S. has jealously guarded its monopoly as the sole mediator between Israel and Palestine , using this position to grant Israel total freedom of action to commit systematic war crimes . If this crisis is ever to end , the world can not allow the U.S. to continue in this role . <p> While the United States bears a great deal of responsibility for this crisis , U.S. officials remain in collective denial over the criminal nature of Israel 's actions and their instrumental role in Israel 's crimes . The systemic corruption of U.S. politics severely limits the influence of the majority of Americans who support a ceasefire in Gaza , as pro-Israel lobbying groups buy the unconditional support of American politicians and attack the few who stand up to them . <p> Despite America 's undemocratic political system , its people have a responsibility to end U.S. complicity in genocide , which is arguably the worst crime in the world , and people are finding ways to bring pressure to bear on the U.S. government : <p> Members of CODEPINK , Jewish Voice For Peace and Palestinian- , Arab-American and other activist groups are in Congressional offices and hearings every day ; constituents in California are suing two members of Congress for funding genocide ; students are calling on their universities to divest from Israel and U.S. arms makers ; activists and union members are identifying and picketing companies and blocking ports to stop weapons shipments to Israel ; journalists are rebelling against censorship ; U.S. officials are resigning ; people are on hunger strike ; others have committed suicide . <p> It is also up to the UN and other governments around the world to intervene , and to hold Israel and the United States accountable for their actions . A growing international movement for an end to the genocide and decades of illegal occupation is making progress . But it is excruciatingly slow given the appalling human cost and the millions of Palestinian lives at stake . <p> Israel 's international propaganda campaign to equate criticism of its war crimes with antisemitism poisons political discussion of Israeli war crimes in the United States and some other countries . <p> But many countries are making significant changes in their relations with Israel , and are increasingly willing to resist political pressures and propaganda tropes that have successfully muted international calls for justice in the past . A good example is Ireland , whose growing trade relations with Israel , mainly in the high-tech sector , formerly made it the fourth largest importer of Israeli products in the world in 2022 . <p> Ireland is now one of 14 countries who have officially intervened to support South Africa 's genocide case against Israel at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) -- the others are Belgium , Bolivia , Chile , Colombia , Cuba , Egypt , Libya , the Maldives , Mexico , Nicaragua , Palestine , Spain and Turkiy ? . Israel reacted to Ireland 's intervention in the case by closing its embassy in Dublin , and now Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar has smeared Ireland 's Taoiseach ( prime minister ) Simon Harris as " antisemitic . " <p> The Taoiseach 's spokesperson replied that Harris " will not be responding to personalized and false attacks , and remains focused on the horrific war crimes being perpetrated in Gaza , standing up for human rights and international law and reflecting the views of so many people across Ireland who are so concerned at the loss of innocent , civilian lives . " <p> If the people of Palestine can stand up to bombs , missiles and bullets day after day for over a year , the very least that political leaders around the world can do is stand up to Israeli name-calling , as Simon Harris is doing . <p> Spain is setting an example on international efforts to halt the supply of weapons to Israel , with an arms embargo and a ban on weapons shipments transiting Spanish ports , including the U.S. naval base at Rota , which the U.S. has leased since it formed a military alliance with Spain 's Franco dictatorship in 1953 . <p> Spain has already refused entry to two Maersk-owned ships transporting weapons from North Carolina to Israel , while dockworkers in Spain , Belgium , Greece , India and other countries have refused to load weapons and ammunition onto ships bound for Israel . <p> The UN General Assembly ( UNGA ) has passed resolutions for a ceasefire in Gaza ; an end to the post-1967 Israeli occupation ; and for Palestinian statehood . The General Assembly 's 10th Emergency Special Session on the Israel-Palestine conflict under the Uniting for Peace process has been ongoing since 1997 . <p> The General Assembly should urgently use these Uniting For Peace powers to turn up the pressure on Israel and the United States . The International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) has provided the legal basis for stronger action , ruling that the Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories Israel invaded in 1967 is illegal and must be ended , and that the massacre in Gaza appears to violate the Genocide Convention . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Inaction is inexcusable . By the time the ICJ issues a final verdict on its genocide case , millions may be dead . The Genocide Convention is an international commitment to prevent genocide , not just to pass judgment after the fact . The UN General Assembly has the power to impose an arms embargo , a trade boycott , economic sanctions , a peacekeeping force , or to do whatever it takes to end the genocide . <p> When the UN General Assembly first launched its boycott campaign against apartheid South Africa in 1962 , not a single Western country took part . Many of those same countries will be the last to do so against Israel today . But the world can not wait to act for the blessing of complacent wealthy countries who are themselves complicit in genocide . <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119250221 <p> Israel 's defense minister has confirmed that Israel assassinated Hamas ' top leader last summer and is threatening to take similar action against the leadership of the Houthi rebel group in Yemen . The comments by Israel Katz appeared to mark the first time that Israel has acknowledged killing Ismail Haniyeh , who died in an explosion in Iran in July . Israel was widely believed to be behind the blast and leaders have previously hinted at its involvement . <p> In a speech Monday , Katz said the Houthis would meet a similar fate as the other members of an Iranian-led alliance in the region , including Haniyeh . He also noted that Israel has killed other leaders of Hamas and Hezbollah , helped topple Syria 's Bashar Assad and destroyed Iran 's anti-aircraft systems . <p> " We will strike ( the Houthis ' ) strategic infrastructure and cut off the head of the leadership , " he said . <p> " Just like we did to Haniyeh , Sinwar and Nasrallah in Tehran , Gaza and Lebanon , we will do in Hodeida and Sanaa , " he said , referring to Hamas and Hezbollah leaders killed in previous Israeli attacks . <p> The Iranian-backed Houthis have launched scores of missiles and drones at Israel throughout the war , including a missile that landed in Tel Aviv on Saturday and wounded at least 16 people . <p> Israel has carried out three sets of airstrikes in Yemen during the war and vowed to step up the pressure on the rebel group until the missile attacks stop . <p> ( Except for the headline , this story has not been edited by DNA staff and is published from AP/PTI ) 
@@119252359 <p> " In these days , when the Houthi terror organization is firing missiles at Israel , I want to convey a clear message to them : We have defeated Hamas , we have defeated Hezbollah , we have blinded the defense systems in Iran , and damaged the missile production systems , " Katz was quoted as saying by The Times of Israel . <p> " We have overthrown the Assad regime in Syria , we have dealt heavy blows to the ' axis of evil , ' and we will also severely strike the Houthi terror organization in Yemen , which remains the last one standing , " he said . <p> " We will strike the Houthis ' strategic infrastructure and decapitate its leaders . Just as we did to Haniyeh , Sinwar , and Nasrallah , in Tehran , Gaza and Lebanon -- we will do in Hodeidah and Sanaa , " Katz said as he referred to the slain leaders of Hamas and Hezbollah . <p> Sending out a strong message , the Israeli Defence Minister said : " Whoever raises a hand against Israel will have their hand cut off , and the long arm of the IDF will strike them and settle the score . " <p> Haniyeh was the face of Hamas group 's international diplomacy . <p> The Middle East has been witnessing spiralling tension over the ongoing conflict between Israel , Hamas and Hezbollah . <h> Support Our Journalism <p> IBNS is not driven by any ism- not wokeism , not racism , not skewed secularism , not hyper right-wing or left liberal ideals , nor by any hardline religious beliefs or hyper nationalism . We want to serve you good old objective news , as they are . We do not judge or preach . We let people decide for themselves . We only try to present factual and well-sourced news . 
@@119261409 <h> Story highlights <p> " We will act both against their infrastructure and against them to remove the threat , " Katz said . <p> After Houthi militants in Yemen fired ballistic missiles in Israel on Tuesday ( Dec 24 ) , Defence Minister Israel Katz said that Israel will begin targeting the Houthi rebel group leaders , further vowing that Israel will not allow missile and drone fire on the country . <p> Israel , however , intercepted the missile fired by the Houthi group , but sirens wailed in Tel Aviv and other parts of central Israel in the morning . <p> The Israeli military said the missile had been successfully intercepted outside of its territory , adding that there were no reports of casualties . <p> " Just as we took care of Sinwar in Gaza , Haniyeh in Tehran , and Nasrallah in Beirut , we will deal with the heads of the Houthis in Sana'a or anywhere in Yemen , " Katz said , referring to the leaders of Hamas and Hezbollah . <p> However , now the attacks have been happening more frequently , raising the chances of retaliation . <p> Earlier on Monday , Katz threatened to assassinate Houthi leaders to persuade them to agree to the terms . <p> " We will inflict a devastating blow to the Houthi terrorist organization in Yemen , " said Katz . " We will hit its strategic infrastructure and behead its leadership . " <p> Disclaimer : WION takes the utmost care to accurately and responsibly report conflicts in West Asia involving Israel , Iran , Syria , Iraq , and non-state actors like the Islamic State , among others . In this context , claims and counterclaims are being made online and offline . WION can not independently verify the authenticity of all statements , social media posts , photos , and videos . <p> ( With inputs from agencies ) <h> Mansi Arora <p> Ardent geopolitical news writer with a keen eye for global affairs . With passion for illuminating the complexities of global dynamics , Mansi explores her interests b 
@@119261444 <h> Story highlights <p> Houthis have launched a series of attacks on commercial shipping in the Red Sea for more than a year , saying their ultimate objective is to enforce a naval blockade on Israel <p> Israel confirmed for the first time on Monday ( Dec 23 ) that it was involved in the killing of Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh in Iran back in July this year . Defence Minister Israel Katz 's confirmation came as he issued a threat to Yemen-based Houthi rebel group , which is backed by Israel 's arch-enemy Iran . <p> " These days , when the Houthi terrorist organisation is firing missiles at Israel , I want to convey a clear message to them at the beginning of my remarks : We have defeated Hamas , we have defeated Hezbollah , we have blinded Iran 's defence systems and damaged the production systems , we have toppled the Assad regime in Syria , we have dealt a severe blow to the axis of evil , and we will also deal a severe blow to the Houthi terrorist organisation in Yemen , which remains the last to stand , " said the Israeli defence minister . <p> Israel will " damage their strategic infrastructure , and we will behead their leaders -- just as we did to Haniyeh , Yahya Sinwar and Hassan Nasrallah in Tehran , Gaza and Lebanon -- we will do it in Hodeidah and Sana'a , " Katz added . <p> Haniyeh was killed in July when he was visiting Iran for the inauguration of Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian . According to Iranian media reports at the time , the Hamas leader and his bodyguard were killed when an " airborne guided projectile " hit a special residence for military veterans . <p> The Israeli defence ministers ' comments came as Houthis launched a series of attacks on commercial shipping in the Red Sea for more than a year , saying its ultimate objective is to enforce a naval blockade on the Jewish nation . <p> On Tuesday ( Dec 23 ) , Israel further confirmed that it had intercepted a projectile fired from Yemen , marking a fresh escalation in regional tensions as air raid sirens sounded across central and southern Israel . <p> This came amid increased hostilities with Yemen 's Iran-backed Houthi rebels , who last week fired two missiles at Israel . <p> One missile struck Tel Aviv , injuring 16 people in a direct hit on a commercial area . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has since vowed to retaliate decisively . 
@@119268916 <h> Israel hits Baalbek region , violating ceasefire : Lebanon <h> Before dawn on Wednesday , an Israeli air strike targeted the Baalbek region in eastern Lebanon , alleged to attack Hezbollah warehouses , marking the first ceasefire violation in the area . The truce between Israel and Hezbollah began on November 27 , after over a year of hostilities , with both sides accusing each other of breaches . <p> APWeapons and other equipment seized by the Israeli military during its ground invasion of southern Lebanon are displayed . <p> Lebanon 's state media said an Israeli air strike targeted the Baalbek region in the east of the country before dawn on Wednesday , branding it a " violation " of the fragile ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah . <p> The truce went into effect on November 27 after more than a year of hostilities that began with the outbreak of the war in the Gaza Strip . <p> Both sides have since accused the other of breaching the ceasefire . <p> Wednesday 's strike near the town of Tarya did not result in casualties , the state-run National News Agency said , calling the attack the " first violation of the ceasefire agreement " in the Baalbek area . <p> A Lebanese security source , speaking on condition of anonymity , said the strike targeted " warehouses believed to belong to Hezbollah " . 
@@119269187 <h> There is a baffling symbiosis between the world 's oldest democracy and the identitarian state pretending to be a democracy . <p> A figure symbolising baby Jesus lying amidst the rubble in a grotto ahead of Christmas at the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Bethlehem in the Israeli-occupied West Bank November 25 . Mussa Qawasma/Reuters <p> During a panel discussion at the Doha Forum 2024 , the Foreign Minister of Norway , Espen Barth Eide , asserted that the solution to the Palestine question does not lie " in the continuation of the occupation " or " in the process of annexing lands " . The only way to ensure peace and coexistence in the Middle East , he said , was the establishment of an " integrated Palestinian State " that includes " the West Bank , the Gaza Strip and relevant parts from Jerusalem as enshrined in Oslo Accord " . <p> However , there is good reason to believe that Israel has other ideas on the matter . In January , just as Israel 's campaign of shock and awe was reaching apocalyptic proportions , Israel 's Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir had asked Jewish settlers to return to Gaza after the war . He told them : " If we do n't want another October 7 , we need to return home and control the land . " <p> Less than 10 months later , in October a two-day conference titled " Preparing to Resettle Gaza " was organised on the border of Gaza by members of Netanyahu 's Likud party and Nahala , a group whose members see themselves as the redeemers of the Biblical " Promised Land " . <p> At the event , Ben-Gvir warned Palestinians : " The land of Israel is ours ... leave to other countries " because it is " the best and most moral solution " . <p> The next month , at a press conference on November 5 , the commander of the Israel Defense Force 's 162nd Division , Brigadier Gen Itzik Cohen , announced that his troops were getting closer to " the complete evacuation " of northern Gaza and that residents would not be allowed to return home . <p> The Israeli Defense Forces tried to downplay the commander 's comments , claiming they did not " reflect the IDF 's objectives and values " . However , Cohen 's statement is borne out by facts on the ground that Israel has been creating since October 7 , 2023 . <p> In addition , another Israeli officer is reported to have said that he had spent more than two months demolishing houses to clear the ground for a series of big military bases in Gaza 's Netzarim corridor , a military zone between the Mediterranean coast and Gaza 's eastern perimeter fence . <p> As if this was not enough , the Zionist state is about to pump in $11 million to double the population in the Golan Heights , a region it conquered from Syria in 1967 and annexed in 1981 . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said , " Strengthening the Golan Heights is strengthening the State of Israel .... We will continue to hold on to it , make it flourish and settle it . " <p> Play <h> A brief history <p> Those not conversant with the history of Zionism could perhaps believe that the angry talk of driving the Palestinians out of Gaza is a reaction to the Hamas attack on October 7 , 2023 , that killed 1,250 Israelis and foreign nationals . But Israel 's decision to depopulate the occupied territories did not begin after October 7 . <p> In December 2022 , 10 months before the Hamas attack , Netanyahu had dismissed the right of the Palestinians to establish their independent state by declaring that " the Jewish people have an exclusive and unquestionable right to all areas of the Land of Israel " , and therefore , his government " will promote and develop settlements in ... the Galilee , the Negev , the Golan , Judea , and Samaria " . <p> Then , at the United Nations General Assembly on September 22 , 2023 , shortly before the Hamas attack , Netanyahu mocked UN resolutions that support an independent Palestine by showing a map of Israel , which included all Palestinian territories , including Gaza and the West Bank . No wonder , Israeli historian Adam Raz believes that " Netanyahu is the number one opponent of a two-state solution " . <p> In pursuance of Netanyahu 's ambitions , Israel 's parliament on July 17 had overwhelmingly passed a resolution stating that it " firmly opposes the establishment of a Palestinian state west of Jordan " because it would " pose an existential danger to the State of Israel " and " destabilise the region " . <p> In October , Israeli Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich described repeated attempts to reach a two-state solution as wrongheaded . He said there should be an " unequivocal Israeli statement to the Arabs and the entire world that a Palestinian state will not be established " . <p> Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar , agreed with Smotrich . He said that Israel must abandon any policy based on concessions and " put up a political iron wall " against international efforts for a two-state solution . <p> Indeed the aim of political Zionism , as announced in 1897 by the First Zionist Congress held in Basle , has always been the establishment " for the Jewish people a publicly and legally assured home in Palestine " . By this , the convener of the First Zionist Congress and founder of political Zionism , Theodor Herzl , meant " the restoration of the Jewish State " in Palestine . <p> As the First Congress was held 50 years before the UN partitioned the region into Jewish and Arab states , the Palestine it refers to is the historic undivided country that was part of the Ottoman Empire . However , it would appear from Herzl 's 1902 novel , Altneuland ( the Old New Land of Palestine ) , that he sought to establish Zionist sovereignty over the entire territory of Palestine not through violence but by fooling the Arabs into believing that Zionists were not land-robbers but saintly benefactors who would create a veritable Shangri-La in Palestine . <p> When the Palestinians refused to be taken in by Herzl 's paradisiacal inveiglement , the Zionists who came after him first influenced the British into issuing the Balfour Declaration in 1917 supporting the establishment of a " national home for the Jewish people " in Palestine . <p> Pro-Zionist historian Benny Morris writes in his book Righteous Victims that representatives of the Zionists at their first formal post-Balfour gathering in December 1918 resolved by a vote of 55 to 1 that the Zionist movement intended to establish not a " national home " but a " medina ivrif " or a Jewish state . <p> To achieve this , the World Zionist Organisation manipulated the British into acquiring a Mandate over Palestine from the League of Nations in 1922 . <p> The Mandate , which lasted till the creation of Israel in 1948 , in blatant violation of the letter and spirit of Article 22 of the League of Nations , authorised the British government " to place the country under such political , administrative and economic conditions as would secure the establishment of the Jewish national home " . <p> This facilitated the immigration of Jews into Palestine at the expense of the original inhabitants , Palestinian Arabs , who at the time of the Mandate constituted 92% of the population . In 1922 , when the Mandate came into effect , the Jewish population stood at 83,794 . In 1946 -- a year before the UN partitioned Palestine -- the Jewish population had increased to 608,230 out of a total population of 1,972,560 . <p> By the end of 1949 , Israel had captured more than half the territory reserved for the Arab state . In exact terms , the Jewish state increased its UN-given territory from 14,500 sq km to 20,850 sq km -- almost 80% of the territory of Palestine . <h> Guileful pragmatism <p> These undeniable facts prove that the Zionists ' acceptance of the UN Partition resolution in 1947 was in reality an act of guileful pragmatism . Confirming this , Benny Morris writes in Righteous Victims that Israel 's first president , Chaim Weizmann and its first prime minister , David Ben-Gurion , pressed for a solution based on partition because both saw it as " a stepping stone to further expansion and the eventual takeover of the whole of Palestine " . <p> Weizmann had argued : " The Jews would be fools not to accept it , even if the land they were allocated were the size of a table cloth . " <p> Ben-Gurion was more explicit . A " Jewish state in part of Palestine is not an end , but a beginning , " he wrote . " Our possession is important not only for itself ... through this we increase our power , and every increase in power facilitates getting hold of the country in its entirety . Establishing a small state . . . will serve as a very potent lever in our historical efforts to redeem the whole country . " <h> US-Israel symbiosis <p> Thanks to its incremental occupation over the past 75 years , the Zionist state is now on the verge of realising its original aim of annexing the whole of Palestine . Sensing this , 46 UN experts had warned on July 26 , 2023 , two months before the October 7 attack , that " a concrete effort may be under way to annex the entire occupied Palestinian territory in violation of international law " . <p> In June 2020 , another group of 47 UN experts had stated : " We express great regret about the role of the United States of America in supporting and encouraging Israel 's unlawful plans for the further annexation of occupied territory . " <p> This makes it obvious that the United States is the only country that could stop the impending capture of all the land allocated by the UN for an independent Palestinian state . But in a display of complete apathy towards the Palestinians ' right to life and sovereignty over their own land , the Biden administration has been doing very little besides watching Israel commit one of the worst massacres in modern history in the name of " the right to self-defence " . <p> No wonder over the last year the US has vetoed several UN resolutions demanding a ceasefire in Gaza forcing at least 12 Biden administration officials to resign and issue a statement accusing the US government of clinging to a " failed policy " that has not only been devastating for the Palestinians but has " deeply undermined " US credibility worldwide " at a time we need it most " . <p> NEW : Twelve former officials who resigned from the Biden administration over Gaza war release joint statement , calling U.S policy a failure and a threat to U.S. national security . Says it ensured " undeniable " US complicity in killings and has " put a target on America 's back . " **26;519;TOOLONG <p> If the nominations of Mike Huckabee as the next US ambassador to Israel and Pete Hegseth as the new secretary of defense are any indication , President-elect Donald Trump 's West Asia policy is likely to be more pro-Israel than Biden 's . Huckabee is of the view that " there 's really no such thing as a Palestinian " , and " no such thing as an occupation " . Hegseth is known for his dictum : " If you love America , you should love Israel . " <p> To make matters worse , Israel 's next ambassador to Washington , Yechiel Leiter , is also a hardliner who believes in his country 's ultimate sovereignty over the West Bank . <p> This seemingly baffling symbiosis between the world 's oldest democracy and an identitarian state pretending to be a democracy is based on two dogmatic presuppositions . One , Israel is an indispensable US ally in West Asia ; two , the Jewish state is entitled to its ideological aspirations that are rooted in biblical misinterpretations . <p> It was the first assumption that in 2013 made Biden when he was vice president assure the American Israel Public Affairs Committee that Washington 's deep commitment to the security of Israel is also " a strategic commitment " because it is " in our naked self-interest , beyond the moral imperative " . <p> Ten years later , Biden offered a glimpse of the second assumption when he identified himself as a non-Jewish Zionist , and invoked Ben-Gurion 's expansionist fantasy to state that Israel and the US have been working together " so that the dream of generations will be fulfilled " . <p> Not surprisingly , Israeli leaders have made the most of such pro-Zionist expressions by American politicians . During his address to the US Congress on July 24 , Netanyahu sought to convince Americans that " our enemies are your enemies , our fight is your fight , and our victory will be your victory " . <p> The standing ovation he received during his speech indicates the extent to which American politicians and lawmakers have bought into the Israeli narrative . <h> The way forward <p> The US must understand that its unconditional support for Israeli irredentism -- in " naked self-interest " -- despite its atrocious acts of commission and omission against civilians in Gaza and Lebanon is a violation of American and human values . <p> As noted above , the founders of the Zionist state openly admitted that " the Land of Israel " did not belong to them . Yet the Palestinians , to whom the land belonged , had long ago accepted Israel 's right to exist in the territory given to them by the UN even though they considered the Partition resolution illegal . Despite this , they are not being allowed to establish their independent state on the remaining land . <p> This gross injustice defies a remedy because the US is unwilling to question and stop the Zionist state 's invocation of mythic theology to subjugate , dispossess , starve and now obliterate Palestinians . <p> We know from history that violent hatred does not bring peace or security . Israel must realise that just as it has the right to exist an independent Palestinian state too has the right to exist . <p> A perpetual war against the Palestinians would only sustain violent movements such as Hamas . The only way , therefore , of ensuring the dissolution of Palestinian resistance is to give them the independent state they deserve . Trump is in a unique position in history to emphatically deliver this message to Israel for permanent peace in West Asia . <p> A Faizur Rahman is Secretary-General of the Islamic Forum for the Promotion of Moderate Thought . He can be reached at **26;547;TOOLONG and on X at @FaizEngineer. 
@@119269658 <p> " The occupation has set new conditions related to withdrawal , ceasefire , prisoners , and the return of the displaced , which has delayed reaching the agreement that was available , " Hamas said . <p> An Israeli negotiation team returned to Israel from Qatar on Tuesday evening for " internal consultations " regarding a hostage deal after a significant week of talks about Gaza , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's office said on Tuesday . <p> Advisory Alert:It has come to our attention that certain individuals are representing themselves as affiliates of Moneycontrol and soliciting funds on the false promise of assured returns on their investments . We wish to reiterate that Moneycontrol does not solicit funds from investors and neither does it promise any assured returns . In case you are approached by anyone making such claims , please write to us at **25;1403;TOOLONG or call on 02268882347 
@@119269832 <p> Like spy thrillers , which rarely focus on trust as the central plot , global politics is increasingly based on trust deficit . Could the lacklustre global leadership since the end of the Cold War in the early 1990s be the reason ? Compared to the aftermath of the Second World War , political achievements in the new millennium seem puny and overwhelmingly self-serving , albeit more so for individual leaders , than their countries . The ongoing Ukraine-Russia conflict , Israel 's military adventurism in the Gaza Strip and now the Golan Heights , China 's braggadocio on the border with India , the antagonism in the South China Sea and intimidation of Taiwan are all instances , where conflict -- a convenient distraction from domestic shortcomings -- breeds distrust . <p> Tangential , least-cost mechanisms to punish transgressors of the peace spawn new systemic risks . Consider , that economic sanctions on the purchase of Russian energy , devised as a rap for its Ukraine adventure , created a new security risk by incentivizing options to the dollar-dominated system for the settlement of international payments . In turn , US President-elect Donald Trump has threatened countries exploring dollar alternatives for global settlements with trade sanctions ! <p> Global disarray is inherent to the unravelling of the consensus on climate action in Glasgow in 2021 . Gone is the desire to comply with the Kyoto 1990 principle of the " common but differentiated responsibilities " which front-loads climate action for developed economies , making them squarely responsible for consuming more than their per capita share of the historical carbon emissions budget . Not only have the agreed finances ( $100 billion per year ) not been provided to the developing countries , but the European Union has gone one step further by scheduling a carbon tax , effective from 2026 , on imports exceeding a specified carbon intensity . Ostensibly designed to preserve the competitiveness of domestic EU producers against " dirty " imports , it conveniently fast-forwards and imposes developed world obligations for climate mitigation action on all exporting developing countries , in defiance of the Kyoto mandate . <p> Some of this backsliding could be because three decades on , several developing economies have quickly become less poor . Consider that 48 per cent of the growth in global GDP was driven by the United States and its European allies during 1960-1980 . During 2000-2023 they were down to just a 28 per cent share . In contrast , China grew from contributing a two per cent share in global GDP , in the earlier period , to 11 per cent over the latter period . India 's contribution grew slower , but it also increased from one per cent to five per cent . The change in relative economic muscle and the spectacular rise of China raises the question whether a rearrangement of global responsibilities is also not necessary . <p> This conversation has long been stymied by the reluctance of the entrenched order to smell the coffee and initiate a more equitable sharing of the levers of global power in the United Nations and other multilateral bodies . <p> The consequence of ignoring shifts in global economic power are most visible in the growing trend for a brazen transactional approach to global relations . China 's wolf warrior diplomacy , its opaque bilateral infrastructure financing initiatives and military stridency in the South China Sea are examples . Even the United States , till recently an advocate of an open global economic order , still the mightiest military power and the most dynamic developed economy , growing faster than the global economy is now turning mercantilist , building trade walls and adopting industrial protection policies more suitable for poor , developing economies with nascent economies . This flags a complete breakdown in global economic consensus . <p> It was not always so . Mahatma Gandhi built trust and solidarity across castes and communities in India ( 1920-1947 ) at a time when the very concept of nationality in India was nascent or colonial at best . To give this " big tent ' a political structure , India chose democracy , modelling itself on countries like the UK -- at the time , one sixth its population , and the US , half its population , France and Ireland -- all significantly richer and well-endowed with infrastructure . Dismissed by colonial rulers at the time , as an unlikely fit for India , democracy remains its bedrock even as it works to become the third largest economy . <p> Margaret Thatcher drew as many bouquets as brickbats for disrupting the economic order in the UK . But her 1980s drive to privatise government and bolster business set the tone for more than four decades of global governance and efficiency reform in the developing world . Compare that with the political theatrics around Brexit which reduced the UK 's influence to the moat around its shores . <p> Nelson Mandella 's long , principled struggle against apartheid , touched hearts and minds globally . After the end of apartheid in 1994 , his inclusiveness consolidated South Africa 's role in African economic development by preserving the integrity of the inherited institutional architecture . <p> In the US , Henry Ford set the tone in 1912 by creating a motorized car , the Model T , for common use , as did Karl Benz in Germany . Around these cars grew a globally replicable ecosystem of manufacturing-led development which spawned a large , well-paid middle class powering the economy with domestic consumption . A century later this model is increasingly broken . Manufacturing productivity has improved <p> vastly with digital design , automation , and robotics but the supply of " good " jobs has fallen behind population growth , reducing the net benefits for workers and increasing benefits for those with capital invested in such enterprises . Productivity gains , concentrated at the top , do nothing for providing gainful and satisfying work at scale , beyond " burger flipping , " for a workforce surging on the back of degenderized occupations , better medical care , and immigration . <p> In China , after the ideological purification of the Long March , Mao Zedong in 1949 curated the transformation of an ancient monarchy into an equitable but inefficient Asian version of Communism , five times more populous than the Soviet Union . By the 1980s , with the material gains from centralized production and statism stagnating , Deng Xiaoping boldly encouraged economic reform . Import of foreign investment , technology , and access to foreign education rapidly retrofitted China , making it a hub for global supply chains , enhancing the availability of domestic jobs , reducing poverty , and providing public resources for new infrastructure . <p> In contrast , contemporary global leadership appears blind to inclusive goals which can cement social cohesion . It seems unmindful of the economic paradigm that inefficiency bleeds national wealth and is uninterested in the proposition that the best policy options come with personal and political risk . Clinging to the wheel is human but surely not at the expense of sinking the ship unless an escape route exists , to a second home on Mars . 
@@119269904 <h> Israel , Hamas accuse each other of complicating ceasefire efforts as they inch closer to deal <h> There are moments when every second is fateful , and this is one of those moments , she said.The families are planning a special candle lighting ceremony in Hostages Square Wednesday , marking the first night of Hanukkah.The agreement would take effect in phases and include a halt in fighting , an exchange of Israeli hostages for Palestinian prisoners , and a surge in aid to the besieged Gaza Strip , according to Egyptian , Hamas and American officials . <p> Israel and Hamas accused each other of complicating ceasefire efforts on Wednesday , as the two sides inch closer to a deal that could wind down the 14-month war in Gaza . <p> The two sides appear closer than they have been in months to reaching an agreement that would bring home dozens of hostages being held in Gaza . However , talks have come close before , only to collapse . <p> Although Israel and Hamas have expressed optimism that progress was being made toward a deal , sticking points remain over the exchange of hostages for Palestinian prisoners and the withdrawal of Israeli troops from Gaza , people involved in the talks say . <p> On Wednesday , Hamas accused Israel of introducing new conditions related to the withdrawal from Gaza , the prisoners and the return of displaced people , which it said was delaying the deal . <p> Israel 's government accused Hamas of reneging on reneging on understandings that have already been reached . " Still , both sides said discussions are ongoing . <p> Israel 's negotiating team , which includes members from its intelligence agencies and the military , returned from Qatar Tuesday evening for internal consultations , following a week of what it called " significant negotiations ' ' . <p> During its October 7 , 2023 , attack on southern Israel , Hamas and other groups took about 250 people hostages and brought them to Gaza . A previous truce in November 2023 freed more than 100 hostages , while others have been rescued or their remains have been recovered over the past year . <p> Israel says about 100 hostages remain in Gaza -- at least a third of whom it believes were killed during the October 7 attack or died in captivity . <p> Sporadic talks have taken place for a year , but in recent weeks there 's been a renewed push to reach a deal . <p> President-elect Donald Trump , who takes office next month for his second term , has demanded the immediate release of Israeli hostages , saying on social media that if they 're not freed before he is sworn in , there will be " HELL TO PAY " . <p> Families of the hostages are becoming increasingly angry , calling on the Israeli government for a ceasefire before Trump is sworn in . <p> After Israel 's high-level negotiation team returned from Doha this week , hostage families called an emergency press conference in Tel Aviv , pleading for a ceasefire and a complete end to the war . <p> Shir Siegel , the daughter of Israeli-American Keith Siegel , whose mother was released after more than 50 days in captivity , said every delay could endanger their lives . " There are moments when every second is fateful , and this is one of those moments , " she said . <p> The families are planning a special candle lighting ceremony in Hostages Square Wednesday , marking the first night of Hanukkah . <p> The agreement would take effect in phases and include a halt in fighting , an exchange of Israeli hostages for Palestinian prisoners , and a surge in aid to the besieged Gaza Strip , according to Egyptian , Hamas and American officials . The last phase would include the release of any remaining hostages , an end to the war and talks on reconstruction . <p> Israel 's bombardment and ground invasion into Gaza have killed over 45,000 Palestinians in Gaza , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , which does not distinguish between fighters and civilians in its count . <p> The offensive has caused widespread destruction and displaced some 90 per cent of Gaza 's 2.3 million people , often multiple times . Hundreds of thousands are packed into squalid tent camps along the coast as the cold , wet winter sets in . <p> ( This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed. ) 
@@119270365 <p> Iran has justified its attacks on Israel following Tel Aviv 's admission of its role in the assassination of Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh . Meanwhile , the city of Bethlehem in the occupied West Bank marks its second sombre Christmas filled with prayers to bring an end to Israel 's genocide in Gaza . <p> As the war rages on , the city of Bethlehem in the occupied West Bank marks its second sombre Christmas filled with prayers to bring an end to Israel 's genocide in Gaza . <p> Meanwhile , Iran has called on the United Nations to condemn Israel after it admitted its role in the assassination of Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh . Furthermore , Tehran has also justified its October strikes on Israel , following the admission from Defence Minister Israel Katz . <h> West Asia Tensions Latest Developments <h> Christmas Prayers Calls For End Of Genocide In Gaza <p> As the war in Gaza rages on , the city of Bethlehem marks its second Christmas . With conflict all around , Christians in the West Bank city have called for an end to Israel 's genocide on Gaza . <p> With no Christmas tree or decoration present in Bethlehem , which is accorded as the birthplace of Jesus Christ , holiday cheer remains absent . <p> Scout groups roamed the city singing carols while holding banners with the message - " we want life , not death . " <p> Furthermore , the Pope has called for a ceasefire in Gaza during the Christmas season . Describing the ongoing war as a " Great cruelty " <p> " I think of Gaza with great sorrow ; so much cruelty , children hit by machine guns , schools and hospitals bombed ... What great cruelty . Let weapons fall silent , and let Christmas carols resound , " said Pope Francis . <h> Iran Calls On UNSC To Condemn Israel For Haniyeh 's Assassination <p> On Tuesday , Israel confirmed its role in the assassination of Ismail Haniyeh . Defence minister Israel Katz was quoted as saying that the Israeli military was behind the Hamas chief 's killing . <p> " We will strike hard at the Houthis ... and decapitate their leadership -- just as we did with Haniyeh , Yahya Sinwar , and Hassan Nasrallah in Tehran , Gaza , and Lebanon , " Katz was quoted as saying by the Guardian . <p> In response to this , Iran has called on the United Nations Security Council to take action and condemn Israel . Furthermore , in a letter to UN Chief Antonio Guterres , Iran has stated that its October strikes on Israel have been legitimised due to Israel 's role in the assassination . <p> " The Security Council must not allow the continued impunity of a regime that flagrantly defies international law , destabilises the region , and threatens and endangers international peace and security , " said Iran in its letter . <p> As the war rages on , the Famine Early Warning System Network has warned that a famine is unfolding in northern Gaza . The US-based food crisis monitor said that if Israel continues its blockade of aid , " deaths from starvation could pass famine levels as early as next month . " <p> " Based on the collapse of the food system and worsening access to water , sanitation , and health services in these areas ... it is highly likely that the food consumption and acute malnutrition thresholds for Famine ( IPC Phase 5 ) have now been surpassed in North Gaza Governorate , " said FEWS NET . <p> However , US envoy to Israel Jacob Kew has dismissed the food crisis monitor 's report and stated that the data is " outdated and inaccurate " . 
@@119270390 <h> Holiday Cheer Absent As Bethlehem Marks Second Christmas Amid War <p> The holiday cheer in the city of Bethlehem remains absent for a second consecutive year as the war in Gaza rages on . Bethlehem , which is accorded as the birth place of Jesus Christ , announced that it will not celebrate Christmas this year and called for a ceasefire and end to Israel 's genocide in Gaza . <p> Latin Patriarch Pierbattista Pizzaballa leads the Christmas midnight Mass at the Church of the Nativity traditionally believed to be the birthplace of Jesus , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem . <p> 1/8 <p> Christmas Festival Photo : AP/Matias Delacroix <p> A worshipper prays in the Church of the Nativity , traditionally believed to be the birthplace of Jesus , on Christmas day , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem . <p> 2/8 <p> Bethlehem Christmas Photo : AP/Matias Delacroix <p> Latin Patriarch Pierbattista Pizzaballa , center , leads the Christmas morning Mass at the Chapel of Saint Catherine , traditionally believed to be the birthplace of Jesus , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem . <p> 3/8 <p> Christmas Bethlehem Photo : AP/Matias Delacroix <p> A nun holds a child to light a candle before the Christmas morning Mass at the Chapel of Saint Catherine , traditionally believed to be the birthplace of Jesus , in the West Bank city of Bethlehem . <p> 4/8 <p> Christmas 2024 Photo : Maja Hitij/Getty Images <p> Worshipers attend a Christmas mass at Saint Catherine 's Church in the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem , West Bank . Last month , Christian Palestinian leaders here called off public Christmas celebrations , citing the effects of the ongoing war in Gaza . Regarded by Christians as the birthplace of Jesus , Bethlehem is usually bustling with foreign tourists this time of year , with streets full of holiday decoration and vendors selling ornaments and festive figurines . Israel 's war against Hamas that was sparked by the Oct. 7 attacks has also made life more volatile in the West Bank . Israeli forces here have stepped up raids on alleged militants , police have clashed with protesters , and there has been a rise in violent attacks on Palestinians by Israeli settlers . <p> 5/8 <p> 2024 Christmas Photo : Issam Rimawi/Anadolu via Getty Images <p> Archbishop Pierbattista Pizzaballa , Latin Patriarch Vicar General of Jerusalem , attends Christmas celebrations around the Church of the Nativity , where Jesus Christ is believed to have been born , in Bethlehem , West Bank . Due to Israel 's ongoing airstrikes on Gaza , this year 's celebrations will be limited to religious services and prayers , with public festivities kept to a minimum . <p> Palestinian marching band stage a silent march in the street near the Church of Nativity as Christians prepared to mark its second bleak Christmas due to the ongoing war in Gaza , in Bethlehem , West Bank . A banner with message ' We want life not death ' is carried during the march . For a second year in a row , Christmas celebrations in the West Bank town of Bethlehem remain muted in solidarity with Gaza , where Israel has killed more than 45,000 people since October 2023 . The Bethlehem municipality announced that celebrations will be limited to religious rituals . 
@@119270869 <p> A bag carried by Priyanka Gandhi in Parliament has placed her at the centre of a political debate . The bag , featuring the word ' Palestine ' and a watermelon symbol , became a flashpoint , attracting sharp criticism from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) and its supporters . If anything , it underscored and reaffirmed the persistent relevance and continuity of the Palestine issue in Indian domestic politics . However , anyone truly interested in understanding the ongoing relevance of Palestine in domestic politics must consider the current political dynamics surrounding it . Taking this approach reveals two key insights . <h> Also Read <p> First , it outlines the political mobilisation and legitimation in the routines of democratic politics . A political party 's position on Palestine can reveal its broader ideological inclinations and worldview . In this context , it ventures into the comparative realm of what each party represents . The BJP has long been pro-Israel , with its ideological alignment reflecting Zionist ethnic nationalism . <p> Relations with Israel Nonetheless , in recent years , under Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's leadership , India strategically decoupled its relations with Israel from the Israel-Palestine issue , adopting a more proactive stance towards strengthening ties with Israel . In 2017 , Modi became the first Indian Prime Minister to visit Israel , a historic move that was reciprocated by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's visit to Delhi in 2018 . The rapport between Modi and Netanyahu was evident throughout these exchanges , signalling a deepening of bilateral relations . <p> However , the parallel growth of public support for Israel under Modi 's administration has led to clashes with domestic political factions sympathetic to Palestine . Numerous arrests have been reported for individuals expressing support for Palestine , often justified under the pretext of national interest and security priorities , as exemplified by Yogi Adityanath 's proud statement that his State , Uttar Pradesh , has sent 5,600 youth to Israel for high-paying jobs . <p> While India 's foreign policy under Modi govt has become more pro-Israel , it has consistently upheld support for a two-State solution <p> Yet , while India 's foreign policy under the Modi government has become more pro-Israel , it has consistently upheld support for a two-State solution . It was only a month ago that India voted in favour of the UNGA resolution on Palestine , calling for an end to Israeli occupation . <p> Nehruvian Ideas As for the Congress , the party starting from Nehru has consistently supported Palestine while adopting a more pragmatic ap-proach towards Israel . Priyanka Gandhi 's moral stance on peace likely stems from this historical position as one of the principal legatees of the Congress and Nehruvian ideas . Gandhi had previously shared social media posts condemning Israel 's actions in Gaza , referring to them as a " horrific genocide . " <p> Recently , Abed Elrazeg Abu Jazer , Charge D'Affaires at the Palestinian Embassy in India , met with Priyanka Gandhi to congratulate her on her election victory in Wayanad , Kerala . How-ever , there is no reason to suggest that such symbolism and genuine support can not coexist with a strategic appeal to her constituency -- where a significant Muslim population supports Palestine -- reflecting both ideological consistency and political calculation that address her moral convictions alongside voter concerns . <p> Second , the irony of coalition politics has manifested in the form of an ontic discontinuity in the Modi government 's em-brace of Israel , which was solely shaped by Modi during his two previous terms in office . Only recently a coalition of leaders from various political parties gathered with Mohammad Makram Balawi , Secretary-General of the League of Parliamentarians for Al-Quds , a pro-Palestinian organisation , to voice their solidarity with the Palestinian cause . Notably , the Janata Dal ( United ) , a key ally in the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance ( NDA ) , was part of this coalition . Alongside leaders from the Congress , the Samajwadi Party ( SP ) and the Aam Aadmi Party ( AAP ) , the JD(U) condemned Israel 's actions as " Zionist aggression " and a " heinous genocide " of the Palestinian peo-ple . <p> Coalition Politics The JD(U) holds significant sway as a major member of the government coalition . Since Modi 's BJP lacks a sizable majority on its own , it must rely on the coalition of the NDA to advance its goals . Modi has already signalled considerable openness to ad-dressing criticism from coalition partners , as seen in the case of repealing the government 's attempt to bypass reservation policies in the recruitment of civil servants by the Union Public Service Commission ( UPSC ) . <p> In this instance , strong criticism from coalition partners prompted the Modi government to direct the Department of Personnel and Training ( DoPT ) to cancel an advertisement issued by the UPSC for the appointment of joint-secretary-level officers and other key positions through the lateral entry process . <p> In that context , JD(U) 's opposition to India supplying arms to Is-rael in the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict serves as an early indication that coalition politics will influence Indo-Israel relations . Some of the NDA allies are rooted in their regional political context , where they seek to project themselves as secular parties . If pro-Palestinian voices continue to gain momentum and support from coalition partners , it will impact the future trajectory of India 's relations with the country . 
@@119270920 <h> Democracy Retreats <h> The Year Ender <p> Is the year 2024 annus horribilis as Queen Elizabeth II described 1992 ? For her it was personal tragedies such as Charles and Diana separating that made her choose the adjective . <p> Humanity has stronger reasons to call 2024 annus horribilis . <p> The genocidal war by Netanyahu continues , mainly because Biden who has the means to stop it does not care for Palestinian lives and wants to continue or somnambulate with his ' iron-clad ' support for Israel irrespective of its repeatedly brazen violations of International Law and the Charter of the United Nations . <p> Netanyahu has earned an arrest warrant from the ICC -International Criminal Court- but the G7 has decided to dishonor the court of which all except the U S are members . Obviously , for the West to practise double standards is second nature and its nauseatingly repeated sermon on a ' rule-based world order ' is pure hogwash . <p> We do not have precise information on the grim total in Gaza . Israel bombs residential blocks , hospitals , schools , and mosques . About ten thousand are under the rubble . <p> The Gaza Ministry of Health has put out a figure of 45,000 dead . One wonders from where the ministry is operating as Israel would have bombed it , if it knows . <p> However , there are reasons to believe that the Gaza ministry 's figures are not correctand on the lower side of all unofficial estimates . Human beings die owing to lack of food , medicine , or even safe drinking water , all of which Israel has done its worst to deny to Palestinians . <p> Has not Israel prevented UNRWA ( United Nations Relief and Work Agency ) and others from taking in humanitarian relief material into Gaza and distributing them ? Has not Israel killed NGO staff distributing food and those standing in line to collect it ? <p> The U K -based Lancet came out with a figure of 186,000 dead by July 2024 taking into account all the above factors . <p> The latest we hear is that Netanyahu has once again succeeded in torpedoing the talks for a limited ceasefire . <p> The other war in Ukraine , the largest land and air war in Europe since the end of World War 2 , might soon end thanks to Donald Trump . President Zelensky has come out with a series of proposals for a ceasefire based on fantasy . <p> Once again , we do not have correct information on the grim toll . For once , let us look at the dead and injured without looking at their passports . The Wall Street Journal , based on intelligence sources , has come out with a figure of 1 million , dead or injured . <p> Sudan has been in the throes of a war between two militaries- SAF ( Sudanese Armed Forces ) and RSF ( Rapid Support Forces ) since April 2023 . Over 12 million Sudanese have been displaced . 24.8 million will starve without support . The Rich North is stingy , and the U N has been given only $1.6 billion against $2.7 billion needed . <p> Is there a retreating wave of democracy ? The very election of Donald Trump who encouraged the violent mob that attacked the Congress on 6th January 2021 shows how flawed democracy is in the oldest and richest democracy . <p> The far-right is increasing its political clout in Europe , in Italy and the Netherlands , to list only two . <p> There was a rigged election for the parliament in Bangladesh in January 2024 . <p> The military junta in Myanmar that staged a coup to overthrow the elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi in 2021 still remains in power though the area it controls has diminished . <p> Pakistan conducted a rigged election and Imran Khan 's party though it was the biggest party was not given a chance to form government . <p> On the other hand , Sri Lanka , thankfully , shows that a free and fair election can take place , and that power can be transferred peacefully . <p> The Security Council remains paralyzed as Washington uses its veto whenever others try to rein in Israel . <p> However , it is wrong to find fault with the Council per se . It is the veto wielding Permanent 5 who start wars themselves or support their proxies who start wars . <p> Is it not ironical that the P5 whom President Franklin Delano Roosevelt chose to be ' global policemen ' to maintain law and order are themselves breaking the law with impunity ? <p> India qualifies to be a permanent member on any set of criteria . Yet , India , after working jointly with Germany , Japan , and Brazil for over 20 years is no nearer . <p> Why ? Is it because the strategy is flawed ? Are not Japan and Germany un-electable as both Russia and China will oppose their election ? <p> What is the logic in making Germany a permanent member when from that small part of the world Western Europe there are already Britain and France ? <p> Obviously , India should do some course correction . <p> India seems to be re-discovering the meaning of Neighborhood First , though proclaimed in 2014 . The Ministry of External Affairs should be complimented for course correction in the case of the Maldives whose newly elected President Mohamed Muizzu visited China before India even though he wanted to visit India first . <p> In the case of Sri Lanka the newly elected President Aruna Kumar Dissanayake made his first visit abroad to India . <p> There is tension , mounting tension between India and Bangladesh . It is high time the two countries appointed special representatives to meet secretly in a neutral venue and come up with a formula for de-escalating and resolving the differences . <p> India could think of course correction and engage diplomatically with Pakistan as the present policy of setting conditions before restoring normal diplomatic contacts has not worked . <p> The planet in which all life is embedded is in peril with the average rise in global temperature having exceeded by more than 1.5 degree Celsius in 2024 . Was not the Baku summit in November a disappointment ? <p> Why ? Mainly for two reasons . One , the Rich North has yet to accept its historic responsibility for polluting and to respect the principle that the polluter pays . The stingy Rich North has vaguely promised to part with $300 billion a year by 2035 as contrasted with $ 1.3 trillion required . With Trump coming back as President , humanity runs the risk of sleepwalking to a series of man-made disasters . <p> Two , the principle of phasing out fossil fuels is getting increasingly watered down . Many small island nations in the Global South have good reasons to fear that they might disappear into water as the sea level rises . <p> Though the world as a whole produces more than enough to feed the current population of 8.1 billion , over 733 million went hungry in 2023 . <p> The total food production rose by 56% since 2000 and the number of people who are obese goes on increasing and now stands at 2.3 billion . <p> Are we running on the spot ? In the Millennium Summit ( 2000 ) held when I was Permanent Representative to F A O ( Food and Agriculture Organization ) the international community took a pledge to reduce by half the number of human beings going hungry by 2015 . The FAO calculated that there were 852 million going hungry in 2000-2002 . <p> Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia are two regions where the progress in reducing hunger has slowed down . <p> 2025 <p> Will 2025 be better ? We do not know . In any case , it is not enough to wish for each other , whether we are heads of government/state or simple citizens . Those of us who are in democracies have the responsibility to exercise our franchise intelligently and responsible . <p> Unless we do that , our condition is best described by Mathew Arnold in his famous poem Dover Beach <p> published in 1867 : <p> And we are here as on a darkling plain <p> Swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight , <p> Where ignorant armies clash by night . <p> There was a time when war ceased for Christmas as in World War 1 when the British soldiers and their German counterparts exchanged cake and best wishes across the trenches . Going back in time , in ancient Greece they stopped the war for the Olympic games . In India in Mahabharata the fighting stopped when the sun went down . <p> As Homo Sapiens Sapiens it is high time , we gave peace a chance ! <p> Ambassador K.P.Fabian retired from the Indian Foreign Service . The views expressed here are the writer 's own . 
@@119271126 <h> Silence arms , overcome divisions , Pope to nations <p> Vatican City : Pope Francis in his traditional Christmas message on Wednesday urged " all people of all nations " to find courage during this Holy Year " to silence the sounds of arms and overcome divisions " plaguing the world , from the Middle East to Ukraine , Africa to Asia . <p> The pontiff 's ' Urbi et Orbi ' -- " To the City and the World ' -- address serves as a summary of the woes facing the world this year . <p> As Christmas coincided with the start of the 2025 Holy Year celebration that he dedicated to hope , Francis called for broad reconciliation , " even ( with ) our enemies " . <p> " I invite every individual , and all people of all nations ... To become pilgrims of hope , to silence the sounds of arms and overcome divisions , " the Pope said from the loggia of St Peter 's Basilica to throngs of people below . <p> The Pope invoked the Holy Door of St Peter 's Basilica , which he opened on Christmas Eve to launch the 2025 Jubilee , as representing God 's mercy , which " unties every knot ; it tears down every wall of division ; it dispels hatred and the spirit of revenge " . <p> He called for arms to be silenced in war-torn Ukraine and in the Middle East , singling out Christian communities in Israel and the Palestinian territories , " particularly in Gaza where the humanitarian situation is extremely grave , " as well as Lebanon and Syria " at this most delicate time " . <p> Francis repeated his calls for the release of hostages taken from Israel by Hamas on October 7 , 2023 . <p> He cited a deadly outbreak of measles in the Democratic Republic of Congo , and the suffering of the people of Myanmar , forced to flee their homes by " the ongoing clash of arms " . The Pope likewise remembered children suffering from war and hunger , the elderly living in solitude , those fleeing their homelands , who have lost their jobs and are persecuted for their faith . <p> Pilgrims were lined up on Christmas Day to walk through the great Holy Door at the entrance of St Peter 's Basilica , as the Jubilee is expected to bring some 32 million Catholic faithful to Rome . <p> Traversing the Holy Door is one way that the faithful can obtain indulgences , or forgiveness for sins during a Jubilee , a **26;710;TOOLONG tradition that dates from 1300 . <p> Pilgrims submitted to security controls before entering the Holy Door , amid new security fears following a deadly Christmas market attack in Germany . Many paused to touch the door as they passed and made the sign of the cross upon entering the basilica dedicated to St Peter , the founder of the Roman Catholic Church . <p> " You feel so humble when you go through the door that once you go through is almost like a release , a release of emotions , " said Blanca Martin , a pilgrim from San Diego . <p> " ... It 's almost like a release of emotions , you feel like now you are able to let go and put everything in the hands of God . See I am getting emotional . It 's just a beautiful experience . " 
@@119271406 <p> The Verdict : Fake The image , first shared by a satirical account , is fake and was likely created using Artificial Intelligence . <h> What is the claim ? <p> An image of Irish musicians Bono and Bob Geldof holding the Israeli national flag has circulated online , claiming that they are endorsing " apartheid " . Bono is the lead vocalist of the rock band U2 , and Geldof is the frontman of the Boomtown Rats . <p> An X user shared the image with the caption , " Make songs about fighting against apartheid ... then openly support apartheid . " The post received around 9,000 likes and 2,200 retweets . Archived versions of similar posts can be found here and here . <p> A screenshot of the viral image of Bono and Geldof was shared online . ( Source : X/Modified by Logically Facts ) <p> The image gained traction after Irish singer Mary Coughlan criticised Bono and Geldof for not speaking out about the ongoing Israel-Hamas war . She remarked , " We all saved the world when Bob and Bono were talking about saving the world , and I could n't understand what was different about this situation in Gaza . Why would they be so quiet about it ? " according to Dublin Live . <p> However , the image is fabricated . Our investigation reveals that it was created using Artificial Intelligence ( AI ) . <h> Here are the facts <p> Through a reverse image search , we traced the origin of the image to an X account called Dr. Harold News ( archived here ) , which first posted it on December 17 , 2024 . The caption shared with the image read , " BREAKING : Bono and Geldof stage two-man vigil outside Israeli Embassy in Dublin . " <p> The image appeared shortly after Israel announced the closure of its embassy in Dublin , following Ireland 's support for a petition at the International Court of Justice accusing Israel of genocide and its decision to recognise Palestinian statehood . <p> We analyzed the viral image using online AI detection tools . Hive Moderation reported a 99 percent likelihood that the image was AI-generated , while TrueMedia.org confirmed a 99 percent certainty of its AI origin . <p> Neither Bono nor Geldof has made any public statements regarding the Israel-Hamas war in recent weeks , and there is no credible evidence that either has expressed support for Israel . However , in 2011 , Geldof called for peace between Israel and Palestine . In 2023 , Bono condemned the October 7 Hamas attack on Israel and voiced support for peace between the two sides . <h> The verdict <p> The viral image of Irish musicians Bono and Bob Geldof holding the Israeli national flag is a fabrication , most likely created using Artificial Intelligence . <p> This report first appeared on logicallyfacts.com , and has been republished on ABP Live as part of a special arrangement . Apart from the headline , no changes have been made in the report by ABP Live . 
@@119280024 <h> Humanitarian crisis at its peak in 2024 , But it is always good time to move forward for peace <h> Share : <p> A year back when we entered the New Year 2024 , we all hoped that the year would bring end to the conflicts around the world and reduce the threat of nuclear weapons even though this hope was filled with fear and scepticism . Despite global voice for peace , truce in any of the conflict zone seems remote at the end of the year . Whereas people in relatively peaceful regions are rejoicing Christmas and the onset of New Year , the children in Gaza have little in store for them . They have virtually forgotten what all these festivities of Christmas or Eid mean ! Their only wish is end of Israeli aggression and brutal killing of their kith &amp; kin , friends and companions . They wish to go to school and playground . Sitting far away from the war zone in Gaza , it is beyond comprehension how they are always living in fear at this tender age . They are homeless , without required food and even water for no fault of theirs . In the similar way families of the Israeli hostages have been living in extreme stress . It is a strange way of life ; the Jews were persecuted by the Nazis in concentration camps , but now the Zionists are using the same tactics , spreading hatred against the Palestinians , killing them with impunity completely ignoring their human rights and the calls for ceasefire by the countries of the world and the UNO . The International court of Justice and International Criminal Court have indicted Israel for committing genocide in Gaza but the Zionist regime has completely ignored . Barring the US and few western countries , whole world is yearning for peace in the Middle East . The Nakba of 1948 is being repeated . But this time the world is watching the dance of death on their screens . Bombardments have displaced over 1.5 million people , severely restricting access to clean water , medical care , and shelter , resulting in thousands of preventable deaths . As a result of attacks by Israeli defence forces nearly 14 million people of Syria have been displaced . There are deaths in Lebanon as well due to Israeli attacks . <p> The situation in Ukraine is no better . Nearly 24.6 million people now require urgent humanitarian aid , and over 6.3 million are internally displaced , many facing life-threatening shortages of essential medicines and food . Those living as refugees in the neighbouring countries are facing extreme difficulties . There have been repeated threats of use of nuclear weapons . The danger to the nuclear power plants is not yet over . <p> Several countries in Africa are involved in internal conflicts and they are facing serious crisis of food as a result of Russia Ukraine war . Nearly half of the Sudanese population is almost starving . The on-going conflicts in Burkina Faso , Cameroon , the Central African Republic ( CAR ) , the Democratic Republic of the Congo , Ethiopia , Mali , Mozambique , Nigeria , Senegal , Somalia , South Sudan and Sudan are issues of grave concern . The countries need immediate respite from wars and humanitarian aid . <p> In these major conflicts in Ukraine or Middle East there is explicit involvement of the outside parties . The military industrial complex is making huge profits at the cost of innocent lives . NATO is directly involved in Russia Ukraine war while the US has direct involvement in the Middle East along with with the support of western countries . Israel has taken over large part of Golan Heights in Syria . There are reports of burning of Christmas tree in Syria , a country known for its secular credentials till date . The US , who till date called the present rulers of Syria as terrorists is now all out to establish diplomatic ties with them . <p> With recent statements coming out of prospective Trump administration are conflicting and full of uncertainty . It is to be seen whether Trump will move in a positive direction as per his pre-election commitments or continue with the same rhetoric as the Biden administration . Lately he has said that he will try to get Panama Canal under the control of the US . This will add to the tensions in American continent . He has not taken any firm stand on Israeli aggression . It is he who had broken the deal with Iran . Now Israel is openly calling Iran as a staunch enemy . There have been missiles exchanges between Iran and Israel . It is to be seen what shape politics takes place in Trump 's era . <p> South Asia too is witnessing uncertain times . Even though Sri Lankan situation has given some sense of relief , but rise of Fundamentalism in Pakistan , India and now Bangladesh are issues to be worried about . <p> The peace movement has hard tasks to perform at the present juncture . Various groups must unite nationally as well as internationally to counter the forces promoting arms race . We have to impress upon the nuclear weapons possessing countries to join the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons ( TPNW ) which was passed by the UN General Assembly in July 2017 and save the world from catastrophe . <p> Dr Arun Mitra is a Practicing ENT Surgeon in Ludhiana , Punjab . He is also the President of Indian Doctors for Peace and Development ( IDPD ) www.idpd.org <p> How do soldiers killing each other solve the world 's problems ? How can human beings shooting , bombing , slaughtering , destroying other human beings solve a problem ? ! War is loathsome . War is repugnant , and why should n't it be when ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119280026 <h> Somber Christmas in Palestine Amid Israel 's Gaza Genocide <h> Share : <p> Occupied Palestine ( Quds News Network ) - Hundreds gathered at the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem on Tuesday to mark Christmas in a somber atmosphere . For the second year in a row , the celebrations reflected the grief caused by Israel 's ongoing genocide in Gaza . No decorations adorned the church or its surroundings , and the absence of tourists and pilgrims underscored the sadness . <p> In Manger Square , where Christians believe Jesus was born , a scout group broke the morning silence . One scout held a banner reading , " We want life , not death " and " Peace for Gaza . " <p> A large Christmas tree , usually lit in the square , remained dark . Local authorities chose to avoid major festivities again this year . However , prayers and Midnight Mass , led by Latin Patriarch Pierbattista Pizzaballa , continued as planned , with a strictly religious focus instead of the joyful celebrations of the past . <p> Christmas Prayers Amid Genocide <p> Despite the gloom , Palestinian Christians , numbering about 185,000 in the 1948-occupied territories and 47,000 in Jerusalem , the West Bank , and Gaza , turned to prayer for solace . Israeli authorities banned Christmas ceremonies in Gaza churches , but Pope Francis successfully pressured them to allow Patriarch Pizzaballa to enter Gaza and lead Midnight Mass at the Holy Family Church . <p> While in Gaza , Patriarch Pizzaballa visited the graves of Nahida Anton and her daughter Samar , who were killed by an Israeli sniper on December 16 , 2023 . Their graves , located at the Holy Family Catholic Church , became a poignant reminder of the suffering endured by Gaza 's Christians as Israel continues to target them . <p> As today marks Christmas , Cardinal Pierbattista Pizzaballa visited the graves of Nahida Anton and her daughter Samar Anton , who were killed due to gunfire from an Israeli occupation sniper on December 16 , 2023 , at the Holy Family Catholic Church west of Gaza City . **26;1035;TOOLONG <p> Despite the Israeli aggression on Gaza , Palestinian Christians are striving to celebrate Christmas amid the destruction . Their resilience and faith shine as beacons of hope , reminding the world of the enduring spirit of the Palestinian people as they celebrate the second ... **26;1063;TOOLONG <p> by Alain Alameddine and Seth Morrison Seventy-six years of occupation , ethnic cleansing and settler-colonisation leading up to today 's genocide in Gaza can not disappear overnight . In light of this , does the ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119280028 <h> Bringing Gaza Home <h> Share : <p> Palestinians mourn their relatives killed in the Israeli bombardment of the Gaza Strip at a hospital morgue in Deir al-Balah , Friday , November 1 , 2024 . AP Photo/Abdel Kareem Hana <p> In Ft . Wayne , Indiana this September , I was arrested with a long time activist friend , Cliff Kindy , for blocking the entrance to a Raytheon Corp . facility . We both requested jury trials and the dates were set for mid-December and early January . Prosecutors dropped the charges in each case and the trials did not happen . <p> For my defense , I planned to bring Gaza home to jurors from Allen County , home to Ft . Wayne , with wire service photos and by extrapolating the effects of the U.S.-Israeli genocide in Palestine to their own county . <p> That same approach can be used for any city or county in the U.S. Simply find your population and area , then do the math based on Gaza 's population and area . The genocide statistics were published by Al Jazeera for its summary report on one year of Israel 's U.S.-funded genocide . <p> U.S. census figures show that Allen County 's population is 395,000 or 18% of Gaza 's 2.2 million people and its area is 660 sq . miles , roughly 4.5 times that of Gaza 's 144 sq . miles . <p> Here , then , is how to bring Gaza home to your city or county . <p> ? Tons of bombs dropped <p> As of October 2024 , Israel 's military has dropped over 85,000 tons of bombs -- 591 T/sq. mi. on Gaza , far exceeding that dropped on Dresden , Hamburg and London combined in World War II . <p> For Allen County the comparable number is 390,000 tons of bombs at 591 T/sq. mi . <p> ? Casualties <p> More than 43,000 Palestinian bodies , mostly of women and children , were recovered last year . Many thousands more remain buried under the rubble -- reliable reports say up to 200,000. 97,000 have been wounded . Anesthesia is rarely available . <p> For Allen County the comparable numbers ( 18% of the above ) are : <p> 7,740 bodies recovered <p> 17,460 wounded <p> Up to 36,000 buried under the rubble . <p> Over half are women and children . <p> ? Health care infrastructure and personnel <p> According to the Gaza Media Office , 34 hospitals and 80 health centers have been put out of service , 162 health institutions were hit by Israeli forces and at least 131 ambulances were hit and damaged . Israeli attacks on hospitals and the continual bombardment of Gaza have killed at least 986 medical workers including 165 doctors , 260 nurses , 184 health associates , 76 pharmacists and 300 management and support staff . <p> For Allen County the comparable numbers are <p> 20 hospitals and health centers destroyed <p> 30 doctors , 47 nurses , 14 pharmacists , 54 support staff killed . <p> 24 ambulances damaged . <p> ? Disease <p> In the past year , 75% of Gaza 's population have been infected with contagious diseases from lack of sanitation , open sewage and inadequate hygiene . At least 10,000 cancer patients can no longer receive the necessary treatment <p> For Allen County the comparable numbers are <p> 296,250 people ( 75% of pop. ) infected with diseases from lack of sanitation and open sewage . <p> 379,000 people ( 96% of pop. ) endure severe lack of food and have not had access to clean water for months . <p> 79,000 face outright starvation . <p> 1800 cancer patients do not receive necessary treatment <p> ? Imprisoned <p> More than 10,000 Palestinians are being held in Israeli prisons under grave conditions with at least 250 children and 80 women among them . <p> For Allen County the comparable numbers are <p> 1800 residents held in prison , 599 of them without charges <p> ? Buildings damaged and destroyed <p> According to the U.N . ' s OCHA , as of January 2024 , 60 percent of Gaza 's residential homes and 80 percent of all commercial facilities have been damaged or destroyed . 18% of mosques have been damaged or destroyed . <p> When the bombing finally stops , whoever attempts to rebuild Gaza -- for luxury Israeli condos or refugee housing -- will be exposed to unexploded ordnance ( UXO ) , asbestos , PCBs , and carcinogenic ingredients from the toxic soup left by exploded bombs and artillery shells . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> For example , in a heavily bombed area of Vietnam , Quang Tri Province ( 1832 sq . mi. ) , an intensive campaign to find and destroy UXOs has eliminated over 815,000 of them -- everything from 1,000-pound bombs to cluster bombs and grenades . Given the area of Gaza and the tons of bombs dropped on it , some 64,100 UXOs may lie in wait . <h> Join our WhatsApp and Telegram Channels <h> Related Posts <p> There is so much conflict around the world accompanied by brutal killings and destruction . Often these conflicts are simplistically dismissed as religious rivalries , competing ethnic claims , caste-based oppression and racism , Some ... <p> by Alain Alameddine and Seth Morrison Seventy-six years of occupation , ethnic cleansing and settler-colonisation leading up to today 's genocide in Gaza can not disappear overnight . In light of this , does the ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119280029 <h> Imperialist US-Israel led crisis in Syria and setback to Palestine liberation <h> Share : <p> A placard reading " Free Palestine , end Israel Occupation " is pictured on Parliament square , central London , on June 8 , 2024 at the end of " National March for Gaza " , calling to " end the genocide " and " stop arming Israel " . Picture Via Getty Images <p> Syria has turned into a key strategic region for unfolding of imperialist interventions . It has seen the overthrow of Bashar al-Assad regime by Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) which is an Islamic extremist organization . HTS is a break away faction of Al-Qaeda which was supported by CIA to overthrow Assad regime since 2011 . One of the reasons for US to support Islamic extremists was to topple any government in middle east which supports Palestine liberation against Israeli Zionist occupation and expand the colonial Israeli base in middle east . Syria was a key part of Axis of Resistance which was fighting against Israeli genocide of Palestinians in Gaza strip , due to its strategic geopolitical location it was the route for supplies for Hezbollah in Lebanon from Iran . Hezbollah has been militantly fighting against Israeli occupation of Gaza and for which it also took several attacks on its top leaders like Nasrallah and Israel unsuccessfully tried to occupy southern Lebanon . Israel and US wanted to paralyse Hezbollah and cut its connection with Iran , this was possible by performing regime change in Syria . Assad has been ruling Syria since more than a decade and he too was involved in several atrocities against all kinds of democratic struggles with the help of Russia , taking the advantage of his unpopularity US and Israel supported Islamic extremists like HTS and bribed Syrian army , due to which HTS conquered Syrian capital Damascus and Assad regime was overthrown . HTS is a friendly regime to Israel , and suitable for Israel to continue its genocidal policies in middle east . Meanwhile , Israel has also occupied Golan Heights region of Syrian territory and started killing protestors of occupied Syrian villages , while HTS does n't seem to intervene against Israel . Israel has intervened to topple Assad regime in order to further their goals of Greater Israel which is even bigger imperialist-colonial project in middle east which is backed by USA . <p> The Axis of Resistance has turned weaker due to Syria going out of it resulting into weakening the battle for liberation of Palestine . Meanwhile , there is another key player which has played a crucial role in overthrow of Assad , which is Turkey . Erdogan has always been supporting HTS and other extremist Islamic organizations in Syria from behind the curtains to topple Assad regime . Turkey has also taken an advantage of the crisis and started occupying regions of Syria from north . Turkey has imperialist ambitions in the region , even though it did lip-service to Palestine cause , but in practical terms it did n't do anything against Israel , now it wishes to compete with Israel to colonize Syria . Erdogan is an example how opportunists in Arab world having betrayed Palestine liberation for its own capitalist-imperialist goals . Turkey also wanted to get rid of Assad as he had done ceasefire with Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) which is armed front of Kurdish Worker 's Party ( PKK ) , and SDF has been fighting against Turkey for Kurdish national liberation since 4 decades . SDF is also backed by US as it was fighting against Islamic extremists like ISIS . However , with Assad regime out and US slowly removing its hands from SDF , Turkey has initiated attacks on Kurdish forces of SDF , the Kurdish revolution in Kobani and Rojava is also under severe crisis . It is likely the Syria will sooner become the new battleground of several imperialist forces like Israel , Turkey , and US . The result is detrimental for the Syria which was a secular country under entire legacy of Ba'ath party . All these changes unfolding in Syria are the actions to overthrow the socialist legacy of Ba'ath party by Imperialist forces of US-Israel and Turkey . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Although we are facing an overall setback in resistance struggle for Palestine liberation as well as looming threat over Kurdish revolution , however , we are sure that the imperialist forces will collide with each other and more events will unfold in Syria . Ultimately Syrian population and Kurdish liberation movement are hopes which can rise in future and can provide a potential halt in the imperialist plunder of Syria and strengthen support for Palestine liberation . Although axis of resistance is still continuing its fight against Zionist occupation and countries like Yemen are giving a challenge to Israel-US , it is important to note that uprisings in Syria against its autocratic rulers and imperialism , Kurdish revolution and uprisings in other regions of Arab countries along with unwavering brave struggles waged by Palestinian people all together will be very vital for Palestine liberation . <p> Palestine liberation is not only limited to Palestine , it will be the key to liberate entire middle east from the hands of Imperialists . <p> From the River to the Sea , Palestine will be Free <p> Jai Kishan is a communist activist and a Marxist writer . He is a science post-graduate , working as education and research professional , he is currently pursuing his M.A in Education from Indira Gandhi National Open University ( IGNOU ) . <p> by Alain Alameddine and Seth Morrison Seventy-six years of occupation , ethnic cleansing and settler-colonisation leading up to today 's genocide in Gaza can not disappear overnight . In light of this , does the ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119284287 <p> A Dutch court has convicted 5 men for their involvement in violent clashes on November 8 between Israeli football fans and pro-Palestinian protesters in Amsterdam . <p> The incidents occurred around a UEFA Europa League match between Maccabi Tel Aviv and Ajax Amsterdam . <p> The Amsterdam district court found the men guilty of offenses including assaulting Maccabi Tel Aviv fans and inciting violence online . One of the accused , identified as Sefa , received the harshest penalty of 6 months in prison for engaging in public violence against multiple individuals . <p> According to reports from Al Jazeera , videos shared online showed Israeli fans chanting racist and anti-Arab slogans , vandalizing a taxi , and burning a Palestinian flag . Witnesses and a local councilman claimed the Israeli fans provoked the violence , which escalated into clashes and arrests . <p> Prosecutors clarified that the violence was influenced by the ongoing situation in Gaza rather than anti-Semitic motives . " The violence was influenced by the situation in Gaza , not by anti-Semitism , " they stated . <p> Another suspect , identified as Abushabab M. , faces an attempted murder charge , but his case has been postponed pending a psychiatric evaluation . Additionally , six more suspects , including three minors whose cases will be handled privately , remain under investigation . <p> Authorities are currently investigating the involvement of at least 45 individuals , including Israeli football fans . Amsterdam Mayor Femke Halsema condemned the violence , describing it as " hateful anti-Semitic rioting . " <p> However , she later expressed regret for comparing the clashes to historical " pogroms , " acknowledging that her choice of words had been used for propaganda purposes . <p> The incident has brought renewed attention to tensions surrounding football matches involving political disputes , as well as the challenges of maintaining public safety during high-profile events . Further investigations are ongoing to ensure accountability for all those involved in the unrest . 
@@119286130 <p> Today is Christmas , the celebration of Jesus ' birth . He was a Jew by birth because he was born in the lineage of King David , a benevolent king of the Jews . He governed a united Jewish kingdom of Israel , which he established by uniting the 12 tribes of Israel under a single monarch . Jesus was a legal descendant of David through his legal guardian , Joseph , who was of the house and line of David . However , Joseph was not his biological father but a foster father . Mary was betrothed to him , but they were yet to be married . They had yet to share their conjugal love , and yet she was found with a child . Mary was still a virgin when she conceived her son , Jesus . She is called the Virgin Mother , for Jesus had a miraculous birth . <p> In the sixth month after Elizabeth ( 88 ) , a relative of the Virgin Mary and the wife of Zechariah , conceived a son in her womb , the angel Gabriel visited Mary in Nazareth , a Galilean town . In his greetings the angel told her , " O favoured one ! The Lord is with you . " Mary was perplexed ; she wondered what that greeting could mean . However , the angel , soothing her fear , said , " Do not be afraid , Mary , for you have found favour with God . And now you will conceive in your womb and bear a son , and you will name him Jesus . He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High , and the Lord God will give to him the throne of his ancestor David . He will reign over the house of Jacob forever , and of his kingdom there will be no end . <p> Mary retorted to the angel and said , " How can this be , since I am a virgin ? " The angel assured her , " The Holy Spirit will come upon you , and the power of the Most High will overshadow you ; therefore , the child to be born will be holy ; he will be called the Son of God . " Still in confusion , Mary surrendered herself ; she consented to the message in great faith and said , " Here am I , the servant of the Lord ; let it be with me according to your word , " and she conceived Jesus , the Son of God , in her virgin womb . This is how Jesus , the Word of God , became flesh and lived on earth . About him , the prophet Isaiah had said , " For a child has been born for us , a son is given to us ; authority rests upon his shoulders , and he is named Wonderful Counsellor , Mighty God , Everlasting Father , Prince of Peace . " Even the multitude of angels sang on his birth , saying , " Glory to God in the highest heaven and on earth peace among those whom he favors . " The Jews expected the Davidic peace they had enjoyed in the reign of their benevolent king , David . <p> However , there is a sword instead of peace in the world . Since February 24 , 2022 , the Russo-Ukrainian War has been carrying on . As if the lesson was not learnt from the Russo-Ukraine war , on 7 October 2023 , Israel invaded the Gaza Strip of Palestine , and as of early December 2024 , over 46,000 people , including 17,492 children , have been killed in the Gaza Strip , and over 1700 people have been killed in Israel . Is it meaningful to celebrate Christmas , the birthday of the Prince of Peace ? <p> However , as Eleanor Roosevelt said , " It is better to light a candle than to curse the darkness . " There is an urgent need to take a proactive approach to peace . It is better to take action to solve the problem of lack of peace than to just complain about it . And Jesus teaches us the way to peace . He advocates forgiveness and reconciliation for peace . In his sermon on the mount , he says , " Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you . " In this way he promotes forgiveness and reconciliation for peace instead of retaliation and fighting . When asked by Peter , the first Pope of the Church , how many times to forgive if someone repeatedly offended me , Jesus had replied to him to forgive seventy times seven . By this phrase , Jesus meant that forgiveness should be limitless ; one has to go on forgiving . Peace is ensured where a sense of forgiveness prevails . <p> Further , Jesus champions non-violence to foster understanding and peace . He says , " If anyone strikes you on the right , turn to the other also . " He further asserts , " Come to terms quickly with your accuser while you are on the way to court with him , or your accuser may hand you over to the judge and the judge to the guard , and you will be thrown into prison . " Non-violence and negotiation are time-tested means to achieve peace . It was the non-violence movement of Mohanlal Karamchand Gandhi that freed India from British rule . Jesus teaches non-violence and negotiation to build a culture of peace , where conflicts are resolved through dialogue , understanding , and cooperation . The nonviolence fosters empathy between the opposing sides and breaks down the stereotypes and creates a more conducive environment for peace . <p> The universal truth is that you can not give what you do not have . To give peace to the world , one needs to be at peace within oneself . Jesus teaches not to be anxious . He encourages us to let go of worries and anxieties , trusting in God 's provision and care . He says , " Do not worry about your life , what you will eat or what you will drink , or about your body , what you will wear . Is n't life more than food and the body more than clothing ? Look at the birds of the air ; they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns , and yet your heavenly Father feeds them . Are you not of more value than them ? " Reflecting on Jesus ' words , Mother Teresa of Calcutta says , " Peace begins with a smile . " In the midst of the ups and downs in life , one who has a strong faith in the providence of God can truly smile and spread peace in his or her vicinity . <p> Jesus was against the dictatorship , the suppression , and the oppression of citizens by the government of his time . He pitched for servant leadership . At his trial , the Roman governor Pontius Pilot of the occupying government asked him , " So you are a king ? ' And Jesus answered , " Just as you say , I am a king . " " My kingdom does not come from this world . If I were a king like those of this world , my guards would have fought to save me from being handed over to the Jews , " he continued . Thus he opposed the brute force of the Roman rule to usher peace in the region . Instead , he proposed servant leadership for peace . Washing the feet of his disciples , he said , " If I then , your Lord and teacher , have washed your feet , you also ought to wash each other 's feet . " The authorities have to administer justice for peace in the world . <p> The message of Christmas is that God became a man in Jesus to save the world from sin and death . And he accomplished his mission by the sacrifice of Calvary . On Good Friday , Jesus shed his blood on the cross for the ransom for many . Through his sacrificial death and resurrection , Jesus offers forgiveness of sins and the hope of eternal life , bringing peace with God and humankind . This is a unique peace Jesus promises to the world when he says , " Peace I leave with you ; my peace I give to you . I do not give to you as the world gives . " The current war and conflicts could be settled easily if we were to apply the means of peace Jesus proposes . 
@@119297616 <h> The Catch Up : 26 December <p> The Catch Up : 26 December The headlines of the day from The Indian Express . <p> This is the Catchup on 3 Things by The Indian Express and I 'm Flora Swain . Today is the 26th of December and here are the headlines . <p> A roadside biryani vendor , Gnanasekaran , was arrested in Chennai for allegedly sexually assaulting a student at Anna University 's campus on Monday night . The arrest led to a political uproar , with BJP and AIADMK accusing Tamil Nadu 's ruling DMK of ties to the accused . However , the DMK denies any association . The attack reportedly occurred around 8 pm when the student was in a secluded area of the 180-acre campus , chatting with a friend . Authorities are investigating the case while the political parties continue their accusations . <p> At a Patna event commemorating the life of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee , a protest erupted when folk singer Devi performed the line " Ishwar Allah tero naam " from the bhajan " Raghupati Raghav Raja Ram . " Protesters interrupted the performance , claiming it was inappropriate . BJP leader Shahnawaz Hussain condemned the disruption , calling it " the height of intolerance . " The song , which has been closely associated with Mahatma Gandhi , was being sung as part of a tribute to Vajpayee , leading to tensions during the event . <p> Aam Aadmi Party ( AAP ) national convener Arvind Kejriwal expressed frustration with Congress over complaints filed against AAP leading up to Delhi 's 2025 elections . Kejriwal criticized Congress for alleging AAP was anti-national despite seeking its help during campaigning . Delhi CM Atishi questioned why Congress formed an alliance with AAP if they had such doubts . She accused Congress leaders in Delhi of aiding BJP in the upcoming polls and possibly making secret pacts to harm AAP 's electoral prospects . <p> Telangana Chief Minister A Revanth Reddy met with major figures from the Telugu film industry on Thursday , rejecting their demand for increased movie ticket prices . Reddy stressed the importance of respecting the law and not offering any more concessions for film screenings . He also urged industry leaders to support government campaigns against drugs , promote women 's safety , and help with ecotourism and temple tourism initiatives . The meeting followed concerns over a stampede during the premiere of " Pushpa 2 , " which tragically killed a woman . <p> In Gaza , five Palestinian journalists were killed in an Israeli airstrike on Thursday , according to local authorities . However , the Israeli military stated that the airstrike targeted a vehicle carrying Islamic Jihad militants . The journalists were reportedly in a broadcast vehicle outside Al-Awda Hospital in the Al-Nuseirat refugee camp when the attack occurred . The Palestinian Journalists Union confirmed their deaths , which were part of a series of airstrikes that also killed at least 16 others . This violence comes as ceasefire talks remain stalled after months of fighting . 
@@119297645 <h> As 2024 draws to a close , the global community struggles to navigate the ripple effects of conflicts , wars , geopolitical shifts , and climate change while striving to achieve a just world order . <p> 2024 has been a defining chapter in the ever-evolving landscape of international relations . <p> From the return of Donald Trump as the US President to the almost unexpected fall of the Bashar al-Assad regime in Syria alongside the ongoing Gaza War , the year 2024 has been a defining chapter in the ever-evolving landscape of international relations . <p> The fall of the Assad regime in Syria on 8 November 2024 escalated concerns over the restoration of peace in the region , especially after an armed Islamist group took over the country . Its potential fallout prompted regional powers , such as Israel , Lebanon , Iran , Turkey , and international actors , including Russia and the US , to scramble for a response . <p> Apparently , wars , conflicts and geopolitical rivalries overshadowed other pressing issues like climate change , human rights and gender equality . This article offers a concise summary of the most significant developments in international affairs throughout 2024 , highlighting the events and trends that have shaped the global order and set the stage for the years ahead . <p> Advertisement <h> Trump 's return to the White House <p> Following a year-long election process , Americans went to the polls on " the Tuesday next after the first Monday in November " ( as has been the tradition ) to cast their ballots for the next President . The eventual victory of Trump as the 47th President of the US became a common refrain across national and international media . <p> Whether the policies of the incoming US president -- to be inaugurated on 20 January 2025 -- would align with India 's aspirations on the world stage kept the Indian diplomatic circles engaged , specifically in view of Trump 's stance on immigration , trade , tariffs and his policies towards the Indo-Pacific . <p> Earlier this month , Trump threatened the BRICS nations with " 100 per cent tariffs " if it attempted to replace the US dollar in international trade . As of now , Trump 's initial tariff plans exclude India and intends to impose substantial tariffs on Mexico , Canada and China . The move could cause tensions between the two powerful economies -- the US and China -- and potentially disrupt global trade . <p> It also echoes the China challenge -- where the interests of the US and India converge -- with the previous Trump administration ( 2017-2021 ) framing Beijing as a " strategic threat " in its national security strategy . In that context , the incoming Trump administration 's approach towards the Indo-Pacific would bring renewed focus on India 's concerns over China 's assertiveness in the region . <p> Advertisement <p> The need for deeper US-India collaboration on both strategic and economic fronts in the region can not be ruled out . In fact , the strategic convergence between India and the US in the region was a primary driver contributing to the shift from Asia-Pacific to Indo-Pacific . The Trump administration adopted a National Security Strategy for the Indo-Paci ? c region in 2017 and renamed the US Pacific Command as the US Indo-Pacific Command in 2018 , formalising and institutionalising the concept of the Indo-Pacific . <h> Indo-Pacific : The arena of strategic concerns <p> This policy shift was seen as a vital step to address the aggression of China , increasing threats to critical sea lanes of communication , and non-traditional security challenges , such as climate change , maritime piracy , illegal fishing , natural disasters , and cybersecurity threats . It was also important for the inclusion of India -- a growing major power -- into the policy frameworks of key global actors , particularly the US . <p> Notably , under the previous Trump administration , the Foreign Ministers of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue ( Quad ) countries -- Australia , India , Japan and the US -- held talks for the first time , paving the way for the group to emerge as a vital platform for governance in key domains of the Indo-Pacific . <p> President Joe Biden built on the momentum by elevating the Quad to the leaders ' level . During the meeting in September 2024 , Biden hosted Quad leaders in his hometown of Wilmington , Delaware . The Biden administration released the Indo-Pacific Strategy in February 2022 , emphasising a free and open Indo-Pacific , sovereign decision-making by countries , adherence to international law , and lawful governance of shared domains like seas and skies -- which is in sync with India 's stance in the region . <p> Advertisement <p> In fact , through its " Act East " policy , India has emerged as a natural partner in this vision , aiming to enhance collaboration with Southeast Asia , East Asia , and the Pacific , while mitigating China 's growing influence . Now all eyes are on the expected nuanced shifts in US Indo-Pacific policy under the incoming Trump administration , while Washington 's economic competition with China -- evident in proposed tariff plans -- will remain central , shaping broader security and strategic approaches in the region . <h> A world at war : Ukraine-Russia and Hamas-Israel wars <p> Amidst all this , major conflicts across the globe , including the Ukraine-Russia and Hamas-Israel wars , continue to remain sticking points for the global powers . As the Ukraine-Russia war approached its third year in 2024 , Prime Minister Narendra Modi made historic visits to Russia in July and Ukraine in August this year , engaging in discussions with President Vladimir Putin and President Volodymyr Zelensky , respectively . <p> He clarified that India is " not neutral " but " in favour of peace " in this bilateral conflict , and urged that both parties should come to the table without wasting time . However , the prolonged war coupled with the bad economy of Russia prompted Trump to call Moscow a " weakened state " , which could n't come to the rescue of its long-term ally in West Asia -- Bashar al-Assad of Syria . However , the prolonged war coupled with its economy in bad shape <p> More importantly , the fall of the 24-year-old Assad regime in Syria was seen as a strategic setback for Iran , particularly to its Axis of Resistance -- an alliance of armed entities and government actors in Iraq , Lebanon , Syria , Yemen along with Palestinian groups . <p> Advertisement <p> The Axis has been a major force for Iran to exert regional influence and oppose the US and Israel . Given the volatile situation in the region , it wo n't be feasible to forecast the outcome of Assad 's fall . Yet , the possibility that powers like Turkey , Iran and Gulf Cooperation Council states along with Israel would recalibrate their strategies for regional aspirations is on the horizon . <p> Meanwhile , talks to broker a ceasefire in Gaza remain precarious , with Israel and Hamas accusing each other of hindering the progress . The war began after Israel retaliated against Hamas ' October 2023 attack on southern Israel and soon escalated to even include direct attacks between Israel and Iran . The situation does not bode well for countries like India with a huge stake in the stability of the region . <h> The Gaza war , Assad 's fall , West Asian geopolitics and implications for India <p> The recent overthrow of the Assad regime in Syria further complicated the situation , with considerable implications for India . In addition to being home to over nine million Indian expatriates ( a major source of remittances ) , West Asia is a vital source of energy imports , trade , investments and defence for India . <p> Therefore , prolonged instability and widening conflict will pose a threat to the security and well-being of Indians , cause a considerable loss in remittances , and affect India 's economy . The loss of trade and commerce , and the impact on energy imports will be other serious concerns for India . In addition , India 's effort to promote regional connectivity , trade and commerce through initiatives like the India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor , the International North-South Transport Corridor , and the Chabahar port pivots on the restoration of stability in the region . <p> India has expressed its concerns at the deteriorating security situation in the region , and has emphasised a peaceful resolution of the conflict through dialogue and diplomacy . India 's position on the Gaza War is in tune with its historical stand for a two-state solution achieved through diplomatic negotiations within the purviews of the resolutions passed in the United Nations . However , a ceasefire in the Gaza War seems elusive , but it does raise a pertinent question -- Will environmental protections be prioritised over traditional military goals ? <h> Climate change , women and gender equality <p> It wo n't be an exaggeration to say that issues like climate change , women and gender equality remained overshadowed by the issues of high politics , such as conflicts , war , and diplomacy . The recently concluded COP29 climate talks in Baku , Azerbaijan , ended in disappointment for the developing countries . The main agreement negotiated at the conference promised to mobilise $300 billion annually in climate finance for the developing countries -- significantly lower than the $1.3 trillion a year they had been demanding in line with their requirements . <p> The setback draws our attention to the strong correlation between women 's empowerment and effective climate action . Addressing climate change and promoting gender equality are pivotal steps toward building a more inclusive and equitable world order . In that context , India 's push for reforms in global institutions such as the United Nations Security Council , multilateral development banks , and the World Trade Organisation continues to be a critical issue in promoting fairness and equality in global governance and building an inclusive world order . <p> Hence , as 2024 draws to a close , the global community struggles to navigate the ripple effects of global conflicts and wars , geopolitical shifts , and climate change while striving to achieve a just world order . The year 2025 will mark 30 years of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action , which recognised women 's rights as human rights and envisioned a world in which women have the same rights and opportunities as men . 
@@119298027 <h> With Bashar al-Assad gone , Turkish President Erdogan wants to position himself as de facto leader of the Sunni Muslim world . Israel , on the other hand , is clearly perturbed by the rise of rebel Islamist groups in Syria and fears its transformation into a jihadist state ... Read More <p> Recep Tayyip Erdogan ( left ) has opposed any concessions by the HTS to the minority Kurdish population in Syria 's northeast , which he regards as supporters of the Kurdish separatists in Turkey . <p> The relations between Israel and Turkey have collapsed after the attacks in Gaza on October 7 , 2023 . President Recep Tayyip Erdogan had announced severing ties with Israel last month , noting that Turkey would do all it can to hold Benjamin Netanyahu accountable for his actions in Gaza . <p> With the recent political turmoil in Syria , which led to the ouster of President Bashar al-Assad , Israel and Turkey have emerged key players in the Middle Eastern geopolitical competition , instead of Russia and Iran , who have been backing Damascus all this while . <h> related stories <p> With the worsening of Turkey and Israel 's relations over the past few months , the Syria descent sets stage for the two non-Arab states for a bitter showdown . <h> How Turkey-Israel Relations Deteriorated Over Time <p> The ties between Turkey and Israel began to degrade since the meeting of their leaders in New York in September of last year . The meeting was supposedly intended to reconcile relations between Erdogan and Netanyahu . <p> But the Hamas-led attack on Israel in October 2023 and the subsequent Israeli strikes in Gaza , which killed more than 44,000 Palestinians , intensified bitterness between the two countries . This led to a series of sanctions because Erdogan 's ruling Justice and Development Party ( AKP ) faced the brunt in local elections over its weak response to the war on Gaza . <p> Since September , ongoing Turkish trade with Israel through third countries and Palestine has sparked a public pressure campaign by the opposition , who accused Erdogan of failing to close loopholes that allow continued interaction with Tel Aviv . <p> Earlier this year , Turkey intervened in a genocide case against Israel at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) in support of Palestine and advocated for an arms embargo against Tel Aviv . <p> Erdogan said 52 countries and two international organisations had expressed their support for the arms embargo on Turkey launched at the United Nations in early November to prevent the shipment of weapons and ammunition to Israel . <p> " We recently submitted our formal letter regarding this initiative to the president of the UN Security Council and the secretary-general of the United Nations , " Erdogan said . " During our summit in Riyadh , a decision was made to invite all organisations and members of the Arab League to sign this letter . " <h> Impact On Trade And Cooperation <p> Turkey , which recognised the Palestinian state in 1988 , signed key agreements in 1996 with Israel , such as the Defence Coorporation and Free Trade Agreement ( FTA ) . <p> The FTA , in particular , played a crucial role in boosting economic relations , with bilateral trade exceeding $1 billion by 2000 . The agreement laid the foundation for strong bilateral economic ties that have remained active until after October 7 crisis in Gaza . <p> The relations strained in 2000s with the collapse of the Israeli-Palestinian peace process , along with the outbreak of Second Infitada . <p> Ankara 's condemnation of the 2008-2009 Israel-Gaza conflict marked the beginning of a grim era , followed by the " one-minute " crisis in Davos in 2009 and the 2010 Gaza flotilla raid , leading to the deaths of nine Turkish citizens . <p> Despite Erdogan suspending " military and commercial ties " with Israel after nearly every crisis , the bilateral trade relations have not been significantly impacted . On the contrary , they have expanded in the last 20 years . According to the Turkish Statistical Institute ( T ? IK ) , the bilateral trade volume of $1.41 billion in 2002 rose to $8.91 billion by 2022 , favouring Turkey . <p> Experts see the rhetoric as mere fa ? ade aimed at securing domestic gains , while prioritizing the Israel-Turkey economic interests over politics . <h> How Syria Is An Opportunity For Turkey <p> Several reports have suggested that Turkey had backed the offensive led by the Sunni rebel group , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , to throw out Assad from Syria , thus betraying Damascus ' traditional allies -- Iran and Russia . Iran believes that without Turkey 's support , HTS would not have pulled off a coup against Assad . <p> With Assad gone , Erdogan is believed to be positioning himself as de facto leader of the Sunni Muslim world . The first step Turkey performed after the Assad government 's fall was immediately reopening its embassy in Damascus and offering help to HTS in transition and establishing Syria 's new Islamist order . <p> Interestingly , Erdogan has said if the Ottoman Empire had been divided in a different way following its defeat in the World War I , several Syrian cities , including Aleppo and Damascus , would have likely been part of modern-day Turkey . <p> Erdogan has also opposed any concessions by the HTS to the minority Kurdish population in Syria 's northeast , which he regards as supporters of the Kurdish separatists in Turkey . <p> This comes after HTS leader Ahmad al-Sharaa ( also known as Abu Mohammad al-Jolani ) had said in interviews that the new government 's focus would include security of minorities in Syria and growth and development of the country based on moderate methods . <h> How Israel Sees Syria 's Current Political Situation <p> After Assad 's fall , Israel took control of a demilitarized buffer zone in Syria near the Golan Heights , which it already occupied , citing the need for increased security along the border until a deal with the new government can be reached . It also executed a massive bombardment of Syria 's military assets across the country . <p> Israel 's foreign minister said destroying these assets , which included ammunition depots , fighter jets , missiles and chemical weapons storage facilities , was important to ensure they did n't fall into the " hands of extremists " that could pose a threat to the Jewish state . <p> The action was condemned by Arab countries , who demanded Syria 's sovereignty and territorial integrity . <p> Israel is clearly perturbed by the rise of rebel Islamist groups in Syria and fears the transformation of Syria into a jihadist state . <h> What Is The US Thinking ? <p> Washington , which is an ally of both Turkey and Israel , has launched intense diplomatic efforts to ensure that HTS moves Syria in a favourable direction . It is keen to see a post-Assad system of governance aligned with America 's interests , which include HTS ' support for America 's Kurdish allies in northeast Syria and the continued presence of 1,000 American troops in the country . The US also wants HTS to continue to prevent the Islamic State terror group from reviving in Syria . <h> top videos <p> The US will also have to manage the emerging geopolitical rivalry between Israel and Turkey in Syria . <p> Some political observers have not ruled out the possibility of an Israeli-Turkish military showdown , should Israel turn its " temporary occupation " of the demilitarised zone on the Syrian side of the Golan Heights into a permanent one , as per an article by Amin Saikal , Adjunct Professor at The University of Western Australia 's School of Social Sciences and Emeritus Professor of Middle Eastern and Central Asian Studies at Australian National University , in The Conversation . 
@@119298875 <h> India , the largest contributor to UN peacekeeping forces , mourns the recent loss of Brigadier Amitabh Jha in the Golan Heights , underscoring the risks faced by peacekeepers . <p> With over 250,000 personnel deployed in 49 different missions since 1948 , India has consistently been the largest contributor to UN peacekeeping forces . In recent years , this commitment has been underscored by the tragic loss of Indian personnel in the line of duty , including the recent death of Brigadier Amitabh Jha , a senior officer serving in the Golan Heights as part of the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force ( UNDOF ) . His passing , though not a combat casualty , highlights the immense risks faced by peacekeepers working in volatile zones across the world . <h> India 's Legacy in Global Peacekeeping <p> India 's participation in UN peacekeeping missions ' dates back to the early years of the United Nations itself , with the country being one of the founding members of the global peacekeeping initiative . India has contributed troops , medical teams , engineers , and police personnel in missions spanning continents -- whether it be monitoring ceasefires in conflict zones or assisting in post-conflict reconstruction . <p> Today , more than 900 Indian peacekeepers are deployed in Lebanon as part of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon ( UNIFIL ) . Their task is to monitor the tense border between Israel and Lebanon , ensuring that violations of ceasefire agreements do not escalate into full-scale conflict . Similarly , Indian troops are stationed in regions like South Sudan , the Democratic Republic of Congo , and the Golan Heights , where they play crucial roles in maintaining peace and stability in some of the world 's most unstable regions . <p> India 's commitment goes beyond mere troop contributions . The country has provided 17 Force Commanders to UN missions , including leadership roles in some of the most challenging peacekeeping operations . Additionally , India 's contributions to the UN peacekeeping system have included significant logistical , engineering , and medical support . In 2007 , India made history by deploying the first all-women peacekeeping unit to Liberia , demonstrating its commitment to both gender equality and international peace . <h> The Sacrifices of Indian Peacekeepers <p> The recent death of Brigadier Amitabh Jha serves as a reminder of the immense personal sacrifices that Indian military personnel make while serving as peacekeepers . Jha , who had been deployed in the Golan Heights as the acting commander of the Indian contingent , passed away due to medical reasons while on mission . His death adds to the growing list of Indian peacekeepers who have lost their lives in service to the UN . <p> In May 2024 , Colonel Vaibhav Kale ( retired ) , while working as a UN security coordinator in Gaza , was killed by an Israeli tank shell . Such tragedies , though rare , underscore the inherent dangers faced by peacekeepers who work in conflict zones . Since the 1950s , more than 179 Indian peacekeepers have lost their lives in various UN missions , highlighting the personal risks that these individuals take to ensure the safety and security of others . <p> These losses remind the international community of the challenges peacekeepers face in their vital work and the importance of ensuring their safety and security . Despite these risks , Indian peacekeepers continue to serve with unparalleled dedication , often in some of the world 's most dangerous and difficult environments . <h> India 's Role in Maintaining Global Peace <p> India 's participation in UN peacekeeping operations is not only a reflection of its military prowess but also a manifestation of its belief in multilateralism and peaceful conflict resolution . The country has been involved in nearly every major UN peacekeeping mission , from the Korean Peninsula in the 1950s to the current peace operations in Africa and the Middle East . Indian forces have often played a leading role in restoring order and facilitating humanitarian aid in conflict-torn regions . <p> India has provided key leadership in various missions , with Indian officers serving as Force Commanders , Military Advisors , and even as Special Representatives of the UN Secretary-General in complex peacekeeping operations . This leadership is not confined to combat ; Indian peacekeepers are known for their role in rebuilding infrastructure , restoring law and order , and helping stabilize post-conflict regions . <p> One of the most notable contributions has been India 's provision of medical support to UN missions . Indian doctors , nurses , and medical personnel have treated thousands of civilians and peacekeepers , often under challenging conditions . Indian engineers and logistics personnel have rebuilt critical infrastructure such as schools , roads , and bridges , enabling war-torn communities to begin the slow process of recovery . <h> The Challenges and Future of UN Peacekeeping <p> As global conflicts evolve , the role of UN peacekeepers becomes increasingly complex . The rise of asymmetric warfare , the targeting of peacekeeping missions , and the politicization of peace processes have made peacekeeping operations more dangerous and difficult to execute . Recent attacks on UN peacekeepers in Lebanon , where Israeli forces have targeted UN positions , have raised concerns about the safety and effectiveness of international peacekeeping efforts . <p> Despite these challenges , India 's commitment to supporting the UN 's peacekeeping mission remains unwavering . India continues to advocate for the strengthening of UN peacekeeping operations , pushing for better equipment , enhanced security measures , and greater cooperation between the UN and host nations . The country also calls for better protection for peacekeepers , emphasizing the importance of respecting the inviolability of UN personnel and their mandates under international law . 
@@119299247 <h> Jordan 's ambivalent stance on Palestine <h> Share <h> Jordan 's ambivalent stance on Palestine <p> While maintaining a fa ? ade of solidarity , Jordan 's actions often reveal a pragmatic , if controversial , approach to safeguarding its own interests in a volatile region <p> Jordanian reality towards the Palestinians Jordanians have had a wounded , complicated , and manipulative history . House of Hashim or the Hashemite dynasty rules Jordan with the current King Abdullah II , as the 41st generation of the direct descendants of Prophet Muhammad . While Hashemites were the Sharif and Emir of Mecca with rule over larger Hejaz , they were violently ousted from the control over the same by the rival Saud family . This military loss led to the loss of the symbolically vital title of the " Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques " to the Saud family , of modern-day Saudi Arabia . Hashemites were also to lose monarchial claim of rule on lands of Syria , Lebanon , Palestine and Iraq and were left with only the Jordanian swathes -- which unlike other Arab lands was bereft of oil , natural resources , ports , or any other meaningful lever of power . They had to be creative in dealing with the situation and remaining relevant and protected . Geographical contiguity to Palestinian lands led to Jordan demonstrating fluctuating concern that oscillated from supporting the Palestinian cause to willy-nilly , acting against the same . During the Arab-Israeli War of 1948 , Jordan occupied the West Bank and East Jerusalem ( which it annexed in 1950 ) , only to lose the same to Israel in the Six-Day War of 1967 . <p> Historians often note the unique culture of " back channels " ( facilitating clandestine meetings ) between the Jordanians and Israelis that led to counterintuitive accommodations , even amid war . In the subsequent Arab-Israel War of 1973 ( Yom Kippur War ) , Jordan had curiously avoided joining Arab ranks against Israel . Jordanian King Hussein had secretly flown to Tel Aviv to warn Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir of the impending Arab plans to attack Israel . Ultimately when Jordan was morally forced to support the war against Israel , declassified accounts confirm that it was only to preserve Jordan 's image in the Arab world and that it had already entered into a tacit agreement with Israel that it would not attack Israeli elements . <p> It was n't the first time the Jordanians had worked duplicitously against the Arab or Palestinian cause , as just a couple of years earlier , the infamous and bloody " Black September " ( Sep 1970 -- July 1971 ) had occurred . Jordanian Army had surrounded camps and townships with Palestinians fidayeen of various groups and brutally cut them down to size . Nearly 3500 were killed in the purge and the PLO ( Palestinian Liberation Organisation ) fighters were expelled to neighbouring Lebanon . Again , the Jordanians had aligned with Israel before commencing this attack . Importantly Syrian forces that had intervened on behalf of Palestinian fighters were repulsed leaving 600 Syrians dead and a loss of 120 tanks . Interestingly , like the historically insincere support of Jordanians towards the Palestinians , one important figure who participated along the Jordanian forces in massacring the Palestinians was a then Pakistani Brigadier ( later dictator ) Zia-ul-Haq , who was on deputation ! In 1987 Jordanian King Hussein and Israeli foreign affairs minister ( later President ) Shimon Peres met secretly to work on a peace treaty which was followed up with Jordanians forsaking their claim on the West Bank , the subsequent year . <p> By 1994 the two countries signed a formal Peace Treaty ( the second Arab nation after Egypt ) and normalised relations with Israel . Odd public bickering on issues like Al Aqsa Mosque aside , the top leadership of both countries kept meeting discretely , whilst Jordan kept maintaining the fa ? ade of support towards Palestine . Practically , they engaged and operated as allies . Post the Hamas terror attack ( 7th Oct 2023 ) on Israel and the subsequent and disproportionate bludgeoning of the Gaza Strip , the Jordanians had no choice but to expel the Israeli ambassador to maintain face in the Arab world . However , as it was only Iran and its proxies like the Syrian Bashar Al Assad government and the Lebanese Hezbollah who were offering any meaningful resistance to the Israelis -- then the Jordanians did the unthinkable in favour of the Israelis when they shot down Iranian drones attacking Israel . Practically , the Jordanians weighed in favour of the Israeli military ( all perfunctory concerns towards the beleaguered Palestinians , notwithstanding ) . <p> Jordanians watched silently as Southern Lebanon was attacked and as the Syrian regime was overrun by forces born out of Al Qaeda , ending the last possible faction that had taken on the Israelis in favour of the Palestinians . For a long , Jordanian King Abdullah had warned against the spectre of a rising " Shia Crescent " ( assertion of Shiite rule in Iran , Iraq , Syria and Lebanon ) . <p> He therefore would be presumably pleased to see the decimation of the sectarian rivals , which coincidentally also ended the last modicum of challenge to the Israelis.Beyond vacuous words , the practical conduct of the Jordanians has been suspiciously two-faced on the ostensible redlines as defined by King Abdullah i.e. , " No to abandoning the guardianship of Jerusalem and the holy sites , no to the one-state solution , and no for Jordan to be an alternative homeland for the Palestinians " . <p> The picture has perhaps never been further from the so-called Jordanian redlines , as now , the fate of Palestinians , Jerusalem , and the possibility of a two-state solution , is at its lowest . History will judge the conduct of Arab monarchies and their lip-serving commitment towards Palestine , but perhaps none as ambidextrously as the Jordanians , who often fancy themselves to be of the highest order . <p> ( The writer , a military veteran , is a former Lt Governor of Andaman &amp; Nicobar Islands and Puducherry . The views expressed are personal ) 
@@119299331 <h> The festival celebrates a miracle during the rededication of Jerusalem 's Second Temple by Jews after a rebellion against the Greeks in 200 BCE . <p> On Shabbat , the Jewish holy day from sunset on Friday to Saturday evening , the lamp is lit before sunset . <p> Jews began their eight-day-long festival of lights , called Hanukkah or Chanukah , on the evening of December 25 , with prayers for the Israelis still held hostage by Hamas in Gaza . Mumbai 's synagogues , including the Keneseth Eliyahoo in Kala Ghoda , have been decorated with lights to mark the festival . <p> Central to the celebration is the lighting of the Hanukkah menorah , a ceremonial candelabrum with eight flames , and a ninth lamp to light the other branches . <p> The festival celebrates a miracle during the rededication of Jerusalem 's Second Temple by Jews after a rebellion against the Greeks in 200 BCE . <p> When the celebrants lit the menorah , they found just enough oil to light one lamp . They lit the menorah and the oil miraculously lasted for eight days . Their religious leaders asked them to celebrate the festival annually to mark the miracle . <p> Sinora Kolatkar , secretary of the Share Roshon synagogue in Khadak , near Masjid railway station , said , " The Maccabees successfully revolted against Antiochus IV Epiphanes . According to the Talmud , the temple was purified and the wicks of the menorah miraculously burned for eight days , even though there was only enough sacred oil for one day 's lighting . We light one flame daily . This is done for eight days . " <p> On Shabbat , the Jewish holy day from sunset on Friday to Saturday evening , the lamp is lit before sunset . <p> Ezra Moses , director of the Shaar Hashamaim or Gate of Heaven Synagogue in Thane , said Hanukkah this year is special for Jews worldwide . world . " We are lighting the lamps to pray for the hostages taken to Gaza . More than 100 are still missing and we do not know how many are still alive , " said Moses . <p> The Thane synagogue is also celebrating its 145th anniversary on December 29 . Unlike the dwindling number of worshippers at most Indian synagogues , the Thane shrine has a congregation of nearly 1500 , said Moses , making it the biggest in India . <p> The festival is a period to give charity . It is also a time when families meet . Noah Ashtamkar , a Santacruz resident , joined his mother , Milkah , at the family 's Alibaug home for the festival . 
@@119299455 <h> New manufacturing golden age for India beckons : Tata Sons chief to staff <p> NEW DELHI , Dec 26 : With global supply chains continuing to shift in India 's favour as the world 's largest businesses strike a new balance between resilience and efficiency , manufacturing has the potential to transform the country 's economy , Tata Sons Chairman N Chandrasekaran said on Thursday . <p> In his New Year message to employees of the salt-to-software conglomerate , Chandrasekaran termed it as " a new manufacturing golden age for India " and said he was looking ahead to 2025 " with a sense of hope and optimism " after 2024 , a year marked by the loss of Tata Group Chairman Emeritus Ratan Tata . <p> " While AI-led breakthroughs in healthcare and mobility can help the whole of humanity , manufacturing has the potential to transform our economy in India , " he wrote . <p> Elaborating , he said , " Global supply chains continue to shift in India 's favour as the world 's largest businesses strike a new balance between resilience and efficiency . What might have seemed like a short-term reaction to the pandemic has proved much more enduring . " <p> Reiterating Tata Group 's plans to create 5 lakh manufacturing jobs over the next half decade , he said these will come in part from investments in facilities across India 's " factories and projects that will produce batteries , semiconductors , electric vehicles , solar equipment and other critical hardware destined to play a central role in the economy of tomorrow " . <p> He said ground-breaking ceremonies and construction began at over seven new manufacturing plants , including India 's first semiconductor fab in Dholera , Gujarat , and a brand new semiconductor OSAT plant in Assam . <p> " There is the electronics assembly plant in Narasapura , Karnataka , an automotive plant in Panapakkam , Tamil Nadu , and new MRO facilities in Bengaluru , Karnataka , " Chandrasekaran said . <p> He further said , " We also have new battery cell manufacturing factories in Sanand , Gujarat , and in Somerset , UK . We inaugurated the C295 final assembly line ( FAL ) in Vadodara , Gujarat , and began solar module production in Tirunelveli , Tamil Nadu . " <p> The five lakh new jobs will be " in addition to the many services jobs we expect to introduce across retail , tech services , airlines , and hospitality , among other sectors " . <p> " Such moves are exciting for our group and for India , but more importantly , they give hope to the one million young people who enter our workforce each month . Thankfully , manufacturing has powerful multiplier effects ; indirect employment opportunities from sectors such as semiconductor manufacturing are substantial , " Chandrasekaran noted . <p> " It is with a sense of hope and optimism that I look ahead to 2025 . India 's economy is strong and the great trends of the age are in our favour , " he said . <p> He further said , " In this new technological age , and this new era of Indian manufacturing , our enormous pool of young talent will not only contribute to our nation 's future , they will build it , literally , with their hands and with their minds . " <p> Reflecting on 2024 , he said it was an " unpredictable year " that was defined globally by geopolitical instability and a slight brightening of the macro-economic outlook . <p> " Military conflicts in Ukraine , Gaza , and Sudan raged on , exacerbating humanitarian crises in Europe , the Middle East , and Africa . We also witnessed citizen-led movements in Bangladesh and South Korea , " he noted . <p> As the year draws to a close , Chandrasekaran said , " Political changes and disruptions continue to shape domestic and foreign policy , especially with regards to immigration , technology and global trade . Tariffs are once again at the forefront of leaders ' minds . " <p> He further wrote , " But aside from these momentous global events and trends , 2024 will always hold a deeper and more personal resonance for me and for everyone associated with our Group . This was the year we lost Mr Ratan Tata -- a man whose personality , integrity and strategic vision shaped our business for a generation . " <p> In an emotional note , he said , " Though it is difficult to begin a new year without Mr Tata , there is comfort in knowing that the business he devoted his life to continues to thrive . Big strategic bets , made with his encouragement , are bearing fruit , particularly in hi-tech industries and manufacturing where our footprint continues to expand . " <p> In his note , Chandrasekaran said there has been " a science and technology role reversal " . <p> " Let 's begin with AI and technology . A fundamental reversal is taking place . Historically , scientific progress has predominantly fueled technological progress . Consider how breakthroughs in quantum mechanics led to the digital age , " the Tata Sons Chairman said . <p> Today , however , the opposite is happening : advancements in technology are leading to scientific discoveries . <p> " This year the Nobel Prize for chemistry went to developers of an AI model that predicts protein structures -- a glimpse of how computational tools will revolutionise drug discovery , " he said , adding that previously , determining the 3D structure of a single protein typically took a year or more . Now AI tools can predict these shapes with remarkable accuracy in minutes . <p> " AI can transform healthcare in other profound ways , not only enhancing how we understand and treat diseases but also how we diagnose them . Machine learning is being used more in environmental research , while large language models hold the potential to significantly expand access to clinical care , " the Tata Sons Chairman said . <p> He further said , " We will continue to see significant acceleration in the use of AI in fields like healthcare and mobility . " ( PTI ) 
@@119299490 <h> The group currently employs over one million people , with Tata Consultancy Services ( TCS ) accounting for 60% of the total workforce . Tata Steel comes in a distant second with a headcount of 78,321 . <p> Tata Group Chairman N Chandrasekaran is looking forward to 2025 with hope and optimism . In his New Year message to employees , Chandrasekaran said the conglomerate plans to add another half-million jobs in the next five years . The group currently employs over one million people , with Tata Consultancy Services ( TCS ) accounting for 60% of the total workforce . Tata Steel comes in a distant second with a headcount of 78,321 . <p> These jobs will be spread across key sectors such as semiconductors , electric vehicles , solar equipment , and other critical hardware industries , said Chandrasekaran . He also touched on the year 's geopolitical upheavals , including ongoing conflicts in Ukraine , Gaza , and Sudan , and the growing focus on resilience over efficiency in global supply chains . <p> Tata Group Cos with the highest headcount <p> Company <p> Number of employees <p> TCS <p> 6,01,546 <p> Tata Steel <p> 78,321 <p> Trent <p> 25,277 <p> Tata Motors <p> 20,576 <p> Tata Elxsi <p> 12,969 <p> He further added that our retail companies continue to scale up and Indian hotels ' TAJ brand continues to be the world 's strongest hotel brand . Not surprisingly , the stock of Trent and Indian Hotels has rallied the most among group companies . Shares of Trent have rallied as much as 131% in 2024 , while those of Indian Hotels have almost doubled to ? 868.30 during the same period . <p> Additionally , the group also anticipates generating numerous jobs in sectors like retail , technology services , aviation , and hospitality . " I am particularly excited by two areas where economic opportunity and social progress converge : AI and manufacturing , " said Chandrasekaran . <p> The group recently began construction activities at over seven new manufacturing facilities , including India 's first semiconductor fab in Dholera , Gujarat and a brand new semiconductor OSAT plant in Assam . Other facilities that were launched in the recent past include an electronic assembly plant in Karnataka , an automotive plant in Tamil Nadu and new MRO facilities in Karnataka , and among others . <p> The combined revenue of the group companies surpassed $165 billion in FY24 , with net profit crossing the $10 billion mark . There are 26 companies listed on the bourses with a combined market capitalisation of $373 billion as of December 26 , 2024 . The group 's market capitalisation has increased by 12.4% in 2024 against 9.3% gains yielded by the benchmark Nifty50 during the same period . <p> The group chairman also paid a heartfelt tribute to Ratan Tata , whose passing earlier this year left an irreplaceable void within the Group and by and large , India Inc . " Our Group has lost an irreplaceable role model and leader . And I have lost a cherished mentor and friend , " Chandra wrote . 
@@119299524 <p> Women walk past Saudi-led coalition backed forces , leading the campaign to take over Hodeida , as they patrol Mocha , a port city on the Red Sea coast of Yemen Photo : AP/Nariman El-Mofty <p> Women walk past Saudi-led coalition backed forces , leading the campaign to take over Hodeida , as they patrol Mocha , a port city on the Red Sea coast of Yemen Photo : AP/Nariman El-Mofty <p> In ancient times Yemen was known as Arabia Felix , Latin for " happy " or " fortunate " , due to its high mountains that attracted rain , making it more fertile than much of the Arabian Peninsula . Today , Yemen is neither happy nor fortunate . After nine years of war , the West Asian country has become the site of grievous civilian suffering amid an unending civil war . <p> The Yemen civil war is largely seen as a proxy war between rivals Iran and Saudi Arabia , both vying to maintain or tip the regional balance of power in their favour . On one side are the Iran-backed Houthi rebels , who ousted the Yemeni government . Opposing them is a Saudi Arabia-led multinational coalition backed by the United States . The involvement of other actors , including UAE-backed separatists , has complicated the picture . <p> According to the UN Development Program , the war has caused over 370,000 deaths , with indirect factors such as food , water , and health service shortages responsible for nearly 60 percent of these fatalities . Torture , arbitrary arrests , and forced disappearances are among the other alleged war crimes perpetrated by all sides of the conflict . <h> Beauty In The Broken Land <p> " Nothing can be imagined more beautiful than the scenery of the mountains of the Yemen . Torn into all manner of fantastic peaks , the rocky crags add a wildness to a view that otherwise possesses the most peaceful charms . " <p> These words , by Walter B. Harris , a journalist and traveler who visited Yemen in 1892 , were recorded in his book A Journey Through The Yemen . For all its remoteness , Yemen is renowned for its great physical beauty . Its highlands , unlike any other part of the Arabian Peninsula , are verdant and photogenic . <p> In this July 30 , 2018 photo , a boy takes a ' selfie ' with the Marib Dam in Yemen Photo : AP/Nariman El-Mofty <p> In this July 30 , 2018 photo , a boy takes a ' selfie ' with the Marib Dam in Yemen Photo : AP/Nariman El-Mofty <p> Despite its ancient history as a crossroads of Africa and Asia , the Republic of Yemen is relatively young . The modern state was established in 1990 through the unification of the U.S.- and Saudi-backed Yemeni Arab Republic in the north and the Soviet-backed People 's Democratic Republic of Yemen in the south . Ali Abdullah Saleh , who had led North Yemen since 1978 , became the leader of the unified country . <p> Situated on the southwestern edge of the Arabian Peninsula , Yemen shares borders with Saudi Arabia to the north and Oman to the northeast , and has the Red Sea to the west and the Gulf of Aden and Arabian Sea to the south . Its population , largely Muslim , numbers 32.6 million , with 80 percent living below the poverty line . Despite the conflict , Yemen hosts more than 97,000 refugees and asylum seekers , primarily from Somalia and Ethiopia , making it the world 's third-largest host of Somali refugees . <h> Yemeni Civil War <p> Yemen has faced civil wars for decades , but the current conflict has its origins in the Arab Spring of 2011 . Pro-democracy protesters took to the streets in a bid to force the president , Ali Abdullah Saleh , to end his 33-year rule . He responded with economic concessions but refused to step down . By March 2011 , tensions on the streets of the capital city , Sana'a , resulted in protesters dying at the hands of the military . <p> An internationally brokered deal in November 2011 saw power transferred to Vice President Abd Rabbu Mansour Hadi , paving the way for elections in February 2012 -- in which he was the only candidate . The transition was not smooth . Hadi 's attempts at constitutional and budget reforms were rejected by Houthi rebels from the north . <p> Moreover , most of Yemen 's armed forces remained loyal to the ousted president rather than to Hadi . Fighting broke out in 2014 when the Houthi Shia Muslim rebel movement took advantage of Hadi 's weakness and seized control of northern Saada province and surrounding areas . The Houthis continued to advance , captured the capital , Sana'a , and forced Hadi into exile . <p> Yemen 's neighbour , Saudi Arabia , was alarmed by the prospect of the Houthis taking control of Yemen , fearing it would become a satellite of its rival , Iran . Saudi Arabia claims that Iran supports the Houthis with weapons and logistical assistance , a charge that Tehran denies . The conflict escalated dramatically in March 2015 , when Saudi Arabia , along with eight mostly Sunni Arab states -- backed by the US , UK , and France -- launched airstrikes against the Houthis , with the declared aim of restoring Hadi 's government . <h> Key Players In The Conflict <p> The intervention of regional powers in Yemen 's conflict , including Iran and Gulf states led by Saudi Arabia , has drawn the country into a regional proxy struggle along the Sunni-Shia divide . All parties to the war have their own agendas , making the conflict hard to resolve . Here are some of these groups : <p> Houthis <p> The Houthis , or Ansar Allah ( Supporters of God ) , are a local rebel group that controls a third of Yemen 's territory and two-thirds of its population . The Houthis are a militia of Zaidi Shias , a sect that held power for 1,000 years until the 1960s , when a republican army overthrew the imamate . They remain a large minority in Yemen , a predominantly Sunni nation of fewer than 25 million people . As friction with the government grew , they fought a series of guerrilla wars with the national army and a brief border conflict with Saudi Arabia . <p> Domestic Opponents Of The Houthis <p> The Houthis face domestic opposition from various groups . These include southerners , who see the Houthis as northern invaders trying to dominate the South . The new Salafi movement opposes them on religious grounds , and the Islah Party , affiliated with the Muslim Brotherhood , fights the Houthis on political grounds . Other opponents include a broad range of nationalists , liberals , and others , who resist their rule by force . The opposition is thus united against the Houthis but divided against itself . <p> Al Qaeda In The Arabian Peninsula <p> Set up by members of the Yemeni and Saudi branches of al-Qaeda , Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula ( AQAP ) was formed in early 2009 . The affiliates have their origins in the late 1980s and early 1990s , when fighters who had battled the Soviet Union in Afghanistan returned home . The group took advantage of the chaos of the Arab Spring to establish mini-states in remote eastern regions and launched attacks against Hadi 's transitional government . During the civil war , it carried out attacks on both sides . <p> A boy sits in a car damaged during the ongoing three year conflict in Mocha , Yemen , Feb. 10 , 2018 Photo : AP/Nariman El-Mofty <p> A boy sits in a car damaged during the ongoing three year conflict in Mocha , Yemen , Feb. 10 , 2018 Photo : AP/Nariman El-Mofty <p> Saudi Arabia , UAE And West Backed Coalition <p> Saudi Arabia views the Houthis as a proxy for Iran , its main regional rival , and seeks to prevent Tehran from gaining influence in Yemen . Saudi troops have been deployed along the border and in some Yemeni provinces but have largely relied on airstrikes against Houthi-held areas . The UAE , which is the member of the Saudi-led coalition , exerts influence by arming and training tens of thousands of Yemenis , mostly from the southern provinces . The United States , United Kingdom , France , and other Western countries have actively supported the coalition with weapons , logistics , and intelligence throughout the war until late 2020 . <p> Iran And Its Regional Allies <p> In Yemen 's devastating war , Iran and its regional proxies have supported the Houthi rebels . Most experts believe that the Houthis began receiving weapons from Iran by 2014 , the year they captured Sana'a . In return for Iran 's support , the Houthis have become an increasingly important part of Iran 's " axis of resistance , " a network of state and nonstate actors seeking to undermine Western influence in the Middle East . Unlike groups including Lebanon 's Hezbollah and Iraq 's Badr Organisation , which are Iran 's proxies , the Houthis were not founded with Iran 's help . The extent of the relationship between Houthis and Iran is disputed . Some view the group as Iran 's proxy , while others say that it is an autonomous actor . <h> Ceasefire : A Pause Or Turning Point ? <p> In April 2022 , the United Nations facilitated a cease-fire between Houthi rebels and the Yemeni government along with its Gulf allies . Although this six-month UN-mediated truce expired in October 2022 , both sides have avoided major escalations , and hostility levels have remained low . Improved Saudi-Iran relations and ongoing talks between Riyadh and the Houthis have raised hopes for peace . <p> Saudi Arabia 's ambassador to Yemen , Mohammed Al-Jaber , visited Sanaa in April 2023 and met with Houthi leaders to discuss a potential peace agreement . In September 2023 , a Houthi delegation also visited Riyadh . Both meetings concluded with optimism but no definitive agreements . <p> The ongoing Israel 's war on Gaza has put the de facto truce in Yemen at risk . In what the Houthis call a show of support for Hamas and Palestinians , the group has attacked supposed U.S.- and Israel-linked targets in the Red Sea and even fired missiles at Israel to which Israel has retaliated . <p> The truce is not an end to the war in itself . It is just a pause . It could lead to a permanent ceasefire , requiring concessions from the Houthis and sustained diplomatic efforts from Saudi Arabia , the UAE , and Iran . Failure to use this pause effectively can lead to a new chapter of war . Ultimately , the story of Yemen leaves question marks over its long and uncertain road to peace . 
@@119299540 <p> As the war in Gaza rages on and the harsh winter sets in , babies have started to die due to hypothermia as Israel continues its blockade on humanitarian aid . <p> Furthermore , fresh Israeli strikes on the Nuseirat refugee camp have killed at least five journalists . <p> Meanwhile , Israel has summoned the Vatican envoy after Pope Francis ' Christmas remarks on the ongoing war in Gaza , causing upset in Tel Aviv . <h> West Asia Tensions Latest Developments <p> War On Gaza <p> As per reports , doctors have said three Palestinian babies have died of hypothermia in a displacement camp in southern Gaza . These deaths come as temperatures continue to drop in Gaza and Israel continues to block aid into the war-torn strip . <p> Meanwhile , fresh air strikes at the Nuseirat refugee camp have killed five journalists . With this killing , as per Gaza 's Government Media Office , the number of journalists killed in the Gaza war has increased to 201 . <p> " We hold the ' Israeli ' occupation , the American administration , and the countries participating in the crime of genocide , such as the United Kingdom , Germany , and France fully responsible for committing this heinous and brutal crime , " it said in an official statement . <p> As per reports , the vehicle of the five journalists were targeted in the strikes . The vans , which was clearly marked with the words " press " , would have kept the journalists safe from strikes . <p> Reports have further established that the van which was targeted belonged to a Palestinian satellite TV channel called al-Quds Today . <h> Israel Summons Vatican Envoy After Pope 's Christmas Remarks <p> Israel has summoned the Vatican envoy to express its displeasure over Pope Francis ' Christmas remarks . <p> Ahead of Christmas Day , Pope Francis repeatedly criticised the war in Gaza and called on Israel to halt its bombardment of the Palestinian territory . <p> " And with pain , I think of Gaza , of so much cruelty , of the children being machine-gunned , of the bombings of schools and hospitals . What cruelty , " said the Pope . <h> No Hostage Deal In Sight <p> As the war rages on and another year comes to an end , Israel has accused Hamas for foiling the hostage-ceasefire deal . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accused Hamas of walking back on its terms , further delaying the hostage-ceasefire deal . <p> " The terrorist organization Hamas is lying again , reneging on the understandings already reached , and continuing to make it difficult for the negotiations , " said the official statement from the PM 's office <p> " Nevertheless , Israel will continue tirelessly in its efforts to bring home all of our hostages , " the statement added . 
@@119299590 <h> Acknowledging the geopolitical upheavals of 2024 , including ongoing conflicts in Ukraine , Gaza , and Sudan , Chandrasekaran highlighted the global shift from efficiency to resilience in supply chains . <p> The chairman revealed Tata Group 's plans to create 500,000 new jobs in manufacturing over the next five years . <p> In his year-end message , Tata Group Chairman N Chandrasekaran delivered a powerful reflection on the events of 2024 , paying tribute to the late Ratan Tata and outlining the Group 's ambitious vision for 2025 . <p> Acknowledging the geopolitical upheavals of 2024 , including ongoing conflicts in Ukraine , Gaza , and Sudan , Chandrasekaran highlighted the global shift from efficiency to resilience in supply chains . He emphasized how these changes position India for growth , given its talent pool and manufacturing potential . <h> Related Articles <p> Chandrasekaran paid a heartfelt tribute to Ratan Tata , whose passing earlier this year left an indelible mark on the Group and India Inc . " Our Group has lost an irreplaceable role model and leader . And I have lost a cherished mentor and friend , " he wrote . Reflecting on the tributes received worldwide , he remarked , " There is n't room in this letter to capture fully what he meant to us . " <p> The chairman revealed Tata Group 's plans to create 500,000 new jobs in manufacturing over the next five years . These positions will span key sectors such as semiconductors , electric vehicles , solar equipment , and other critical hardware industries . " These will come in part from the aforementioned investments in facilities across India -- factories and projects that will produce batteries , semiconductors , electric vehicles , solar equipment and other critical hardware destined to play a central role in the economy of tomorrow , " he shared . <p> In addition to manufacturing , the Group anticipates significant job creation in retail , technology services , aviation , and hospitality . Chandrasekaran also highlighted recent strides in high-tech industries , including the opening of India 's first semiconductor fab in Gujarat , a new battery cell manufacturing plant in the UK , and other facilities . " Big strategic bets , made with his encouragement , are bearing fruit , particularly in hi-tech industries and manufacturing where our footprint continues to expand , " he noted . <p> Reflecting on technology 's transformative power , Chandrasekaran focused on the growing role of Artificial Intelligence in healthcare and mobility . " A fundamental reversal is taking place , " he stated , explaining how advancements in technology are now driving scientific discoveries , revolutionizing industries , and improving human well-being . <p> Looking ahead to 2025 , Chandrasekaran expressed optimism for India 's economic growth , driven by the expansion of manufacturing and the digital revolution . " India 's economy is strong , and the great trends of the age are in our favor , " he wrote , concluding the letter on a hopeful note . 
@@119299968 <p> A UFC veteran offers his comments on Brett Cooper 's rumored exit for her views on Israel Image courtesy : @imbrettcooper on Instagram <p> A former UFC welterweight title contender has reacted to Brett Cooper 's rumored exit from The Daily Wire . The Comments Section with Brett Cooper host was a regular show host from March 2022 to December 2024 . Her exit from the show has been connected to a social media post by American political commentator Candace Owens in which she referred to Israel 's action in Gaza as a " genocide . " <p> Taking it to X , AF Post speculated that Cooper 's removal was a reaction to her views regarding Israel after she liked Owens ' post . It also mentioned Cooper 's disagreement with Daily Wire 's executives ' support of Israel . <p> Reacting to the post , Jake Shields made an eye-opening remark to the post by quoting it and writing : <p> " This explains her being fired . " <p> Get the latest updates on One Championship Rankings at Sportskeeda and more <p> Expand Tweet <p> Trending <p> The Daily Wire was founded by Ben Shapiro and Jeremy Boreing in 2015 . Shapiro is an avowed supporter of Israel and has come under fire for his views on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> On the other hand , the former UFC fighter Shields is among those high-profile public figures who have been calling out Israel for its conduct in Palestine since the conflict between Hamas and Israel started in October 2023 . <h> When Brett Cooper questioned Kamala Harris for being supported by Diddy 's Friends <p> Kamala Harris and Donald Trump contested against each other in the 2024 U.S. Presidential elections . Besides a long list of issues , Diddy was also in the news for all the wrong reasons . <p> While commenting on the situation and making a comparison between Trump endorsers and Harris ' supporters , Cooper zeroed in on her podcast The Comments Section with Brett Cooper by saying : <p> " I mean when you have this squad TM endorsing you , when you have the war mongering Cheney family who you all hated until four years ago the entirety of Diddy 's friend group , you got ta start asking questions . " <p> Check out Brett Cooper 's comments below ( 2:21 ) : <p> Diddy has been accused of drugging , sex trafficking , and several other serious allegations and is currently in jail . As the details of the rap-mogul 's infamous parties started getting public several big names of A-list celebrities also surfaced who used to attend his infamous parties . 
@@119300014 <h> Syrian refugees find home and hope in Egypt <p> Ahmed Enaba , a master of Middle Eastern dish Shawarma and a Syrian by birth , embarked on a new chapter in Egypt in 2016 when he opened a restaurant in October City , a bustling hub near Cairo . <p> IANS New Delhi December 26 , 2024 11:17 am <p> Syrian refugees find home and hope in Egypt <p> Ahmed Enaba , a master of Middle Eastern dish Shawarma and a Syrian by birth , embarked on a new chapter in Egypt in 2016 when he opened a restaurant in October City , a bustling hub near Cairo . <p> His culinary creations , a fusion of Syrian flavours and Egyptian hospitality , quickly won over the local palate , turning his eatery into a cherished community spot . <p> Advertisement <p> " I always dream of having my own place , " said Enaba , a 32-year-old with a proud gleam in his eyes . " It 's truly a blessing to see it come to life here in Egypt . " <p> Advertisement <p> A militant alliance led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham waged a major military operation from northern Syria on November 27 . It swept southwards , captured the capital Damascus , and overthrew former Syrian President Bashar al-Assad 's government within 12 days . <p> Following the recent power shift in Syria , Enaba started to feel the pull of his hometown , Aleppo . But the middle-aged man has already cultivated a deep-rooted life in Egypt , which he holds dear . " This is my home now . I have built a life and a future here , " he said . <p> Yet , his heart remains tethered to Syria , and he envisions a day when he can contribute to its revival by opening a branch of his restaurant in Aleppo once the situation becomes more stable . <p> " I want to be part of the solution to bring jobs and hope back to my people , " he said , his voice resolute . To make that possible , Enaba plans to split his time between Egypt and Syria , nurturing his businesses and contributing to both communities at the same time . <p> " Egypt has given me so much , but I also want to give back to Syria , " he said . <p> When Enaba first set his foot on Egypt , " the gift of the Nile , " he was struck by the generosity of the Egyptian people , who offered him shelter and guidance . <p> " I was overwhelmed by their kindness , " Enaba recalled . " They made me feel like family . I found work quickly , and with the support of the local community and government services , I was able to establish my restaurant . " <p> Enaba said he cherishes the friendships he has forged with Egyptian colleagues and customers , sharing laughter and stories over plates of steaming Shawarma . " I will never forget what the Egyptian people have done for me , " he said earnestly . <p> According to the International Organisation for Migration , Egypt is home to 9 million migrants and refugees , including 1.5 million Syrians , among whom is Khaled Omar , who has been living on the other side of Greater Cairo for 10 years . <p> Omar , a Syrian tailor with a passion for design , has also carved out a successful life for himself in Egypt . His wedding dress shop , nestled in the bustling downtown area , is a haven of creativity and craftsmanship . <p> " I pour my heart into every dress , " Omar , a 38-year-old father of three , told Xinhua news agency . " Each one is a dream come true . " <p> " Cairo has been good to me . I have built a successful business and a good life here , " Omar said . <p> Still , the latest developments in Syria have rekindled his dream of returning to his beloved hometown of Damascus . <p> " Damascus is in my blood , " he said , his voice filled with yearning . " I can almost smell the scent of my mother 's cooking filling our Damascus home . " <p> He envisions walking the familiar streets , inhaling the intimate scents of spices and jasmine , embracing his family after years of separation , and contributing to the rebuilding of his war-torn city . <p> " I want to be part of its rebirth , " he said , already considering how he can contribute to Syria 's economy after he returns . " Maybe I will open a workshop in Damascus . I may share my skills and create jobs . " <p> Omar said his heart will always hold a special place for Egypt . " I will never forget the kindness I have experienced here . This is my second home , and I will always cherish it . " <p> Omar is particularly grateful for the opportunities he has been given in Egypt , where he felt welcomed and supported from the moment he arrived . He credited Egypt for allowing him to live and work freely , build a life and a career , and integrate into the society . <p> " Egypt gave me a chance to rebuild my life . I was able to live like any other Egyptian , with no restrictions , and for that , I am eternally grateful , " he said , with a touch of warmth in his voice . <h> Related posts <p> Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz said Wednesday that Israeli forces will remain in Gaza and maintain " security control " over the Palestinian territory , raising concerns that the latest round of ceasefire talks may face further deadlock . 
@@119300317 <p> Whatever your views on Narendra Modi 's politics , one of the more remarkable achievements of his prime ministership has been the way he has fostered relations with the Arab world and the Middle East in general . <p> He regularly visits Muslim countries that Indian prime ministers have generally avoided and always receives a warm welcome from his hosts . For instance , Modi 's trip to Kuwait this week was the first by an Indian PM in 43 years . He was also the first Indian prime minister to visit the UAE in 30 years . These are countries important to India , if for no other reason than the millions of Indians who live and work there . <p> There are many remarkable aspects of Modi 's travels to the Middle East . <p> First , he has managed to improve relations with these countries at a time when circumstances might seem unfavourable to such an initiative . Many of the government 's most vocal supporters in India are sharply pro-Israel . While not all Arab nations are staunchly pro-Palestinian ( or pro-Hamas ) , there is widespread revulsion throughout the Arab world over the Israeli bombing of civilians in Gaza . Moreover , India has abandoned its historical pro-Palestinian stance to make friends with Israel and buy Israeli technology such as Pegasus . Yet , this shift has not stood in the way of improvement in relations with the Arab world . <p> Second , Modi 's image as a " Hindu Hriday Samrat " and the actions of his government ( and BJP state governments ) have alienated many Indian Muslims . Some of these Muslims expected solidarity from the broader Islamic world . However , the warm receptions Modi receives make it clear that such support is not forthcoming . Middle Eastern countries regard the status of Indian Muslims as India 's internal affair . They are happy to engage with Modi and respect India 's position as an Asian power . Indian Muslims may have grievances with Modi , but Arab rulers seem to have no problems with him whatsoever . <p> As and when there is an irritant that strains ties with the Islamic world , the Modi government acts quickly to address it . While Arab nations may be indifferent to the plight of Indian Muslims , they do not tolerate insults to Islam or the Prophet . When BJP 's former national spokesperson Nupur Sharma made offensive remarks about Prophet Muhammad , Arab nations protested . The Modi government responded by promptly throwing Sharma under the bus . They told Muslim countries that she was no more than a fringe element -- even though this caused frustration and anger among many BJP supporters . <h> Why do Hindus leave India for Muslim world ? <p> Two aspects of the Modi-Arab bonhomie intrigue me . The Sangh Parivar faithful view Muslims , particularly those from the Middle East , as historical invaders who tried to damage Hindu civilisation . There are persistent narratives suggesting that millions of dollars from the Arab world fund jihad or conversions in India . <p> Yet , Modi shows no sign of subscribing to these beliefs . When he hugs Arab leaders , bizarrely enough , even the more extreme elements within the Sangh Parivar take a break from Muslim-bashing to express pride in the warm welcome Modi receives . Apparently , all it takes to silence the bigots is a " jaadu ki jhappi " . <p> Equally interesting is how BJP supporters perceive Indians living in the Arab world . We keep hearing that Muslims oppress Hindus and that Hindus are victims of Islamic fundamentalism . And yet , more and more Hindus keep leaving India to live in Muslim-majority countries . Millions of Indians already live in the Middle East and it 's not just poor labourers . Each week , more Indian millionaires pack their suitcases and leave their country to make new homes in Dubai and the rest of the Middle East . <p> In many West Asian countries , there is now a sizable Hindu minority . And yet there is no evidence of persecution . Hindus in these countries continue to live happily and are in no hurry to return to India to escape any alleged persecution . <p> Here 's my question : if so many Hindus live happily and peacefully in Muslim countries , where does the notion of Hindu victimhood come from ? And if BJP supporters believe Hindus in the Middle East are unhappy but forced to stay there due to economic necessity , why does PM Modi not discuss their plight when he is cheerfully hugging Arab leaders ? <p> The short answer is that no compelling narrative of Hindu victimhood exists in the Arab world . That 's why Modi does n't bring it up . And that is why he 's so eager to win friends in the Muslim world . <h> Easier to claim victimhood than to admit truth <p> The current notion of Hindu victimhood is largely a 1980s creation , exploited for electoral purposes by LK Advani and passed down , in some garbled form , to the rabble . In some strange , twisted way , the victimhood theory held a limited credibility in the Congress-dominated 1980s , when the government 's willingness to pander to the most regressive elements within the Muslim community and the tendency of leaders like VP Singh to seek fatwas in their favour from dodgy Imams angered Hindus . That 's when Advani was able to propound his " Hindus are second-class citizens in their own country " narrative . <p> But now ? How can anyone argue that Hindus -- many of whom voluntarily migrate to Muslim-majority countries -- are victims in India , where they constitute 85 per cent of the population ? After 10 years of Modi rule , can anyone seriously claim the government panders to regressive elements within the Muslim community ? Or that Muslims are pampered ? <p> Yet , claims of Hinduphobia continue to be made . Even as Muslim homes are bulldozed in BJP-ruled states , we are told that Hindus are the real victims . Incredibly enough , there are people who still swallow this stuff . <p> Or do they ? I am coming around to the view that even Hindutva leaders who complain about Hinduphobia and the oppressed status of Hindus in their own country , do n't really believe their rhetoric . They find it easier to say " I speak for oppressed Hindus " than to admit the truth : that they hate Muslims because of some visceral , primeval prejudice -- not for any logical reason . <p> Perhaps it is time for Modi 's followers to learn from their leader . He may have risen to power on a Hindu wave , but he does not let rhetoric or bogus narratives stop him from getting on with the job of making friends with the Muslim world . Modi knows that Hindus in these countries are not an oppressed minority . <p> Just as he knows that Hindus in India are a dominant , triumphant majority -- the very opposite of an oppressed community . <p> Vir Sanghvi is a print and television journalist , and talk show host . He tweets @virsanghvi . Views are personal . 
@@119300592 <h> The message holds a deep message for Ratan Tata and his valuable contribution to the emergence of the Tata Group . <p> Tata Sons Chairman N. Chandrasekaran on Thursday said that India 's economy is strong and that the great trends of change are in India 's favour . In his New Year 2025 message to Tata Group employees , Chandrasekaran said the group plans to create 5 lakh jobs in manufacturing in the next 5 years . <p> Remembering 2024 as the year ' we lost Ratan Tata ' Chandrasekaran said that the years ahead will mark a new era of Indian manufacturing . <h> N. Chandrasekaran 's Message to Employees - Full Text <p> Dear Colleagues , <p> We reach the end of another unpredictable year . Globally , 2024 was defined by geopolitical instability and a slight brightening of the macro-economic outlook . Military conflicts in Ukraine , Gaza and Sudan raged on , exacerbating humanitarian crises in Europe , the Middle East and Africa . We also witnessed citizen-led movements in Bangladesh and South Korea . <p> As the year draws to a close , political changes and disruptions continue to shape domestic and foreign policy -- especially with regards to immigration , technology and global trade . Tariffs are once again at the forefront of leaders ' minds . <p> But aside from these momentous global events and trends , 2024 will always hold a deeper and more personal resonance for me and for everyone associated with our Group . This was the year we lost Mr Ratan Tata -- a man whose personality , integrity and strategic vision shaped our business for a generation . <p> There is n't room in this letter to capture fully what he meant to us , not even amongst the many tributes we have seen across the world . So I will simply say again that our Group has lost an irreplaceable role model and leader . And I have lost a cherished mentor and friend . <p> I know many of you feel the same . <p> News from across the group <p> Though it is difficult to begin a new year without Mr. Tata , there is comfort in knowing that the business he devoted his life to continues to thrive . Big strategic bets , made with his encouragement , are bearing fruit , particularly in hi-tech industries and manufacturing where our footprint continues to expand . <p> Ground-breaking ceremonies and construction began at over seven new manufacturing plants , including India 's first semiconductor fab in Dholera , Gujarat and a brand new semiconductor OSAT plant in Assam . There is the electronics assembly plant in Narasapura , Karnataka , an automotive plant in Panapakkam , Tamil Nadu and new MRO facilities in Bengaluru , Karnataka . We also have new battery cell manufacturing factories in Sanand , Gujarat , and in Somerset , UK . We inaugurated the C295 final assembly line ( FAL ) in Vadodara , Gujarat , and began solar module production in Tirunelveli , Tamil Nadu . <p> TCS and Tejas Networks delivered our first indigenous 4G mobile telecom stack for BSNL , and stand poised for 5G . Our retail companies continue to scale up . Air India has brought together four airlines to create one integrated airline group to serve India and the world . And Indian Hotels ' Taj brand continues to be the world 's strongest hotel brand . <p> Sustainability remains a focus of our growth plans . In Bhutan , we began our hydroelectric power initiative , with a commitment to developing five GW renewable capacity . With the UK government we announced ? 1.25 billion of investment in the transition to high-quality , low-CO2 steel production in South Wales . <p> I 'm thrilled that our companies are beginning to make the most of data , digital and AI . For example , Tata Motors recently revealed a model to predict real-world range of EVs , using data from connected vehicles along with traffic , road infrastructure and user driving patterns . <p> While we are making good progress , global uncertainty and rapid change require us to stay focused on delivering world class performance with strong emphasis on execution , customer satisfaction , technology and safety . <p> At the Tata Group , we believe progress holds little value if it does n't enhance human wellbeing . I 'm particularly excited by two areas where economic opportunity and social progress converge : AI and manufacturing . <p> A science and technology role reversal <p> Let 's begin with AI and technology . A fundamental reversal is taking place . Historically , scientific progress has predominantly fueled technological progress . Consider how breakthroughs in quantum mechanics led to the digital age . Today , however , the opposite is happening : advancements in technology are leading to scientific discoveries . This year the Nobel Prize for chemistry went to developers of an AI model that predicts protein structures -- a glimpse of how computational tools will revolutionize drug discovery . Previously , determining the 3D structure of a single protein typically took a year or more . Now AI tools can predict these shapes with remarkable accuracy in minutes . <p> AI can transform healthcare in other profound ways , not only enhancing how we understand and treat diseases but also how we diagnose them . Machine learning is being used more in environmental research , while large language models hold the potential to significantly expand access to clinical care . <p> We will continue to see significant acceleration in the use of AI in fields like healthcare and mobility . <p> A new manufacturing golden age for India <p> While AI-led breakthroughs in healthcare and mobility can help the whole of humanity , manufacturing has the potential to transform our economy in India . Global supply chains continue to shift in India 's favour as the world 's largest businesses strike a new balance between resilience and efficiency . What might have seemed like a short-term reaction to the pandemic has proved much more enduring . Amid relentless geopolitical instability , the equation has tilted firmly toward resilience -- and India , with our vast talent pool and growing manufacturing capacity , is poised to benefit . <p> Our Group plans to create 500,000 manufacturing jobs over the next half decade . These will come in part from the aforementioned investments in facilities across India -- factories and projects that will produce batteries , semiconductors , electric vehicles , solar equipment and other critical hardware destined to play a central role in the economy of tomorrow . This is in addition to the many services jobs we expect to introduce across retail , tech services , airlines , and hospitality , among other sectors . <p> Such moves are exciting for our Group and for India , but more importantly , they give hope to the one million young people who enter our workforce each month . Thankfully , manufacturing has powerful multiplier effects ; indirect employment opportunities from sectors such as semiconductor manufacturing are substantial . <p> So , after a year marked by loss , it is with a sense of hope and optimism that I look ahead to 2025 . India 's economy is strong and the great trends of the age are in our favour . In this new technological age , and this new era of Indian manufacturing , our enormous pool of young talent will not only contribute to our nation 's future -- they will build it , literally , with their hands and with their minds . 
@@119300620 <h> Israel 's retaliation comes after a week of continued missile launches by the Houthis against Israel . <p> New Delhi , India : The Israeli military carried out strikes on Sana'a International Airport in Yemen 's capital on Thursday , according to reports . <p> The IDF also struck the Hodeidah seaport in western Yemen . <p> Israel 's retaliation comes after a week of continued missile launches by the Houthis against Israel , which also included a recent hypersonic ballistic strike on Tel Aviv . <p> The Houthis have time and again launched missiles targetting Israel since the beginning of the war in Gaza , in solidarity with the Palestinians . <p> Israel Preparing For Major Military Strike In Yemen : Reports <p> Israel is reportedly gearing up for a " major " military strike inside Yemen to target Houthis , in response to the ongoing missile and drone attacks , Israeli newspaper Yedioth Ahronoth reported on Thursday . <p> The reports emerged shortly before the information of an Israeli military strike on Sana'a airport came to the fore . <p> Yedioth Ahronoth reported that the Israeli government , in collaboration with the United States , may be weighing the option of escalating military actions following the inauguration of US President-elect Donald Trump in January 2025 . <p> A source informed the newspaper that discussions with American officials have included " the possibility of launching a significant operation on Yemeni soil , " emphasising " the strong coordination between the two sides , with Washington recognising the need to intensify these attacks . " 
@@119311627 <h> Share : <p> Five journalists have been killed in an Israeli strike in the vicinity of a hospital in central Gaza . The journalists from the Al-Quds Today channel were covering events near al-Awda Hospital , located in the Nuseirat refugee camp , when their broadcasting van was hit by an Israeli air strike . <p> Five media workers lost their lives in an Israeli airstrike that targeted a bus for the press in front of Al-Awda Hospital in Nuseirat in the central Gaza Strip , they are:Fadi HassounaIbrahim Al-Sheikh AliMohammed Al-LadahFaisal Abu Al-QumsanAyman Al-Jadi **26;1787;TOOLONG <p> Footage from the scene circulating on social media shows a vehicle engulfed in flames . <p> The first moment a clearly marked press vehicle in central Gaza was targeted by Israeli forces , killing five Palestinian journalists from Al-Quds Today television channel while they were asleep inside . **26;1815;TOOLONG <p> Civil defense teams managed to retrieve the victims and extinguish a fire that broke out after the Israeli warplanes bombed a press vehicle belonging to Al-Quds Today channel in front of Al-Awda Hospital in the central Gaza Strip , killing five journalists . **26;1843;TOOLONG <p> A screenshot taken from a video of the white-coloured van shows the word " press " in large red lettering across the back of the vehicle . <p> The deceased journalists have been named as Fadi Hassouna , Ibrahim al-Sheikh Ali , Mohammed al-Ladah , Faisal Abu al-Qumsan and Ayman al-Jadi . <p> Al Jazeera 's Anas al-Sharif said that Ayman al-Jadi had been waiting for his wife in front of the hospital while she was in labour to give birth to their first child . <p> Watch : Colleagues , relatives , and friends of the five journalists killed in an Israeli strike on their clearly marked press vehicle perform the funeral prayer before their burial in the central Gaza Strip . **26;1871;TOOLONG <p> Breaking : Five journalists lost their lives after their vehicle was incinerated in an Israeli airstrike targeting the broadcasting van of " Al-Quds Today " channel while covering events near Al-Awda Hospital in the Nuseirat refugee camp , central Gaza Strip . **26;1899;TOOLONG <p> Civil defence teams retrieved the bodies of the victims and extinguished a fire at the scene , the Quds News Network said . <p> Israel 's military said it had carried out a " targeted " attack against a vehicle carrying members of Islamic Jihad and that it would continue to take action against " terrorist organizations " in Gaza . <p> " Prior to the attack , many steps were taken to reduce the chance of harming civilians , including the use of precision weapons , aerial observations , and additional intelligence information , " the military said in a post on X. <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> According to Gaza health authorities 201 Palestinian journalists have been killed in Israeli attacks since the start of the ongoing genocide in Gaza . <p> The most recent attack occurred earlier this morning when five journalists were killed in an Israeli strike on their vehicle in the central Nuseirat refugee camp . One of them was awaiting the birth of his child . <p> Israel 's genocidal war on Gaza has been considered the deadliest for journalists and media workers in the world in 30 years , according to media freedom organisations . <p> The Committee to Protect Journalists ( CPJ ) earlier this month condemned Israel 's killing of four Palestinian journalists in the space of a week , calling on the international community to hold the country accountable for its attacks against the media . <p> At least 141 journalists have been killed in Israel 's war in Gaza since October 7 , 2023 , according to the CPJ . <p> At least three Palestinian infants have frozen to death in Gaza in recent days amid winter temperatures and inadequate shelter due to Israel 's 446-day U.S.-backed assault and blockade of the besieged coastal ... <p> Western Leaders Watch the Israeli Massacres as Spectators President Biden and Secretary Blinken knew and witnessed the ferocious and tragic abnormality of Israeli planned killing of civilians and genocide in Gaza ... <p> There is so much conflict around the world accompanied by brutal killings and destruction . Often these conflicts are simplistically dismissed as religious rivalries , competing ethnic claims , caste-based oppression and racism , Some ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119311628 <h> North Gaza remains under a near-total siege:UNOCHA <h> Share : <p> North Gaza remains under a near-total siege . Since 1 December , Israeli authorities have denied 48 of 52 UN attempts to coordinate humanitarian access , while four approved movements all faced impediments . <p> Attacks near or on Al Awda and Kamal Adwan hospitals in North Gaza have continued to be reported , amid an urgent need for food and water provision . <p> Some 1.7 million people in central and southern Gaza face shortages of flour and other supplies , exorbitant costs , and scant opportunities to resume even small-scale farming . <p> Only three ventilators for infants who need intensive care remain available in Gaza city , warns UNICEF , while doctors tell UNRWA that premature babies and patients with treatable illnesses are dying amid depleted medical supplies and lack of life-saving equipment . <p> Humanitarian Developments <p> Israeli bombardment from the air , land and sea continues to be reported across the Gaza Strip , resulting in further civilian casualties , displacement , and destruction of civilian infrastructure . In the North Gaza governorate , the Israeli military has been carrying out a ground offensive since 6 October 2024 , with fighting reported between Israeli forces and Palestinian armed groups . Israeli forces have continued to impose a tightened siege on Beit Lahiya , Beit Hanoun and parts of Jabalya and humanitarian assistance has been largely denied for more than 11 weeks ( see data below ) . Rocket fire by Palestinian armed groups towards Israel was reported . <p> On his first visit to the Middle East as Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator , Tom Fletcher highlighted the humanitarian needs throughout the Gaza Strip and the challenges facing humanitarian workers who are committed to stay and deliver against mounting odds : " It has become almost impossible to deliver even a fraction of the aid that is so urgently required , " he said in a statement . " The Israeli authorities continue to deny us meaningful access -- over 100 requests to access North Gaza denied since 6 October . We are also now seeing the breakdown of law and order and the systematic armed looting of our supplies by local gangs . " <p> Between the afternoons of 17 and 24 December , according to the Ministry of Health ( MoH ) in Gaza , 279 Palestinians were killed and 723 were injured . Between 7 October 2023 and 24 December 2024 , at least 45,338 Palestinians were killed and 107,764 were injured , according to MoH in Gaza . <p> Between the afternoons of 17 and 24 December , three Israeli soldiers were killed in Gaza , according to the Israeli military . Between 7 October 2023 and 24 December 2024 , according to the Israeli military and official Israeli sources cited in the media , more than 1,589 Israelis and foreign nationals were killed , the majority on 7 October 2023 and its immediate aftermath . The figure includes 389 soldiers killed in Gaza or along the border in Israel since the beginning of the ground operation . In addition , 2,494 Israeli soldiers were reported injured since the beginning of the ground operation . As of 24 December , it is estimated that 100 Israelis and foreign nationals remain captive in Gaza , including hostages who have been declared dead and whose bodies are withheld in Gaza . <p> Following are accounts of some of the deadliest incidents reported between 17 and 23 December : <p> On 17 December , at approximately 0:15 , ten Palestinians , including children and women , were reportedly killed and others injured when a house sheltering internally displaced persons ( IDPs ) , was hit in Ad Daraj neighbourhood in central Gaza city . <p> On 17 December , at about 19:00 , eight Palestinians were reportedly killed and others injured when a house sheltering IDPs was hit in front of the western gate of Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya , in North Gaza . <p> On 18 December , at approximately 20:00 , eight Palestinians including three children were reportedly killed and others injured when a house was hit in Jabalya Al Balad , in North Gaza . <p> On 19 December , at about 15:00 , 13 Palestinians , including women and children , were reportedly killed and at least 30 others were injured when a school , designated as an IDP shelter , was hit in At Tuffah neighbourhood , in Gaza city . <p> On 19 December , at approximately 12:30 , ten Palestinians were reportedly killed and others , including children , injured when a group of people was hit in Ash Shati ' ( Beach ) Refugee Camp in Gaza city . <p> On 20 December , at about 16:00 , eight Palestinians from a single family , including four children and one woman , were reportedly killed and others injured when two floors of a building were hit in An Nuseirat refugee camp , in Deir al Balah . <p> On 20 December , at approximately 18:00 , ten Palestinians , including seven children and one woman , were reportedly killed and others injured when a house was hit in Jabalya An Nazlah in North Gaza . <p> On 21 December , at about 22:10 , 12 Palestinians , were reportedly killed and others injured when a house was hit in eastern Deir al Balah . <p> On 23 December , over 50 people were reportedly killed and others injured , and 20 housing units were reportedly destroyed , when Israeli forces raided the new camp in An Nuseirat refugee camp in Deir al Balah , in an operation that involved the use of an aircraft , according to the Government Media Office ( GMO ) . <p> Between 18 and 23 December , the Israeli military issued two evacuation orders for areas of Deir al Balah and Gaza city . In both cases , several evacuation orders had already been issued for the designated areas . The first order covered approximately 1.2 square kilometres in Al Bureij and Al Bureij refugee camp in Deir al Balah , where approximately 23,100 people were staying , including some 10,300 people sheltering at three IDP sites . While limited displacement was subsequently observed , the order has led to the suspension of services at five medical points and two water trucking points . The second order covered approximately 1 square kilometre in Ash Shuja'iyyeh and Al Turkman neighbourhoods of Gaza city , affecting locations where at least 5,000 households were staying . About 250-500 families from these areas subsequently moved westwards , particularly toward At Tuffah , Ad Daraj , and central Gaza city . Some 80.5 per cent of the Gaza Strip 's territory is under active evacuation orders , excluding orders that were rescinded . On 22 December , approximately 350 people were reportedly displaced after the Israeli military dropped leaflets ordering people in Beit Hanoun to move southward . Most of the displaced were reportedly women and children , as men were said to be separated from their families at an Israeli checkpoint . <p> The situation at Kamal Adwan , Indonesian and Al Awda hospitals in North Gaza has drastically deteriorated since 21 December , reports the Health Cluster . On 24 December , the Israeli military reportedly entered the Indonesian Hospital , ordering patients , caregivers and staff to evacuate to Gaza city . As of the morning hours , all patients and their companions have fled , with only a doctor and an engineer remaining , according to the Health Cluster . Also on 24 December , military tanks reportedly attacked the third floor of the eastern wing of the Al Awda Hospital , causing panic among the 31 patients , their companions and the 65 medical and administrative personnel inside . In previous days , Al Awda had already sustained significant damage due to multiple airstrikes on its vicinity . Attacks near or on Kamal Adwan have also continued , as reported by the Health Cluster and the hospital 's Director , with bullets penetrating the Intensive Care Unit , where they ignited a fire , as well as the maternity ward , and the specialized surgery department , forcing staff to relocate patients to the corridors . On the evening of 22 December , the hospital 's Director reported that Kamal Adwan had been ordered to evacuate , just hours after a mission led by the World Health Organization ( WHO ) had managed to reach the hospital , amid explosions around the facility , delivering 5,000 litres of fuel and 100 blood units and transferring eight critical patients and their 13 companions to Al Shifa Hospital in Gaza city . " Reports of bombardment near Kamal Adwan Hospital and an order to evacuate the hospital are deeply worrisome , " stressed the WHO Director-General , Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , appealing for an immediate ceasefire near the facility and the protection of patients and health workers . According to information available to the Health Cluster as of the morning of 24 December , about 400 IDPs and 91 patients , including children and the elderly , remain at Kamal Adwan , amid an urgent need to supply food and water . Reporting further attacks in close proximity to the hospital on 23 and 24 December , which injured 20 people in the facility , including five medical staff , the Director reiterated his appeal for the urgent establishment of a safe corridor to allow necessary supplies and aid to enter . Overall , since mid-October , WHO has attempted to conduct 18 missions to the Kamal Adwan Hospital , eight of which were denied and 10 proceeded with impediments . <p> Food security continues to deteriorate in central and southern Gaza . A new assessment conducted by the Food Security Cluster ( FSS ) in the first half of December shows that , for the third consecutive month , bread and pulses continue to dominate households ' diets , while fruits , vegetables , meat and dairy products remain nearly absent , with 90 per cent of families experiencing a further reduction in access to food compared with November . Persistent looting targeting trucks with supplies collected from Kerem Shalom crossing continue to severely jeopardize the ability of FSS partners to deliver sufficient aid , forcing them to reduce monthly food rations -- now barely sufficing for ten days -- and adjust the content of cooked meals to reach more people . As of mid-December , 420,000 cooked meals were distributed by FSS partners daily across central and southern Gaza , but with an estimated 1.7 million people currently staying in these areas , the coverage remains insufficient . All eight bakeries supported by the World Food Programme ( WFP ) in Deir al Balah and Khan Younis remain closed due to flour shortages and concerns related to overcrowding , and the five in Rafah have been closed since May due to ongoing hostilities . While partners continue to prioritize household-level flour distribution in the three southernmost governorates , only 600,000 people ( 35 per cent of the total ) could be assisted thus far in December due to limited supplies , while hundreds of tons of food supplies are now stranded outside Gaza facing spoilage and approaching expiration dates . To help safeguard surviving livestock and support the production of fresh , nutritious food , such as meat and dairy , FSS partners distributed about 120 metric tonnes of animal feed to 2,500 households in southern and central Gaza so far in December . Resuming agricultural production , even on a small scale , remains extremely difficult since large swaths of farmland have been damaged or potentially contaminated by unexploded ordnance and recent attempts by partners to bring in seed kits , tubers , fertilizers and nylon panels for greenhouses have been reportedly denied by the Israeli authorities . <p> Most people can not afford the prohibitive costs of the few food commodities available on the local market . For example , the price of a 25-kilogramme bag of wheat flour ranges between US$160 to $190 , while Christian Aid reports that a kilogramme of sugar costs up to $135 and a single frozen chicken , which has to be cooked on the same day it is bought due to lack of refrigeration , is sold for up to $41 , 10 times its price before October 2023 . A post-distribution monitoring survey conducted by the UN Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) between 20 and 26 November among recipients of humanitarian cash assistance reveals that about 80 per cent of the households surveyed across the Gaza Strip had at least one child going without food in the three days prior to the survey . Overall , more than 96 per cent of all children aged six to 23 months and pregnant and breastfeeding women are not meeting their basic nutrient requirements , with a sharp deterioration in dietary diversity observed over the past four months , particularly in Deir al Balah and Khan Younis . The worsening energy crisis continues to further exacerbate the situation ; cooking gas remains completely unavailable in northern Gaza and is sold in limited quantities and at exorbitant prices in central and southern Gaza . The scarcity and high prices of firewood are also threatening the continued operation of kitchens and forcing more families to rely on burning waste to cook . On 20 December , UNICEF warned that many of Gaza 's children , " cold , sick and traumatized " amid utter deprivation and suffering , " are searching through rubble for scraps of plastic to burn . " <p> Amid hostilities and displacement , UNFPA estimates that 42,000 pregnant women will be exposed to acute cold and hunger during this winter season . More than half of all pregnant women are already suffering from anaemia , with miscarriages on the rise , and pre-term births and low birthweights now accounting for approximately 10 per cent of all deliveries across the Strip , up from five per cent before October 2023 . UNRWA reported that doctors have informed them that premature babies are dying daily in hospitals , due to the lack of ventilators , special milk formula and other essential equipment and supplies . In Gaza city , where newly displaced people have been arriving from the North Gaza governorate since early October , only three ventilators remain available in the Paediatric Intensive Care Unit of the Patients Friends Association Hospital -- shared between paediatric and neonatal patients , according to UNICEF . As of 16 December , one of these ventilators was occupied by a ten-year-old child immobilized by quadriplegia , after a shrapnel fragment shattered his spine during bombardment . UNICEF has reported newborns gasping for air , toddlers with sepsis , and children ripped apart by shrapnel or crushed by debris arriving daily at the facility . Those in respiratory distress face death at any moment because there are no ventilators available . <p> On 19 December , M ? decins Sans Fronti ? res ( MSF ) reported that ensuring the entry of critical medications and equipment into Gaza remains difficult , with Israel imposing strict restrictions on items deemed as having " dual use " -- goods considered usable for either civilian or military purposes -- ranging from generators , scalpels and scissors , to autoclaves and oxygen concentrators . For each of these items , " humanitarian organizations must navigate painstaking formalities , ... providing a photo , technical sheet , intended use , and the GPS location where the item will be used , " MSF said . Even when authorization is granted , items can still be blocked , explains the NGO , noting that five of its autoclaves essential to sterilize medical instruments remain stalled in Egypt . Moreover , if pallets are too damaged due to prior searches when they reach Kerem Shalom , or if a single item is rejected at the crossing , the Israeli authorities may reject the entire shipment , sending it back to Al Arish in Egypt for instance , which requires humanitarian actors to re-start the process and severely delays the delivery of critical supplies . MSF had to wait five months to receive approval for refrigerators and freezers necessary to store medical items and is yet to receive authorization to import materials for desalination units and generators . Even when supplies finally enter Gaza they risk being looted , and transporting them through heavily congested areas is difficult , " especially in Khan Younis and Rafah , where trucks can take up to four hours to travel one kilometre , " added MSF . <p> The International Medical Corps ( IMC ) highlighted that , on 22 December , 22 trucks carrying medical and hygiene supplies as part of a 70-truck convoy were looted while en route from the Kerem Shalom crossing to a UN warehouse in Khan Younis , with IMC loosing 111 out of 150 pallets of supplies meant for its two Field Hospitals in central Gaza . Commenting on the impact of the lack of medical supplies , machineries and Infection Prevention and Control equipment , UNRWA noted that , beyond dealing with a constant influx of severely injured patients , overwhelmed doctors at still partially functioning hospitals as the Nasser Medical Complex are now seeing " people dying from treatable illnesses . " UNRWA 's health facilities are contending with a complete lack of cancer treatment , dire shortages of insulin supplies , with insulin syringes already exhausted and new stocks presently awaiting in Egypt , and severe gaps in laboratory reagents and equipment ; overall , if not replenished , at least 60 items are likely to run out within a month , stressed the Agency . <p> The risk of death , injury and contracting a disease in Gaza remains high . Doctors at the Nasser Medical Complex in Khan Younis report that they have seen an increase in the ratio of people killed to injured when strikes happen , as most people are now sheltering in makeshift tents without buildings or structures to protect them and children are being injured by shrapnel over a kilometre away from the strikes , " because they have nothing but pieces of fabric around them . " At the same time , infectious diseases continue to spread due to overcrowding and dire hygiene conditions , with over 500 cases of chickenpox reported at a single site hosting 8,000 IDPs in Deir al Balah in recent weeks . While chickenpox is usually not dangerous for children , it can be life-threatening for adults , stresses UNICEF . <p> The mental health conditions in Gaza have deteriorated significantly due to continuous bombardment , forced evacuations , overcrowded shelters , malnutrition , limited health services and widespread disease . A recent survey conducted by Gaza Community Mental Health Programme ( GCMHP ) found that displaced families in Gaza are in severe psychological distress . In 2024 , the NGO 's psychological first aid ( PFA ) teams reached 24,034 people in Deir Al Balah and Khan Younis and referred 1,922 people with severe symptoms to specialized mental health services . According to the NGO , the data suggests that , on average , eight per cent of the people in central and southern Gaza require advanced mental health care , while this percentage is likely higher in the Gaza and North Gaza governorates due to worse living conditions . The NGO stresses that this is likely an under-representation as trauma symptoms typically become more apparent after a crisis is over . Severe psychological symptoms were found to be more common among women and girls , possibly due to their heightened vulnerability during displacement , having to shoulder more responsibility in evacuating children and the elderly , lack of privacy , and the type of trauma they experience , such as sexual and gender-based violence . <p> Between 1 and 23 December , out of 461 planned aid movements across the Gaza Strip requiring coordination with Israeli authorities , 34 per cent ( 159 ) were facilitated , 40 per cent ( 183 ) were denied , 16 per cent ( 75 ) were initially approved but then faced impediments , and ten per cent ( 44 ) were cancelled by the organizers due to logistical and security challenges . Depending on the case , movements facing impediments were accomplished partially or not at all . Of the coordinated movements , 117 needed to cross from southern Gaza through the Israeli military-controlled checkpoints on Al Rashid or Salah Ad Din roads to areas north of Wadi Gaza ( including both North Gaza and Gaza governorates ) ; of these , only 26 per cent ( 31 ) were facilitated , 36 per cent ( 42 ) were denied , 24 per cent ( 28 ) were initially approved but faced impediments , and 14 per cent ( 16 ) were cancelled . Aid missions to the North Gaza governorate were particularly disrupted , especially those seeking to reach Jabalya , Beit Lahiya and Beit Hanoun . Between 1 and 23 December , the UN attempted to reach besieged areas 52 times , with 48 of these attempts denied and only four missions allowed to proceed but facing impediments , as follows : <p> A mission to the Kamal Adwan Hospital on 1 December , which deployed an international Emergency Medical Team ( that has since been forced to evacuate ) and evacuated patients to Gaza city , faced long delays by the Israeli authorities . A second mission to Kamal Adwan on 22 December delivered fuel and blood units to the facility but Israeli forces detained one of the patients set to be taken to Gaza city and closed the checkpoint leading to the south , forcing the convoy to stay overnight north of Wadi Gaza . <p> On 11 December , the Israeli authorities allowed a UN team led by the Deputy Humanitarian Coordinator to visit two health facilities in North Gaza , but prevented it from reaching areas of Jabaliya and Beit Lahiya where communities remain . <p> On 20 December , an aid convoy comprising seven trucks of wheat flour and food parcels and two trucks of bottled water reached the besieged area of Beit Hanoun , distributing supplies to an estimated 800 people , but access to one planned location was denied by the Israeli authorities . <p> Coordinated aid missions to areas in Rafah governorate , where there has been an ongoing Israeli military operation since early May , have faced similar challenges . Twenty-seven coordinated requests submitted to the Israeli authorities to access Rafah governorate between 1 and 23 December were denied , and one request was approved but faced impediments . This excludes 56 coordinated movements to Kerem Shalom crossing , of which 70 per cent ( 39 ) were facilitated , 18 per cent ( 10 ) were approved but faced impediments , four per cent ( 2 ) were denied , and nine per cent ( 5 ) were cancelled . <p> Funding <p> As of 24 December , Member States have disbursed approximately $2.53 billion out of the $3.42 billion ( 74 per cent ) requested to meet the most critical needs of 2.3 million* people in Gaza and 800,000 people in the West Bank , including East Jerusalem , between January and December 2024 . For funding analysis , please see the Flash Appeal Financial Tracking dashboard . ( *2.3 million reflects the projected population of the Gaza Strip upon issuance of the Flash Appeal in April 2024 . As of July 2024 , the UN estimates that approximately 2.1 million people remain in the Gaza Strip , and this updated number is now used for programmatic purposes. ) on reflects the projected population of the Gaza Strip upon issuance of the Flash Appeal in April 2024 . As of July 2024 , the UN estimates that about 2.1 million people remain in the Gaza Strip , and this updated number is now used for programmatic purposes . ) <p> On 11 December 2024 , the UN and humanitarian partners launched a Flash Appeal for nearly $4.07 billion to address the humanitarian needs of three million out of 3.3 million people identified as requiring assistance in Gaza and the West Bank , including East Jerusalem , in 2025 . Nearly 90 per cent of those funds are for the humanitarian response in Gaza , with just over 10 per cent for the West Bank . The $4.07 billion ask is much less than what is actually needed to mount a full-scale humanitarian response , which would require $6.6 billion . However , the Flash Appeal reflects the expectation that aid organizations will continue to face unacceptable constraints on their operations in 2025 . This will severely limit the amount of assistance that humanitarians are able to provide , which in turn will only increase the suffering that Palestinians are enduring . The appeal stresses that , to be able to implement the full scale of what is urgently needed , Israel must take immediate and effective measures to ensure the essential needs of civilians are met . This includes lifting all impediments to aid and fully facilitating humanitarian operations , including the distribution of essential goods to Palestinians in need . <p> During November , the oPt Humanitarian Fund ( oPt HF ) managed 124 ongoing projects , totalling $91.7 million . These projects aimed to address urgent needs in the Gaza Strip ( 89 per cent ) and the West Bank ( 11 per cent ) and are strategically focused on education , food security , health , protection , emergency shelter and non-food items , water , sanitation and hygiene ( WASH ) , coordination and support services , multi-purpose cash assistance and nutrition . Of these projects , 70 are being implemented by international non-governmental organizations ( INGOs ) , 40 by national NGOs and 14 by UN agencies . Notably , 50 out of the 84 projects conducted by INGOs or the UN are being implemented in collaboration with national NGOs . Monthly updates , annual reports , and a list of all funded projects per year , are available on the oPt Humanitarian Fund webpage , under the financing section . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> * Asterisks indicate that a figure , sentence , or section has been rectified , added , or retracted after the initial publication of this update . <p> At least three Palestinian infants have frozen to death in Gaza in recent days amid winter temperatures and inadequate shelter due to Israel 's 446-day U.S.-backed assault and blockade of the besieged coastal ... <p> Western Leaders Watch the Israeli Massacres as Spectators President Biden and Secretary Blinken knew and witnessed the ferocious and tragic abnormality of Israeli planned killing of civilians and genocide in Gaza ... <p> There is so much conflict around the world accompanied by brutal killings and destruction . Often these conflicts are simplistically dismissed as religious rivalries , competing ethnic claims , caste-based oppression and racism , Some ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119311629 <h> Share : <p> At least three Palestinian infants have frozen to death in Gaza in recent days amid winter temperatures and inadequate shelter due to Israel 's 446-day U.S.-backed assault and blockade of the besieged coastal enclave , according to medical officials there . <p> Gaza Health Ministry Director Dr. Muneer Alboursh said that Sila Mahmoud Al-Faseeh , a 3-week-old baby girl , died Sunday " from the extreme cold " in a tent where her forcibly displaced family is sheltering on a beach in al-Mawasi , an Israeli-designated " safe zone " for displaced Palestinians . <p> Sila 's father , Mahmoud al-Faseeh , told The Associated Press that he wrapped the infant in a blanket and tried to keep her warm as the temperatures fell to 48 ? F ( 9 ? C ) -- below the fatal threshold for hypothermia -- on a windy night in their unsealed tent on cold ground . <p> " It was very cold overnight and as adults we could n't even take it , " al-Faseeh explained . " We could n't stay warm . " <p> Al-Faseeh said that when he woke up , he found his daughter unresponsive and stiff , her body " like wood . " <p> Sila was rushed to a field hospital where doctors unsuccessfully tried to revive her . Ahmed al-Farra , director of the children 's ward at Nasser Hospital in Khan Younis , confirmed to the AP that the girl died of hypothermia and said that two other babies , ages 3 days and 1 month , were also brought to the hospital within the past 48 hours after freezing to death . <p> Gazan officials and international humanitarian agencies say that at least 18,000 children are among the more than 45,361 Palestinians killed in Gaza since Israel began bombing , invading , and besieging the coastal strip after the October 7 , 2023 Hamas-led attack . More than 2 million Palestinians in Gaza have also been wounded , forcibly displaced , starved , or sickened . <p> Israel 's conduct in the war is the subject of an ongoing International Court of Justice genocide case led by South Africa . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Yoav Gallant , his former defense minister , are fugitives from the International Criminal Court , which in November issued arrest warrants for the pair and for Hamas leader Mohammed Diab Ibrahim Al-Masri for alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity . <p> Two Palestinian babies have frozen to death in the last four days in Gaza . <p> As you celebrate the holidays in the U.S. , be sure to remember all the holidays the U.S. has robbed from Palestinians through funding and supporting genocide . <p> Most of the verified Palestinian deaths in Gaza during the first 10 months of the war were children aged 5-9 , according to the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights . <p> " For over 14 months , children have been at the sharp edge of this nightmare , " United Nations Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) communications specialist Rosalia Bollen said last week . " In Gaza the reality for over a million children is fear , utter deprivation , and unimaginable suffering . " <p> " The war on children in Gaza stands as a stark reminder of our collective responsibility , " Bollen added . " A generation of children is enduring the brutal violation of their rights and the destruction of their futures . " <p> UNICEF has called Gaza " the most dangerous place in the world to be a child . " <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> In June , U.N . Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres added Israel to his so-called " List of Shame " of countries that kill and injure children during wars and other armed conflicts . <p> On Tuesday , Philippe Lazzarini , who heads the U.N . agency for Palestinian refugees , said that " in Gaza , one child gets killed every hour . " <p> Western Leaders Watch the Israeli Massacres as Spectators President Biden and Secretary Blinken knew and witnessed the ferocious and tragic abnormality of Israeli planned killing of civilians and genocide in Gaza ... <p> There is so much conflict around the world accompanied by brutal killings and destruction . Often these conflicts are simplistically dismissed as religious rivalries , competing ethnic claims , caste-based oppression and racism , Some ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119311630 <h> Share : <p> President Biden and Secretary Blinken knew and witnessed the ferocious and tragic abnormality of Israeli planned killing of civilians and genocide in Gaza but their interest and policies were aligned to unthinking of evilmongering in Palestine . Continued occupation , forcible displacement and daily killings of civilians are the strategic goals , the Israeli extremist political leadership encouraged by the US hired supporters envisage plans of ' greater Israel ' inclusive of Jordan , Saudi Arabia and parts of Egypt . The neo-colonial installed puppets -- the former tribal agents -- now self-made kings , princes and presidents follow the European and American dictum for their survival . They are immune to logic and advice from Muslim scholarly experts in global affairs . The US and few West European leaders neglecting their own history masked their warmongering not knowing the consequences of their own viciousness against humanity . When life and human survival faces critical challenges , the thinking people and global institutions should respond with a collective will to stop the civilian massacres and genocide . Not so , in-waiting are the Arab-Muslim leaders to see if anything would happen out of nowhere to stop the Israeli carnage of planned killing and destruction of Gaza and the rest of Palestine . Please see : <p> The UNO failed miserably its Charter obligations , for millions of people with nowhere to go , nowhere to find a place of safety and life protection . Everyday is a killing day- bombardments of innocent civilians , places of worship , hospitals , UNRWA 's school shelters , Israeli freely use weapons of mass destruction conveniently made available by the US Government . The war scenario emboldens Netanyahu 's political absolutism -- an egoistic leader with a controversial profile will do utmost to regain unbridled ambition either by manipulation , violence or new conflicts . The current paradigm links directly to PM Netanyahu affiliated with extreme Jewish Ultra Nationalists to deny the Palestinian people their rights of existence as an independent State and to dismantle the Al-Aqsa Mosque . Please see : " Al-Aqsa Mosque Waiting for the Arab Leaders " https : **31;1377;TOOLONG ... The Arab-Muslim Leaders Friends of Israel and America <p> The US media reports of the Saudi and Emirati leaders having financial investments in Israeli technology and manufacturing industries . Ironically , they lack a sense of time and history and how they could be punished by God for their treachery and dishonesty to the interest of Arab masses . There are no Arab leaders having moral and political integrity to represent the masses and no Arab armies to defend Islam . Simply put , they are puppets and hired agents of the Western imperialism . Netanyahu needed a powerful political and intellectual challenge to rethink his egoistic belligerency against Arabs but it was nowhere to be found . Israel bulldozed and occupied Egyptian Rafah crossing to Gaza but President Sissi took no action in defense . The Saudi , the UAE and others stooges kept silent profile while massacres of innocent killing embolden Israel to put finishing end to Gaza . Several thousand Israeli citizens regularly protest against the Netanyhau Government in Tel Aviv 's military defense complex calling for an immediate ceasefire and return of the 100 hostages and peace talks . Are the historic Israelities ( progeny of Jacob ) and the followers of Moses versus the Zionists , the same ? <p> Israel and the US Need War , Not Peace as the End Game <p> " Fear God " and ' do not violate the covenants of peace and trust on earth ' , the Divine reminders echoed by Abraham , Moses , Jesus and Mohammad -- Prophets of God to humanity for peace and global brotherhood . ( The Quran:33:72 ) : <p> We did indeed offer the Trust to the Heavens and the Earth And the mountains but they refused to undertake it , being afraid thereof . But man undertook it , he was indeed unjust and foolish . <p> Those bombing and causing catastrophic events to destroy planet Earth and mankind and all of its treasures and enrichments are not normal human beings but sadistic people and leaders . The followers of Moses -- the generations of Israelite are reminded by God ( The Quran 2 : 84-85 ) : And remember , We took a Covenant from the Children of Israel ( progeny of Jacob ) , Worship none but God ; .... shed no blood amongst you , Nor displace people from homes : and Ye solemnly ratified , And to this ye can bear witness .... It was not lawful for you to banish another party , then it is only a part of the Book that ye believe in .... And on the Day of Judgment they shall be consigned to the most grievous penalty , For God is not unmindful what ye do . <p> The Israeli leaders and the US Biden administration are on the same page to conquer and control the oil exporting Arab states . More than worst is yet to come when President-elect Donald Trump will take office on January 20th . Was the animosity built-in to the Israeli extreme political psyche and ideology to expel Palestinains from their homeland ? Are the Israeli leaders driven by the lust of American weapons and economic power to commit genocide ? Those doing so are not conscious of their own end game . PM Netanyahu and his extremist regime would try to put an end to the freedom of Palestine . Gaza is the experimental lab for that end game.We , the People of knowledge speak logically about the Nature of Things affecting our lives , morals and our hopes for a sustainable future . Are you willing to explore the Nature of Things ? There is something you as intelligent human beings do not understand about God , the sanctity of human life , the working of the universe in which we live , the earth as a trust and its systematic understanding which could change your inner thoughts , values and rational thinking . The stern warning from the Divine Revelations is clear ( The Quran : 35:44 ) : Do they not travel through the earth and see what was the End of those before them . Though they were superior to them in strength ? Nor is God to be frustrated by anything whatever ; in the heavens or on earth : For He is All Knowing -- All Powerful . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> If time and history are a reference point , we humankind stand at a critical juncture of our own complicity to have allowed ignorance , hatred , fear , failure and animosity to destroy our life , culture and existence . God created you as human beings -- the most intelligent creation on this planet with moral and intellectual capacity , obligations and accountability . Regardless of the phony claim of ethnic superiority , If you defy the Laws of God , you will be held accountable like other aggressors in the past . You can not pretend to think and behave like animals . Animals live and do not reflect on the imperatives of life , human rights , freedom and justice whereas , we , the human beings can not act like animals as we are supposed to be intelligent and responsible species on this Earth . At the edge of reason , the notion of evil leads to realization of evil and tyranny of war must be stopped by all means and those responsible for the genocide and crimes against humanity must be held accountable to restore the manifestation of equal human rights , freedom , peace and security for all . <p> Dr. Mahboob A. Khawaja specializes in international affairs-global security , peace and conflict resolution and has spent several academic years across the Russian-Ukrainian and Central Asian regions knowing the people , diverse cultures of thinking and political governance and a keen interest in Islamic-Western comparative cultures and civilizations , and author of several publications including : One Humanity and the Remaking of Global Peace , Security and Conflict Resolution , and a forthcoming book : Global Humanity and the Remaking of Peace , Security and Conflict Resolution beyond the Lens of Human Consciousness . <h> Related Posts <p> At least three Palestinian infants have frozen to death in Gaza in recent days amid winter temperatures and inadequate shelter due to Israel 's 446-day U.S.-backed assault and blockade of the besieged coastal ... <p> There is so much conflict around the world accompanied by brutal killings and destruction . Often these conflicts are simplistically dismissed as religious rivalries , competing ethnic claims , caste-based oppression and racism , Some ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119311633 <h> 2025 : Amid the Darkness , Glimmers of Light <h> Share : <p> Rarely has the crystal ball used to divine the near future seemed so clouded by uncertainties . The year 2024 was dominated by disappointments , disturbing surprises , and continuing devastation in Ukraine and Gaza . It was also a year that underscored the inability of the UN to stop the most transparent genocide ever in Gaza , a senseless war in Ukraine , and mass slaughter in Sudan . <p> Is 2024 a turning point ? <p> There were a variety of multilateral efforts in 2024 to escape from US international dominance after the Cold War . This dominance had fueled a global politics of resentment and a search for an alternative world order that is law-governed and not subject to the geopolitical maneuvers of the five winners of World War II . These powers were granted unrestricted veto rights in the UN Security Council under the UN Charter , which has long paralyzed efforts to ensure compliance with international law . This produces a deep contradiction in the way the world is organized , allowing the most powerful and dangerous countries , all five being nuclear-armed states , to be legally free of any obligation to respect international law . <p> The question in many thoughtful minds is whether these developments in the prior year will continue in the year ahead . One near certain development is the rightward turn of internal politics in the West , given a dramatic twist by the prospects of radical change associated with the second coming of Donald Trump as US president . Trump has already appointed highly controversial political figures to his Cabinet , with the expectation of implementing an ultra-right domestic agenda . However , what is his approach to foreign policy ? As well , the leading governments of Europe , including Germany , France , and Italy , all exhibit signs of leaning further toward authoritarianism . <p> Crisis areas in the world <p> There are some hopeful signs . Trump seems likely to push for a negotiated peace in Ukraine and bring to a close US President Joe Biden 's " geopolitical war , " involving fighting Moscow by supplying and funding Kyiv with ever more provocative weaponry while turning his back on diplomacy and urging NATO to join in the fight with Rusi to the last Ukrainian . Such a posture raised risks of a confrontation with Russia that could also result in catastrophic nuclear warfare . Trump wants to cut spending on distant and expensive foreign adventures with no genuine American security interest and stand before the world as a peacemaker . Ukraine was a war that never should have been , as a diplomatic compromise between Russia and Ukraine was from its inception in the interest of Ukraine and world peace , as well as being attainable by responsible statecraft . <p> In contrast to Ukraine , the context of Israel/Palestine is far bleaker . There is every indication that Trump intends to outdo Biden by being an even more unconditional ally of Israel , fully supportive of the Netanyahu-led project entailing the establishment of Greater Israel . This is a plan to erase the Palestinian challenge through the annexation of the West Bank , parts of Gaza , and to support Israel in extending its " buffer zones " in Syria and Lebanon . The plan also includes intensified efforts to destroy Iran 's nuclear program and promote regime change in Tehran by force . The rightward turn of major governments in the West is likely to repress civil society opposition to the continuation of Israeli genocide and expansionism . <p> Militarism versus symbolic victories : The calculus of legitimacy wars <p> The efforts by countries in the Global South to have recourse to the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) and International Criminal Court ( ICC ) are a notable expression on the part of non-Western states to invoke international law to serve the causes of peace with justice . And the ICJ has responded in an encouraging professional manner , ruling in favor of provisional measures in response to South Africa 's submission and issuing a separate opinion invalidating Israel 's continuing occupation of Gaza , the West Bank , and East Jerusalem in an authoritative near-unanimous exposition of applicable international law . Of course , it is expected that Israel will defy these developments , as it has consistently done in the face of adverse rulings by international tribunals . Nevertheless , such rulings sympathetic with Palestinian grievances are symbolically important , delegitimizing Israel and mobilizing civil society activism that gives rise to global solidarity initiatives of a Boycott , Divestment , and Sanctions ( BDS ) variety . <p> The fate of the arrest warrants issued by the ICC , ordering the arrest and transfer to The Hague for prosecution of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant after a long delay is highly uncertain . Israel has mounted a legal challenge , and its government has made clear that the arrest warrants for the Israeli leaders are antisemitic outrages , and any implementation would be denounced and disrupted no matter what the ICC might decide . As with the ICJ genocide and occupation cases , the mere issuance of arrest warrants by the ICC was a significant symbolic Palestinian victory in the Legitimacy War , which may yet surprise the world in 2025 or shortly thereafter , by its overall impact on the viability of the Israeli state as now operative . It should be appreciated that the anti-colonial wars of the past 50 years were won by the weaker side militarily that managed to prevail on the symbolic battlefields of the Legitimacy War , which gives decisive weight to law , morality , and perseverance of a repressed people . The establishment of the civil society Gaza Tribunal in November of 2024 is a further legitimizing development in the Palestinian struggle for basic rights that seeks to activate global solidarity initiatives that shifted the balance in the global movement against South African apartheid , and before that of the global anti-war movement that nullified US military superiority in the Vietnam War . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The rise of multipolarity in 2025 ? <p> At the same time , global society is experiencing a surge of multilateral initiatives . Strengthening the impulse to create autonomous multipolar networks of the sort modeled by the BRICS , and especially to mount challenges to dollarization of trade and finance , which , to the extent successful , will produce a backlash in the form of high tariffs and the economic menace of a trade war , aggravated by an increase in the tendency to replace workers with digitally sophisticated substitutes for human labor to promote profitability and efficiency . <p> Above all , 2025 will witness growing tensions between the unified governance of global security by continued US hegemony and a resurgent challenge mounted by the Global South in the ongoing Legitimacy War with the West . <p> Richard Falk is an international law and international relations scholar who taught at Princeton University for forty years . Since 2002 he has lived in Santa Barbara , California , and taught at the local campus of the University of California in Global and International Studies and since 2005 chaired the Board of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation . <p> How do soldiers killing each other solve the world 's problems ? How can human beings shooting , bombing , slaughtering , destroying other human beings solve a problem ? ! War is loathsome . War is repugnant , and why should n't it be when ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119315450 <p> Google Maps has become increasingly difficult to use in the West Bank , particularly since the war between Israel and Palestine began , according to a Wired investigation . Palestinian users reported that Google Maps sometimes directs drivers into heavy traffic , restricted areas , or unsafe encounters with authorities . As a result , many Palestinians have turned to social media platforms to crowdsource and share real-time updates about road conditions and avoid potential hazards . Furthermore , missing or outdated data on road restrictions and regulations have made Google Maps unreliable and difficult to use . <p> Some of these issues stem from the realities of the conflict , such as fluctuating checkpoints and GPS signal interference by Israel in the region that are challenging for any navigation service to track . However , users argue that the company could take more steps to make the app safer and more dependable . <p> A Google spokesperson told Wired that the company does not differentiate between Israeli and Palestinian roads , as doing so would require determining users ' citizenship status . Despite these efforts , dozens of employees have reportedly urged Google leadership to make further improvements for Palestinian users . According to a current employee cited by Wired , many residents of the West Bank have stopped using Google Maps altogether due to its shortcomings . Moreover , the report also noted delays in updates to the app 's data , which have exacerbated problems over the past year . <h> A case of digital apartheid ? <p> Israel 's assault on Gaza has been widely described as a case of ' digital apartheid . ' A 2018 report by 7amleh , a Palestinian digital rights organization , accused Google Maps of making design decisions that disadvantage Palestinians and align with Israeli government narratives about the region . <p> " In a context where land and ownership are highly contentious and inherently political , Google holds immense power as the largest source of digital geographic data in the world , to shape and legitimize certain interpretations of the physical world and the politics that underpin it , " it stated . <p> The report further stated that Google Maps not only excludes Palestinian areas and the term " Palestine , " but also fails to highlight critical movement restrictions , such as checkpoints and restricted roads , that severely impact Palestinian mobility . It argued that the app 's default routes often prioritize Israeli access , sidelining Palestinian needs , and that the lack of detailed mapping for Palestinian villages compared to Israeli ones reflects a bias towards Israeli narratives . <h> Google Disabling Maps Traffic Data <p> In 2023 , reports suggested that Google removed real-time crowding data in Israel and Gaza at the request of the Israel Defence Forces . Reportedly , the Israeli military feared that live traffic information on Google Maps could reveal Israeli troop movements . <p> Advertisements <p> Previously , the company took similar action amidst the war between Ukraine and Russia , disabling real-time vehicle and foot traffic data . Google stated that it had done so after consultation with Ukrainian authorities . <p> The features use anonymous Android location data to track traffic and business activity . Experts suggest that this data could offer valuable insights into the progress of the invasion , such as providing clues about offensive strategies used by Ukraine . 
@@119316660 <p> Five journalists from Al Quds Al Youm television were killed on Thursday in an Israeli airstrike targeting a marked press vehicle in central Gaza , according to Wafa news agency . The attack , which the Israeli military claimed was aimed at a " terrorist cell , " comes amid an intensifying conflict and growing international outcry over the safety of journalists in war zones . <p> Five journalists from Al Quds Al Youm television were killed on Thursday during an Israeli airstrike in central Gaza , according to the Palestinian news agency Wafa . The victims -- Faisal Abu Al Qumsan , Ayman Al Jadi , Mohammad Al Lad'a , Fadi Hassouna , and Ibrahim Al Sheikh Ali -- were inside a clearly marked broadcasting van labeled " Press " in red . Despite this , the Israeli military claimed it was targeting a " terrorist cell " and described the strikes in the Nuseirat area as " precise . " <h> Mounting Toll on Journalists and Civilians <p> Since the outbreak of the Israel-Gaza war on October 7 , 2023 , following Hamas 's attacks in southern Israel , at least 190 journalists have been killed . The broader conflict has claimed more than 45,000 lives in Gaza , according to local reports . <p> The Palestinian Journalists Syndicate condemned the attack , alleging that it was a deliberate attempt by Israel to " obscure the truth " and suppress freedom of expression . In a statement , the syndicate asserted , " This continuing targeting is a war crime according to international conventions and constitutes a flagrant violation of human rights and freedom of the press . The Palestinian press will continue to carry out its message with determination and resolve , despite the occupation 's continuous attempts to stop or threaten it . " <h> Ceasefire Efforts Collapse Amid Escalating Violence <p> The strike occurred during an escalation in violence following the collapse of ceasefire negotiations mediated by Egypt and Qatar . Efforts to secure a deal to end the war and facilitate the release of hostages have been stalled due to disputes over key issues . These include the list of Palestinian detainees Hamas demands be freed in exchange for hostages , and Israel 's reluctance to commit to a timeline for withdrawal from Gaza 's southern border . <p> Hamas has also insisted on guarantees from US , Qatari , and Egyptian mediators that negotiations on a permanent ceasefire and Israeli withdrawal will continue after any prisoner exchange . These demands have further complicated efforts to broker peace . <h> Intensified Strikes and Civilian Casualties <p> Following the breakdown of talks , Israel intensified its military operations across Gaza . In northern Gaza , the Israeli army deployed explosives near the Kamal Adwan and Indonesian hospitals , which had already been largely evacuated . Eviction orders for remaining patients were issued , but medical personnel described the orders as " impossible " to fulfill amid ongoing violence and resource shortages . <p> Elsewhere in Gaza , Israeli airstrikes reportedly killed at least 10 people on Thursday in the Al Sabra and Jabalia areas , with children among the victims . In a single attack on a residential building , eight lives were lost , according to health officials . 
@@119317450 <h> 2024 : The year in pictures <p> As 2024 draws to a close , we look back at a year shaped by moments of both crisis and transformation , each captured in powerful images that tell the story of a turbulent year and human resilience . Through the lens of photographers , these powerful images have chronicled the triumphs , challenges , and everyday moments that defined the year . From world-changing events to natural disasters , these photographs serve as a stark reminder of the events that have defined the year that has tested the limits of hope , unity , and endurance . OrissaPOST presents a reflection on 2024 , told through images that speak louder than words . <h> Also Read <h> An opposition fighter steps on a broken bust of the late Syrian President Hafez Assad in Damascus , Syria , after their lightning advance forced President Bassar al-Assad to flee the country , December 8 . ( AP photo ) <h> Rescuers use machinery to shift through debris on their second day of mission following landslides at Chooramala , Wayanad district , Kerala state , India , Wednesday , July 31 , 2024 . ( AP photo ) <h> Female Israeli soldiers pose for a photo in southern Israel , on the border of the Gaza Strip , February 19 . ( AP photo ) <h> Protesters celebrate at the Parliament House premise after news of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina 's resignation , in Dhaka , Bangladesh , August 5 . ( AP photo ) <h> Hindu devotees climb stairs to reach on top of a mud volcano to start pilgrims ' religious rituals for an annual festival in an ancient cave temple of Hinglaj Mata in Hinglaj in Lasbela district in Pakistan 's southwestern Baluchistan province , April 26 . ( AP photo ) <h> A participant waves a national flag after climbing to the top of a greased-pole to retrieve prizes as part of Independence Day celebrations , in Jakarta , Indonesia , August 17 . ( AP photo ) <h> Children shake hands before they play a chess game at The Soga Chess Club of the internally displaced persons camp in Kanyaruchinya , Democratic Republic of Congo , July 29 . ( AP photo ) <h> An animal runs through grass while fleeing flames as the Park Fire tears through the Cohasset community in Butte County , California , US , July 25 ( AP photo ) <h> A man transports an electronic voting machine on a pony as election officials walk to a polling booth in a remote mountain area on the eve of the first round of voting in the national election at Dessa village in Doda district , Jammu and Kashmir , India , April 18 . ( AP photo ) 
@@119331774 <h> 24 Gen Zers share the words and vibes that defined 2024 for them <h> From capitalism to brain rot , we asked 24 Gen Zers to reveal the words , phrases , and energy that shaped their 2024 . <p> From viral internet slang to cultural aesthetics , these 24 terms capture the essence of a generation 's creativity and influence . ( Source : Instagram ) <p> It wo n't be a stretch to say that 2024 belonged to the Gen Zers . They were out there doing the most -- rewriting dictionaries , inventing slang , and serving vibes that could power the planet . Wondered what words and moods ruled their universe this year ? Think iconic , chaotic , and absolutely unapologetic . From capitalism and brain rot to brat , and even Shalini Passi , we asked 24 Gen Zers to reveal the words , phrases , and energies that shaped their 2024 . <h> The Kendrick vs Drake battle- Ajay Hanje , 22 <p> Not Like Us is a diss track -- a song made by an artist to verbally attack another -- by Lamar , targeting Drake during their feud ( aka " beef " by cool people ) earlier this year . ( IMDb ) <p> Kendrick won . The rest is history . <h> Brainrot- Ishika Roy , 23 <p> Brain rot has victimised me to the point I can hold entire conversations in meme language . An unfortunately short attention span and abysmally high screen time have become supporting characters in my story this year . <h> Brat- M Som , 25 <p> Brat redefined perfection for me this year . It is not just about being a party girl , brat is bold , raw ; Brat does and feels things that are unpleasant and above all , it is about breaking rules to move forward . Brat helped me accept my humaneness and say " I 'll do it anyway , " irrespective of whether I could fail at it or be considered unlikeable because of it . It was a refreshing change after the Barbie era and it definitely redefined femininity . <h> Resistance- Ashutosh Mehta , 23 <p> For me , 2024 was a reminder that even in the darkest times , people come together to fight back and create hope through resistance . <p> From the " Eyes on Palestine " movement to protests closer to home after the R G Kar incident , the spirit of resistance was unbreakable . These events , though far apart , showed the same spirit of resistance , people standing against violence , inequality , and oppression . <p> Advertisement <h> Politicians and their meme game- Poulomi Deb , 23 <p> Politicians nailed the meme game to the T , but civil debates ? Ha ha ! And here I used to think it was just us Gen Zers who communicated through Instagram reels . <h> Out of the lane -- Garima Sadhwani , 25 <p> Bothered , unmoisturised , and so out of the lane I ca n't even see it . <h> Shalini Passi- Rishika , 26 <p> Reality TV came to the rescue this year via season 3 of Fabulous Lives of Bollywood Wives . They introduced us to Delhi socialite Shalini Passi -- unhinged , flashy , and entertaining , all the best parts of the genre . Her unapologetically extra -- and somehow innocent -- persona was a breath of fresh air in an otherwise cookie-cutter influencer world . <h> Horror comedies were the vibe . Just like life- Rahul Pratyush , 25 <p> Bollywood proved that sometimes , facing ghosts on screen is far less terrifying -- and way more fun -- than confronting the ghosts of work-place burnout . <h> Capitalism was the It Girl- Ananya Goel , 18 <p> From the Stanley cup to Kay Beauty 's lipsticks , we bought it all . And who emerged as the winner in this competition with capitalism ? Not our bank accounts for sure . <p> Advertisement <h> Theme parties- KS Swati , 23 <p> I love being a hostess . I also love knowing every little thing about my friends ' needs . It makes me feel more connected to them . And theme parties , which were really big this year , are probably the best way to do it . <h> 2024 gave me ' the ick ' - Swarupa Tripathy , 27 <p> From dating to life , 2024 was just not vibing like it should 've . The ick was my reigning emotion . <h> Playing Dress to Impress- Suhani Sharma , 23 <p> I got REALLY into it . It made a huge comeback mostly because white teens were playing it ( hello , globalisation ) but then my long-distance friends and I would spend some three hours on the weekend playing that game and it felt like we were kids again together . <h> Eras tour ending- Tuba , 27 <p> The American pop was on her Eras Tour for the last year and a half . ( AP ) <p> I believe the end of Taylor Swift 's Eras tour is n't the " End Game , " even though this chapter has concluded . Endings can also be stepping stones to something greater , a reminder that every legacy built continues to inspire new beginnings . <p> Advertisement <h> Are we always going to be this broke ? - Anamm Inamdar , 22 <p> I got my first job this year . I 've started earning , but not enough . I know creative jobs pay less but according to my research ( and the boomers I 've spoken to ) , salaries for freshers have remained stagnant for decades . When will it get better ? <h> Touching grass- Ratan Priya , 26 <p> When life got overwhelming , touching grass saved me . Every two months , I started fresh -- rebirth vibes all year . <h> Dazed- Niharika Dabral , 26 <p> This year carried a lot of negativity from last year . Other than somewhat positive election results , things were either pretty much the same or got worse . Think of Gaza , think of pissy opposition , Trump 's return , garbage pop culture *cough* Samay Raina *cough*. 25 turned 26 and somehow the prefrontal cortex remained the same . I disassociated , became dazed -- not because I wanted to but as a coping mechanism . This year was sus . I do n't remember . There was nothing remarkable to even remember . I want to move on . <h> Were we really very demure or very mindful ? - Prachi , 23 <p> Advertisement <p> While everyone was being very demure and mindful , that was n't my vibe . I 'm talking low-key chaos , high-key stress , and a whole lot of " what am I even doing with my life ? " vibes . Definitely not " demure " or " mindful " . But despite all the craziness , I 'm still standing , and that 's something to celebrate , right ? So here 's to next year being a little more chill ... but no promises ! <h> Women in male dominated fields- Vibha , 24 <p> Gen Zers ' take on turning stereotypical behaviour of men on its head -- in the evergreen meme way -- really had me hooked in 2024 . Now , I may have enjoyed the trend a little too much because of how creative ( read : relatable ) people got or because it 's a heightened sense of community to witness us as fellow womxn of today mastering the perceived " male arts " . That 's also my cue to introspect ! <h> Cookin- Vinayak , 25 <p> My life was " cookin " when 2024 began -- -- full of hopes and dreams , looking for opportunities , motivated to seize the day everyday and figuring out my way . By the end of the year I am " cooked " -- -- not in a bad way , but seasoned . Life threw all the masala , the struggles , the fear of not knowing what 's ahead . Now I 'm a dish hot and ready to serve . <h> Blind eye- Mannat Saini , 23 <p> We watched as war unfolded in Gaza , women were confronted with challenges as their bodily rights came into debate over abortion access and closer home . In India , the echoes of 2012 resurfaced as women once again demanded justice after the horrific R G Kar rape and murder . And me ? I stood at a distance , arms crossed , pulling the blinds shut on the chaos outside . We told ourselves it was too far from home , shrugged off the weight of it all , and let guilt slip under the covers as we tucked ourselves in after another " good " day . <p> Advertisement <h> 2024 ate and left no crumbs- Tanveer Singh , 23 <p> I finally completed my master 's and got my first job in the field of my choosing . 2024 really did eat ! <h> Black dog- Rickin Sanklecha , 23 <p> I 'm very happy , but the black dog ( a metaphorical representation of melancholy or depression in meme language ) was always there , lurking around the corner . 
@@119332601 <p> The year 2024 brought significant challenges and milestones across the globe . From political shifts to climate crises , here are the key events that defined the year . <p> Trump Returns to the White House <p> Donald Trump made a stunning political comeback , defeating Kamala Harris to win the U.S. presidency . His victory , coupled with Republicans securing a narrow majority in Congress , signals major policy changes ahead . <p> Rising Geopolitical Tensions <p> China , Russia , Iran , and North Korea strengthened their ties , forming an " Axis of Autocracies . " Their growing collaboration challenged U.S. influence , while the war in Ukraine continued into a third year with no resolution in sight . <p> Escalation in the Middle East <p> Tensions in the Middle East flared following Hamas 's 2023 attack on Israel . Israel launched military campaigns in Gaza and against Iran-backed forces , leading to the fall of Syria 's Assad regime and uncertainty about future stability in the region . <p> Record-Breaking Heat and Climate Crises <p> The world experienced its hottest year on record in 2024 . Extreme weather events , from droughts to billion-dollar disasters , highlighted the urgent need for climate action , though global progress remained limited . <p> Breakthroughs and Concerns in Artificial Intelligence <p> Artificial intelligence saw major advancements in healthcare and science , but concerns over regulation and inequality grew as the technology became more widespread and powerful . <p> Space Exploration Advances Amid Rising Tensions <p> Countries made strides in space exploration , with Japan and China achieving milestones on the moon and NASA uncovering possible signs of life on Mars . However , the militarization of space raised fears of future conflicts beyond Earth . <p> Sudan 's Civil War and Humanitarian Crisis <p> The civil war in Sudan continued to devastate the country , displacing millions and causing widespread famine . Mediation efforts failed to end the conflict as fighting persisted . <p> Global Trade Tensions With China <p> China 's focus on exports led to global trade tensions , with countries imposing tariffs to protect domestic industries . The move echoed the economic disruptions of the early 2000s , known as the " China Shock . " <p> As 2024 ends , the world faces the ripple effects of these events , setting the stage for major challenges and opportunities in 2025 . <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from World and around the world . 
@@119333041 <h> world <h> 2024 : A Year of Geopolitical Shifts and Unprecedented Conflicts <h> In 2024 , the Middle East experienced transformative events that reshaped global security . Donald Trump made a dramatic political comeback , winning the U.S. presidency despite controversies . The Middle East saw continued conflict , with Israel fighting Hamas in Gaza , resulting in massive casualties . Syria 's regime fell in a surprise rebellion , altering regional dynamics . In Ukraine , Russian forces gained ground , with escalating casualties and intelligence strikes . Meanwhile , tensions in the South China Sea escalated as China asserted its claims , leading to violent confrontations with the Philippines . These events marked a year of significant geopolitical shifts with far-reaching consequences . <h> Watch and Follow our leading shows <p> Advisory Alert:It has come to our attention that certain individuals are representing themselves as affiliates of Moneycontrol and soliciting funds on the false promise of assured returns on their investments . We wish to reiterate that Moneycontrol does not solicit funds from investors and neither does it promise any assured returns . In case you are approached by anyone making such claims , please write to us at **25;699;TOOLONG or call on 02268882347 
@@119333069 <p> In 2023-24 exports had declined 3.1% on year to $ 437 billion . ( Image/Reuters ) <p> The liberal use of threats of tariffs by US President elect Donald Trump before his inauguration in January puts all forecasts of how world trade would shape up in the coming year difficult but Indian exporters are mostly positive about the prospects and their biggest worry stems from demand slowdown in bigger markets . <p> The World Trade Organisation ( WTO ) has forecast world merchandise trade to grow at 3% in 2025 after an expansion this year . Indian exports have been growing at the world average . In the January-November period the merchandise exports have been $ 400 billion , up 2% as compared to the same period of last year . <p> The Federation of Indian Export Organisations ( FIEO ) expects a slow start to 2025 and improvement in trade in the second half as the incoming Trump administration is expected to make efforts to end wars in Gaza and Russia-Ukraine . Trump 's tariff challenge will remain and will have to be navigated deftly . <p> The drop in freight rates in recent weeks suggests that either the demand has slackened or enough inventory has been piled up so fresh buying will be slow to come on stream , Chief Executive Officer and Director General of FIEO Ajay Sahai said . <p> Trump has said on many occasions that war in the Middle East needed to end sooner than later . On December 22 Trump announced that Russian President Vladimir Putin has expressed his interest in meeting him regarding the war with Ukraine . <p> " The end of conflicts in the Middle East will improve the situation in the Red Sea region making navigation through the Suez Canal possible once again , " he said . The container ships have been completely avoiding Red Sea routes since early 2014 and taking longer routes through Cape of Good Hope . The longer routes have led to longer travel times and higher freight rates . The resolution of the Russia-Ukraine conflict could lead to increased demand from Europe . <p> The biggest sector of exports , the engineering sector , expects to improve on this year 's performance in 2025 by a small margin but faces challenges from lower demand in Europe due to recession and wars , chairman of Engineering Export Promotion Council Pankaj Chadha said . Another challenge it sees is Trump tariffs and domestic prices of raw material as the government begins an investigation to put safeguard duty on steel . The US accounts for 21% and the European Union for 19% of total engineering exports . <p> This year engineering exports are expected to touch $ 125 billion , up from $ 109 billion in 2023-24 . The growth despite the demand stagnation in US and Europe has come from newer geographies like West Asia and North Africa and Latin America . <p> The apparel sector is so far having a good year after a decade of stagnation . In April-November the exports have risen to 11.4% in April-November . The disturbances in Bangladesh have added to the sector 's growth with orders being diverted to Indian manufacturers . This trend is expected to continue in 2025 too but the challenge for the industry is to add capacity to meet the opportunity , secretary general of Apparel Export Promotion Council Mithileshwar Thakur said . <p> The emerging area of electronics exports is also expected to keep doing well in 2025 multinationals keep adding to their manufacturing capacity . <p> In 2023-24 exports had declined 3.1% on year to $ 437 billion . This year in April-November the growth has been up 2.17% to $ 284.3 billion . <p> " The exports are impacted by persisting geopolitical tensions including Russia-Ukraine Conflict , Israel-Palestine Conflict , and monetary tightening alongwith recessionary fears that have led to a decline in consumer spending across advanced nations and the consequential slowdown in demand , " the Ministry of Commerce officials say . Another factor was fall in commodity prices in Petroleum that contributed to this . Lower crude prices also led to lower value realization from the export of petroleum products . According to analysts the crude oil is expected to be in the $ 75 a barrel range in 2025 also . The lower base effect will kick in next year . This coupled with an increase in quantity will bring even petroleum exports in the positive zone . <p> In the last month for which trade figures are available the services exports outshined merchandise exports for the first time ever . In November services exports were $ 35.67 billion as against $ 32.11 for goods . Analysts had predicted services exports to outpace goods exports by 2030- . The indications are that it might happen sooner . <p> Amidst all the uncertainty the exporters are expecting some final word on the Interest Equalisation Scheme which expired on June 30 and was extended for exporters from Micro Small and Medium Enterprises ( MSMEs ) till December 31 . Exporters are asking for its extension for all exporters as was the case before . The scheme provided a 3% interest subsidy on pre and post shipment loans . <p> The 2024 also saw the government selecting five companies to run pilots for E-commerce ExportHubs which were first mooted in Foreign Trade Policy in 2023 . These hubs around airports are expected to be rolled out in the first quarter of calendar year 2025 . <p> To boost exports 2024 saw the signing of a trade agreement with the European Free Trade Association . In 2025 the expectations are that the FTAs with the UK and EU -- that saw considerable progress in 2024 -- might be concluded . Other FTA engagements with Peru , Oman and Australia will continue . <p> While the global situation still indicates the continuation of uncertainty of 2024 , there are signs that some of the old issues will be settled and trade will be back to normal . 
@@119333316 <h> Chaos in Gaza : Kamal Adwan Hospital Under Siege <h> Israeli forces raided Kamal Adwan Hospital in Gaza , causing evacuations and a fire at the site . The Israeli military claims Hamas fighters used the hospital as a stronghold , but Hamas denies this . The conflict has resulted in significant casualties and widespread displacement within Gaza . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> On Friday , Israeli forces launched a significant assault on the Kamal Adwan Hospital , located on Gaza 's northern boundary , requiring scores to flee amid the chaos . Health ministry officials reported part of the medical facility was in flames . Concurrently , other Israeli strikes across Gaza claimed at least 25 lives , including 15 fatalities in a single Gaza City residence . <p> The Palestinian health ministry indicated a communications blackout with hospital personnel , asserting Israeli forces have ignited the medical facility . IDF countered , suggesting it had taken measures to minimize civilian harm and ensured the safe evacuation of patients and staff before operations began . They accused Hamas of using the hospital as a bastion , an allegation the group refuted . <p> The ongoing hostilities have seen Gaza 's hospitals repeatedly targeted and civilian sites heavily damaged . Dramatic footage showing smoke billowing from Kamal Adwan has circulated , and reports suggest potential plans for a security buffer zone following the fighting . This conflict emerged after a fatal Hamas-led assault on southern Israel in early October . 
@@119333318 <h> Tensions Rise as Israeli Forces Raid Kamal Adwan Hospital in Gaza <h> Israeli forces raided the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Gaza , leading to the evacuation of dozens of patients and hundreds of others . The hospital was partially set on fire . The raid is part of a larger Israeli campaign against Hamas militants in Gaza , which has resulted in significant casualties and displacement . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> On Friday , Israeli forces conducted a raid on the Kamal Adwan Hospital located on the northern edge of Gaza , leading to an urgent evacuation of dozens of patients and hundreds of other individuals , as parts of the facility caught fire , according to health ministry officials . <p> The Israeli military claimed efforts were made to limit civilian harm and ensure the safe evacuation of medical personnel , although specifics were not provided . They alleged Hamas fighters had used the hospital as a stronghold , an accusation that Hamas denies , alleging lies by Israeli forces . 
@@119333459 <h> Just In <h> WHO Chief calls for release of UN staff following negotiation with Houthis <h> The negotiation over the release of 13 UN staff arrested by the Houthi group in Yemeni capital Sanaa has concluded , Director General of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a statement . <p> Sanaa : The negotiation over the release of 13 UN staff arrested by the Houthi group in Yemeni capital Sanaa has concluded , Director General of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a statement . <p> " We continue to call for the detainees ' immediate release , " Ghebreyesus wrote on social media platform X. <p> The UN confirmed in June that 13 of its staff members have been detained by the Houthis in Sanaa . The militant group has accused those arrested UN staffers of involving in espionage acts for the United States . <p> In the meantime , Ghebreyesus noted that the Sanaa International Airport came under aerial bombardment as he and some other UN and WHO officials were about to board their flight from Yemen 's capital Sanaa , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> " One of our plane 's crew members was injured . At least two people were reported killed at the airport . The air traffic control tower , the departure lounge -- just a few metres from where we were -- and the runway were damaged , " he said . <p> Noting that he and his colleagues are safe , the WHO chief said they will need to wait for the damage to the airport to be repaired before they can leave . <p> Israel vowed on Thursday to kill Houthi leaders and dismantle the group 's military power shortly after it launched ' intelligence-based ' airstrikes targeting Houthi-controlled military targets on Yemen 's western coast and inland Yemen . <p> The Houthis , who control much of northern Yemen , have been launching regular rocket and drone attacks against Israel and disrupting ' Israeli-linked ' shipping in the Red Sea since November 2023 to show solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza amid their conflict with Israelis . <p> Earlier on Thursday , UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres also condemned the escalation between Yemen 's Houthis and Israel , and called for a ceasefire , his spokesperson said in a statement . <p> " Israeli airstrikes on Sanaa International Airport , the Red Sea ports and power stations in Yemen are especially alarming , " the spokesperson said on Thursday . 
@@119333672 <h> Trump 2.0 : A Global Agent Of Change ? <p> As 2025 approaches , uncertainty looms over two wars raging in Gaza and Ukraine , with West Asia destabilised by the sudden fall of Syria 's Assad regime on December 8 . The passing away of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh , a day after Christmas , symbolises the end of India 's post-Independence era . The unseemly debates in Parliament and beyond , commemorating the 75th anniversary of the Indian Constitution , became a Congress-BJP brawl over B.R. Ambedkar 's role . The saga involved the Congress embracing a fictional past , where it more abused than used the Constitution , and the BJP feigning respect for constitutionalism while desiring to shape it as per its majoritarian instincts . <p> Political churn is not specific to India alone . In 2024 , 76 nations held polls , constituting half the world 's population . In some , like Russia and Venezuela , it was a rigged exercise to claim legitimacy for authoritarian rulers . In others , like the UK , where Conservatives lost power after 14 years , or France , where the adverse parliamentary elections ' verdict challenged the sitting President Emmanuel Macron , electoral results signalled change . In India too , people left the BJP in parliamentary elections dependent on allies ' support , which the BJP , by its self-centred agenda and arrogant governance , is defying . <p> The most challenging development is Donald Trump 's victory in the US presidential election . Although his term begins only on January 20 , he is already in the limelight , continuously nominating individuals that reflect loyalty to him and commitment to the Make America Great Again ( MAGA ) agenda . Some have been forced to withdraw due to past sexual indiscretions , while some others may yet face the Senate 's disapproval due to lopsided views . For instance , Robert Kennedy Jr. , named to lead the health departments , advocates the rejection of vaccines . <p> The Economist magazine anticipates , in the coming year , an " interplay between Donald Trump , technology , and radical uncertainty . " The global worry is over his threat of imposing retaliatory tariffs of 20% on all nations trading with the US , with China attracting an even higher percentage . Some aides of Trump argue that his bark may be worse than his bite , as he often uses threats simply as a negotiating tactic . However , Indian analysts missed the implications of Trump 's remark that the US and China could effectively address most contentious global issues if they collaborated . <p> This has , for decades , been precisely the Indian strategic concern : that bipolar Sino-US convergence would automatically relegate India to a secondary position . Although unstated publicly , the External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar 's hurried US trip post-Christmas , when official business languishes due to the holiday season , indicates this concern . The fact that Trump invited , albeit unsuccessfully , Chinese President Xi Jinping for his inauguration without extending a similar offer to Prime Minister Narendra Modi reflects Trump 's priorities . Reportedly , Hungarian President Viktor Orban , a Trump acolyte who rejects European military support for Ukraine , may also be on the invitees list . No previous US president has invited foreign leaders for the inauguration . <p> Trump has claimed that he would end the Ukraine war almost instantaneously after assuming office . Russian President Vladimir Putin , who deliberately delayed congratulating Trump after his win , may accept a ceasefire only if Ukraine is arm-twisted into accepting the status quo over land held by either side currently . Perhaps that explains reports of Russians employing North Korean soldiers to eject Ukrainians from their Kursk region . Ukraine wants to use that occupation to bargain for the return of Ukrainian territory under Russian control . <p> Although Trump is likely to give Israel a carte blanche to conduct its military operations , Israel , having already decapitated Hamas , may be ready for a ceasefire . Trump fathered the Abraham Accords to normalise Israel-Arab relations . These are now stymied by Israel rejecting both a ceasefire and a two-nation solution to the Israel-Palestine dispute . <p> Thus , globally , Trump 2.0 can either be an agent of disruptive but positive change or an initiator of global economic and geostrategic bedlam . The US deterrence has mostly stabilised the world , especially since the end of the Cold War in 1991 . Chinese ascendancy and alliance with Russia , Iran , and North Korea is resurrecting a new bipolar order . But China faces economic headwinds , and its GDP , having become three-quarters that of the US , fell to two-thirds by 2021 . <p> The European Union faces economic challenges due to its energy dependence on Russia being disrupted by the Ukraine war and its slow transition to industries of the future . The feared new standoff between the US and China catches Europe on the backfoot , already hobbled by its centrist ruling alliances breaking down , causing the rise of far-right parties . <p> India is adopting a wait-and-watch strategy , like most of the world . At the United Nations , the Chinese contribution to the UN budget , at 20% of the total , now rivals that of the US . Trump is likely to withdraw the US from the World Health Organisation ( WHO ) and UNESCO . Ideally , after some turbulence , the Trumpian storm would pass . But diminished US deterrence and an isolationist America bode ill for global peace and friendship . 
@@119333735 <h> WHO chief calls for release of UN staff following negotiation with Houthis <p> SANAA , Dec 27 : The negotiation over the release of 13 UN staff arrested by the Houthi group in the Yemeni capital Sanaa concluded on Thursday , Director-General of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a statement . " We continue to call for the detainees ' immediate release , " Ghebreyesus wrote on social media platform X. The UN confirmed in June that 13 of its staff members have been detained by the Houthis in Sanaa . The militant group has accused those arrested UN staffers of involving in espionage acts for the United States . In the meantime , Ghebreyesus noted that the Sanaa International Airport came under aerial bombardment as he and some other UN and WHO officials were about to board their flight from Yemen 's capital Sanaa . " One of our plane 's crew members was injured . At least two people were reported killed at the airport . The air traffic control tower , the departure lounge -- just a few meters from where we were -- and the runway were damaged , " he said . Noting that he and his colleagues are safe , the WHO chief said they will need to wait for the damage to the airport to be repaired before they can leave . Israel vowed on Thursday to kill Houthi leaders and dismantle the group 's military power shortly after it launched " intelligence-based " airstrikes targeting Houthi-controlled military targets on Yemen 's western coast and inland Yemen . The Houthis , who control much of northern Yemen , have been launching regular rocket and drone attacks against Israel and disrupting " Israeli-linked " shipping in the Red Sea since November 2023 to show solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza amid their conflict with Israelis . ( UNI ) 
@@119333797 <h> Terms and Conditions <h> Can 2025 bring stability to the Middle East ? Expert weighs in <h> The year 2024 opened with an intensification of the conflict between Israel and Hamas in Gaza . Since the war 's outbreak in October 2023 , over 45,000 Palestinians have lost their lives . Despite months of negotiations , ceasefire talks collapsed , with both sides blaming each other for the stalemate . Meanwhile , another conflict reignited in the region as rebels mounted an offensive to overthrow Syrian President Bashar al-Assad . So , will the Middle East find a path to peace ? CNBC-TV18 sought insights from Anju Gupta , Former Cabinet Secretariat Official , on the future of these conflicts . <p> Israel also launched a military campaign against Hezbollah in Lebanon . After weeks of intense conflict , a 60-day ceasefire agreement was reached on November 27 . However , multiple violations have marred the fragile truce . <p> Meanwhile , another conflict reignited in the region as rebels mounted an offensive to overthrow Syrian President Bashar al-Assad . Syria continues to suffer from a profound humanitarian crisis amidst the ongoing war . <p> The question remains : will the Middle East find a path to peace ? CNBC-TV18 sought insights from Anju Gupta , Former Cabinet Secretariat Official , on the future of these conflicts . <p> Below are the excerpts of the interview . <p> Q : Let me straight away ask you about the situation in Syria . How bad are things there ? How could this contribute to more tension in the Middle East , and also , could this lead to a revival of the ISIS ? <p> Gupta : Currently different parts of Syria are being held by different state and non-state actors . I think we need to really unpack Syria to understand the picture today and how we can expect it to pan out in 2025 and beyond . So up until the Arab Spring , which was about 2011 the dictatorial regime of Bashar al-Assad pretty much controlled whole of Syria . But when the dissent began , when the Arab Spring unfolded , the Arab neighbours also kind of pumped in their resources to support these protesters , and Assad 's regime used brutal force against their own people . The Arab states also started pumping in arms , and that is how so called Free Syrian Army came into being , and it became an armed insurgency , or armed protest , if you like to call it so . Of course , there are different factions that were loyal to different state actors . It 's very important to emphasise that there were state actors involved in supporting this Arab Spring in Syria , like the other places in the Arab world . <p> But at the same time , the Al-Qaeda in Iraq started rebuilding itself , especially after the US pull out in December 2011 and with that , they started governing territory , and they started calling it a state . They started calling it Islamic State in Iraq . And in 2012 they sent Abu Mohammed al-Julani to Syria to set up the Syrian branch of Daesh . So , Al-Qaeda in Iraq started capturing territories on both sides . And after that , they declared ISIS independent , and the caliphate came into being in June 2014 which attracted , thousands of foreign fighters from all over the world . When that was the situation the revolution had kind of morphed into , I would n't say , the people , but revolution had been hijacked by the terror group . And the first terror group that hijacked it was Daesh . After that , US started backing the Kurdish Syrian alliance called the SDF , and Russia and Iran started backing the Assad regime against Daesh . <p> Around the same time , Al-Qaeda declared independence of Daesh headed by Julani , and they started capturing territory closer to the Turkish border , especially the province of Idlib . And at that point in time , the revolution had morphed into fight by Assad regime and by the SDF against Daesh as well as Al-Qaeda groups . And very interestingly , US and Russia could actually manage to deconflict their air strikes , etc . And rest is known . So , the civilian revolution , which had which became armed , was hijacked by these terror groups because of strange geopolitics of this region , <p> Turkey , which has a very important role to play , with the help of some elements of the Free Syrian Army captured some of the Kurdish areas closer to the Turkish border . Now we all know after the caliphate Assad regime and the SDF have been kind of coordinating so as not to allow the Daesh to rebuild itself in Syria , which is a real threat . <p> We also know that US has carried out air strikes after air strikes , drone strikes into Idlib , which is the territory held by HTS killing Al-Qaeda top leadership . So , the interesting thing is that by around 2016 Julani , who was a leader of HTS , declared independence from Al-Qaeda , saying that I 've cut my ties with Al-Qaeda and now I 'm a simple , plain armed insurgency against Assad regime . And HTS has now taken over the area that was held by Assad . So now we have three players - HTS , Al-Qaeda linked group , which is the main player . And then we have the SDF . And then we have the Turkish backed Free Syrian Army . <p> Second , there are about 10,000 ISIS fighters in the custody of SDF and about 50,000 family members , women and children of ISIS fighters in the custody of SDF . The SDF is under pressure to disarm by HTS and also by Turkey , which are the two important players . The only way SDF can survive is with the support of US . <p> So , the last point I want to make is that if US policy decides , if President Trump draws down from Syria , that would mean that SDF will collapse , and these ISIS fighter can escape , and the number is simply too large , which means that apart from Al-Qaeda aligned group ruling Damascus , we would also see ISIS rebuilding itself in Syria . So , the threat that Syria poses today , I would say this is much more than what Afghanistan posed in August 2021 . <p> Q : Let me also ask you about Israel 's next plan of action . They have gone after Iran 's proxies in the region . What could they do next ? <p> Gupta : If we look at where Israeli 's have succeeded . They have succeeded in , taking out top leadership of Hamas and Hezbollah . But we need to also look at the fact that Israel has not been able to free all the hostages . The fighting is still going on . I think after 14 months , the cease fire with Hezbollah was affected , because one month into ground operation , Israeli forces were facing heavy casualties , so that ceasefire is very tenuous . The point I 'm making is that these two fronts are already open for Israel . Third , in the last couple of days , Israel has mounted very serious air strikes into Yemen , hitting Houthi targets , as in the airport , etc . What does that tell us ? I think it tells us that probably , with the incoming US administration , Israel is now not too sure whether new administration and then President Trump will stay involved in manning the transportation through Red Sea because US led , coalition has been taking action against Houthis , preemptive and proactive . But now Israel is taking on that role , which probably tells us that they 're not sure that US will continue with that role . 
@@119333835 <p> " The world is on the brink of a major , major disaster . The prospects are catastrophic . And , I 'm not exaggerating at all , " says Gilbert Achcar , a Lebanese professor at SOAS , University of London . He points out that the world is hearing more about the possible use of nuclear weapons than it did during the Cold War . In an interview with Outlook on the West Asian crisis over Israel 's uncontrolled aggression backed by the US and other Western powers , he says that the episode has completely destroyed all Western pretence of the Rule of Law based on international standards . " It 's Jungle Rule . We live in a world where might is right . The Western hypocrisy over the Russia-Ukraine war and Israel 's war on Gaza has proved it beyond doubt , " he says . 
@@119333855 <p> In a year-end note to the employees , Tata Group chairman N Chandrasekaran shared his ambition of creating 5 lakh manufacturing jobs in the next five years as the company scales operations across sectors . In his New Year message , Chandrasekaran also called it " a new manufacturing golden age for India . " <p> In his opening note , Chandrasekaran called 2024 " another unpredictable year " marked by geopolitical instability and a slight brightening of the macroeconomic outlook . He also mentioned that he looks forward to 2025 with a sense of hope and optimism after a year marked by loss . <p> " Military conflicts in Ukraine , Gaza and Sudan raged on , exacerbating humanitarian crises in Europe , the Middle East and Africa . We also witnessed citizen-led movements in Bangladesh and South Korea , " the Tata Group chairman wrote . <h> Advertisement <p> Paying a heartfelt tribute to Ratan Tata , who passed away on October 9 , 2024 , Chandrasekaran called him a man whose personality , integrity and strategic vision shaped business for a generation . <h> 5 Lakh Jobs Creation <p> The chairman in his message further mentioned that while AI-led breakthroughs in healthcare and mobility can help the whole of humanity , manufacturing has the potential to transform our economy in India . He discussed that global supply chains continue to shift in India 's favour as the world 's largest businesses strike a new balance between resilience and efficiency . <h> Advertisement <p> He also underlined that amid relentless geopolitical instability , the equation has tilted firmly toward resilience -- and India , with its vast talent pool and growing manufacturing capacity , is poised to benefit . <p> " Our Group plans to create 500,000 manufacturing jobs over the next half-decade . These will come in part from the aforementioned investments in facilities across India -- factories and projects that will produce batteries , semiconductors , electric vehicles , solar equipment and other critical hardware destined to play a central role in the economy of tomorrow , " Chandrasekaran announced . <p> He asserted that this is in addition to many services jobs they expect to introduce across retail , tech services , airlines , and hospitality , among other sectors . According to the company website , the group has 10.28 lakh employees at present . <h> India 's Manufacturing Sector <p> Currently , India 's manufacturing sector is under pressure as its Purchasing Managers ' Index ( PMI ) fell to11-month 11 month low of 56.5 in the month of November , as per the HSBC final India Manufacturing PMI . However , it noted that the pace of growth remained above its long-run average . <p> In regards to employment , the survey underlined that factory employment in India increased for the ninth month in a row in November but the rate of job creation softened as compared to October . 
@@119346786 <p> Local sources reported that in the early hours of the morning , the Israeli forces surrounded the hospital with tanks from all sides under heavy cover from quadcopter machine guns . <p> Explosive devices had already been planted in the vicinity of the hospital . Four were set off near the northern gate , at the back entrance , causing damage to the compound and sparking fires in some of the buildings around it . <p> Israeli officers called on loudspeakers to the director of the hospital , Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , and for the injured and the patients to come out of the hospital within 15 minutes . This happened at about 7:15am 05:15 GMT . <p> The director of the Gaza Health Ministry confirmed that Israeli forces have stormed the northern Gaza hospital and forced out 350 people , including all the patients and staff who were there at that moment . <p> He said contact with the hospital was lost and the ambulances that went there did not return to deliver any news of what was going on . <p> The director added that the Israeli army burned down part of the hospital on Thursday . <p> Local sources also reported that fires broke out in parts of the Kamal Adwan Hospital following the evacuation order . According to the reports , the fires were located in the operating room , laboratory and emergency departments . <p> The fire began spreading to all buildings of Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza . <p> The Israeli army forced patients to leave the hospital at gunpoint and directed them to the Indonesian Hospital , which lacked all medical supplies . <p> Israeli occupation forces continue their deliberate targeting of the remaining healthcare system in northern Gaza , aiming for ethnic cleansing of the Palestinian people . <p> Health sources confirmed that the Israeli occupation has besieged 75 patients and injured individuals at Kamal Adwan Hospital , who are enduring difficult conditions after being forcibly evacuated from the hospital by the occupation . <p> The sources also added that Israeli occupation forces cut off the oxygen supply to the patients they detained in the hospital 's yard , stressing that they are at risk of death . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Repeated Attacks <p> The hospital was running out of any meaningful medical care , given the hardship and the fact the past two months have been very strict in terms of what can enter the northern part of Gaza as there is a complete siege , military siege , on the area with no humanitarian aid -- medical supplies , water , or life-sustaining resources -- available to people there because of the ongoing deliberate prevention by the Israeli military . <p> Survivor 's Eyewitness Details Israeli Assault on Kamal Adwan Hospital <p> An eyewitness has recounted harrowing details of the Israeli military assault on Kamal Adwan Hospital in Gaza . The assault on Kamal Adwan Hospital began at 2:30 a.m. with heavy artillery fire , drone strikes , and tank shelling . " We thought it was just another night like before , " the witness said . " But as dawn broke , we realized it was much worse . " <p> " The soldiers forced us onto Abu Al-Jidyan Street , following us with a tank , " the witness recounted . " They made us march until we reached Al-Farid Square , where they split us into men and women . " <p> Men were detained in two pits , while women were searched and some had their headscarves removed . " The soldiers beat us severely . It was unbearable , " the eyewitness added . <p> The forced march continued to Jabalia , with survivors navigating streets filled with rubble . Injured children wept and begged soldiers to let them rest . " The soldiers had no mercy . They made everyone walk , no matter their condition , " the witness said . <p> At Kamal Adwan Hospital , devastation was overwhelming . " Entire residential blocks were flattened , " the witness said . " We had to abandon personal belongings just to carry our children . " <p> In Fakhoura , the only structure left standing was Fakhoura School , which Israeli forces have turned into a detention site for displaced Palestinians . <p> The eyewitness also described the grim aftermath of an attack on Al-Safir residential building . " A young man tried to rescue a girl , who went there to look for her family . Soldiers shot him , and no one could reach any of them because of the Israeli targeting , " the witness said . <p> By morning , Israeli forces had burned sections of the hospital . Fires raged as patients and medical staff were forced out . Soldiers issued threats against Dr. Abu Safiya and conducted field interrogations at Fakhoura School . <p> " We call on the world to stop this war , " the eyewitness pleaded . " We are exhausted and ca n't take any more . " <h> Related Posts <p> " Israel is a strategic albatross around USA 's neck " John Mearsheimer . Since the onset of October 7th episode of Israel 's settler colonialism in Palestine , USA has granted approximately 22.76 Billion USD ... <p> Dozens of Palestinians including at least five medical workers were killed Thursday by an Israeli airstrike targeting a building opposite the besieged Kamal Adwan Hospital in the northern Gaza Strip , according to ... <p> At least three Palestinian infants have frozen to death in Gaza in recent days amid winter temperatures and inadequate shelter due to Israel 's 446-day U.S.-backed assault and blockade of the besieged coastal ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119346792 <h> Share : <p> Since the onset of October 7th episode of Israel 's settler colonialism in Palestine , USA has granted approximately 22.76 Billion USD in aid to Israel . Around 45,000 Palestinians have been butchered in the meantime by IDF ( costs of war report 2024 ) . What role has been played by the USA and Israel 's military alliance in this apartheid ? What level of strategic support has solidified itself between the two birds of a feather ? Who are the veiled beneficiaries of this inhumane brutality ? This article takes a morally suffocating ride to the depths of strategic deals covert as well as overt secured between the USA and Israel and strives to bring on surface the dark but true reality . <p> USA has granted almost 251.2 Billion USD to Israel in military and non-military aid since 1959 . It is incumbent to mention that this amount does not corroborate to the total amount of aid provided by US to Israel . When one brings the investigation square to Gaza genocide ( October 2023-present ) the total official aid surpasses the figure of 17 Billion USD ( 3.8 Billion FMF aid and 14.1 Billion approved by Biden administration in April 2024 ) . The aforementioned figure only represents the transactions that were successful in finding their way to the official spreadsheets . Prominent sources , however , report that Biden administration has ratified more than 100 arms deals with Israel which did not pass the required threshold to be notified to the Congress . Therefore , it is inauspicious to comment on the exact amount of aid delivered to Israel since October 7 ( costs of war report 2024 ) . <p> The military aid to Israel is provided through various channels of US administration . Foremost , the USA has signed a MOU with Israel for a period of ten years ( 2019-2028 ) under the Foreign Military Financing ( FMF ) programs which provides for annual military installment of 3.8 Billion USD to Israel . Along with that , the military aid arrives from existing US stocks in Israel , including the multi-billion-dollar WRSA-I stocks of USA located in Israel , commercial sales approved by the state department , Foreign military sales ( FMS ) approved by state , FMF , and Excess defense Articles ( EDA ) which allows other states for purchasing used systems of US force for free or on steeply discounted prices . <p> Mearsheimer iterates in an interview , as mentioned earlier , that Israel is a strategic albatross around USA 's neck . Why is it then that the strongest state of the world so docilly accepts this albatross around its neck ? For the answer to this ambiguity , one must look at the notorious Military industrial complex ( MIC ) of the USA . The strategic albatross , though provided with annual military aid installment from US , is required to spend the majority of that aid on purchases from the US military companies under the very text of the abovementioned MOU . Therefore , dozens of US military companies earn a vast profit from Israel 's bloody adventures in the Middle East . <p> Boeing , one of the US military companies , has made transactions of almost 1000 small diameter bombs and 1800 Joint Direct Attack Munition ( JDAM ) kits to Israel . Furthermore , the air -to-surface missiles for F-16 , and F-15 fighter jet engines of Israel are purchased from RTX . In addition , RTX and Israeli weapons company run a joint venture named Rafael for the production of interceptors for Israel 's Iron Dome . The metal bodies for the MK-80 bomb series ( the primary aerial munitions used by Israel in Gaza ) are developed by General Dynamics . Caterpillar , another US military company , sells D9 armored bulldozer which has been employed by the IDF to discombobulate Palestinian homes and infrastructure in the occupied West Bank and the Israel 's ground invasion of the Gaza strip . ( costs of war report 2024 ) <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> In the realm of strategic studies , one comes across multiple cases of military ties between different state allies , but the one between the USA and Israel stands peculiarly outlandish to the normal trend . Howbeit , upon a much deeper and holistic analysis , one comes close to locate the possible cause for this peculiarity : a symbiotic relationship between the war industry of the USA and the states fervently ambitious to quench their thirsts of Machiavellian endeavors . The aforementioned statistics are just one chapter in the many volumes ' odyssey of wars , genocides , civil strife , and terrorism all around the world , all finding their strings advertently attached to the iniquitous war industry of the USA . <p> Madiha Fatima , student of International Relations at National Defense University , Islamabad , Pakistan . She holds profound interest in post-colonialsm , international law , and foreign policy <p> Dozens of Palestinians including at least five medical workers were killed Thursday by an Israeli airstrike targeting a building opposite the besieged Kamal Adwan Hospital in the northern Gaza Strip , according to ... <p> At least three Palestinian infants have frozen to death in Gaza in recent days amid winter temperatures and inadequate shelter due to Israel 's 446-day U.S.-backed assault and blockade of the besieged coastal ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119346796 <h> Share : <p> Dozens of Palestinians including at least five medical workers were killed Thursday by an Israeli airstrike targeting a building opposite the besieged Kamal Adwan Hospital in the northern Gaza Strip , according to health officials in the embattled coastal enclave , who also said yet another baby froze to death there . <p> Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) troops have been besieging and attacking Kamal Adwan since October as part of what one leading Israeli scholar called a campaign of " ethnic cleansing " meant to clear northern Gaza of Palestinians and establish an at least semi-permanent Israeli presence there , with an eye on possible future re-colonization and annexation . <p> An IDF officer recently toldHaaretz that one commander , Brig . Gen. Yehuda Vach , seeks to personally execute the so-called Generals ' Plan -- a blueprint for the starvation and ethnic cleansing of Palestinians from northern Gaza -- by besieging and expelling 250,000 Palestinians from the area . <p> Kamal Adwan staff have defiantly remained at work even as the IDF steps up its attacks on the facility with artillery , drones , bullets , and remote-controlled bombs . <p> The director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , one of Gaza 's last partially functioning hospitals , pleads for help before it 's ' too late ' as Israeli forces have surrounded the medical facility . <p> " Yesterday we went through a difficult night that no one can imagine . At dawn , there was violent and direct targeting of the intensive care unit , " Dr. Muhammad Barid toldMondoweiss from inside the ICU at the hospital on Tuesday . " Shells fell and set fires inside the department . The department is crowded with cases because the intensive care unit in Kamal Adwan Hospital is the only department operating in the northern Gaza Strip . " <p> Mondoweiss also interviewed Abu Safia , who vowed that " we will leave when the last Palestinian leaves the northern Gaza Strip . " <p> " We will stay and serve those who are here , " he added . " This is a humanitarian mission , and our message to the world is that we deliver humanitarian care and should not be obstructed . We committed ourselves to providing for those in need , and we will fulfill our oath as doctors here at Kamal Adwan Hospital . " <p> **26;1010;TOOLONG absolutely heartbreaking ... Kamal Adwan is being besieged and shot at as babies and sick patients still inside . May the pits of hell open to swallow " israel " whole <p> Dr. Ahmed Al-Farra , head of pediatrics and obstetrics at Nasser Hospital , stated that in the past 72 hours , four Gazan newborns , who were seeking refuge with their families in tents in the Mawasi area of Khan Yunis , southern Gaza , have died . <p> Since the Hamas-led attack of October 7 , 2023 , Israeli forces have killed or wounded at least 153,000 Palestinians in Gaza , with more than 11,000 others missing and presumed dead and buried beneath rubble , according to local and international officials . Most of Gaza 's 2.3 million people have been forcibly displaced -- many of them multiple times -- and hundreds of thousands more have been starved or sickened due to the war and Israel 's " complete siege . " <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Israel 's conduct in the 447-day war is the subject of an International Court of Justice genocide case , and the International Criminal Court has issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , former Israeli Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , and Hamas leader Mohammed Diab Ibrahim Al-Masri for alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity . <p> At least three Palestinian infants have frozen to death in Gaza in recent days amid winter temperatures and inadequate shelter due to Israel 's 446-day U.S.-backed assault and blockade of the besieged coastal ... <p> Western Leaders Watch the Israeli Massacres as Spectators President Biden and Secretary Blinken knew and witnessed the ferocious and tragic abnormality of Israeli planned killing of civilians and genocide in Gaza ... <p> There is so much conflict around the world accompanied by brutal killings and destruction . Often these conflicts are simplistically dismissed as religious rivalries , competing ethnic claims , caste-based oppression and racism , Some ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119349706 <p> World Health Organization ( WHO ) Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and other UN staff members were present at the international airport in Sanaa when an Israeli airstrike hit it . <p> Ghebreyesus confirmed the development on his X page when he wrote : " Our mission to negotiate the release of @UN staff detainees and to assess the health and humanitarian situation in #Yemen concluded today . We continue to call for the detainees ' immediate release . " <p> He said he was present at the airport to board a flight . <p> " As we were about to board our flight from Sana'a , about two hours ago , the airport came under aerial bombardment , " he said . <p> Our mission to negotiate the release of @UN staff detainees and to assess the health and humanitarian situation in #Yemen concluded today . We continue to call for the detainees ' immediate release . <p> " One of our plane 's crew members was injured . At least two people were reported killed at the airport . The air traffic control tower , the departure lounge -- just a few meters from where we were -- and the runway were damaged , " the WHO chief said . <p> According to CNN , the strike at Sanaa International Airport left at least three people dead and 30 others injured . <p> The Israeli Defense Forces on Thursday said its fighter jets conducted intelligence-based strikes on military targets belonging to the Houthi terrorist regime on the western coast and inland Yemen . <p> " The Houthi terrorist regime has repeatedly attacked the State of Israel and its citizens , including in UAV and surface-to-surface missile attacks on Israeli territory , " IDF posted on X. <p> The defence forces said the targets that the IDF struck include military infrastructure used by the Houthi terrorist regime for its military activities in both the Sana'a International Airport and the Hezyaz and Ras Kanatib power stations . <p> The IDF said : " In addition , the IDF struck military infrastructure in the Al-Hudaydah , Salif and Ras Kanatib ports on the western coast . " <p> Meanwhile , The Times of Israel reported quoting Houthi-controlled Saba news agency that six people were killed in the strikes -- three at the airport and three in Hodeida -- while 40 others were wounded in the attacks . <p> Hezam al-Asad , a member of the Houthi political council , threatened Israel and wrote on X : " The Israeli attacks on some power stations and facilities at the airport and port reflect the state of weakness and bankruptcy that afflicts this defeated entity . " <p> " Our operations continue to destroy the dens of the occupying Zionist enemy in its strategic depth in the Greater Jaffa area ' Gush Dan ' and various areas until it stops killing our children in Gaza , " he said . <p> Gus Dan is a metropolitan area located in Israel . <p> The UN Secretary-General on Thursday condemned the deadly escalation between Yemen and Israel , following Israeli airstrikes that struck critical civilian infrastructure in the country . <p> The strikes targeted Sana'a International Airport , Red Sea ports , and power stations , injuring also a member of the UN Humanitarian Air Crew at the airport . <p> " Today 's airstrikes follow around a year of escalatory actions by the Houthis in the Red Sea and the region that threaten civilians , regional stability and freedom of maritime navigation , " St ? phanie Tremblay , a UN spokesperson , said in a statement . <p> She added that Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres remains deeply concerned about the risk of further escalation and has urged all parties to cease military actions and exercise restraint . <p> " He also warns that airstrikes on Red Sea ports and Sana'a airport pose grave risks to humanitarian operations at a time when millions of people are in need of life-saving assistance , " Tremblay said . <h> Support Our Journalism <p> IBNS is not driven by any ism- not wokeism , not racism , not skewed secularism , not hyper right-wing or left liberal ideals , nor by any hardline religious beliefs or hyper nationalism . We want to serve you good old objective news , as they are . We do not judge or preach . We let people decide for themselves . We only try to present factual and well-sourced news . 
@@119355358 <p> Jerusalem : Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned that Houthi forces in Yemen would face consequences similar to those experienced by other anti-Israel groups . <p> " The Houthis , too , will learn what Hamas , Hezbollah , the Assad regime , and others have learned , and even if it takes time , this lesson will be understood across the Middle East , " Netanyahu said in a video statement . Earlier on Wednesday , Houthi forces launched a ground-to-ground missile toward Israel for the second consecutive day . In the evening , they fired a drone , which crashed into an open field in southern Israel , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> Israel is reportedly weighing a new large-scale strike against Houthi forces in Yemen , following a series of retaliatory missile and drone launches attributed to the Houthis . <p> On Tuesday , Israel 's state-owned Kan TV reported that the military has been preparing for a potential operation . Citing senior security officials , Kan TV said the Israeli Air Force , Military Intelligence , and Operations Directorate have been " developing significantly more aggressive plans and expanding the target database " across Yemen after the previous attack last week . <p> Since October last year , Houthi forces have launched sporadic missile and drone attacks on Israel , citing solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza . Israel has responded with several large-scale airstrikes , the most recent of which occurred last week , resulting in at least nine deaths . <p> Yemen 's Houthi group later said they launched two drones at the Israeli cities of Tel Aviv and Ashkelon on Wednesday , targeting " vital " and " industrial " areas . <p> " We carried out two military operations , the first of which targeted a vital and sensitive zone in Tel Aviv city . The second operation targeted the industrial zone in Ashkelon city , " Houthi military spokesperson Yahya Sarea said in a statement . ( IANS ) 
@@119358976 <h> The head of the nursing department at the hospital , Eid Sabbah , said that at around 7 pm , the military gave the administration 15 minutes to evacuate patients and staff into its courtyard . <p> Israeli forces evacuated one of northern Gaza 's last functioning hospitals on Friday ( Dec 27 ) , according to the medics . Further , all kinds of communications were disabled with Palestinian medical staff , patients and journalists . <p> Advertisment <p> Kamal Adwan Hospital located in Beit Lahiya , northern Gaza , was evacuated by the Israeli occupation forces . <p> The head of the nursing department at the hospital , Eid Sabbah , said that at around 7 pm , the military gave the administration 15 minutes to evacuate patients and staff into its courtyard . <p> Following this , the Israeli military entered the hospital and evacuated the remaining patients , Sabbah said . <p> Earlier today , the Israeli military said that it was carrying out an operation in the area of the hospital , which it called a " Hamas terrorist stronghold " . <p> It added that the troops had " facilitated the secure evacuation of civilians , patients and medical personnel " from the hospital before beginning the operation . <p> Advertisment <p> The Israeli military , however , did not mention where the patients would be taken . However , earlier this week , an Israeli official said that they intend to relocate the people at the Kamal Adwan Hospital to the nearby Indonesian hospital . <p> " It 's dangerous because there are patients in the ICU department in a coma and in need of ventilation machines and moving them will put them in danger , " Dr Sabbah said , adding , " If the army intends to continue removing these patients , they will need specialised vehicles . " <p> This comes a day after an Israeli air strike on the hospital killed approximately 50 people , including five Palestinians staff members of the hospital . <p> A building opposite the hospital was targeted by Israeli warplanes , Dr Hussam Abu Safiya said , adding that the attack led to the death of a paediatrician and a lab technician , as well as their families . <p> " It is because of Hamas throwing up obstacles or refusing to move on any of these details that we are still not at a conclusion , " Kirby says during a press briefing . <p> " We 're very , very close , " he added . <p> Disclaimer : WION takes the utmost care to accurately and responsibly report conflicts in West Asia involving Israel , Iran , Syria , Iraq , and non-state actors like the Islamic State , among others . In this context , claims and counterclaims are being made online and offline . WION can not independently verify the authenticity of all statements , social media posts , photos , and videos . 
@@119367240 <h> WHO Chief Tedros Ghebreyesus and a UN team narrowly escaped an Israeli attack on the main airport of the Yemeni capital Sanaa on Thursday . <p> World Health Organisation ( WHO ) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus shared a video of him barely escaping an Israeli attack on Yemen , just as he was about to board a flight there . <p> Israel unleashed a series of airstrikes on the Yemeni capital Sanaa and the western city of Hodeidah on Thursday , killing at least six people and injuring dozens more . The airstrikes also struck Yemen 's main airport as a civilian Airbus 320 with hundreds of passengers was landing and a UN delegation was preparing to leave . <h> related stories <p> The video uploaded by Ghebreyesus showed him and about 15 others in the VIP lounge at the international airport rushing out of there mere minutes before an Israeli strike hit the airport 's control tower . The strike landed just 300 metres from the VIP lounge , marking a narrow escape that would have otherwise likely triggered another international incident . <p> " Thank you to all my friends , colleagues , and everyone who has wished me well during the ordeal in the past few days . I 'm especially grateful to the colleagues and airport staff , who were selfless as they tried to protect me , " Ghebreyesus said on X. <p> Thank you to all my friends , colleagues , and everyone who has wished me well during the ordeal in the past few days.I 'm especially grateful to the colleagues and airport staff , who were selfless as they tried to protect me . <p> " We faced a very dangerous attack , but my UN colleagues and I are now safe . We successfully evacuated our wounded colleague to Amman , and he is stable . My heart goes out to our colleagues on the front lines and the civilians who face such danger every day , " he added . <p> The WHO chief said he was back on his way to Geneva and UN 's top humanitarian official Julien Harneis told reporters that Ghebreyesus and the UN team , including an injured crew member , were able to depart for Jordan on Friday afternoon and that Ghebreyesus was heading back to Geneva . <p> Earlier , Ghebreyesus said the airport came under heavy bombardment and one of the UN plane 's crew members was injured . " At least two people were reported killed at the airport . The air traffic control tower , the departure lounge -- just a few meters from where we were -- and the runway were damaged . " <p> Our mission to negotiate the release of @UN staff detainees and to assess the health and humanitarian situation in #Yemen concluded today . We continue to call for the detainees ' immediate release.As we were about to board our flight from Sana'a , about two hours ago , the airport ... **26;278;TOOLONG <p> The Israeli Army said it was not aware that the WHO chief or the UN delegation was present at the Sanaa airport on Thursday . The military said it attacked infrastructure used by Yemen 's Houthi rebels at the international airport in the capital Sanaa , as well as power stations and ports , alleging they were used to smuggle in Iranian weapons and for the entry of senior Iranian officials . <p> Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus was in the country to discuss its worsening humanitarian crisis and to seek the release of about 50 people detained by the Houthis since June from the UN , nongovernmental organisations and civil society . As per the UN , about 18 million Yemeni civilians , about half the population , needed humanitarian assistance this year . <p> Israel 's latest wave of strikes in Yemen follows several days of Houthi launches setting off air-raid sirens in Israel . The Houthis have also been targeting shipping in the Red Sea corridor , calling it solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza , and disrupting one of the world 's main maritime routes . <p> Yemen is the Arab world 's poorest nation and has been engulfed in a 10-year civil war between the Houthi rebels , who control Sanaa and much of the country 's north , and the internationally recognised government forces in the south . <h> top videos <p> Meanwhile , Israel 's war in Gaza has killed over 45,000 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , which does not distinguish between fighters and civilians in its count . 
@@119367996 <h> One in 5 children in world living in conflict-affected areas : UN <p> Palestinians receive cooked food rations as part of a volunteer initiative in a makeshift displacement camp in Mawasi Khan Yunis in the besieged Gaza Strip on September 3 , 2024 , amid the ongoing war between Israel and the Palestinian Hamas movement . ( Photo by Bashar TALEB / AFP ) <p> Almost one in five children in the world is living in conflict-affected areas . Since World War II , over 473 million children have been suffering from brutal violence , according to the United Nations . <p> The percentage of children living in conflict zones has increased twofold from nearly 10 percent in the 1990s to around 19 percent , around the world , as per the Unicef , UN humanitarian aid organisation for children . <p> Unicef also warned that this substantial surge in harm to children should not become the " new normal . " <p> Unicef reported that the number of conflicts worldwide has reached its highest level since 1945 , leaving children increasingly vulnerable . According to its most recent data from 2023 , the UN recorded 32,990 grave violations affecting 22,557 children -- a record high since the Security Council began monitoring the impact of war on children nearly two decades ago . <p> After almost 15 months of Israel 's war in Gaza , the estimated death toll is over 45,000 . The UN said that out of the verified cases , 44 percent were children . <p> The UN further said that during the first nine months of 2024 , then throughout all of 2023 , it had verified more child casualties , and forecasted more surge in 2025 . <p> Unicef 's executive director , Catherine Russell said , " By almost every measure , 2024 has been one of the worst years on record for children in conflict in Unicef 's history -- both in terms of the number of children affected and the level of impact on their lives . " <p> " A child growing up in a conflict zone is far more likely to be out of school , malnourished , or forced from their home -- too often repeatedly -- compared with a child living in places of peace , " Russell added . <p> " This must not be the new normal . We can not allow a generation of children to become collateral damage to the world 's unchecked wars , " he stated . <p> Amongst the worldwide reports of sexual violence in conflicts , Unicef draws notice to the plight of women and girls . It said , there had been a 1000 percent increase in sexual violence against children in Haiti throughout 2024 alone . <p> It further pointed out that by malnutrition in times of war , children were mostly affected , which is especially a fatal menace to Sudan and Gaza . <p> Conflict severely impacts children 's access to healthcare and education . Nearly 40% of children who are unvaccinated or under-vaccinated live in countries affected by conflict , leaving them highly vulnerable to disease outbreaks like measles and polio . In July , polio was detected in Gaza for the first time in 25 years . A UN-led vaccination campaign , conducted during temporary and partial ceasefires , successfully reached over 90% of Gaza 's child population . <p> Unicef revealed that over 52 million children in conflict-affected regions were deprived of education . It noted that most children in the Gaza Strip and a large number in Sudan had missed more than a year of schooling . In other conflict zones , such as Ukraine , the Democratic Republic of the Congo , and Syria , schools have been damaged , destroyed , or repurposed , leaving millions without access to education . <p> Unicef said , " The impact on children 's mental health is also huge . " <p> A recent study backed by the War Child reported that 96 percent of children in Gaza believed their death was approaching and due to the trauma they had endured , nearly half of them wanted to die . <p> Russell further said , " Children in war zones face a daily struggle for survival that deprives them of a childhood . " <p> " Their schools are bombed , homes destroyed , and families torn apart . They lose not only their safety and access to basic life-sustaining necessities , but also their chance to play , to learn , and to simply be children . The world is failing these children . As we look towards 2025 , we must do more to turn the tide and save and improve the lives of children , " he added . 
@@119368049 <h> Israel detains director of one of northern Gaza 's last functioning hospitals during raid <p> PTI Updated : December 28 , 2024 23:04 IST <p> Deir al-Balah ( Gaza Strip ) , Dec 28 ( AP ) Israel 's army detained the director of one of northern Gaza 's last functioning hospitals as overnight strikes elsewhere in the territory killed nine people , including children , Palestinian medical officials said on Saturday . Israel 's military alleged that Hamas militants were using the facility and said over 240 people were detained . Gaza 's Health Ministry said Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , was arrested on Friday along with dozens of other staff and taken to an interrogation centre . The ministry said Israeli troops stormed the hospital and forced many staff and patients outside and told them to strip in winter weather , according to the ministry . Israel 's military on Saturday confirmed it detained the hospital director and called him a suspected Hamas operative while providing no evidence . It said it encircled the hospital and special forces entered and found weapons in the area . It said militants fired on its forces and they were " eliminated " . On Friday , the military denied it had entered or set fire to the hospital complex but acknowledged it had ordered people outside . The military repeated claims that Hamas militants operate inside Kamal Adwan but provided no evidence . Hospital officials have denied that . The hospital has been hit multiple times over the past three months by Israeli troops waging an offensive in largely isolated northern Gaza against Hamas fighters it says have regrouped . The health ministry said a strike on the hospital earlier this week killed five medical personnel . MedGlobal , the humanitarian organization for which Abu Safiya worked , said Friday it was gravely concerned about him . It said the incident follows the October detention of five other staff , calling it an " alarming and egregious pattern of targeting medical personnel and spaces " . Israel 's nearly 15-month-old campaign of bombardment and ground offensives has devastated Gaza 's health sector . The World Health Organisation has said the raid on Kamal Adwan has put northern Gaza 's last major health facility " out of service " after growing restrictions on access , adding that " this horror must end and health care must be protected " . The Health Ministry said conditions for Kamal Adwan patients who were relocated to the damaged Indonesian Hospital nearby -- also raided in the past -- were " extremely difficult " . The Israeli military statement on Saturday said 350 patients along with medical personnel had been evacuated from Kamal Adwan in recent weeks , and another 95 patients , caregivers , and medical personnel were evacuated to the Indonesian Hospital during the operation . It also said it had provided fuel and medical supplies to both hospitals . The war has killed more than 45,400 Palestinians , over half of them women and children , and wounded more than 108,000 others , according to the Health Ministry . Its count does not distinguish between civilians and combatants . Since October , Israel 's offensive has virtually sealed off the northern Gaza areas of Jabaliya , Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahiya and leveled large parts of them . Tens of thousands of Palestinians were forced out but thousands are believed to remain in the area where Kamal Adwan and two other hospitals are located . Israel has vowed to destroy Hamas after the militants ' October 7 , 2023 , attack on southern Israel in which they killed around 1,200 people and abducted some 250 others . Some 100 Israelis remain captive in Gaza , and around a third are believed to be dead . Israel continued attacks across Gaza on Saturday . An overnight strike killed at least nine people in Maghazi , including women and children , according to staff at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital where they were taken and an Associated Press reporter who saw the bodies . Men cried as the bodies , wrapped in bloodied white plastic , lay on the floor of the morgue . The Health Ministry said on Saturday that 48 people had been killed in the past 24 hours by Israeli fire . Meanwhile , Israel said its troops had begun operating in the northern city of Beit Hanoun , citing intelligence that fighters and Hamas infrastructure were in the area . Strikes also continued in Israel . Air raid sirens sounded early Saturday and the military said it intercepted a missile fired by Yemen 's Iran-backed Houthi rebels . Israeli warplanes bombed key infrastructure in Yemen again on Thursday . The Houthis also have been attacking shipping in the Red Sea and say they wo n't stop until Israel agrees to a ceasefire in Gaza . ( AP ) PYPY <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI ) 
@@119368079 <h> Tensions Surge as Israeli Forces Raid Gaza Hospital <h> Israeli forces conducted a raid on a Gaza hospital , detaining over 240 individuals , including medical staff and the hospital 's director under suspicion of Hamas involvement . This has intensified tensions , with allegations of ethnic cleansing . The raid has incapacitated Gaza 's last major health facility , with the health system under threat . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> In a dramatic escalation of tensions , Israeli forces raided a Gaza hospital on Friday , detaining more than 240 people , including medical personnel and the director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , whom they suspect of having ties to Hamas . The Gaza Health Ministry expressed deep concerns about the welfare of the detained director , accusing Israeli forces of violence during the operation . <p> The Israeli military justified its actions by alleging that the hospital was used as a Hamas command center , thus making it a legitimate target . Hamas dismissed these claims as unfounded , maintaining that their fighters were not operating from the hospital amid the protracted Gaza conflict . As a result of the raid , the Kamal Adwan Hospital has ceased operations , putting a severe strain on the already beleaguered healthcare system in northern Gaza , which services thousands of Palestinians . <p> The World Health Organization and other international bodies have criticized the raid , describing it as a significant blow to health infrastructure in the region . Meanwhile , amidst ongoing military operations and accusations of ethnic cleansing , civilians in northern Gaza continue to face evacuation orders and heightened insecurity . The conflict , precipitated by a Hamas attack in October , has led to substantial casualties and displacement among the Palestinian population . 
@@119368095 <h> Tensions Escalate : Israeli Forces Raid Gaza Hospital <h> The Israeli military raided Kamal Adwan Hospital in Gaza , detaining medical staff and putting the facility out of service . The raid has intensified ongoing tensions , with accusations of war crimes amid the conflict . The incident highlights the dire health situation and humanitarian crisis in Gaza . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> Israeli forces have come under scrutiny after conducting a raid on Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya , located in northern Gaza . Dozens of medical staff were detained , including the hospital 's director , Hussam Abu Safiya , raising concerns about their treatment and wellbeing . <p> Officials from Gaza 's Health Ministry expressed uncertainty over Abu Safiya 's situation but noted reports that he had been assaulted . The World Health Organisation stated that the raid rendered the hospital , a crucial medical facility in the region , non-operational . <p> The Israeli military alleges that the hospital was a Hamas stronghold , accusations which Hamas denies . Amidst the tense backdrop of ongoing conflict , Gaza faces severe humanitarian challenges , exacerbated by ongoing military actions and territorial displacements . 
@@119368152 <h> Thousands of children have been killed and injured in Gaza , and in Ukraine , the UN verified more child casualties during the first 9 months of 2024 than during all of 2023 . <p> Conflicts are also having devastating effect on children 's access to critical healthcare . Image Credit : <p> SHARE <p> The impact of armed conflicts on children around the world reached devastating and likely record levels in 2024 , according to an assessment by the UN Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) . <p> The study , released on Friday , finds that the rights of a record number of children are being violated , including by being killed and injured , missing out of school and life-saving vaccines , and being critically malnourished ; the number is only expected to grow . <p> From Palestine to Myanmar , Haiti to Sudan , the world is experiencing the highest number of conflicts since the World War II . Almost 19 per cent of the world 's children -- over 473 million -- now live in conflict zones , and 47.2 million have been displaced by conflict and violence . <p> Thousands of children have been killed and injured in Gaza , and in Ukraine , the UN verified more child casualties during the first 9 months of 2024 than during all of 2023 . <p> There have been widespread reports of rape and sexual violence against women and girls in conflict settings . <p> In Haiti , so far this year , there has been a 1,000 per cent increase in reported incidents of sexual violence against children . In situations of armed conflict , children with disabilities also tend to be disproportionately exposed to violence and rights violations . <h> Education severely disrupted <p> More than 52 million children in countries affected by conflict are estimated to be out of school . <p> Children in the Gaza Strip , and a significant portion of children in Sudan , have missed out on more than a year of education , while in countries such as Ukraine , the Democratic Republic of the Congo , and Syria , schools have been damaged , destroyed or repurposed , leaving millions of children without access to learning . <p> The destruction of educational infrastructure and insecurity near schools have exacerbated an already dire situation for children 's education in these regions . <h> Malnutrition and famine <p> Malnutrition among children in conflict zones has also risen to alarming levels , as conflict and armed violence continue to be the primary drivers of hunger in numerous hotspots , disrupting food systems , displacing populations , and obstructing humanitarian access . <p> For example , in Sudan , famine was declared in North Darfur , the first famine determination since 2017 . In 2024 , more than half a million people in five conflict-affected countries are estimated to be living in the most extreme food insecurity situations . <h> Healthcare threatened <p> Conflicts are also having devastating effect on children 's access to critical healthcare . <p> Around 40 per cent of unvaccinated and under-vaccinated children live in countries that are either partially or entirely affected by conflict . <p> These children are often the most vulnerable to disease outbreaks like measles and polio , because of disruptions and lack of access to security , nutrition , and health services . <p> The impact on children 's mental health is also huge ; exposure to violence , destruction and the loss of loved ones can result in reactions such as depression , nightmares and difficulty sleeping , aggressive or withdrawn behaviour , sadness and fear , among others . <h> This must not be the new normal <p> " By almost every measure , 2024 has been one of the worst years on record for children in conflict in UNICEF 's history -- both in terms of the number of children affected and the level of impact on their lives , " said UNICEF Executive Director Catherine Russell . <p> " A child growing up in a conflict zone is far more likely to be out of school , malnourished , or forced from their home -- too often repeatedly -- compared to a child living in places of peace . This must not be the new normal . We can not allow a generation of children to become collateral damage to the world 's unchecked wars . " 
@@119368162 <h> Conflict Escalates as Hospital Raid Sparks International Concern <h> Israeli forces detained over 240 Palestinians , including medical staff and the hospital director , during a raid on a Gaza hospital . Israel claims the hospital served as a Hamas command center , while Hamas refutes allegations . International organizations urge protection of Gaza 's remaining health facilities amidst ongoing conflict . <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> In a dramatic escalation , Israeli forces detained over 240 Palestinians during a raid on a Gaza hospital , sparking international concern . Among those detained were medical staff and the hospital director , Hussam Abu Safiya , who , according to freed staff , was beaten by soldiers . <p> The Israeli military claims the hospital was used as a command center for Hamas military operations , leading to the detentions . Meanwhile , Hamas disputes these assertions , urging international intervention to protect medical facilities from such accusations . <p> The World Health Organization condemned the raid , highlighting the crippling impact on Gaza 's healthcare system . As tensions heighten , much of northern Gaza has been evacuated or destroyed , with accusations of ethnic cleansing looming over Israel 's military actions . 
@@119369449 <h> The Palestinian death toll from ongoing Israeli attacks on the Gaza Strip has risen to 45,484 , with 108,090 others injured , the Gaza-based health authorities said in a statement on Saturday . <p> The Palestinian death toll from ongoing Israeli attacks on the Gaza Strip has risen to 45,484 , with 108,090 others injured , the Gaza-based health authorities said in a statement on Saturday . <p> The rise in the number of fatalities came after 48 more Palestinians in the past 24 hours by Israeli strikes . <p> At least nine Palestinians were killed and dozens of others wounded in an Israeli airstrike on a house in the Maghazi refugee camp in central Gaza Strip on Saturday , Palestinian sources said . <p> Local sources and eyewitnesses said an Israeli aircraft bombed a house on the outskirts of Maghazi camp with at least one missile . <p> The Israeli army did not comment on the raid . <p> Israeli army spokesperson Avichay Adraee said in a press statement on Saturday that Israeli forces began operating at night against " terrorist targets in the Beit Hanoun area in light of prior intelligence information about the presence of a number of terrorists and terrorist facilities in the area . " <p> Before the forces entered , Israeli fighter jets , in cooperation with artillery fire , attacked " several terrorist targets in the area , including terrorist gathering points and other terrorist facilities belonging to the Hamas terrorist organization , " according to the statement . 
@@119378868 <h> Israeli Forces Abduct North Gaza 's Kamal Adwan Hospital Director <h> Share : <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - Gaza 's Health Ministry confirmed on Saturday that Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , the director of Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , has been abducted by Israeli occupation forces following a raid on the last remaining medical facility in the area . <p> In a statement on Saturday morning , the Ministry said Abu Safiya has been arrested by the Israeli forces . Abu Safiya 's fate was unknown . <p> On Friday morning , Israeli soldiers stormed Kamal Adwan Hospital , torching large sections and ordering hundreds of people to leave . <p> The Ministry said that contact had been lost with staff inside the hospital in Beit Lahiya , which has been under siege and heavy pressure from Israeli forces for weeks . It had no information on the fate of patients who were inside , it added . <p> The Israeli army issued a statement confirming it launched a raid on the Kamal Adwan Hospital , claiming without evidence that the medical facility " serves as a Hamas terrorist stronghold in northern Gaza " . <p> The Ministry said Kamal Adwan is " suffering from a stifling siege , as the operating and surgery departments , laboratory , maintenance , ambulance units and warehouses have been completely burned " . <p> The Ministry also added , " the Israeli occupation army is forcibly transferring patients and the injured under the threat of weapons and gun barrels to the Indonesian Hospital , which lacks medical supplies , water , medicines , and even electricity and generators . " <p> Munir al-Bursh , the director of the Ministry , said the Israeli army had ordered 350 people to leave Kamal Adwan for a nearby school sheltering displaced families . This included 75 patients , their companions , and 185 medical staff . <p> Last night , the Ministry reported that Israeli forces took dozens of Kamal Adwan Hospital staff , including Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , to a detention center for interrogation . This followed threats made against the director , warning him of arrest if he did not comply with their orders . <p> " Too Late " <p> On Monday , Abu Safiya urged the international community to act " before it is too late " , calling the situation " horrifying " . <p> He said obeying an Israeli order to empty the facility would be " next to impossible " because nearly 400 civilians remain inside , including babies who need oxygen and incubators . <p> " The bombing continues from all directions , affecting the building , the departments and the staff . This is a serious and extremely horrifying situation , " Abu Safiya said . <p> Abu Safiya said : " The world must understand that our hospital is being targeted with the intent to kill and forcibly displace us , " adding that the Israeli bombing did not stop throughout Sunday night , destroying homes and surrounding buildings . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> " We urge the international community to intervene quickly and stop this fierce assault on us to protect the healthcare system , the workers and the patients within it , " the hospital director said . <p> The hospital was running out of any meaningful medical care , given the hardship and the fact the past two months have been very strict in terms of what can enter the northern part of Gaza as there is a complete siege , military siege , on the area with no humanitarian aid -- medical supplies , water , or life-sustaining resources -- available to people there because of the ongoing deliberate prevention by the Israeli military . <p> Today is Vakkom Moulavi 's 151st Birth Anniversary Vakkom Moulavi ( 1873 -- 1932 ) , a visionary social reformer and intellectual from Kerala , engaged deeply with both local and global issues during the early twentieth ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119378869 <h> Vakkom Moulavi and the Question of Palestine : A Reflection on Jerusalem 's Sacred Legacy <h> Share : <p> Vakkom Moulavi ( 1873 -- 1932 ) , a visionary social reformer and intellectual from Kerala , engaged deeply with both local and global issues during the early twentieth century . Known primarily for his efforts to reform the Muslim community in Kerala , Moulavi 's influence extended far beyond regional boundaries . His sharp observations on international affairs , particularly the evolving war situation in Europe , the Palestine question etc. , reflected a profound understanding of the socio-political transformations taking place across the Ottoman Empire , Europe , and Asia . <p> At a time when the fate of Jerusalem ( Baitul Muqaddas ) was becoming a matter of increasing global contention , Moulavi came out with a writing , articulating the concerns of the broader Arab world . In the eighth issue of his journal Muslim ( 1913 ) , Moulavi published an article titled " Baitul Muqaddas and Jews , " which discussed the aspirations of Zionist factions and the unfolding geopolitical struggle over Palestine . His reflections predated the Balfour Declaration of 1917 by three years , highlighting his ability to anticipate political developments that would later reshape the region . <p> In fully appreciating the significance of Moulavi 's insights , it is essential to situate his work within the broader historical context of the late Ottoman period , when Palestine 's future became increasingly precarious . <p> Ottoman-Zionist Relations and Arab Fears <p> In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries , Zionist leaders , most notably Theodor Herzl , actively pursued agreements with the Ottoman Sultan , Abdul Hamid II , seeking permission for large-scale Jewish immigration and settlement in Palestine . Herzl 's proposals included offers of financial assistance and political support in exchange for a Jewish homeland . However , despite these persistent overtures , Sultan Abdul Hamid consistently rejected such proposals , emphasising Palestine 's sacred status . The Sultan 's refusal to sell land or accommodate Zionist aspirations was grounded in the belief that Palestine was not merely Ottoman territory but a trust of the Muslim world . <p> This resistance translated into concrete policies . The Ottoman administration issued a series of decrees limiting Jewish immigration and land acquisition , reflecting an acute awareness of Zionist connections to European imperial powers . The Ottomans feared that increased Jewish settlement , often backed by British and French interests , could undermine their sovereignty in Palestine . <p> However , despite these restrictions , European powers frequently intervened , invoking capitulatory rights to challenge the enforcement of anti-Zionist policies . This interference allowed Zionist organizations to bypass Ottoman regulations , fuelling Arab suspicions that a secret agreement between the Ottomans and Zionists might eventually emerge . These anxieties were exacerbated by the complexities of Ottoman administration , which sometimes permitted Zionist land purchases through intermediaries . <p> The Young Turks and Continued Resistance <p> Following the Young Turk Revolution of 1908 , which resulted in the deposition of Abdul Hamid II , Arab apprehensions intensified . The revolution ushered in the rule of the Committee of Union and Progress ( CUP ) , a political faction known for its modernization agenda . While some Arab leaders feared that the Young Turks might pursue a more lenient policy towards Zionist settlements , the historical record indicates that Ottoman resistance to Zionist ambitions persisted even after the shift in leadership . <p> By the early twentieth century , as the competition among European powers over the Middle East increased , Zionist lobbying intensified . Nevertheless , the Ottomans continued to reject large-scale Zionist colonization efforts , maintaining their opposition until the empire 's dissolution after World War I. <p> Moulavi 's Reflections on Palestine and Ottoman Vulnerabilities <p> Vakkom Moulavi 's writings must be understood against this backdrop of imperial decline , rising Zionism , and European encroachment . His article reflects his critical awareness of the strategic manoeuvring by Zionist leaders and their efforts to secure Palestine under the protection of European powers . Moulavi recognized that Zionist aspirations could only materialize if Palestine were wrested from Arab control and placed under the dominion of a colonial force . <p> Moulavi 's analysis revealed his concern that the Ottomans ' complacency and internal weaknesses made Palestine vulnerable to external manipulation . While Sultan Abdul Hamid had resisted Zionist efforts , Moulavi worried that the Ittihadists ( CUP ) , driven by political expediency , might adopt a more pragmatic stance to secure Jewish support or economic benefits . He reflected on the anxiety circulating among Arab and Muslim communities that Turkey might compromise , allowing Zionists to establish sovereignty over parts of Palestine as a counterbalance to Arab dissent . <p> Moulavi 's observations echoed the warnings issued by Sayyid Rashid Rida ( 1865 -- 1935 ) , the prominent Islamic scholar and editor of Al-Manar . Rida , like Moulavi , cautioned that the growing influence of Zionism , coupled with British colonial ambitions , posed a severe threat to Muslim control over Jerusalem and Al-Aqsa Mosque . In response , Rida advocated two potential courses of action for the Arabs of Palestine -- to negotiate with Jewish leaders and secure mutually beneficial terms , or to unite and resist Zionist encroachment by all available means . <p> Jerusalem as a Symbol of Unity and Resistance <p> For Vakkom Moulavi , the sanctity of Jerusalem extended beyond mere political considerations . His reflections emphasized the profound significance of Jerusalem as a shared symbol of faith for Muslims , Christians , and Jews . While acknowledging the inevitability of competing claims over the city , Moulavi viewed its status under Muslim stewardship as evidence of the resilience and continuity of Islamic civilization . <p> However , Moulavi cautioned that this stewardship was not guaranteed . He observed that Jewish aspirations for Jerusalem extended beyond religious devotion , reflecting broader ambitions to establish political sovereignty and secure a permanent foothold in the region . This understanding shaped his consistent warnings about the evolving situation in Palestine . <p> Years later , Moulavi published a note on the issue in Deepika ( vol. 1 , no. 6 ) , his last journal , where he addressed the significance of an agreement concerning the Wailing Wall in Jerusalem . The context was this . On May 19 , 1931 , an Order in Council was issued in the name of King George V , serving as primary legislation for Palestine . This decree was in line with a resolution passed by the League of Nations on January 14 , 1930 , aimed at resolving the longstanding disputes between Jewish and Muslim communities over access and rights to the Wailing Wall . <p> Following the resolution , a commission was appointed to investigate the matter , ultimately affirming that the Wailing Wall remained under full Muslim ownership as part of the Al-Haram al-Sharif compound . However , the order also safeguarded the rights of Jewish worshippers , allowing access to the Wall for prayer under carefully regulated conditions designed to respect the religious sensitivities of both communities . <p> Moulavi 's note on the agreement highlighted the importance of mutual understanding and cooperation in addressing such delicate matters concerning the Holy Land . His reflections drew attention to the necessity of diplomatic solutions to preserve peace and protect the spiritual significance of Jerusalem for all faiths . <p> Moulavi 's prescient insights into the future of Palestine , expressed at a time when Zionist political influence in the region was still limited , reveal his extraordinary ability to foresee the geopolitical shifts that would eventually culminate in the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948 . His writings serve as a reminder of the complexities surrounding Jerusalem and the need for continued dialogue to address its contested legacy . <p> More than nine decades after Vakkom Moulavi 's passing , the Palestine question remains an unresolved tragedy , its flames kept alive by cycles of violence and displacement . The people of the Holy Land -- once custodians of a shared heritage -- find themselves uprooted , scattered across borders , their lives shaped by exile and dispossession . Israel , now one of the most militarized states in the world , has pursued relentless territorial expansion and colonisation , unleashing waves of destruction that echo far beyond the confines of Palestine . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The fate of Jerusalem has grown ever more entangled . What the United Nations once envisioned as an international zone of peace and neutrality has become the seat of power , with Israel declaring it as its capital . This unilateral shift has intensified tensions , further estranging the city from the aspirations of those who see it as a sacred space for all faiths . Meanwhile , the people of Gaza undergo atrocities of unimaginable scale , their suffering mounting under the weight of bombardments and military incursions that bear the hallmarks of genocidal violence . <p> Vakkom Moulavi 's vision of Baitul Muqaddas as a sanctuary for all faiths -- a city of coexistence and shared reverence -- remains elusive , a fragile dream eclipsed by the harsh realities of war and occupation . His call for unity and justice , though distant , continues to reverberate as a reminder that the soul of Jerusalem belongs not to one people alone , but to the shared hopes and prayers of many . <p> K.M. Seethi is Director , Inter University Centre for Social Science Research and Extension ( IUCSSRE ) , Mahatma Gandhi University ( MGU ) , Kerala , India . He is also the editor of Journal of State and Society . Earlier Seethi served as Senior Professor of International Relations and Dean of Social Sciences at MGU . <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119378872 <h> Israel Systematically Dismantling Gaza 's Health System:WHO <h> Share : <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - The World Health Organization ( WHO ) condemned Israel 's ongoing attacks on Gaza 's healthcare infrastructure , stating that these actions are systematically dismantling the health system . The latest raid , which occurred this morning , targeted Kamal Adwan Hospital , the last major health facility in North Gaza , rendering it inoperable while the fate of dozens of the hospital 's medical workers is still unknown after Israel 's army kidnapped them . <p> Key departments were severely damaged during the raid , and 60 health workers , along with 25 critically ill patients , remain in the hospital , according to the WHO . Many patients , including those on ventilators , were forced to evacuate to the nearby Indonesian Hospital , which is also non-functional and emptied of medical workers . <p> Israeli military forces kidnapped the Director of Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , and most of the paramedics after raiding the facility this morning . **26;1707;TOOLONG <p> Member of Parliament of the UK Jeremy Corbyn : " We have witnessed the total decimation of Palestinian healthcare , met with silence from political leaders who refuse to acknowledge the horrors they have enabled . This is the dehumanising reality of genocide. " **26;1735;TOOLONG <p> WHO expressed deep concern for the safety of those still in the hospital , highlighting that these attacks are part of a broader pattern of Israeli hostilities that have repeatedly targeted or occurred near the facility since early October . <p> The organization warned that the continued destruction of Gaza 's health system is putting the lives of tens of thousands of Palestinians at risk . The UN body called for an immediate ceasefire , stressing that healthcare must be protected in accordance with international law . <p> The Israeli occupation forces set large sections of Kamal Adwan Hospital on fire , leading to the deaths of some medical staff while they attempted to extinguish the flames . <p> Today is Vakkom Moulavi 's 151st Birth Anniversary Vakkom Moulavi ( 1873 -- 1932 ) , a visionary social reformer and intellectual from Kerala , engaged deeply with both local and global issues during the early twentieth ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119378873 <h> Share : <p> We are not silent . We are being silenced . The students who , during the last academic year set up encampments , occupied halls , went on hunger strikes and spoke out against the genocide , were met this fall with a series of rules that have turned university campuses into academic gulags . Among the minority of academics who dared to speak out , many have been sanctioned or dismissed . Medical professionals who criticize the wholesale destruction by Israel of hospitals , clinics and targeted assassinations of health workers in Gaza have been suspended or terminated from medical school faculties with some facing threats to revoke their medical licenses . <p> Journalists who detail the mass slaughter and expose Israeli propaganda have been taken off air or fired from their publications . Jobs are lost over social media posts . The tiny handful of politicians who condemn the killing have seen millions of dollars spent to drive them from office . Algorithms , shadow-banning , deplatforming and demonetizing -- all of which I have experienced -- are used to marginalize or ban us on digital media platforms . A whisper of protest and we are disappeared . <p> None of these measures will be lifted once the genocide ends . The genocide is the pretext . The result will be one huge step towards an authoritarian state , especially with the ascendancy of Donald Trump . The silence will expand , like a great cloud of sulfurous gas . We choke on forbidden words . They killed you . They are strangling us . The goal is the same . Erasure . Your story , the story of all Palestinians , is not to be told . <p> The Zionists and their allies have nothing left in their arsenal but lies , censorship , smear campaigns and violence , the blunt instruments of the damned . But I hold in my hand the weapon that will , ultimately , defeat them . Your book , " If I Must Die : Poetry and Prose " . <p> " Stories teach life , " you write , " even if the hero suffers or dies in the end . " <p> Writing , you told your students , " is a testimony , a memory that outlives any human experience , and an obligation to communicate with ourselves and the world . We lived for a reason , to tell the tales of loss , survival , and of hope . " <p> It has been a year since an Israeli missile targeted the second-floor apartment where you were sheltering . You had been receiving death threats for weeks online and by phone from Israeli accounts . You had already been displaced multiple times . You fled in the end to your sister 's home in Al-Sidra neighborhood in Gaza City . But you did not escape your hunters . You were murdered with your brother Salah and one of his children and your sister and three of her children . <p> You wrote your poem " If I Must Die " in 2011 . You released it again a month before your death . It has been translated into dozens of languages . You wrote it for your daughter Shymaa . In April 2024 , four months after your death , Shymaa was killed in an Israeli airstrike along with her husband and their two-month-old son , your grandson , who you never met . They had sought refuge in the building of the international relief charity Global Communities . <p> Why do killers fear poets ? You were not a combatant . You did not carry a weapon . You put words on paper . But all the might of the Israeli army and intelligence services were deployed to track you down . <p> In times of distress , when the world is enveloped by cruelty and suffering , when lives are perched on the edge of the abyss , poetry is the sad lament of the oppressed . It makes us feel the suffering . It is intuitive . It captures the mix of complex emotions -- joy , love , loss , fear , death , trauma , grief -- when the world falls apart . It creates in its beauty a salvific meaning out of despair . It is an absurd act of hope , a defiant act of resistance , taunting those who dehumanize you with erudition and sensitivity . Its fragility and beauty , its sanctification of memory , experience and the intellect , its musicality , mock the simplistic slogans and cant of the killers . <p> In your poem " Freshly Baked Souls " you write : <p> The hearts are not hearts . <p> The eyes ca n't see <p> There are no eyes there <p> The bellies craving for more <p> A house destroyed except for the door <p> The family , all of them , gone <p> Save for a photo album <p> That has to be buried with them <p> No one was left to cherish the memories <p> No one . <p> Except freshly baked souls in bellies . <p> Except for a poem . <p> Writing , as Edward Said reminds us , is " the final resistance we have against the inhuman practices and injustices that disfigure human history . " <p> Violence can not create . It only destroys . It leaves nothing of value behind . <p> " Do n't forget that Palestine was first and foremost occupied in Zionist literature and Zionist poetry , " you said in a lecture given to your students in Advanced English Poetry at the Islamic University in Gaza . " When the Zionists thought of going back to Palestine , it was n't like , ' Oh , let 's go to Palestine . ' " <p> You snapped your fingers : <p> It took them years , like over fifty years of thinking , of planning , all the politics , money , and everything else . But literature played one of the most crucial roles here . This is our class . If I tell you , ' let 's move to the other class . ' you need guarantees that we 're going to go there , we 're going to find chairs -- right ? That the other class , the other place , is better , is more peaceful . That we have some kind of connection , some kind of right . <p> So , for fifty years before the occupation of Palestine and the establishment of the so-called Israel in 1948 , Palestine in Zionist Jewish literature was presented to the Jewish people around the world as ... ' a land without a people for a people without a land . ' ' Palestine flows with milk and honey . ' ' There is no one there , so let 's go . ' <p> Killers are trapped in a literal world . Their imaginations are calcified . They have shut down empathy . They know poetry 's power , but they do not know where that power comes from , like an audience left gaping at the deft skill of a magician . And what they can not understand they destroy . They lack the capacity to dream . Dreams terrify them . <p> The Israeli general Moshe Dayan said that the poems of Fadwa Tuqan , who was educated at Oxford , " were like facing twenty enemy fighters . " <p> Many Palestinians can recite from memory passages of the poems " To My Mother " and " Write Down I am an Arab " by Palestine 's most celebrated poet Mahmoud Darwish . Israeli authorities persecuted , censored , imprisoned and kept Darwish under house arrest before driving him into exile . His lines adorn the concrete barriers erected by Israel to wall off the Palestinians in the West Bank and are incorporated into popular protest songs . <p> His poem " Write Down I am an Arab " reads : <p> Write down : <p> -- I am an Arab <p> And my ID number is 50,000 <p> I got eight kids <p> And the ninth is due after summer . <p> So will you be mad ? <p> -- I am an Arab <p> And I work along with my labor buddies in a stone quarry <p> And I got eight kids <p> I secure them bread , clothing and notebooks <p> Hacked out of the rocks <p> And I do n't beg for charity at your door , <p> And do n't lower myself at the footsteps of your court <p> -- So will you be mad ? <p> Write down : <p> -- I am an Arab . <p> I am a name without an epithet , <p> Patient in a country where everything <p> has a tantrum . <p> -- My roots <p> -- Were deeply entrenched before the birth of time <p> -- And prior to the ushering of eras , <p> -- Before cypresses and olive trees , <p> -- And even before the grass grew . <p> My dad hails from a family of plowers , not blue-blood barons <p> My grandpa was a farmer , totally unknown <p> Taught me about thezenithof the soul before teaching me how to read <p> And my home is a cabin made out of sticks and bamboos <p> So are you displeased with my status ? <p> I am a name without an epithet ! <p> Write down : <p> -- I am an Arab . <p> Hair color : coal-like ; eye color : brown <p> Distinguishing marks : I wear a headband on top of a keffiyeh <p> -- And my palm is rock-solid , scratches whoever touches it <p> As to my address : I am from an isolated village , forgotten <p> -- Its streets are unnamed <p> -- And all its men are in the field or in the stone quarry <p> -- So will you be mad ? <p> Write down . <p> -- I am an Arab <p> You stole the meadows of my ancestors and a land I used to cultivate <p> -- Together with all my kids <p> -- You did n't leave to us or to my offspring <p> -- Anything -- except these rocks <p> -- So will your government take them away as well , as it 's been announced <p> -- In that case <p> -- Write down <p> -- On the top of the first page : <p> -- I do n't hate people and I do n't rob anyone <p> -- But ... If I starve to death , I 'm left with nothing else but <p> -- The flesh of my usurper to feed from <p> -- So beware , beware of my hunger and anger <p> You wrote about your children . Your words were to be their legacy . <p> To your daughter Linah , then eight-years-old , or as you say " in Gazan time , two wars old , " you told bedtime stories when Israel was bombarding Gaza in May 2021 , when your children " all sat up in bed , shaking , saying nothing . " You did not leave your home , a decision you made so " we would die together . " <p> You write : <p> On Tuesday , Linah asked her question again after my wife and I did n't answer it the first time : Can they destroy our building if the power is out ? I wanted to say : " Yes , little Linah , Israel can still destroy the beautiful al-Jawharah building , or any of our buildings , even in the darkness . Each of our homes is full of tales and stories that must be told . Our homes annoy the Israeli war machine , mock it , haunt it , even in the darkness . It ca n't abide their existence . And , with American tax dollars and international immunity , Israel presumably will go on destroying our buildings until there is nothing left . " <p> But I ca n't tell Linah any of this . So I lie : " No , sweetie , they ca n't see us in the dark . " <p> Mass death was not new to you . You were shot by Israeli soldiers with three rubber-coated metal bullets when you were a teenager . In 2014 , your brother , Hamada , your wife 's grandfather , her brother , her sister and her sister 's three children were all killed in an Israeli strike . During the bombardment Israeli missiles destroyed the offices of the English Department at the Islamic University of Gaza , where you stored " stories , assignments , and exam papers for potential book projects . " <p> The Israeli army spokesman claimed they bombed the university to destroy a " weapons development center , " a statement later amended by the Israeli defense minister who said " IUG was developing chemicals , to be used against us . " <p> You write : <p> My talks about tolerance and understanding , Boycott , Divestment , and Sanctions ( BDS ) and nonviolent resistance , and poetry and stories and literature did not help us or protect us against death and destruction . My motto " This too shall pass " became a joke to many . My mantra " A poem is mightier than a gun " was mocked . With my own office gone by wanton Israeli destruction , students would not stop joking about me developing PMDs , " Poems of Mass Destruction , " or TMDs , " Theories of Mass Destruction . " Students joked that they wanted to be taught chemical poetry alongside allegorical and narrative poetry . They asked for short-range stories and long-range stories instead of normal terms like short stories and novels . And I was asked if my exams would have questions capable of carrying chemical warheads ! <p> But why would Israel bomb a university ? Some say Israel attacked IUG just to punish its twenty thousand students or to push Palestinians to despair . While that is true , to me IUG 's only danger to the Israeli occupation and its apartheid regime is that it is the most important place in Gaza to develop student 's minds as indestructible weapons . Knowledge is Israel 's worst enemy . Awareness is Israel 's most hated and feared foe . That 's why Israel bombs a university : it wants to kill openness and determination to refuse living under injustice and racism . But again , why does Israel bomb a school ? Or a hospital ? Or a mosque ? Or a twenty-story building ? Could it be , as Shylock put it , " a merry sport " ? <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The existential struggle of the Palestinians is to reject the barbarity of the Israeli occupiers , to refuse to mirror their hatred or replicate their savagery . This does not always succeed . Rage , humiliation and despair are potent forces that feed a lust for vengeance . But you heroically fought this battle for your humanity , and ours , until the end . You embodied a decency your oppressors lacked . You found salvation and hope in the words that captured the reality of a people facing erasure and death . You asked us to feel for these lives , including your own , which have been lost . You knew that there would come a day , a day you understood you might never see , when your words would expose the crimes of those who murdered you and lift up the lost lives of those you honored and loved . You succeeded . Death took you . But not your voice or the voices of those you memorialized . <p> You , and they , live on . <p> Chris Hedges , who graduated from seminary at Harvard Divinity School , worked for nearly two decades as a foreign correspondent for The New York Times , National Public Radio and other news organizations in Latin America , the Middle East and the Balkans . He was part of the team of reporters at The New York Times who won a Pulitzer Prize for their coverage of global terrorism . Hedges is a fellow at the Nation Institute and the author of numerous books , including War is a Force That Gives Us Meaning . <p> Today is Vakkom Moulavi 's 151st Birth Anniversary Vakkom Moulavi ( 1873 -- 1932 ) , a visionary social reformer and intellectual from Kerala , engaged deeply with both local and global issues during the early twentieth ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119378874 <h> October 7 : A History in Threads <h> Share : <p> What follows is the final installment of ' October 7 : A History in Threads , ' which connects the present to the past 141 years of Zionism and Israel 's occupation of Palestine . Please go here to see all of the 11 threads in this series that includes embroidered portraits of the ongoing Palestinian struggle for liberation . <p> According to professor Joseph Massad , " European Christian colonization of Palestine throughout much of the 19th century was the prelude to Zionist Jewish colonization at the end of it ... By the 1850s , Palestine 's population was under 400,000 people , including about 8,000 Jews . " <p> As Israeli historian Ilan Papp ? says , It was in the year 1882 -- " the date of the first Zionist colony in Palestine " -- that the settler colonization of Palestine began . Thirty-five years later , on November 2 , 1917 , UK 's foreign secretary , Arthur James Balfour completely changed the face of historic Palestine with the stroke of a pen by issuing the infamous " Balfour Declaration , " which favored the establishment in Palestine " of a national home for the Jewish people . " <p> Papp ? tells us that soon after the 1967 war , defense minister Moshe Dayan opened the West Bank to Israelis for settler tourism : " Our guides were from the ' Israel Exploration Society , ' founded in 1913 in an attempt to substantiate the Zionist claim for Palestine with archaeological finds.With such tour guides , you see what allegedly had been there thousands of years ago , but you do not see the present . You gaze at ancient ruins while ignoring the humanity around them . The early Zionists , pre-state , were taken on a similar tour upon their arrival to the ' land without people . ' " <p> Only a settler Zionist , head full of phantom ideas , could lay claim to a " land without people " while surrounded by the people of that land . <p> And only a settler Zionist backed by US arms could do this to one of their own , and then blame Hamas for it ... <p> ... who was gang raped by a group of reservists in the infamous Sde Teiman detention camp in the Negev desert , east of the Gaza Strip , prompting this year 's " right to rape " riots in which Israeli protesters , politicians and TV commentators defended the right of soldiers to rape Palestinian prisoners in detention . <p> On November 13 , Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor released an infographic that included a host of shocking statistics . Since the start of the war on Gaza , the Israeli military has engaged in a scorched earth policy , completely destroying " the strip 's civilian infrastructure , property and essential buildings , " including 845 mosques , 3 churches , and 203 heritage sites . 90% of hospitals , 74% of the buildings , and 85% of the schools and universities have been destroyed or damaged . <p> Furthermore , 90% of the population has been forcibly displaced , violently driven to " relocate in schools and makeshift tents . " <p> At least 52,030 Palestinians have been killed , according to Euro-Med , with 33% of the casualties being children and 21% women . And of 46,410 civilians killed , 190 of the casualties were journalists , and 2,313 were healthcare professionals , including 83 doctors . <p> Out of the 108,320 Palestinians injured by Israeli attacks , " several thousand have suffered amputations or permanent impairments , with over 10,000 children losing at least one leg . " <p> To make matters worse , adds Euro-Med , " 97% of the per capita share of the water has decreased due to the extensive destruction of water infrastructure ; and 96% of the population face high levels of acute food insecurity . Around 100 Palestinians , including 42 children , have died due to severe malnutrition . " <p> According to HuMedia , the most dangerous place in the world to be a child is the Gaza Strip , where , among other horrors , 17,000+ children have been killed by Israel since October 7 ; 90% suffer from severe hunger , and 1 million are in dire need of mental health support . <p> Reporter Abubaker Abed -- who , in the face of a Zionist genocide that has engulfed him and his people ( a holocaust supported by Western governments , especially the United States ) , has been taking care of a yellow rose bush , among other plants -- told The Electronic Intifada in an April 27 interview , " This is our yellow rose and we see hope through it . Despite the destruction , despite the truly unbearable circumstance we are living under at the moment , we still seek out hope and we see hope in you . " <p> I later asked Abubaker to elaborate a little on the situation on the ground in Palestine , and the role of the West in stoking this genocide with no end in sight . <p> Q : Abubaker , what are your earliest memories of your family under the siege ? And what did your parents do for a living ? <p> It has been all wars since 2008 . It was a normal life where we would wake up , have our breakfast , and go to school . But at any time , you could expect a war to rage on . It 's just like this . My mom is a housewife . My dad is an art teacher at UNRWA . <p> Q : What is your message to the governments of the most powerful countries in the western world who have done nothing to hold Israel and the United Staes accountable for this genocide happening in clear view of the world in real time ? <p> My message is , I am not a party to this war , and you 've forced me to dream to live , while you and your sons and daughters live to dream . You 've forced hell on me , and this is something I 'll never forget or forgive you for , no matter what you do in the future . You killed my friend and my aunt 's family and forced this horror upon me . Every single moment will never fade away from my mind . It pains me that my biggest dream has become a cup of clean water . This is a symptom of your barbarity . <p> Q : How , in your view , has the mainstream media and the so-called international community failed you and your people ? <p> In every way . They 're paid propagandists . What they do is just dehumanize us as Palestinians . I 'll never forget these people , who I call " linguistic criminals . " Just robotized journalists who 've remained silent and never shown Palestinian journalists or people support . They were afraid of being humans , and that 's why they will remain " cheap " for all eternity , just as they preferred money and sold their humanity . <p> Q : Do you believe that one day the Israelis and their children will be haunted by what they have done ? <p> I never wished and will never wish hardships for children . Children are the birds of the world . If they have a good environment they 'll be educated . I wish eternal peace , ease and comfort for all the people around the world . But again , there 's no such thing as an " Israeli . " Israel is a colonial state that has expelled Palestinians from their lands . And the children of Israel will someday understand that their grandparents were just murderous and vile . I believe they will be haunted . The day of tasting what has been inflicted upon us will come to them . And it 'll be unprecedented . <p> Q : And what do you have to say to people who insist on asking , " Well , do you condemn Hamas ? " <p> Regardless of political affiliations , do you really condemn someone who defends you and has your back against a terrorist state ? Israel has been butchering , dehumanizing , torturing , and bombing us for 76 years . And it has really imposed a strict siege on us in Gaza for 17 years . In this context , where does this question fit ? It 's incredibly enraging that people are trying to justify Israel 's genocide by asking such silly questions . <p> Q : In light of Donald Trump 's victory , what is your message to the Democratic Party and the people who voted for Kamala Harris ? <p> I do n't have trust in you . I am sure you 'll continue the legacy of genociding us . I do n't care about the U.S. administrations . But I do care about its human and noble people . <p> * * * <p> Joseph Massad said the following in 2008 , and it remains true today : " Palestinians have resisted and resist the Nakba with steadfastness and a refusal to leave their lands ... While land acquisitions started in the 1880s and the en masse theft of the country occurred in 1948 , Israel has still not been able to take over the entire land ... and while Israel has used this situation to project itself as a victim of its own victims who refuse to grant it legitimacy to victimize them , Israel understands not only in its unconscious but also consciously that its project of the Nakba will remain reversible . " <p> The holocaust that is going on in Gaza did n't start on October 7 , 2023 , when Hamas launched " Operation Al-Aqsa Flood . " A century-and-a-half-long thread connects us to the origins of that day . A thread that was wound up in a messy clump of Zionist occupation , siege , death , destruction , torture , displacement and ruin . This ball held within it an indigenous struggle that on that October morning finally breached a hole , and Gaza 's resistance fighters broke free from their prison , out of the clump , and carried out a successful military operation . As pointed out by Asa Winstanley 's groundbreaking reporting for The Electronic Intifada on the first anniversary of the breakout , " Al-Aqsa Flood was the first time in history that Palestinian armed groups were able to retake Palestinian territories lost since 1948 , however briefly . " <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Through these threads , I have sought to make the point that October 7 is not separate from this ball of loose threads ; it 's the thread that got away and might just bring down Zionism and the military occupation once and for all , Insha'Allah . Whether through Refaat Alareer 's Expo marker , or martyr Yahya Sinwar 's stick , or Abubaker 's hope-giving yellow rose , occupied Palestine is sending us a clear message that we need to heed . We -- the privileged West -- must not stop exposing our government 's complicity in this genocide . Abubaker and Aylool and all of Palestine are counting on us . <p> Priti Gulati Cox , ( @PritiGCox ) , is an artist and writer . Her work has appeared in Countercurrents , CounterPunch , Salon , Truthout , Common Dreams , the Nation , AlterNet , and more . To see her art please visit occupiedplanet.com . <p> Today is Vakkom Moulavi 's 151st Birth Anniversary Vakkom Moulavi ( 1873 -- 1932 ) , a visionary social reformer and intellectual from Kerala , engaged deeply with both local and global issues during the early twentieth ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119379491 <p> Israel used the United States ' High Altitude Area Defense ( THAAD ) system to obstruct a missile , according to British news agency Reuters who quoted a source close to the matter as saying on Friday . <p> THAAD was used to intercept a missile fired from Yemen , the source told Reuters . However , there is no confirmation yet regarding the success of the interception . <p> This was carried out after Israel countered strikes by attacking various targets on December 26 , Thursday , including Sanna International Airport , associated with Yemen 's Iran-aligned Houthi movement . At least six people died due to these strikes from Israel , said Houthi media . <p> Israel used at least five ballistic missiles in the past 10 days . Launched from its central area to counter attacks from Yemen . It used one of the ballistic missiles on early morning Christmas , according to a report in Financial Times . <p> In two of these occasions , Israel failed to fully obstruct two incoming missiles as one of them attacked a school while another struck a playground in Tel Aviv which injured 16 people . <p> To strengthen Israel 's already capable defence system , US President Joe Biden facilitated deployment of THAAD , an air missile defence system capable of intercepting short , medium and intermediate-range ballistic missiles , in October . The President also deployed around 100 US troops in addition to the missile system . <p> It is the only air defence system by the US , manufactured by Lockheed Martin , that can obstruct air weaponry within and outside the earth 's atmosphere . The high altitude defence system has been improved to adapt to new threats . The US deployed the THAAD system in US allied nations like Isreal , South Korea , Romania and the United Aram Emirates . <p> In the midst of the continuous fighting , the Houthis have regularly fired missiles and drones toward Israel , claiming that their activities are in sympathy with the Palestinians in Gaza . 
@@119381161 <h> The USA , Britain , and Israel have carried out several attacks on the Houthis . <p> Cairo : Fierce fighting has been going on between Israel and Yemen 's Houthi rebels since the Houthis launched several missile attacks on Israel and the Israeli Air Force retaliated by massive bombing of Yemen . it is being reported that the Israeli forces used 100 fighter jets . <p> As a result of this armed conflict , Egypt has suffered a huge financial loss as its earnings from the Suez Canal have fallen by 60 percent . The loss is gauged at around $ 7 billion to Egypt . Currently , Egypt is going through a serious economic crisis . <p> At the same time , analysts say that if the economic crisis in Egypt continues like this , then there may be a situation like Syria . The government of President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi , who has been in power since 2014 is likely to fall very much like that of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad . <p> According to a Middle East Eye report , due to the Israeli and Houthi attacks , merchant ships from around the world have left the Suez Canal , causing a huge drop of 60 percent in Egypt 's earnings in 2024 . <p> According to the Suez Canal Authority , the loss in the terms of amount is about $ 7 billion . Before the Gaza war began , 12 percent of the world 's trade was being conducted through the Suez Canal . This canal is the lifeline for Egypt 's economy . The Houthis are constantly targeting Israeli and US merchant ships in the Red Sea . <p> Since November 2023 , the Houthis have carried out more than 100 attacks on ships passing through the Red Sea . The Houthis have announced that they will not stop attacks in the Red Sea until Israel stops attacks on Gaza . For this reason , ship companies have to go around South Africa , which is very long , time-consuming , and very expensive . <p> The USA , Britain , and Israel have carried out several attacks on the Houthis , but the Houthi rebels are only increasing the frequency and intensity of their attacks . <p> Egyptian president Abdel Fattah el-Sisi has called out for help as his country stares into bankruptcy . Sisi has appealed to India and Saudi Arabia apart from other friendly countries . <p> In Egypt , inflation is at its peak , which has made the daily life miserable for the people . The currency of Egypt is losing its market value . Many analysts have warned that given the current scenario , Egypt may face a similar situation like that in Syria and President Sisi may have to step down or would be forced to step down . 
@@119389110 <h> America has been defending Israel and Ukraine since the beginning of the wars as it shares good relations with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> The United States has been the key ally of Israel and Ukraine in their wars with Hamas , Hezbollah , and Russia respectively . However , the nature of the support to the warring nations has been different in its own way . <p> Advertisment <p> Be it in terms of military or financial aid , America has been defending Israel and Ukraine since the beginning of the wars as it shares good relations with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> In comparison , Netanyahu defies US President Joe Biden more bluntly than Zelensky , as the Ukrainian president has been more sympathetic since the war started . <p> Despite the US talks and advice , Zelensky has not been taking meaningful steps to achieve a realistic ceasefire with Russia . However , he is hoping to reclaim all of Ukraine 's lost territory by force . <h> US support to Ukraine <p> The Russia-Ukraine war has been going on now for more than two years , in which Washington has been playing a key role in providing military aid to Ukraine in its fight with one of the world 's most powerful militaries . <p> Advertisment <p> Since 2022 , the US Congress has passed five bills and provided a total of USD 175 billion , mostly for intelligence , weapons , and training . <p> A major shift in US support for Ukraine came to light when the Biden administration authorised Kyiv to use US-supplied long-range missiles to strike deeper inside Russia . <p> This came after Russia positioned North Korean troops along Ukraine 's northern border to try to reclaim hundreds of miles of territory seized by Ukrainian forces . <p> However , now the situation can change in a larger perspective with Donald Trump coming into the picture as he will soon take over the US administration . <p> President-elect Trump 's foreign policy approach has always been more isolationist , stressing a focus on " America First " . <p> This can further affect the wide foreign interventions , especially in Europe and Ukraine . After returning to office , his position on support to Ukraine and NATO could shift , which can further reduce US aid to Ukraine in its war with Russia . <h> US support to Israel <p> As compared to the past decades , US military aid to Israel has been the highest amid its war with Hamas in the Gaza Strip . In the escalating war , over 40,000 Palestinians have died , the United Nations and the Gaza health ministry stated . <p> The war began on October 7 , last year , when Hamas attacked southern Israel , killing approximately 1,200 Israelis and taking hundreds of people hostage in Gaza . <p> Following that , the war has escalated into a wider region , and now , it is not just with Hamas , but also with Hezbollah and Iran . <p> The US has spent at least USD 17.9 billion on military aid to Israel since the war began , according to a report for Brown University 's Costs of War project published in October . <p> The US , however , is bound by the Leahy Law , which means that the country can not provide security assistance to foreign governments or groups that commit gross human rights violations . <p> However , some legal scholars have alleged that America has not applied the law in the case of Israel as it has with other West Asian countries . <h> Wider point of view <p> Some US and Israeli analysts have argued that Washington 's aid to Israel should be reevaluated because Israel is now a wealthy country , the fourteenth richest per capita and one of the most advanced militaries in the world . <p> In May 2024 , CFR Senior Fellow Steven A. Cook said that US military aid should be phased out over ten years and replaced with a series of bilateral agreements on security cooperation . <p> Late Martin S. Indyk , former US ambassador to Israel and CFR Distinguished Fellow , also called for alteration of the aid . <p> " The US-Israel relationship would be a lot healthier without this dependence . Time for Israel at seventy-five to stand on its own two feet , " he posted on X in June last year . <p> Meanwhile , the Russia-Ukraine war has taken a shift weeks before Donald Trump takes over the US administration , as Joe Biden rushes out billions of dollars more in military aid to Ukraine . <p> Recently , Trump has been insisting that Russia and Ukraine immediately reach a ceasefire , saying that Ukraine should probably prepare to receive less US military aid . 
@@119389114 <h> Israeli Defence Force ( IDF ) in a statement released on Saturday ( Dec 28 ) denied the latest accusation by Hamas that Israeli troops had set the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Gaza on fire . <p> Israel Defence Force ( IDF ) concluded its operation around Gaza 's Kamel Adwan Hospital by arresting around 240 alleged terrorists , including the hospital 's director and other staff on Saturday ( Dec 28 ) . The development came just a day after the Israeli military launched targeted operations near the hospital in the northern Gaza Strip against Hamas infrastructures in the area . <p> Advertisment <p> Gaza 's health ministry , run by the Palestinian militant group , previously accused Israeli troops of setting multiple areas of the hospital on fire while 15 patients and 60 health workers were inside . <p> The ministry even said that the troops took staff and patients outside and forced them to strip while it was freezing . <p> An unverified video circulated on social media showed patients and staff marching in front of an Israeli tank while most of them were shirtless . <p> IDF said on Friday ( Dec 27 ) that it has been conducting multiple targeted operations against Hamas infrastructures in northern Gaza . However , the military strictly denied the claim of entering the hospital . <p> UAE and Jordan Reacts <p> The alleged act was condemned by the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) saying it categorically rejects the " heinous act that violates international humanitarian law , and the systematic and reprehensible destruction of the remaining health system in the Strip " . <p> Jordan also came forward and its foreign ministry released a statement saying the country " condemns in the strongest terms the burning of Kamal Adwan Hospital in the northern Gaza Strip by the Israeli occupation forces , and forcing patients and medical staff to evacuate it " . <p> Disclaimer : WION takes the utmost care to accurately and responsibly report conflicts in West Asia involving Israel , Iran , Syria , Iraq , and non-state actors like the Islamic State , among others . In this context , claims and counterclaims are being made online and offline . WION can not independently verify the authenticity of all statements , social media posts , photos , and videos . 
@@119397731 <p> During the procedure , Justice Minister Yariv Levin , a close ally , served as acting prime minister . Netanyahu is expected to remain hospitalized for several days . The operation follows the detection of an infection earlier in the week . Doctors decided to proceed with the surgery to prevent future complications . <p> Medical experts say recovery from such procedures is typically quick , with patients returning to normal activities within a few days . <p> Netanyahu , 75 , has faced several health challenges in recent years , including a heart condition that required a pacemaker and hernia surgery earlier this year . <p> The surgery comes amid critical regional and international developments . Netanyahu has been navigating the Gaza conflict , heightened tensions with Yemen 's Houthi rebels , and ongoing corruption charges in court . His trial has been temporarily delayed due to his hospitalization. 
@@119398171 <h> 2024 : Milestones in the art world <h> Summary <p> 2024 was the year of milestones for leading modernists and galleries . While it ended on a high note with a spate of important events , certain issues slipped under the radar <p> This is a Mint Premium article gifted to you . Subscribe to enjoy similar stories . <p> It would be hard to look at 2024 in isolation . Threads from 2023 have woven their way into 2024 , at least within the arts ecosystem . The mode of expansion continued , with existing galleries and institutions moving into fresh spaces , and newer names being added to the contemporary arts community . 2024 was a landmark year for leading galleries as well as artists with the centenary of K.G. Subramanyan , F.N. Souza , Ram Kumar , V.S. Gaitonde and Mohan Samant . The second half of 2024 began like a symphony but ended as an overdone crescendo with December being absolutely packed with cultural events , including new additions such as the Bengal Biennale . <p> Invisibilised histories of marginalised communities became more visible , with work by artists such as Vikrant Bhise , Siddhesh Gautam and Sajan Mani being showcased . However , some felt art could have served as a braver lens to contemplate conflict in Gaza , Ukraine and closer home in Manipur . Barring a few examples , there was a certain degree of silence , which Mumbai-based cultural theorist Ranjit Hoskote found inexplicable . " It 's hard to believe that Indian art has nothing to say on something as cataclysmic as the ongoing genocide and wars . Previous generations of Indian artists would have responded to these events for sure . This startling absence of response , an inwardlooking approach , and withdrawal from a broader public exchange has been rather disappointing , " he says . <p> As a new year dawns , Lounge looks back at the hits and misses of 2024 . <h> WOMEN AND BELONGING <p> Certain trends that had been in the making for the past two to three years , achieved a certain degree of maturity in 2024 , and that included the feminist gaze on the lives of women . The female figure from everyday scenes had been long missing from the canvas . Artists like Varunika Saraf , Soma Das and Baaraan Ijlal have documented everyday experiences -- big and small -- in women 's lives , be it their response to politics , grief , leisure , or community . <p> This year , there were more showcases of the theme . For instance , Sujata Setia 's A Thousand Cuts addressed patterns of domestic abuse in south Asian community , at G5A , Mumbai , while He/Hem at Vida Heydari Contemporary , Pune , featured works of six artists including Debasree Das , Kanan Koteshwar , Mayuri Chari and Monali Meher . They stitched thread on to paper , seeking to erase lines between high art and skill-based crafts , " while engaging with tropes of identity , care , body and ecology " . <p> In fact , textile , involving embroidery , stitching and used clothing , became a stronger part of artistic practices to create narratives around belonging and identity . <h> AN EXPANDED ECOSYSTEM <p> 2024 saw not just fresh editions to existing fixtures such as the Madras Art Weekend , Chennai Photo Biennale and Serendipity Arts Festival , but also the debut of newer events such as the Bengal Biennale . Curated by Siddharth Sivakumar , this series of events , themed around Anka Banka -- Through Crosscurrent , is spread across Kolkata and Santiniketan . The idea is to present the state 's cultural heritage alongside contemporary voices that are shaping its art ecosystem . <p> November also brought back Art Mumbai -- a young fair that is rooted in the context of the Maximum City -- with 71 participating galleries and three foundations . The Kochi-Muziris Biennale rounded out the year with the announcement of its new curators , artist Nikhil Chopra and HH Art Spaces , for its sixth edition , to take place between December 2025 and March 2026 . <h> TRANSFORMATIVE YEAR FOR ART SPACES <p> 2024 was the year of milestones for art spaces -- new ones opened up for niche themes while existing ones celebrated landmark years . Sarmaya Arts Foundation , a not-for-profit founded in 2015 by Paul Abraham , a Mumbai-based banker and arts patron , moved its archive into a newly-restored space . This rich repository of art and artefacts opened up within the 146-year-old Lawrence &amp; Mayo Building , which is part of the " Heritage Mile " on Dr D N Road . The new space is accompanied by curated programming of talks and events in a bid to make the archive accessible to people from all walks of life . <p> Artist-curator Bose Krishnamachari came together with entrepreneur Sreejith Pathangalil to start Gallery Dtale ARCHIST in Bengaluru in October . The white cube space , spread across 3,000 sq . ft , hopes to tackle the intersections of art , architecture , design and technology . " Dtale ARCHIST trusts that everyone could be an artist , designer , architect or a scientist . We are exploring works of practitioners , whose thinking sensitises us to the ' other ' while also inculcating a better understanding of the self , " writes Krishnamachari in an email interview . <p> Delhi-based GallerySKE and PHOTOINK ended the year with an announcement about moving to a new space -- the location still under wraps -- in 2025 . <p> This was also a landmark year in the journeys of leading galleries such as Tarq , Experimenter and Gallery Espace . Each marked the moment with exhibitions and events that showcased its evolution while also laying out the vision for the future . <p> New Delhi-based Espace , for instance , marked the occasion with shows such as Memory Fields , featuring artists such as Amit Ambalal , Manjunath Kamath and Nilima Sheikh , who have been part of the gallery 's journey . <p> Tarq , Mumbai , which celebrated 10 years , showcased dialogue between its artists through collaborative prints created by artist pairs such as Sameer Kulavoor and Vishwa Shroff , Pratap Morey and Philippe Calia , Garima Gupta and Nibha Sikander , and more . The exhibition looked at the ethos of collaboration and the sense of community that has defined Tarq 's programming over time . <p> Meanwhile , Experimenter , on turning 15 at the cusp of this year , curated events that highlighted the manner in which the gallery functions across multiple spaces , while having a politically charged programme featuring diverse practices . <h> REVISITING ARTISTIC LEGACIES <p> It was not just art spaces but also wellloved artists -- K.G. Subramanyan , V.S. Gaitonde , Mohan Samant , Himmat Shah , Ram Kumar and F.N. Souza -- who had landmark years . A series of exhibitions unfurled across the country to offer newer perspectives on their practices . Progressive Art Gallery , Delhi , hosted Creating the Century : Four Iconic Artists , curated by Yashodhara Dalmia to celebrate the birth centenaries of Souza , Kumar , Subramanyan and Gaitonde . " When India was still under colonial rule , these artists started , each in his own distinct way in art , to grapple with a nonrevivalist modernity , the irrepressible reality of Indian plurality , both of life and expression , traditions and ideas ... . Their art , in its specifics , complexity and indi-viduality , is plural , Indian , and modern , " wrote Ashok Vajpeyi , managing trustee , The Raza Foundation , whose efforts brought the show to life . <p> The legacies of these artists continue to be pertinent for their approach -- outward- looking , progressive and responsive to the sociopolitics of the times . Unfortunately , for some like Souza and Akbar Padamsee , censorship of their work continues beyond their lifetimes . Last year the Mumbai customs department had seized seven artworks by the two as " obscene material " . In October , this year , the Bombay high court passed an restraining order , preventing the department from destroying the works . Through repeated events , one can only hope that the nonconformist approach of these artists continues to be highlighted . <p> Subramanyan was the other artist , whose life and times were celebrated throughout the year . Cultural theorist Nancy Adajania and curator R. Siva Kumar offered newer readings of his work . In A Forest of Many Suns at Arthshila , Delhi , the latter looked at Subramanyan 's multifaceted career , including his role as an educationist , and at another exhibition at Vadehra Art Gallery , he focused on the last decade of the artist 's career . Prior to that , in May , Adajania looked at ways of making the artist 's legacy relevant for the next 100 years in the show , One Hundred Years and Counting : Re-Scripting KG Subramanyan , at Emami Art , Kolkata . " I decided to focus on K.G. Subramanyan 's political philosophy by highlighting his pluralist vision , and his belief in conviviality over conflict ... , " Adajania had told Lounge then . <p> For Hoskote , both One Hundred Years and Counting and Handprints , one of the two-part retrospective on Gulammohammed Sheikh , featuring his print works and curated by artist Pushpamala N , stood out as rereadings of artistic legacies . These were not just significant in their scope , but also offered an insight into different ways of creating meaningful curatorial frameworks . " What distinguished both these shows was that they were deeply researched and went into the actual nature of the artists ' journeys . Handprints is situated within Gulam 's engagement with visual arts , literature and the larger public sphere , " he adds . <p> Similarly One Hundred Years resituates K.G. Subramanyan in context of his politics , and spotlights the philosophy informing his illustrated children 's books , which were earlier seen as minor works , thereby creating a far more complex portrait of the artist . " These remind us of what Indian artists have been at their very best -- cultural organisers , writers , public intellectuals and political thinkers . Both Gulam and K.G.Subramanyan are luminous examples of what having an artistic imagination means -- to not be confined to the studio , but to create a bridge between the studio and the world , articulating experimental curiosity for a medium , and serving the difficult mandate of critical citizenship , " says Hoskote . <p> Meanwhile , Sheikh himself turned curator for his late friend , Bhupen Khakar . Titled Bhupen in Goa , and shown as part of the Serendipity Arts Festival , one could see over 150 works -- paintings , drawings , ceramic plates , sculptures -- from Sunil Kant Munjal 's private collection and the Swaraj Art Archive established by Vijay Aggarwal . " I have selected 164 works out of over 207 in the collection , choosing a variety of mediums Bhupen was adept at , " Sheikh told The Indian Express . <p> This celebration of milestones will spill into the next year , with modernist Krishen Khanna and the late Satish Gujral marking their 100th birth anniversaries . <h> DOCUMENTING MARGINALISED HISTORIES <p> Various artists and collectives have , over time , tried to extract histories of Dalit and other marginalised communities , long buried within the mainstream narrative . This year saw a greater dialogue around these new forms of history making . <p> Sajan Mani -- who had his first major solo in India , The Multiple Legs of Historically Wing-Chopped Bird , at Shrine Empire , Delhi -- wanted to look beyond the postcolonial approach , which focused on " Brahmanic history , royalty and related clothes and ornaments , but never on the people who made these and suffered through the social systems " , as he mentioned in an interview . Through his drawings and videos , Mani has tried to wrest his community from historical obscurity . <p> Vikrant Bhise , a Mumbai-based artist , whose practice is rooted in Ambedkarite politics , Dalit histories and people 's movements in resisting caste discrimination , showed his work at different platforms throughout the year , starting with the Anant Art Gallery booth at the India Art Fair and moving on to Experimenter-Colaba for the two-person exhibition , We Will See . He is now part of the ongoing group show , Unhoming : Fragile Belonging , at Exhibit 320 , Delhi , about displacement and human suffering , specifically in the context of Gaza . Bhise 's work spans both large multi panelled paintings and smaller ink works , and looks at narratives of resistance and resilience . <p> Meanwhile , the calendar for 2025 already seems to be coalescing with major solos and fixtures like the Mumbai Gallery Weekend returning . Perhaps , for art enthusiasts , the turn of the year could act as an brief interlude to reflect on the practices that engaged with realities of a world in flux , and readings and responses that we would like to see in 2025. 
@@119398187 <h> Manu Joseph : Why we 're lucky to be Indians in such a terrible world <p> In any relationship , saying that you are lucky to have it is high praise . And so too when people feel that way about their nation , ( AP ) <h> Summary <p> While much of the world reels under violence , India remains largely -- and thankfully -- peaceful . Disturbances , if any , are few and far between . Does the nature of Indians assure such calm ? <p> This is a Mint Premium article gifted to you . Subscribe to enjoy similar stories . <p> Of late , I am hearing Indians say an un-Indian thing . When they think about a world in turmoil -- the devastating wars in the Levant and Ukraine , the cruelty of militias in Africa , the upheavals in Bangladesh , the recent collapse of Sri Lanka 's economy , and of Afghanistan and Pakistan , which do not require descriptors -- I hear them say , " Actually , we are quite lucky to be Indians . " <p> This sentiment is new . Indians have for long said some good things about India , but many were probably faking it , or talking about an ancient India , or did not quite know what they were talking about . But what I hear now , that we are lucky to be Indians , is honest , and even true . <p> In the past , many of us have thought of the worst places on Earth and broadly thanked our stars that at least we are in India , but never before have so many regions made us feel so lucky . <p> In any relationship , saying that you are lucky to have it is high praise . And so too when people feel that way about their nation , even if it is just that half the world around us appears to be in ruins or under threat . <p> The world was always in turmoil , and there were always writers who told us about it . But now we can see extraordinary videos that show just how violent modern violence is . <p> Even when there is no war , a cartel of thugs can make generations suffer . A mere five years is half the span of a childhood , and in that period a whole generation can lose its future . In that way , many regions of the world have regressed . <p> Sometimes I do wonder , though , if we are really luckier than war-torn places . A few weeks ago , when Israel declared that it was going to attack some hideouts in southern Lebanon , the region 's residents fled north . I saw a photograph of cars leaving southern Lebanon -- in three orderly lanes . <p> And as an Indian , I could only think there appeared to be a greater quality of life in the way Lebanese fled than in how Indians in Bengaluru drove every day to work . <p> Maybe Indians do n't need a war to be war-torn . Surely , bad air and filthy water kill more Indians than any war anywhere in the world . There are places in Gurgaon that are so filthy , poverty-stricken and filled with rubble , shanties and miserable people that I could fool half the world into thinking these are snapshots from Gaza . <p> But then , there is a difference between the effects of violence and of mere bad governance , even if they look and feel the same . That is why our flaws , even though they are destructive , appear trivial compared to what many places endure . India 's gift to its own is a shot at a peaceful life , even if it is an unnecessarily difficult one . <p> India is so large , and there are so many of us , that the nation can not entirely escape everything that human nature can inflict . There are regions that have seen long periods of strife -- like Punjab and parts of the Northeast . But still , broadly , most of us are right in feeling lucky for being Indian . <p> How come ? Why have we got away ? Why is there relative peace ? Considering all the corruption and atrocities and poor quality of governance , how has India pulled off a largely peaceful society ? <p> In some regions , India 's political wounds have been weaponized . But , outside Punjab and the Northeast , and some jungles in the south , they could not be sustained . One of the reasons is the nature of Indians . <p> After independence , ordinary Indians in most of India did not have a motive to risk their lives for a cause . For instance , outside Kashmir , very few Indian Muslims have been involved in acts of terror . Even those who tried it turned out to be lousy at it , compared to people from other nations . <p> A confidential report prepared in 2015 by the intelligence agencies of several nations suggested that the Islamic State thought that the few Indian Muslims who joined it were pretty bad at terror and could not be exploited as suicide bombers . <p> The Islamic State 's analysis was based on the mere two dozen or so Indians it had managed to recruit . Also , at the peak of its fame , Al Qaeda failed to draw in Indians . <p> In the 1980s , Velupillai Prabhakaran , who founded the Sri Lankan terror syndicate LTTE , seemed to have immense emotional support among Tamilians in Tamil Nadu , even though India officially was at war with the outfit . In fact , a popular DMK government was dismissed in 1991 by the Centre because of its ties with the LTTE . <p> But Prabhakaran may have miscalculated the nature of Tamilian sympathy for his cause . The LTTE assassinated former Indian prime minister Rajiv Gandhi in vengeance for sending in a peace-keeping force to fight his guerrillas . DMK leader Karunanidhi went around Madras in an open jeep , his palms joined in unspoken apology . <p> I saw the sight myself , standing on the street as a boy . In the polls that followed , his party lost in all but two constituencies . The people of Tamil Nadu had expressed their disgust . Apparently , they could support a violent struggle far away in a foreign land , but not if it had come home . <p> But then , the nature of people is not enough for peace . Just a few violent men can create and sustain violence in a region . <p> This did occur in some places in India , but a very Indian phenomenon always nipped it in the bud -- in practice , there are few human rights for the poor , the sort of people who are hired by ideologues to carry out violence . <p> Security forces swiftly killed or made suspects vanish . The consequences of going to war against the Indian state were and are severe . 
@@119398210 <h> Prospects for 2025 are visible in the end-of-year haze <p> The Xi-Trump sparring contest may have multiple ripple effects on the Indian economy . <h> Summary <p> Indian policymakers will have their hands full as the US and China clash , global geopolitics thickens and AI begins to create uncertainty , especially when it comes to jobs . <p> This is a Mint Premium article gifted to you . Subscribe to enjoy similar stories . <p> Wintry January mornings are known to obscure clear 20/20 vision . When combined with year-end revelries , a chemically-induced mist occludes the faculty of foresight . But , as 2024 fades into the history pages , the year-end miasma might still hold some clues to prospects in 2025 . <p> Among the many elements that will influence events , four global factors are critical because their impact will be felt on global interest rates , commodity prices , currency values and equity indices ; these ripples promise to travel far and wide , including to India . Two of these elements involve strongmen engaged in a game of one-upmanship . <p> One thing is certain : the incoming government in the US is sure to keep risk managers , forecasting agencies , scenario planners and geopolitical analysts busy . <p> With Donald Trump promising to weaponize tariffs and clamp immigrant flows , while mocking climate change and taking an axe to the US 's multilateral commitments , large-scale unpredictability is likely to undergird the next 12 months . <p> This has the potential to upset growth and inflation projections , forcing Federal Reserve action that could shave values from global markets . <p> The trailer of another future volatile scenario was available recently when Republican members in the US Congress defied a Trump diktat to freeze a spending bill . <p> With Trump and these Republican lawmakers certain to butt heads on more issues in the coming months , analysts should be prepared for a greatly impetuous White House impacting governance and the economy . <p> The second variable with an oversized effect on the global economy is the behavioural response from another strongman half-way across the world from Washington DC . <p> The world will not only be watching how Chinese President Xi Jinping reacts to Trump 's sabre-rattling , but will also be tracking his policy response to China 's economic slowdown , which has so far refused to respond to all manner of stimuli . <p> The Chinese economy has been tormented by slow growth , rising unemployment , deflationary impulses and a menacing debt overhang . <p> The policy response has so far shied away from transferring resources to individual consumers , but statements from official sources indicate larger stimulus packages to come in 2025 . <p> Consumption has traditionally contributed only 35-40% of China 's gross domestic product ( GDP ) ; the Chinese government , after resisting putting more money in individual pockets , seems to be finally adopting an expansionary and deficit-financed expenditure programme . <p> The need for an aggressive domestic consumption revival plan seems to have been necessitated by Trump 's threats of punitive tariffs on Chinese goods . <p> Data shows Chinese exports to the US contribute close to 3% of GDP , though the jury is out whether a stimulus programme can make up for the GDP loss if Trump follows through on his threats . <p> In fact , with tariff walls going up in the US , China may turbo-charge its hunt for alternate export markets , including India . <p> The Xi-Trump sparring contest may have multiple ripple effects on the Indian economy . One direct outcome of Trump imposing reciprocal tariffs against Indian exports will be a marginal erosion in GDP , since the US is among India 's top export markets . <p> But if Trump 's China tariff policy becomes a reality , the larger problem will emanate from rising US inflation and the Fed 's interest rate response , imperilling even India 's domestic economic equilibrium . <p> The third incalculable variable is the West Asian geopolitical flux and the Russia-Ukraine war . Israel 's sledgehammer military response to the October 2023 Hamas attack has not only razed Gaza , but also defanged Hezbollah and , by extension , weakened Iran . <p> The Iranian need to temporarily withdraw and regroup created a vacuum long enough for rebels to overthrow the Syrian regime and establish a new ruling class . <p> The Syrian episode threw up two other pointers : the emergence of Turkey as a regional power broker and Russia 's withdrawal from Syria to better marshal its Ukraine assault . It is still unclear where the chips will fall in the Middle East . <p> This geopolitical instability in the region throws cold water on India 's planned trade routes : the India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor and North-South Corridor passing through Iran , Central Asia and Russia to Europe . <p> In addition , Recep Erdogan 's frosty ties with India over Kashmir , in the midst of Istanbul 's tightening grip over Middle East politics , adds a new element of West Asian discomfort for New Delhi . <p> The fourth global source of uncertainty will be the direction artificial intelligence ( AI ) takes over the next few months , especially in workplaces and national security matrices . <p> The debate over AI regulation and guard-rails found expression for the first time in the Peru agreement between the US and China , which accords priority to human intervention in national nuclear command structures . <p> However , there is no clarity on how governments plan to use the new tool at home , especially for surveillance . The next challenge is to see how businesses embed AI and its impact on jobs , consumer rights or data privacy . <p> July 's Economic Survey had voiced concerns over AI 's harm to the economy , specifically jobs across the spectrum . 
@@119398255 <h> From war zones to disaster-hit regions , WhatsApp is the world 's lifeline <h> The ubiquity of the communication app has made it indispensable despite its security flaws and surveillance risks . <p> Palestinian journalists attempt to connect to the internet using their phones in Rafah on the southern Gaza Strip , in this photograph from December 2023 . AFP <p> This article was originally published in Rest of World , which covers technology 's impact outside the West . <p> This is the last of a three-part series . Read the first and the second parts . <p> Fidaa Maksour , a dispatcher with the White Helmets , a volunteer organisation that operates largely in the war-torn northwestern region of Syria , was on duty in the early morning hours of February 6 , 2023 , when the ground began to shake . It was a 7.8-magnitude earthquake , one of the strongest ever to hit the border region between Syria and Turkey <p> Calls started pouring into the operation room 's emergency WhatsApp lines soon after . There were " many people under the rubble , many people under collapsed buildings " , Maksour told Rest of World . In Syria alone , the earthquake and its aftershocks destroyed an estimated 10,000 buildings and killed more than 5,500 people . <p> By that time , Syria had already suffered through more than a decade of civil war . Government bombardments had destroyed much of the opposition-controlled northwestern region . Residents could n't call for help through regular emergency numbers . So instead , in times of crisis , they turn to the WhatsApp-based emergency response system set up by the White Helmets , who are often the only first responders available . <p> Maksour fielded the WhatsApp calls as best he could , relaying information between ambulances ferrying victims to overwhelmed hospitals and rescue crews attempting to reach those still trapped under the rubble . <p> The White Helmets ' WhatsApp system dates back to 2021 , when a Turkish-Syrian project restored power lines to the northwest and a patchwork of satellite and broadband providers helped bring back widespread access to internet services . WhatsApp quickly became the default means of communication . " The whole population -- every family , every household in the northwest -- is using WhatsApp , " one of Maksour 's colleagues told Rest of World . <p> In recent months , Maksour has received emergency WhatsApp calls reporting everything from a serious car accident to unexploded ordnance . He dispatched ambulances and disposal teams for these instances , respectively . <p> Messaging apps have become indispensable tools for civilians in conflict and disaster zones like Syria , and WhatsApp , with its more than 2 billion daily users , is the most popular among them . The app 's compression algorithm , which in part allows it to function in areas with poor connectivity , makes it particularly useful . Humanitarian organisations use it to coordinate emergency responses ; refugees turn to it as a lifeline ; and journalists use it to relay reporting from conflict zones . <p> " We 've talked to a variety of humanitarian NGOs , " WhatsApp 's director of global communications , Christina LoNigro , told Rest of World . " A lot of the things that we are concerned with is how they can use our app to get their information out most effectively ... How do they get information out to affected populations in a place where they already are ? How do you message where they are ? And a lot of times , they are on WhatsApp . " <p> A volunteer of the Syria Civil Defence looks at her mobile phone as she rides in a vehicle , in Idlib province in March 2023 . Credit : Reuters . <p> Historically , the flow of information in conflict and disaster areas has been limited . In the 20th century , government and aid organisations often turned to radio or television broadcasts to get critical messages out . Sometimes , they just used cars with loudspeakers . Meanwhile , victims of conflict often had no way to speak to each other , or the outside world . <p> As recently as 2006 , a report from Denmark-based nonprofit International Media Support described the radio as " the principal means of communication for most of the population in conflict areas " . In Indonesia after 2006 and Sudan in 2009 , radio sets were distributed as part of aid packages . <p> But by the beginning of the 2000s , digital messaging systems started taking on more importance . Skype , launched in 2003 , became one of the only ways to reach Syrian activists and volunteers in opposition-controlled areas in the early days of the conflict . Then WhatsApp launched in 2009 , Viber in 2010 , and Telegram in 2013 . These apps had features as simple as sending an SMS or making a phone call , but were not bound by bundled message allowances , character limits , or borders . <p> Shergo Ali , a humanitarian worker originally from the Syrian city of Qamishli , spent nearly eight years in the northeastern region of his home country as well as the Sinjar and Mosul areas of Iraq . " At that time , in 2015 , 2016 , 2017 , it was more Skype and SMS messages , " he told Rest of World . " But not much WhatsApp or other apps . " <p> The aid sector is often cautious about adopting new technology to avoid introducing operational risks , but by the mid-2010s , messaging apps had become critical tools to some organisations . John Warnes , senior innovation officer with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees , told Rest of World that responding to the influx of Syrian refugees to West Asia and Europe , who were generally highly connected , required a change of approach . <p> " UNHCR has been engaging with communities through digital channels such as messaging apps for a number of years , " Warnes said . " This accelerated particularly in the early 2010s as adoption rates of mobile devices grew in many parts of the world in which UNHCR was active . " WhatsApp was not the only application the agency used . In Mexico , personnel used Facebook Messenger as a way to speak with refugees and migrants . <p> The popularity of different messaging apps varied across regions . A 2017 report by the International Committee of the Red Cross noted Viber 's popularity in war-torn Ukraine -- the company that operates Viber , Rakuten , claims the service is installed on 98% of Ukrainian mobile phones . In Niger , which has been wracked by years of violence between the military and armed Islamist groups , Viber was also popular , along with Facebook Messenger and Imo , a US-owned messaging platform with over 200 million users . <p> Before the fall of 2023 , the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees relied on phone calls , emails , and in-person meetings to communicate with its staff in Gaza , UNRWA director of communications Juliette Touma told Rest of World . Then , on October 7 that year , Hamas attacked Israel , killing around 1,200 people . Israel responded with a massive and ongoing military campaign that has since killed more than 44,000 Gazans , according to health authorities , displaced most of the around 365-square-km strip 's 2.3 million residents , and destroyed at least half of the area 's buildings . <p> Cell towers , along with power and internet infrastructure , were hit early on in the conflict , causing a near-total blackout in Gaza within weeks . " People could n't speak to each other . They could n't call each other . They were cut off from one another in the middle of a war zone , and they were cut off from the rest of the world , " Touma told Rest of World . " We were communicating with one staff member through one satellite phone that barely worked but we got cut off from the rest . " <p> UNRWA turned to WhatsApp . <p> The agency had previously used the service for sending messages to communities about things like school events or information on vaccination campaigns . Now , the app was suddenly much more important . " I would n't be exaggerating if I said that WhatsApp can be life-saving , " Touma said . UNRWA , she said , is now almost completely dependent on WhatsApp to speak with staff in Gaza . <p> Before the war , writer Amal Helles lived in Gaza 's Khan Yunis city , and mostly used WhatsApp to speak with friends and family . Shortly after the Israeli military campaign began , she started reporting for The Times and WhatsApp became indispensable for her work , she told Rest of World . To cover the aftermath of airstrikes or the desperate daily search for water and food , she and other journalists came to rely on data-only eSIMS that could connect to the outer edges of Egyptian or Israeli networks . <p> She climbed to exposed and dangerous high points in search of a phone signal . The connection was typically too weak to connect for email , but WhatsApp functioned . Thanks to WhatsApp 's compression algorithms , she was able to send voice notes , videos , and documents to her colleagues in London . <p> " Whatsapp was the only -- the base -- application that we used during the war , " Helles said . <p> Helles and her children eventually escaped Gaza , but she still continues to remotely cover the violence wracking her home and relies on WhatsApp to reach people there . Helles messages her family often , too , including her husband , who is still in Gaza and also works as a journalist . <p> One day this past August , she read of a strike near the entrance of a hospital where her husband regularly reports . She sent him a WhatsApp message right away but only saw a single gray tick indicating her message had been sent but not received . She tried to call his cell but it would n't connect , and his colleagues could n't reach him either . An agonising hour passed before he finally logged on . " I heard his voice in a voice note via WhatsApp , " she said . " And my heart was reassured . " <p> Ahmad , who requested a pseudonym to speak with Rest of World out of concern for his safety , spent about a year working as an interpreter with British forces in Afghanistan 's Helmand province . That made him a target for the Taliban and other militant groups . He received a death threat in 2019 , and was stabbed and shot in an apparent assassination attempt a few months later . So when the Taliban took Kabul in 2021 , he fled . <p> He first went to Iran and then made the arduous trek across the mountains of the Turkish border . Ahmad was already familiar with WhatsApp -- he used it to avoid exorbitant Afghan telecom fees . But as he escaped Afghanistan , it also became his only link to home . <p> " When I was traveling , my family had concerns about my journey , " he told Rest of World . " I was sending some of my pictures home to say I 'm okay , I 'm fine ... I had contact with my family and I was always giving them my updates . " <p> Ahmad reached Istanbul , and applied for a humanitarian visa and to a UK immigration program . In the meantime , he spent months in a cramped and crowded basement apartment hiding from the police sweeps for illegal migrants , venturing out only to work long shifts in a textile factory for around $50 a week . International calls would have been prohibitively expensive , so Ahmad turned to WhatsApp . " It was the only way that I contacted my family , " he said . " I used to share pictures , selfies , voice notes . " <p> After an unsuccessful attempt to smuggle himself to Europe , Ahmad was deported back to Afghanistan , where he lives today in hiding . WhatsApp is how he keeps in touch with the few people he trusts . He depends on the app 's end-to-end encryption to keep the Taliban from finding him . " It 's more safe than a phone call , " he said . " Mobile phones , SIM cards , voices -- these three can be tracked easily . " <p> He has been trying to reach Europe once again , this time via legal pathways . His lawyer insists that they communicate only through Signal , an open-source , privacy-focused messaging app but Ahmad is confident that WhatsApp is safe enough . " I think the Taliban are not that much developed that they can track WhatsApp very easily , " he said . <p> WhatsApp has its faults and weaknesses , even for those dependent on the service in conflict and disaster areas . The service has been criticised for a relative lack of privacy and the potential for surveillance by more sophisticated actors . Meta collects a variety of data on users , including IP addresses , device information , and profile images that it shares across its companies . <p> In May , The Intercept reported on the contents of an internal WhatsApp threat assessment , which discussed potential vulnerabilities that could allow government agencies to work out a user 's contacts , group membership , and potential location . Meta told The Intercept that there was no evidence of security vulnerabilities on WhatsApp . <p> Signal is often cited by security professionals as harder to surveil for even the most advanced intelligence apparatuses . But that has not yet translated into mass uptake . Signal does not release specific usage data but its active users are estimated to number in the tens of millions -- a tiny fraction of that of WhatsApp . <p> When Ali , the Syrian humanitarian worker , arrived in Ukraine last February to start a new role as area manager for the east of the country with German NGO Welthungerhilfe , colleagues instructed him to download Signal immediately . Aside from general information sharing and travel , the NGO uses Signal for security and safety communications , including instructions on how to react to air raid alarms and airstrikes , Ali said . <p> " I 'd never used Signal before , " he said . " We 've had staff who arrived new after me , and they did n't have Signal . We asked them to download it . " <p> After a 2021 data protection analysis of potential risks , the ICRC instructed its employees to use Signal internally , and , where possible , externally , Rebeca Luc ? a Galindo , an adviser at the ICRC on communication with communities , told Rest of World . But if that is not possible , then the organisation uses the safest viable alternative . <p> WhatsApp is aware of how its services are relied upon in dangerous areas and is trying to address concerns , LoNigro said . She described various privacy-boosting additions made to the app after discussions with NGOs , including disappearing messages and the ability to lock specific chats with a PIN or biometric identification . <p> Nathaniel Raymond , executive director of the Humanitarian Research Lab at the Yale School of Public Health , underscored the capacity of messaging apps to inflame tensions and incite violence during times of crisis . He described incidents in the ongoing war in Sudan , where the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces sent out large batches of WhatsApp messages announcing an impending attack on a given location , causing panic and displacement . <p> That is echoed in the findings of a report by the multi-donor initiative Conflict Sensitivity Resource Facility . It concluded that in South Sudan , social media -- particularly WhatsApp -- had been used to spread propaganda and also as a means to plan and coordinate attacks and ambushes . Research consortium PeaceRep has also noted the connection between WhatsApp groups and revenge killings in Somalia . <p> But WhatsApp is now so ubiquitous that it will inevitably continue to be a critical tool in conflict areas . Maksour , the White Helmets dispatcher in Syria , said it would be " very , very difficult " to do his job without WhatsApp . " The civilians have only WhatsApp to communicate with us and to communicate an emergency to the operations room . " 
@@119398582 <h> The geopolitical landscape of 2024 was marked by Trump 's victory in the race to White House , Modi 's third term in India , the fall of Bangladesh 's government , and rising tensions in the Middle East . <p> In 2024 , the geopolitical dynamics were keenly monitored as Donald Trump decisively won the US presidential poll , Narendra Modi secured a historic third term , and the Middle East remained on the edge due to the simmering tensions between Israel and Iran . ( The image used is AI generated for representative purpose ) <p> The year 2024 witnessed significant geopolitical events that changed global dynamics . Donald Trump returned to the US presidency , Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria collapsed , and there were elections in India and Bangladesh . The Middle East , particularly with the ongoing Israel-Palestine conflict and rising tensions between Israel and Iran , remained a central focus . The toppling of Bangladesh 's government added to the year 's political turbulence , influencing the region 's future . <p> The following developments highlighted the complex interplay between politics , security , and diplomacy , shaping priorities worldwide : <h> Trump Returns To White House <p> Donald Trump made a comeback in the 2024 election , regaining the US presidency . His decisive victory raised concerns among economies globally , as he has promised to impose tariffs on all imports . In addition , the President-elect has also vowed to carry out a massive deportation exercise to send back " illegal immigrants " . <h> Modi Equals Nehru 's Record <p> File photo of Prime Minister Narendra Modi . ( Photo source : PTI ) <p> India 's general election in 2024 witnessed high voter interest as key issues like economic reforms and social welfare dominated campaigns . The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance secured another term , promising to sustain economic growth , strengthen infrastructure , and enhance India 's global influence . Prime Minister Narendra Modi was sworn-in for a third consecutive term and is the second PM after Jawaharlal Nehru to be elected to power thrice in a row . <h> Bangladesh Government Toppled <p> Just within a few months after the general elections , Bangladesh experienced a political transformation in 2024 with the fall of its ruling government . Protests over job quotas and governance failures escalated , leading to a power struggle . The opposition gained traction , culminating in the government 's resignation , and Bangladesh 's Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina fled to India and sought refuge as her government faced increasing pressure . <h> Other Key Elections <p> Approximately four billion people participated in elections across over 80 countries . Mexico elected Claudia Sheinbaum as its first female president , while the UK saw the Labour Party end years of Conservative rule , signalling a shift in domestic priorities . <h> ALSO READ <h> Transformations In Middle East <h> Assad 's Regime Falls In Syria <p> Syria saw a significant shift with the fall of Bashar al-Assad 's government . This created a power vacuum in Damascus , prompting increased involvement from Russia and Turkey , both seeking to secure their regional interests . The collapse led to questions about Syria 's political future and its implications for Middle East . <h> ALSO READ <h> Gaza War <p> Israel-Palestine Conflict Escalates : The conflict intensified this year , marked by escalating violence between Israeli forces and Palestinian groups in Gaza and the West Bank . Tensions increased due to Israeli settlement expansion and a series of rocket attacks from Gaza . The United Nations reported significant civilian casualties , with both sides accusing each other of breaching international law . The conflict triggered widespread protests in major cities worldwide , and human rights organisations called for stronger international intervention . <p> Stalemate Remains : Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's government maintained a hardline stance , while Palestinian leadership faced internal divisions , with Hamas in Gaza and the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank unable to reach a consensus . Despite international calls for a ceasefire , negotiations remained stalled . The global community , including the European Union , urged renewed peace efforts , but both sides struggled with entrenched mistrust . <p> Israel-Iran Tensions Rise : In parallel , Israel 's relationship with Iran became increasingly fraught in 2024 . Both the countries carried out strikes at each other , which did not cause major fatalities but targeted military installations . Israel escalated military operations in Syria and Iraq , targeting Iranian military installations . <p> Impact On Regional Stability : The escalating conflict between Israel and Iran alarmed regional powers . Saudi Arabia , the UAE , and other Gulf states called for peace , but refrained from taking sides . However , several among them remained critical of Israel over the mounting civilian casualties in Gaza . 
@@119398752 <p> As the year comes to a close , the Israel-Hamas conflict remains entrenched , with no resolution in sight . Despite multiple mediation efforts led by the United States , Qatar , and Egypt , a ceasefire between the warring factions continues to elude fruition . With both sides blaming each other for the collapse of peace talks , the international community is left dealing with a mounting humanitarian crisis , while civilian deaths pile up . <h> The Stalemate : Blame Game Between Israel and Hamas <p> In the latest round of failed talks , which took place in Doha on Dec 25 , 2024 under the mediation of Qatar and Egypt , both Israel and Hamas accused each other of sabotaging potential peace agreements . According to Hamas , Israel introduced new demands during the negotiations , particularly concerning the release of hostages and the withdrawal of its military from Gaza . Hamas claims that these additional conditions were intended to stall the ceasefire , preventing an agreement that appeared close to being finalized . <p> Based on the reports in the public domain Hamas officials argue that significant progress had been made , but Israel 's imposition of fresh demands at the eleventh hour disrupted the talks . It has accused Israel of deliberately sabotaging the peace process . Israel , however , has firmly rejected these allegations . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's office stated that it is not Israel , but rather Hamas , that has been creating obstacles in the talks . Israel claims that Hamas is backing out of previously agreed-upon terms and continues to obstruct a ceasefire . <h> War of Words <p> This war of words came to a head when Israel pulled its negotiators from Doha just days after they had been engaged in what were initially seen as productive discussions . Senior officials from Israel 's intelligence agency Mossad , the Shin Bet security agency , and the Israel Defence Forces ( IDF ) were part of the delegation , but the departure of these key figures signalled the failure of yet another attempt at peace . <h> Why the Talks Keep Failing <p> Despite numerous rounds of negotiations , peace talks between Israel and Hamas have consistently failed to produce results . Central to the breakdowns is the disagreement over Israel 's military presence in Gaza . Hamas demands a full Israeli withdrawal from Gaza , fearing that continued Israeli occupation allows Hamas to maintain control of the territory and its operations . However , Israel is reluctant to retreat , arguing that such a move would allow Hamas to regroup , potentially increasing the threat to Israeli security . <p> Another critical issue is the hostage crisis . While Hamas holds many hostages , including civilians and soldiers , Israel has repeatedly insisted on their release before agreeing to a ceasefire . The delicate nature of this issue -- balancing the lives of hostages with the demands of peace -- remains one of the major sticking points . The failure to find a mutually acceptable solution to these problems has ensured that the cycle of violence continues . <p> Despite extensive diplomatic efforts , including mediation by the United States and other international actors , the peace process remains deadlocked . The attempts have repeatedly stalled , unable to address the fundamental issues that fuel the conflict . While the international community continues to push for peace , the deadlock persists , and civilian casualties continue to mount . <h> The Human Toll : Rising Civilian Deaths <p> As 2024 approaches , the human cost of the conflict is staggering . Thousands of civilians -- both Palestinians and Israelis -- have lost their lives since the war began over a year ago . The lack of a ceasefire or peace agreement means that both sides continue to engage in violent exchanges , with each attack causing more devastation and loss of life . <p> The Gaza Strip , already devastated by years of conflict , faces a worsening humanitarian crisis . The ongoing blockade , military operations , and airstrikes have left countless civilians trapped in dangerous conditions , with limited access to food , medical supplies , and basic services . Meanwhile , Israeli civilians live under the constant threat of rocket attacks and incursions , contributing to the trauma and loss of life on both sides . <h> A Dim Prospect for Peace <p> As 2024 draws to a close , the failure to secure a ceasefire is a stark reminder of the deep divisions that continue to fuel the Israel-Hamas conflict . With both sides blaming each other for stalling negotiations , and no breakthrough in sight , the prospects for peace seem dim . The loss of life continues to rise , while diplomatic efforts remain bogged down by irreconcilable differences . 
@@119399281 <h> Modi in Kuwait Elevating The Ties <p> Prime Minister Narendra Modi was on a two-day visit to Kuwait on the invitation of the Emir . It was a historic event inasmuch as the Indian Prime Minister was visiting the country after a long gap of 43 years ; Indira Gandhi was in Kuwait in 1981 . Second , during this visit , bilateral relations between the two countries were elevated to a strategic partnership . Third , the Indian Prime Minister was conferred with the highest honour of Kuwait , ' The Order of Mubarak AL-Kabeer ' . <p> A visit by the Head of State to a country indicates the importance attached to the host country by the visiting Head . The visit by Modi was significant as it came after 43 years by his predecessor . And it 's like the Prime Minister visiting Poland after a gap of 45 years that showed the priority India attaches to Poland . The strategic heft of Warsaw grew considerably after it joined the European Union and NATO . Poland was under the ' Soviet/Russian sphere of influence ' and it borders Ukraine and Russia . Now it assumes the Presidency of the European Union , which , of course , is a rotating position . <p> Likewise , Kuwait holds the Chair of six-member Gulf Cooperation Council ( GCC ) . India is negotiating an FTA Agreement with GCC . Modi impressed upon the Emir , the Crown Prince and the Prime Minister of Kuwait for moving towards an early conclusion of an FTA with GCC . Notably , GCC countries hold 1/6th of India 's total trade , one third of India 's Diaspora , about 9 million Indians . A close cooperation with GCC is essential for India 's growth . <p> Among GCC countries , Kuwait has been friendly with India , barring a downturn in ties during the Gulf War , to be more precise , Iraq 's invasion of Kuwait . More on that , a bit later . Kuwait remains important to India . It has 6.5 per cent of world oil reserve , sixth largest crude oil and LPG supplier to India , meeting 3.5 per cent of India 's energy needs . Indians constitute 21 per cent of Kuwait 's population and 30 per cent of its work force . Indians are the largest expat group in Kuwait . While meeting with the Indian Diaspora in Kuwait , Modi lauded their contribution in talent , technology and traditions to the growth and development of Kuwait . He called them a ' mini Hindustan ' . <p> In addition to one-to-one meeting with the Emir and at a delegation level with the Kuwait Prime Minister , he attended the inauguration of the Arabian Gulf Club football tournament . This was part of a cultural diplomacy allowing time for informal exchange of pleasantries between Heads of States . It is a popular tournament among eight countries , Kuwait having won the trophy more than any other teams . People-to-people exchange and cultural diplomacy enrich bilateral relations . Also , an MoU was signed for 2025-28 to promote cooperation in sports between the two countries . <p> The strategic partnership , signed during the visit , aims at enhancing bilateral relations in all possible and potential sectors . This includes defence , wherein it would translate into joint military exercises , training of defence personnel , coastal defence , maritime safety , and joined development and production of defence equipment . It will also include counter terrorism operations , sharing of intelligence and information , anti-money laundering and drug-trafficking . The cooperation will deepen in pharmaceuticals , IT , Fin-tech , infrastructure , solar energy , health , digital , innovation , and textiles etc . It was decided to gradually move the focus from fossil fuel to trading in renewable energy , wherein it will be easier to step up cooperation as Kuwait is a member of the International Solar Alliance . <p> Prime Minister Modi appreciably noted that ' Made in India ' products were finding their way into Kuwait including automobiles , electrics , mechanical and telecom etc . He suggested that the petrochemical sector could be another big trade bridge between both countries as it is likely to grow up to 300b USD by 2025 . The leadership of both countries agreed to promote business delegations from both countries and greater institutional linkages . Kuwait could explore more opportunities for investment in India . At the same time , Modi stressed that India has the technology and skills to contribute to making of a New Kuwait . <p> On international politics , both leadership discussed Gaza and Ukraine . Modi reiterated his commitment to finding a negotiated solution to the war . On Gaza , he reaffirmed India 's commitment two-state solution by recourse to dialogue and diplomacy . He said ' No ' to terrorist action that provokes retaliation causing deaths and destruction . <p> It is necessary to recall that relations between India and Kuwait go back to millennia , as evidenced by discovery of the artifacts of pottery and jewellery from the Kuwait Island of Failaka . Before the oil was found in Kuwait , trade between India and Kuwait consisted of dates and pedigreed horses . After trading on horses stopped at the end of the Second World War , Pearls and teak wood were the items traded . <p> As Kuwait got independence in 1961 , India was one of the first countries to establish diplomatic contacts . In 1962 , Kuwait supported India in its war with China . Ever since , the relations between both countries remained friendly . Kuwaitis concentrated in Bombay for their trade and commerce . Emir of Kuwait even had a house in Marine Drive in Mumbai . <p> The bilateral relations plummeted by India 's pro-Iraq stance during Gulf War . New Delhi refused to condemn Iraq for invading and annexing Kuwait . India was the first country to shift her embassy from Kuwait to Basra , Iraq . It was surly bad diplomacy by New Delhi . It has often fumbled in condemning the aggression in balancing the principle of international law and national interest . It faltered in condemning Soviet occupation of Hungary in 1956 , Afghanistan in 1979 , Iraq 's occupation of Kuwait in 1990 and Ukraine in 2022 . New Delhi gets away with such diplomatic faux pas as it has not attacked any country , nor has it incurred into territories of other countries . <p> Talking of Kuwait , New Delhi almost repeated the mistake in Afghanistan . One statement , made during the Gulf War , indicates its confusion , " We regret that it had not been possible for Iraq and Kuwait to resolve their differences , we hope for Iraqi withdrawals ( instead of calling for them ) " . And in the same sentence , noted Iraqi statements in this connection . There was not a word of disapproval of Iraqi action . It is perhaps India 's policy of non-alignment in the past and strategic autonomy now that makes India tentative and vulnerable and thus New Delhi does not want to provoke enmity with anyone , even if it is an invader . <p> The demolition of Babri Masjid in 1992 had thrown another spanner into the fragile relationship . However , that is history . Prime Minister Modi 's visit and Kuwait 's highest honour to him have put those two bad patches into the dustbin of history . Let it be said and realised that India , in quest for a world role and a big power status , should stand up for international law in keeping with her tradition for peace , non-violence , and non-aggression , unless it endorses a Darwinian world and lives by the logic of survival . -- INFA 
@@119399461 <h> External Affairs Minister Dr. S. Jaishankar will visit Qatar from December 30 , 2024 , to January 1 , 2025 , for bilateral talks on strengthening relations across various sectors . <p> External Affairs Minister ( EAM ) Dr. S. Jaishankar will embark on an official visit to the State of Qatar from December 30 , 2024 , to January 1 , 2025 . During his trip , Dr. Jaishankar is scheduled to meet with Qatar 's Prime Minister and Foreign Minister , H.E . Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al Thani , to discuss and strengthen bilateral relations between the two countries . <p> India and Qatar today have a good relationship across various sections of trade , economy , and so on . Besides , Dr. Jaishankar 's talks are supposed to cover a multitude of topics ranging from political to trade , investment , energy , security , and even cultural ties . The countries are also likely to report for people-to-people contacts , which touched a new level due to the remarkable Indian diaspora in Qatar . <p> This visit will also open the doors to discuss the positions of both sides on regional and global matters pertinent to each other . As an essential Gulf country , Qatar plays a significant role in global issues , thus relating India 's growing relationship with it to the increased strategic partnerships in the Middle East . <p> The visit continues the high-level engagements between India and Qatar . Therefore , it will further strengthen bilateral ties and bring some fresh opportunities to collaborate significantly . India is an enthusiastic nation when nurturing ties to Gulf nations , as is exemplified by this visit , with EAM Dr. Jaishankar serving this critical nation in India 's foreign policy . <p> Earlier on December 7 , S Jaishankar met the Qatari PM and held " productive " talks on bilateral relations and developments in Gaza and Syria . Jaishankar was visiting Doha to participate in the Doha Forum at the invitation of Al Thani , who is also the Minister of Foreign Affairs . <p> In addition to that , the official visit , taking up to three days , also touches on the way of fostering significant economic and trade relations , underscoring the enormous investment that each country maintains in the other 's economies . Long and much older countries with historical ties , such as India and Qatar , have long existed as nations . Hence , trade and investment continue to frame the other foundations of the relations , which each country considers as pillars of cooperation . 
@@119399732 <h> Israeli airstrike kills nine Palestinians in Gaza : Sources <p> At least nine Palestinians were killed and dozens of others wounded in an Israeli airstrike on a house in the Maghazi refugee camp in central Gaza Strip on Saturday , Palestinian sources said . <p> IANS New Delhi December 29 , 2024 11:35 am <p> Representation image <p> At least nine Palestinians were killed and dozens of others wounded in an Israeli airstrike on a house in the Maghazi refugee camp in central Gaza Strip on Saturday , Palestinian sources said . <p> Local sources and eyewitnesses said that an Israeli aircraft bombed a house on the outskirts of Maghazi camp with at least one missile . <p> Advertisement <p> Hussam Al-Daqran , spokesperson for Al-Aqsa Hospital in Deir al-Balah city in central Gaza , told Xinhua that nine people were killed , including children and women , and dozens of wounded people were sent to the hospital following the airstrike . <p> Advertisement <p> The Israeli army did not comment on the raid , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> Israeli army spokesperson Avichay Adraee said in a press statement on Saturday that Israeli forces began operating at night against " terrorist targets in the Beit Hanoun area in light of prior intelligence information about the presence of a number of terrorists and terrorist facilities in the area . " <p> Before the forces entered , Israeli fighter jets , in cooperation with artillery fire , attacked " several terrorist targets in the area , including terrorist gathering points and other terrorist facilities belonging to the Hamas terrorist organisation , " according to the statement . <p> Israel has been conducting a large-scale offensive against Hamas in Gaza to retaliate against a Hamas rampage through the southern Israeli border on October 7 , 2023 , during which about 1,200 people were killed and about 250 taken hostage . <p> The Palestinian death toll from ongoing Israeli attacks in the enclave has risen to 45,484 , Gaza-based health authorities said in a statement on Saturday . <p> Earlier on December 25 , at least 22 Palestinians were killed in Israeli airstrikes across the Gaza Strip , Palestinian sources said . <p> Civil defence crews had recovered at least seven bodies and 25 injured individuals from the school following the Israeli attacks , transferring them to a local hospital , Basal said . Local sources and eyewitnesses reported that the tents had caught fire and some bodies were mutilated in the bombing . <p> The Israeli military said in a press statement that an Israeli Air Force aircraft , acting on intelligence , had targeted a Hamas member in the Al-Furqan area of Gaza City . The statement claimed the military had taken precautions , including the use of precision munitions , aerial photographs , and intelligence , to minimise civilian casualties . <p> In Beit Hanoun town in northern Gaza , four people had been killed in an Israeli bombing of a house sheltering displaced people , while paramedics reported four more deaths in an Israeli bombardment targeting a group of Palestinians east of Jabalia . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that " there has been progress " in efforts to secure a ceasefire-for-hostages deal with Hamas , but cautioned that the timeline for reaching an agreement remains unclear . 
@@119399733 <h> Israeli army says it downed missile from Yemen <p> The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) said early Saturday that it had intercepted a missile fired from Yemen aimed at the Jerusalem area . <p> IANS New Delhi December 29 , 2024 11:02 am <p> Representation image ( Photo:ANI ) <p> The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) said early Saturday that it had intercepted a missile fired from Yemen aimed at the Jerusalem area . <p> The IDF statement said that " a projectile launched from Yemen was intercepted before crossing into Israeli territory . " <p> Advertisement <p> The missile activated air defense sirens in the Jerusalem area , the Judean Lowlands , and the Dead Sea , forcing hundreds of thousands of residents to rush to shelters just after 2:10 a.m. local time ( 0010 GMT ) , said the IDF . <p> Advertisement <p> On Thursday , Israeli fighter jets conducted a series of strikes on Yemeni targets , including on the international airport in Sanaa and power stations . The airstrikes killed at least six , Xinhua news agency reported quoting the Houthi-run al-Masirah TV . <p> Earlier on December 27 , Yemen 's Houthi group announced that it had launched a ' hypersonic ballistic missile ' targeting Israel 's Ben Gurion Airport in Tel Aviv , claiming it had hit its target . <p> Houthi military spokesperson Yahya Sarea said in a televised statement on Houthi-run al-Masirah TV that the strike had caused casualties and disrupted air traffic at the airport . <p> " The missile succeeded in reaching its target despite the enemy 's secrecy . The operation resulted in casualties and the suspension of air traffic at the airport , " Sarea alleged . <p> However , the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) said it had intercepted the missile . The IDF acknowledged that air traffic had been halted for 30 minutes , while Israel 's Magen David Adom emergency service said 18 people had been slightly injured on their way to shelters . <p> The Houthis also claimed responsibility for additional attacks , including a drone strike on what they described as a ' vital ' site in Tel Aviv and a vessel named Santa Ursula near Yemen 's Socotra Island in the Arabian Sea . According to Sarea , the vessel had been targeted for alleged connections to Israeli ports . <p> " The Israeli aggression on civilian facilities in Sanaa and Hodeidah will increase our determination to support the Palestinian people , " Sarea said , vowing to expand attacks on Israeli targets until the " aggression on Gaza stops and the siege is lifted . " <p> Israel had launched airstrikes targeting Houthi positions in Yemen , including Sanaa International Airport and facilities in the Red Sea port city of Hodeidah . Houthi-run al-Masirah TV reported that the strikes had caused significant damage , killing at least six people and injuring dozens , including a United Nations staff member , Xinhua news agency reported . <p> Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , Director General of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , had been at Sanaa International Airport , preparing to board a UN flight , when Israeli airstrikes struck the area . He confirmed that he and his team had escaped the strikes without harm . <p> Ghebreyesus had been in Sanaa for talks aimed at securing the release of UN personnel who had been detained by the Houthi group earlier that year . He had called on the Houthi leadership to release the detained employees without delay . <p> UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres had also criticised the intensifying violence , calling for adherence to international law . <p> Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz said Wednesday that Israeli forces will remain in Gaza and maintain " security control " over the Palestinian territory , raising concerns that the latest round of ceasefire talks may face further deadlock . 
@@119399955 <h> 2024 , one of the worst years for child casualties ; 473 million children living in conflict zones : UNICEF <p> The United Nations Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) in a recent study stated that an estimated 473 million children , more than one in six , are living in conflict zones worldwide . <p> In a study released on Saturday , UNICEF highlighted the ongoing conflicts in regions like Palestine , Myanmar , Haiti , and Sudan and stated that the world is experiencing the highest number of conflicts since the Second World War . <p> In their report , the UN organisation stated that 19 per cent of the world 's children live in conflict zones , with 47.2 million having been displaced by conflict and violence . <p> The UN further verified that there were more child casualties during the first nine months of 2024 than during all of 2023 , as thousands of children were killed and injured in conflicts in Gaza and in Ukraine . <p> Notably , according to many reports , the conflict between Israel and Palestine has led to the deaths of at least 17,492 children over the past 15 months in Gaza . <p> Meanwhile , UNICEF Executive Director Catherine Russell stated that 2024 has been one of the worst years on record for children in conflict , both in terms of the number affected and the severity of the impact on their lives . <p> She stated that children in conflict zones are far more likely to experience disruptions such as being out of school , facing malnutrition , or being displaced compared to those in peaceful areas . Russell emphasised that this can not become the " new normal " and stressed the need to prevent a generation of children from becoming victims of ongoing global conflicts . <p> " By almost every measure , 2024 has been one of the worst years on record for children in conflict in UNICEF 's history -- both in terms of the number of children affected and the level of impact on their lives , " Russell said . <p> " A child growing up in a conflict zone is far more likely to be out of school , malnourished , or forced from their home -- too often repeatedly -- compared to a child living in places of peace . This must not be the new normal . We can not allow a generation of children to become collateral damage to the world 's unchecked wars , " the UNICEF Executive Director added . ( ANI ) 
@@119400157 <h> Global Shifts and Shocks : 2024 's Most Pivotal Moments <h> Let 's reflect on ten pivotal moments that shaped 2024 and promise to influence the future . <p> As the clock ticks down to 2025 , it 's hard not to feel the weight of the year gone by . If you 're exhausted by the upheavals of 2024 , you 're not alone . But before the new year begins , let 's reflect on ten pivotal moments that shaped 2024 and promise to influence the future . <h> The Space Race Heats Up <p> In 2024 , humanity 's aspirations reached new heights , even as geopolitical rivalries extended to the stars . Japan 's Smart Lander for Investigating the Moon ( SLIM ) touched down in a lunar crater in January , relaying data for three months . Meanwhile , China returned soil samples from the far side of the moon , and NASA 's Perseverance rover reported possible evidence of ancient microbial life on Mars . The European Union and Japan 's joint mission captured stunning images of Mercury 's south pole , while SpaceX showcased its innovative " chopstick arms " technology for rocket recovery . Yet , space exploration was n't all scientific achievement . The United States accused Russia of deploying a nuclear anti-satellite weapon , while China significantly increased its military satellite network . With agreements like the Artemis Accords gaining traction but still excluding China and Russia , the militarization of space remains an ominous trend . <h> The Shadow of China Shock 2.0 <p> China 's economic turbulence has reignited global trade tensions . Following years of internal economic challenges , Beijing leaned heavily on its old strategy of subsidized exports , flooding international markets with low-cost goods . While inexpensive solar panels and electric vehicles have environmental benefits , countries like the United States , Brazil , and members of the European Union scrambled to impose tariffs to protect their domestic industries . Economists warn this " China Shock 2.0 " could lead to heightened trade disputes in 2025 , though it may also prompt a new wave of international negotiations to address economic imbalances . <h> The Sudanese Civil War 's Devastation <p> Sudan 's brutal civil war continued unabated , pitting the Sudanese Armed Forces ( SAF ) against the Rapid Support Forces ( RSF ) . The conflict , rooted in a power struggle between former allies Gen. Abdel Fattah al-Burhan and Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo , has caused immense human suffering . With Khartoum and much of Darfur in ruins , estimates of war-related deaths surpass 60,000 . A famine in Darfur and the displacement of 11 million people have compounded the tragedy . International mediation efforts , including a UN Security Council meeting , yielded little progress . As external powers back both sides , the outlook for peace remains bleak . <h> AI Advances and Ethical Challenges <p> Artificial intelligence made groundbreaking strides in 2024 , with far-reaching applications in medicine , manufacturing , and beyond . Nobel Prizes in Physics and Chemistry recognized AI-driven innovations , including advances in protein structure prediction . Yet , the rapid evolution of AI has raised questions about regulation and ethical use . With the United States leading in most measures and China dominating research publications , the global AI race highlights disparities in technological access . As we navigate this brave new world , the debate over AI 's role in society will only intensify . <h> Russia Regains Momentum in Ukraine <p> The war in Ukraine entered its third year with Russia taking the upper hand . Employing a " meat-grinder " strategy , Russia made gains in eastern Ukraine at a staggering human cost . Ukrainian forces attempted counterattacks , including a bold incursion into Russia 's Kursk region . However , Moscow 's acquisition of North Korean troops and continued Western hesitance to provide advanced weaponry complicated Kyiv 's efforts . With casualties mounting and Western support wavering , the prospect of a negotiated ceasefire looms . Yet , Russian demands for Ukrainian capitulation remain a formidable obstacle . <h> Global Political Shake-Ups <p> Elections in 80 countries underscored a global anti-incumbency trend . Voters punished ruling parties in India , Japan , South Africa , and beyond , often forcing them into precarious coalitions . The United States and United Kingdom saw their incumbent parties ousted , while French President Emmanuel Macron 's snap parliamentary elections backfired spectacularly . Economic discontent and a yearning for strong leadership seem to have fueled this wave of change , but the future of democracy may hinge on addressing systemic challenges rather than simply replacing leaders . <h> Climate Crisis Intensifies <p> The climate crisis reached alarming new heights in 2024 . Average global temperatures surpassed the critical 1.5 ? C threshold for the first time , while natural disasters caused unprecedented damage . In the United States alone , 24 weather-related events each inflicted over $1 billion in damages . Northern South America endured record drought , with parts of the Amazon drying up . While COP 29 made limited progress on funding climate adaptation , the global response still falls short of what scientists say is necessary . Technologies to mitigate climate change are advancing , but their impact may not come soon enough . <h> Middle East Upheaval <p> The aftermath of Hamas 's 2023 attack on Israel reverberated across 2024 , as Israel waged war in Gaza and retaliated against Iran and Hezbollah . With 45,000 dead in Gaza and northern regions nearing famine , the conflict shows no sign of resolution . Israel 's targeted operations weakened Hezbollah and Hamas but escalated tensions with Iran . In December , the Syrian government fell to Turkish-backed forces , further isolating Tehran . Whether these developments pave the way for peace or greater turmoil remains to be seen . <h> A New Challenge for America ? <p> A growing alignment among China , Russia , Iran , and North Korea has raised alarms about a new geopolitical bloc . This quartet has deepened military and economic ties , challenging Western dominance . Iran supplied Russia with drones , North Korea provided artillery shells , and China bolstered Russia 's defense industry . Joint military exercises and technology exchanges signal closer cooperation , but the lack of shared vision among these nations may limit their cohesion . How the West , or America to be more precise , responds to this challenge will shape global politics for years to come . <h> Trump 's Historic Comeback <p> Donald Trump 's victory over Kamala Harris in the 2024 U.S. presidential election marked a historic political comeback . Following his controversial departure in 2020 , Trump capitalized on economic discontent and immigration concerns to secure a narrow win . While claiming a sweeping mandate , his administration faces challenges , including a divided Congress . Trump 's return underscores the outsized influence of U.S. presidential elections on global affairs . How his leadership will reshape the international order remains a critical question as 2025 begins . <p> As we reflect on these defining moments , it 's clear that 2024 was a year of profound transformation . From the heights of human achievement to the depths of political and environmental crises , these events will continue to shape our shared future . 
@@119409807 <h> Palestinian Journalist Shot Dead by PA Forces During West Bank Raid <h> Share : <p> Occupied West Bank ( Quds News Network ) - Palestinian journalist Shaza al-Sabbagh was shot in the head and killed by Palestinian Authority ( P ) security forces on Saturday night during their ongoing raid on the Jenin refugee camp in the occupied West Bank . <p> Al-Sabbagh 's family said in a statement that their daughter was on the way to a grocery store when she was directly shot from a PA security forces military point located near their house . <p> A spokesman for the PA 's security forces , Colonel Anwar Rajab , said in a statement that the security forces were not present in the area at the time of the shooting . <p> Palestinian Journalists Syndicate ( PJS ) released a statement mourning the death of 21-year-old al-Sabbagh , who it said was studying journalism at Al-Quds Open University . <p> " The union demands the formation of an independent investigation committee with the participation of a representative of the union to determine the truth , hold the killers accountable , and prevent them from escaping punishment , " the group said in a statement . <p> Palestinian journalist Shatha al-Sabbagh was tragically killed last night in Jenin by a Palestinian Authority ( PA ) sniper . Her tragic murder follows the loss of her brother , Mutasem , who was killed by Israeli occupation forces in the same area in March 2023. **26;1438;TOOLONG <p> The family has taken her body for autopsy , and they said that depending on the results , they will file a lawsuit against the Palestinian Authority . <p> The PA 's Role : Security or Suppression ? <p> Israeli forces have intensified their operations in the West Bank since the Gaza genocide began . Daily incursions into Palestinian cities and villages often lead to violent confrontations , arrests , and widespread fear . <p> The violence has sparked growing anger , with Israel committing war crimes , exacerbated by relentless settler attacks on Palestinian villages . <p> Simultaneously , the PA is conducting its own assaults targeting resistance fighters , particularly in Jenin . The PA frames these actions as law enforcement efforts aimed at " restoring order " and disarming rogue elements . However , critics argue that these operations serve Israeli and US interests , undermining the Palestinian struggle for self-determination . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The PA , which partially governs parts of the occupied West Bank , claimed the operation is to root out what it calls " lawless elements " in the Jenin refugee camp . <p> Al-Sabbagh is the sixth person to be killed since the PA security forces raided the camp three weeks ago . <p> Palestinian Territory - Harrowing testimonies documenting serious crimes committed by the Israeli army against civilians during its storming of Kamal Adwan Hospital and the surrounding areas in northern Gaza were collected ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119409808 <h> Share : <p> Hussam Abu Safiya , director of the Kamal Adwan Hospital , supervises the treatment of a Palestinian man , wounded in an Israeli strike on Beit Lahiya in the northern Gaza Strip , on 21 November 2024 ( AFP ) <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - Zaher Sahloul , president of MedGlobal , has called for the immediate release of Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , after his abduction by Israeli forces following a raid on the last remaining medical facility in the area . <p> In a statement on his arrest , Sahloul said Dr. Abu Safiya " has dedicated his life to protecting the health and lives of children in Gaza , providing care under conditions no medical professional should have to endure . " <p> " His arrest is not only unjust -- it is a violation of international humanitarian law , which upholds the protection of medical personnel in conflict zones . MedGlobal urgently calls for the immediate and unconditional release of Dr. Abu Safiya . " <p> MedGlobal has received confirmed reports that Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , our lead physician in Gaza and Director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , has been arrested . <p> Dr. Abu Safiya has dedicated his life to protecting the health and lives of children in Gaza , providing care under conditions ... **26;1466;TOOLONG <p> On Friday morning , the hospital was stormed by Israeli forces , following nearly three months of a suffocating blockade and constant air strikes on its departments and their vicinity . <p> The bombing caused several departments to catch fire , killing and wounding Palestinian medical workers and patients , according to Munir al-Bursh , director general of the Palestinian Health Ministry in Gaza . <p> All remaining medical staff , patients and their relatives were taken out of the hospital at gunpoint , forced to strip down to their underwear and transferred to an unknown location . <p> At the time of the raid , there were 350 people in the hospital , including 180 medical workers and 75 wounded people , according to the Gaza-based Government Media Office . <p> The Palestinian Health Ministry said dozens of doctors were taken to detention centres for interrogation . <p> Over the past three months , Abu Safiya , a paediatrician , has published dozens of videos and sent out pleas to the international community to act against the Israeli attacks on Kamal Adwan Hospital . <p> He repeatedly warned that the lives of patients and medical staff were in danger amid constant Israeli bombings and a siege preventing the entry of aid and food . <p> In late October , Abu Safiya 's son died as a result of an earlier Israeli raid on the hospital , according to health officials . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> A month later , he was wounded in an Israeli air strike on the hospital complex . <p> Kamal Adwan Hospital was running out of any meaningful medical care , given the hardship and the fact the past two months have been very strict in terms of what can enter the northern part of Gaza as there is a complete siege , military siege , on the area with no humanitarian aid -- medical supplies , water , or life-sustaining resources -- available to people there because of the ongoing deliberate prevention by the Israeli military . <h> Related Posts <p> Occupied West Bank ( Quds News Network ) - Palestinian journalist Shaza al-Sabbagh was shot in the head and killed by Palestinian Authority ( P ) security forces on Saturday night during their ongoing raid ... <p> Palestinian Territory - Harrowing testimonies documenting serious crimes committed by the Israeli army against civilians during its storming of Kamal Adwan Hospital and the surrounding areas in northern Gaza were collected ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119409809 <h> Fifth Infant Freezes to Death in Gaza Amid Suffocating Israeli Siege <h> Share : <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - A newborn Palestinian baby died from the severe cold in the Gaza Strip on Sunday , as the suffocating Israeli siege and genocide worsen harsh winter conditions , making life uninhabitable . The one-month-old is the fifth baby to freeze to death in Gaza in recent nights . <p> The father of Joma'a al-Batran said the medical staff at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital in central Gaza are now trying to save his twin brother who is currently in the ICU . <p> According to the father , the family evacuated from Beit Lahiya to the central Gaza Strip eight months ago and did not have a tent . <p> One-month-old Joma'a Batran is the latest Palestinian baby to tragically freeze to death in Gaza . His family reports that he died from the extreme cold early this morning inside their displacement tent , amid the ongoing Israeli genocide. **26;1494;TOOLONG <p> " There are no tents or shelters . May God hold accountable everyone who caused this catastrophe . This is Juma , what was his fault for dying from the cold and freezing ? " the infant 's father asks in one clip . <p> The grieving father of 1-month-old Joma'a Batran speaks about the tragic death of his toddler as a result of extreme cold in their displacement tent in Gaza . **26;1522;TOOLONG <p> Balakrishnan Rajagopal , the UN special rapporteur on the right to adequate housing , said he has warned for months that " more than a million Palestinians lack shelter " for winter conditions . <p> " Now babies are freezing to death , " Rajagopal added , noting that this is another " achievement " of Israel 's so-called " most moral army in the world " . <p> Five Palestinian babies have frozen to death in the past few nights in Gaza , including three who died of hypothermia in the so-called " humanitarian zone " in al-Mawasi . <p> Palestinian nurse Ahmed al-Zaharneh , who was among the crews working at the European Gaza Hospital , also died on Friday because of " extreme " weather conditions , according to the Health Ministry . <p> The Ministry said , " His body was found inside his tent in al-Mawasi area , west of the city of Khan Younis , southern Gaza . " <p> " This incident comes in light of the difficult humanitarian conditions that displaced citizens are experiencing , as the suffering of Gaza residents increases due to low temperatures and the lack of heating means in tents , " the Ministry added . <p> The deaths highlight the dire conditions in Gaza , where hundreds of thousands of displaced Palestinians are crammed into makeshift tents , fleeing Israeli shelling from various parts of the strip . <p> Gaza 's Government Media Office stated on Saturday that 110,000 out of 135,000 tents used by displaced Palestinians in the war-torn Gaza Strip are now out of service and have " completely deteriorated " . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The Office accused the Israeli military of " causing a tragic humanitarian crisis " that is once again putting the lives of thousands of civilians at risk as the freezing winter sets in . <p> " This catastrophic humanitarian situation is a direct result of the genocide committed by the ' Israeli ' occupation army , which has completely destroyed hundreds of thousands of homes of these citizens , forcing them to resort to living in tents that lack the minimum requirements for a decent life , " the statement said . <p> Palestinian Territory - Harrowing testimonies documenting serious crimes committed by the Israeli army against civilians during its storming of Kamal Adwan Hospital and the surrounding areas in northern Gaza were collected ... <p> Today is Vakkom Moulavi 's 151st Birth Anniversary Vakkom Moulavi ( 1873 -- 1932 ) , a visionary social reformer and intellectual from Kerala , engaged deeply with both local and global issues during the early twentieth ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119409810 <h> Share : <p> Palestinian Territory -- Harrowing testimonies documenting serious crimes committed by the Israeli army against civilians during its storming of Kamal Adwan Hospital and the surrounding areas in northern Gaza were collected by Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor . <p> These crimes included deliberate killings , field executions , as well as sexual and physical assaults on women and girls from medical teams and displaced women in the area . <p> The units of Israeli infantry and armoured forces stormed Kamal Adwan Hospital and its vicinity on Friday , following weeks of siege , artillery and air bombardment , and targeted attacks on medical and technical staff working in the hospital . The attacks also disabled the hospital 's operational capacities by targeting power generators and oxygen production equipment . <p> According to testimonies collected by Euro-Med Monitor 's field team , Israeli forces committed a series of horrific crimes during their assault on the hospital . These included detonating booby-trapped robots near several inhabited homes , causing their collapse and killing civilians inside . The crimes also involved Israeli soldiers executing civilians on the spot , some of whom were wounded , while others carried white flags . <p> The Israeli army detained dozens of women and girls , subjecting them to severe abuse amounting to sexual harassment , alongside degrading treatment that violated their human dignity . This included beating them and forcing them to remove their hijabs and clothing . <p> Additionally , Israeli forces forcibly evacuated everyone in the area , compelling them to flee outside the northern Gaza governorate . During this operation , the army abducted dozens of individuals , including members of medical and service teams , such as Dr. Hossam Abu Safyieh , the director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , and journalist Islam Ahmed . <p> " A.A. , " 41 , recounted to the Euro-Med Monitor team : " I am a volunteer paramedic . I was staying in a house near Kamal Adwan Hospital with 11 civilians . Around 12:30 a.m. on Friday , we heard a vehicle at the door . I told those with me it seemed like the army was placing explosive robots . Looking out the window , I saw several robots in front of homes in the area . " <p> He added , " We left our house and moved to another nearby , hoping to survive the explosions . About half an hour later , the robots started detonating . The sounds were massive and terrifying , like miniature nuclear bombs . " <p> He continued : " During this time , a young man who had reached another house in the area told us that the place they sought refuge in was bombed , injuring several people . I rushed with others to help , but as we approached the house , an Israeli aircraft fired another missile at it . We managed to evacuate one of the injured and found one dead . However , we were also injured in the process . At that moment , we heard screams from a nearby house that had been hit as well . We were in a dire state , injured and unable to help . " <p> He added : " We returned to the house amid ongoing explosions . In the morning , we went back to our original house to find it almost completely destroyed . Despite that , we sat in the kitchen , about 14 of us . Then army vehicles began shelling the house . We shouted that we were civilians . The homeowner stepped out , waving a white flag , but the soldiers immediately shot him dead from close range . When we tried to retrieve his body , they fired a shell at us , injuring more of us . Among us was a child who seemed to have a psychological disorder , worsened by the relentless bombing . " <p> " Later , the army sent a civilian ( a Palestinian detainee ) to tell us to surrender . We said we were civilians and raised a white flag . They led us to an open area near a cemetery , where we were forced to strip down to our underclothes and stand in the freezing cold . When the child with the psychological disorder stepped out , he ran towards an Israeli tank . I called out to him , but he did n't respond . They shot him dead immediately . There was an armoured personnel carrier and a tank in the area . A soldier ordered us to gather at a specific spot . Among us were five injured individuals who were forced to walk in front of the tank . Suddenly , they were shot dead without any questioning . " <p> He added : " We were then ordered to stop near the tank , and I thought it was going to crush us . After some time , they transported us to the Al-Fakhoura area , where they left us exposed and nearly naked until 8 p.m . We were around 300 people , and they detained several among us . During this time , an officer fired shots above our heads and ordered us to head towards Jabalia . Drone aircraft hovered overhead until we arrived . " <p> In the same assault , the Euro-Med Monitor documented testimonies revealing that nurses , patients , and their companions at Kamal Adwan Hospital were subjected to acts amounting to sexual violence . Israeli soldiers forced women and girls to remove their clothing under threats , insults , and offensive slurs targeting their honour . Several women and girls also reported being sexually harassed . <p> One of the women expelled from the area told the Euro-Med Monitor team : " A soldier forced a nurse to take off her trousers , then placed his hand on her . When she tried to resist , he struck her hard across the face , causing her nose to bleed . " <p> Another woman reported that a soldier told a woman in their group : " Take it off , or we 'll force it off you . " <p> In another incident , a woman refused to remove her headscarf , prompting a soldier to tear her clothes , exposing her chest . One victim recounted being dragged by a soldier who forced her to press against him , saying , " Take it off now , " while hurling obscene remarks at her . <p> Similarly , a hospital staff member told the Euro-Med Monitor team : " The soldiers ordered us to remove our hijabs , but we refused . They then turned to the girls under 20 years old and demanded they remove their hijabs , but they also refused . The soldiers decided to punish us by taking two women at a time and forcing them to lift their clothes and lower their trousers under threats and coercion . " <p> During the assault , Israeli forces destroyed and burned most of Kamal Adwan Hospital 's sections after targeting it with shells . Preliminary information also indicates that several hospital staff members were killed while trying to extinguish fires in one of the hospital 's sections , which was completely rendered out of service . <p> Euro-Med Monitor Human Rights Monitor calls on relevant UN bodies to launch an immediate investigation into the allegations contained in the testimonies of survivors from the Israeli army 's assault on Kamal Adwan Hospital and the surrounding area . It stresses the need to activate legal mechanisms to hold accountable those responsible for human rights violations , including individuals , political leaders , and military officials involved in such acts . <p> Euro-Med Monitor reaffirms that the failure of states to fulfill their legal obligations to halt the genocide in Gaza over the past 14 months , coupled with their refusal to take decisive steps to compel Israel to stop its crimes , renders them internationally liable for these atrocities , with some states effectively becoming accomplices . <p> The international system , led by the United Nations , has chosen not to achieve the fundamental goals and principles upon which it was established . Over the past 14 months , it has displayed a disgraceful failure to uphold its commitment to protecting civilians and stopping the genocide Israel is committing against Palestinians in Gaza -- an objective that should be central to its mission and existence . <p> Euro-Med Monitor reiterates its calls for all relevant international and UN parties to act immediately to fulfill their legal obligations to end the genocide in Gaza , impose a comprehensive arms embargo on Israel , hold it accountable for all its crimes , and take concrete measures to protect Palestinian civilians . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Euro-Med Monitor also demands the facilitation of the return of forcibly displaced persons to their homes , the release of abducted Palestinians , and the revelation of the fate of forcibly disappeared individuals . It also urges the immediate and unobstructed entry of all forms of humanitarian aid , particularly life-saving supplies , to meet the needs of Gaza 's population , especially in northern areas . <p> Finally , Euro-Med Monitor calls for the compensation of all victims and their families , ensuring the withdrawal of Israeli occupation forces from the entirety of Gaza and all Palestinian territories . <p> Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor is a Geneva-based independent organization with regional offices across the MENA region and Europe <p> Today is Vakkom Moulavi 's 151st Birth Anniversary Vakkom Moulavi ( 1873 -- 1932 ) , a visionary social reformer and intellectual from Kerala , engaged deeply with both local and global issues during the early twentieth ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119409813 <h> A Palestinian Year in Review : Genocide , Resistance and Unanswered Questions <h> Share : <p> The story of the Israeli war on Gaza can be epitomized in the story of the Israeli war on Beit Lahia , a small Palestinian town in the northern part of the Strip . <p> When Israel launched its ground operations in Gaza , Beit Lahia was already largely destroyed due to many days of relentless Israeli bombardment which killed thousands . <p> Still , the border Gaza town resisted , leading to a hermetic Israeli siege , which was never lifted , even when the Israeli military redeployed out of much of northern Gaza in January 2024 . <p> Beit Lahia is largely an isolated town , a short distance away from the fence separating besieged Gaza from Israel . It is surrounded mostly by agricultural areas that make it nearly impossible to defend . <p> Yet , a year of grisly Israeli war and genocide in Gaza did not end the fighting there . To the contrary , 2024 has ended where it started , with intense fighting on all fronts in Gaza , with Beit Lahia , a town that was supposedly ' conquered ' earlier , still leading the fight . <p> Beit Lahia is a microcosm of Israel 's failed war in the Strip , a bloody grind that has led nowhere , despite the massive destruction , the repeated ethnic cleansing of the population , the starvation and the genocide . Every day of Israel 's terrible war on the Palestinians serves as a reminder that there are no military solutions and that the Palestinian will can not be broken , no matter the cost or the sacrifice . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , however , remains unconvinced . He entered the new year with more promises of ' total victory ' , and ended it as a wanted criminal by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) . <p> The issuing of an arrest warrant for the Israeli leader was a reiteration of a similar position taken by the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) at the start of 2024 . <p> The ICJ 's position , however , was hardly as strong as many had hoped or wanted to believe . The world 's highest court had , on January 26 , ordered Israel " to take action to prevent acts of genocide " , but stopped short of ordering Israel to halt its war . <p> The Israeli objectives of the war remained unclear , although Israeli politicians provided clues as to what the war on Gaza was really all about . Last January , several Israeli ministers , including 12 from Netanyahu 's Likud party , took part in a conference calling for the resettlement of Gaza and the ethnic cleansing of Palestinians . " Without settlements , there is no security , " extremist Israeli minister of finance , Bezalel Smotrich , said . <p> For that to happen , the Palestinian people themselves , not merely those fighting on the ground , had to be tamed , broken and defeated . Thus , the ' flour massacres ' , a new Israeli war tactic that was centered around killing as many Palestinians as possible while waiting for the few aid trucks that were allowed to reach northern Gaza . <p> On February 29 , more than 100 Gazans were killed while queueing for aid . They were mowed down by Israeli soldiers , as they desperately tried to lay their hands on a loaf of bread , baby milk or a bottle of water . This scene was repeated , again and again in the north , but also in other parts of the Gaza Strip throughout the year . <p> The aim was to starve the Palestinians in the north so that they would be forced to flee to other parts of the Strip . Famine actualized as early as January , and many of those who tried to flee south were killed , anyway . <p> From the early days of the war , Israel understood that to ethnically cleanse Palestinians , they must target all aspects of life in the Strip . This includes hospitals , bakeries , markets , electric grids , water stations , and the like . <p> The Gaza hospitals , of course , received a large share of Israeli attacks . In March , once more , Israel attacked the Al-Shifa Medical Complex in Gaza City with greater ferocity than before . When it finally withdrew , on April 1 , the Israeli army destroyed the entire compound , leaving behind mass graves with hundreds of bodies , mostly medical staff , women and children . They even executed several patients . <p> Aside from a few statements of concern by western leaders , little was done to bring the genocide to an end . Only when seven international aid workers with the charity , the World Central Kitchen , were killed by Israel , a global outcry followed , leading to the first and only Israeli apology in the entire war . <p> Desperate to distract from its failure in Gaza , but also Lebanon , and keen on presenting the Israeli public with any kind of victory , the Israeli military began escalating its war beyond Gaza . This included the strike on the Iranian Embassy in Syria on April 1 . Despite repeated attempts , which included the assassination in Iran of the head of Hamas 's Political Bureau , Ismail Haniyeh , on July 31 , an all-out regional war has not yet come to pass . <p> Another escalation was taking place , this time not by Netanyahu but by millions of people around the world , demanding an end to the Israeli war . A focal point of the protests were student movements that spread across US campuses and , ultimately , worldwide . Instead of allowing free speech to flourish , however , America 's largest academic institutions resorted to the police , who violently shut down many of the protests , arresting hundreds of students , many of whom were not allowed to return to their colleges . <p> Meanwhile , the US continued to block international efforts aimed at producing a ceasefire resolution at the United Nations Security Council . Ultimately , on May 31 , US President Joe Biden delivered a speech conveying what he termed an " Israeli proposal " to end the war . After some delay , Hamas accepted the proposal , but Israel rejected it . In his rejection , Netanyahu referred to Biden 's speech as " incorrect " and " incomplete " . Strangely , but also unsurprisingly , the White House blamed the Palestinians for the failed initiative . <p> Losing faith in the American leadership , some European countries began changing their foreign policy doctrines on Palestine , with Ireland , Norway and Spain recognizing the State of Palestine on May 28 . The decisions were largely symbolic but indicated that western unity around Israel was faltering . <p> Israel remained unfazed and , despite international warnings , invaded the Rafah area in southern Gaza on May 7 , seizing control of the Philadelphi Corridor -- a buffer zone between Gaza and the Egyptian border that extends for 14 kilometers . <p> Netanyahu 's government insisted that only war can bring their captives back . There was very little success in that strategy , however . On June 8 , Israel , with logistical support from the US and other western countries managed to rescue four of its captives held in the Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza . To do so , Israel killed at least 276 Palestinians and wounded 800 more . <p> In August , another heart-wrenching massacre took place , this time in the Al-Tabaeen school in Gaza City , where 93 people , mostly women and children , were murdered in a single Israeli strike . According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights , women and children were the main victims of the Israeli genocide , accounting for 70 percent by November 8 . <p> An earlier report by the Lancet Medical Journal said that if the war stopped in July , " 186,000 or even more " Palestinians would have been killed . The war , however , went on . The rate of genocide in Gaza seemed to maintain the same killing ratio , despite the major regional developments including the mutual Iranian-Israeli tit-for-tat strikes and the major Israeli ground operation in Lebanon . <p> In October , Israel returned to the policies of targeting or besieging hospitals , killing doctors and other medical staff , and targeting aid and civil defense workers . Still , Israel would not achieve any of its strategic goals of the war . Even the killing of Hamas ' leader , Yahya Sinwar , in battle on October 16 would not , in any way , alter the course of the war . <p> Israel 's frustration grew by leaps and bounds throughout the year . Its desperate attempt to control the global narrative on the Gaza genocide largely failed . On July 19 , and after listening to the testimonies of over 50 countries , the ICJ issued a landmark ruling that " Israel 's continued presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory is illegal . " <p> That ruling , which expressed international consensus on the matter , was translated on September 17 to a UN General Assembly resolution " demanding an end to Israel 's occupation of Palestine within the next twelve months " . <p> All of this effectively meant that Israel 's attempt at normalizing its occupation of Palestine , and its quest to illegally annex the West Bank was considered null and void by the international community . Israel , however , doubled down , taking its rage against West Bank Palestinians , who , too , were experiencing one of the worst Israeli pogroms in many years . <p> According to the Palestinian Health Ministry , by November 21 , at least 777 Palestinians have been killed since October 7 , 2023 , while thousands more were wounded and over 11,700 arrested . <p> To make matters worse , Smotrich called , on November 11 , for the full annexation of the West Bank . The call was made soon after the election of Donald Trump as the next US President , an event that initially inspired optimism amongst Israeli leaders , but later concerns that Trump may not serve the role of the savior for Israel after all . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> On November 21 , the ICC issued its historic ruling to arrest Netanyahu and his Defense Minister Yoav Gallant . The decision represented a measure of hope , however faint , that the world is finally ready to hold Israel accountable for its many crimes . <p> 2025 could , indeed , represent that watershed moment . This remains to be seen . However , as far as Palestinians are concerned , even with the failure of the international community to stop the genocide and reign in Israel , their steadfastness , sumoud , will remain strong until freedom is finally attained . <p> Ramzy Baroud is a journalist and the Editor of The Palestine Chronicle . He is the author of six books . His latest book , co-edited with Ilan Papp ? , is " Our Vision for Liberation : Engaged Palestinian Leaders and Intellectuals Speak out " . Dr. Baroud is a Non-resident Senior Research Fellow at the Center for Islam and Global Affairs ( CIGA ) . His website is www.ramzybaroud.net . <h> Related Posts <p> Palestinian Territory - Harrowing testimonies documenting serious crimes committed by the Israeli army against civilians during its storming of Kamal Adwan Hospital and the surrounding areas in northern Gaza were collected ... <p> Today is Vakkom Moulavi 's 151st Birth Anniversary Vakkom Moulavi ( 1873 -- 1932 ) , a visionary social reformer and intellectual from Kerala , engaged deeply with both local and global issues during the early twentieth ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119409828 <p> Statements of Mizoram CM Lalduhoma made some time back in the United States calling for unification of Kukis , unjustly divided under three different Governments of India , Myanmar and Bangladesh , under ... <p> by Venkatesh Narayanan and Sandeep Pandey After having pounded Gaza for over three months killing more than 26,000 Palestinians , during the course of which Israel also attacked Children 's hospitals and ... <p> by Riya Jain , Sagar Sengar and Sandeep Pandey A Gujarat government Indian Administrative Service officer Dhaval Patel after visiting six primary schools in Chhota Udepur district among the tribal area ... <p> The Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh ( RSS ) or the Bhartiya Janata Party ( BJP ) have long argued for ' Hindu-Hindi-Hindustan ' , which into recent years has translated into a crisper English expression : ' One Nation-One Religion-One ... <p> Mahatma Gandhi was assassinated by Nathu Ram Godse . There are some people subscribing to Hindutva ideology who idolize Godse . Various leaders , activists associated with the Hindutva ideology from time to ... <p> by Harshavardhan Purandare and Sandeep Pandey Narendra Modi government just does n't seem to learn from its past mistakes . From demonetisation to Farmers ' laws with decision on Kashmir , Citizenship Amendment Act ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119414520 <p> A 20-day-old infant froze to death in Gaza on Sunday amid Israel 's continuous blockade of humanitarian aid including food , medicines and winter essentials . Jomaa al-Batran was the fifth infant to die of hypothermia in Gaza 's tents where hundreds of Palestinians , displaced multiple times due to Israel 's 15-month-long genocidal war have sought shelter amid rains and extreme cold . <p> According to his father Yehia , Jomaa al-Batranwas was found with his head as " cold as ice " when his parents woke up on Sunday . The baby 's twin brother , Ali , was moved to the intensive care unit of Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital . <p> Their father said the twins were born one month premature and spent just a day in the nursery at the hospital , which like other health centers in Gaza has been overwhelmed and is only partially functioning . <p> He said medics told their mother to keep the newborns warm , but it was impossible because they live in a tent and temperatures regularly drop below 10 degrees Celsius ( 50 degrees Fahrenheit ) at night . <p> " We are eight people , and we only have four blankets , " al-Batran said as he cradled his son 's pale body . He described drops of dew seeping through the tent cover overnight . " Look at his color because ( of ) the cold . Do you see how frozen he is ? " <p> Children , some of them barefoot , stood outdoors and watched him mourn . The shrouded infant was laid at the feet of an imam , barely larger than his shoes . After prayers , the imam took off his ankle-length coat and wrapped it around the father . <p> " Feel warm , my brother , " he said . <p> At least four other babies have died from the cold in recent weeks , according to local health officials . <p> Three of the five Palestinian babies who froze to death in less than a week lived in the " humanitarian zone " in al-Mawasi . <p> According to Israel 's weather service , temperatures in Gaza in recent days were as low as eight degrees Celsius ( 46 Fahrenheit ) at night . <p> Hundreds of thousands of Palestinians , displaced multiple times amid relentless attacks by the Israeli army , crammed into often ramshackle tents as the cold , wet winter sets in . Aid groups have struggled to deliver food and supplies and say there are shortages of blankets , warm clothing and firewood . <p> According to multiple reports , Israel has been deliberately preventing food , water , medicine and other essentials from entering into Gaza . It has also repeatedly attacked aid convoys and civilians gathered to collect whatever aid that manages to pass through the borders . <p> The U.N . has declared a famine in parts of Gaza . An independent panel of aid experts found that nearly half of the Palestinians in the enclave are struggling with hunger . Many go days without eating . Palestinian authorities say dozens of children have starved to death . <p> Investigations by two foremost US government agencies in September this year concluded that Israel has been interfering with aid works in Gaza by deliberately blocking essential supplies , killing aid workers , razing agricultural structures , bombing ambulances and hospitals , sitting on supply depots and routinely turning away trucks full of food and medicine . <p> Israel 's genocidal war on Gaza has so far killed over 45,300 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children . The offensive has caused widespread destruction and displaced some 90% of Gaza 's 2.3 million people , often multiple times . 
@@119429999 <h> ' We refuse to be repressed ' : How world rallied against oppression and injustice in 2024 <p> In 2024 , around the world , various protests and social movements highlighted demands for justice and rights . Major events included Bangladesh 's governmental resignation , Russian anti-Putin protests , Afghan women 's dissent against regressive laws , university pro-Palestinian demonstrations , and resistance against LGBTQ+ discrimination . <p> A photo of Aleksei Navalny that reads : " hero forever " lies among candles and flowers at a makeshift memorial to him in front of Russian Embassy on Feb 24 , 2024 in Berlin , Germany . ( Photo/Getty Images ) <p> Throughout history , demonstrations and public protests have been instrumental in driving societal transformation . Whether fighting colonial rule , standing against autocratic leadership , or challenging governmental decisions , public demonstrations serve as a crucial platform for citizens to make their voices heard.Protests provide a way for citizens to assert that ordinary people hold power . Protests aim to make our world , often torn by wars and conflicts , a better place to live and often emerge as direct responses to oppression and injustice.The dawn of the 21st century brought optimistic predictions about the expansion of democratic values , citizens ' rights being secured , and discrimination against women and other marginalized groups declining.However , despite some advancements in reducing discrimination against marginalised communities in certain regions , significant challenges persist . Discrimination continues to affect women , tribal populations , LGBT communities , minority groups and others across various regions . <p> From Russia to Iran , the United States , Afghanistan , and Palestine , 2024 witnessed numerous social movements by people striving for justice and rights.Here are some of the major movements that took place across the world this year : <h> Bangladesh 's ' second independence ' <p> In 2024 , Bangladesh saw massive protests that led to the resignation of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina . The unrest was driven by anger over a quota system reserving 56 per cent of government jobs for certain groups , including 30 per cent for descendants of freedom fighters from the 1971 War of Independence . Many believed the system prevented unemployed youth from accessing civil service jobs , with allegations that it disproportionately benefited supporters of Hasina 's ruling Awami League . <p> Protesters celebrate beside a defaced portrait of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina after news of her resignation , in Dhaka , Bangladesh . <p> In 2018 , student-led protests had forced Hasina to abolish the quota system . However , in June 2024 , the High Court ruled this abolition illegal , sparking fresh protests . At the same time , pension reforms at public universities , which included salary deductions , led to widespread faculty and student walkouts . Tensions increased when Hasina referred to protesting students as " rajakaar , " a term associated with pro-Pakistan collaborators during Bangladesh 's War of Independence , further angering the public.The government 's response included violent crackdowns . The Awami League 's student wing and paramilitary forces used tear gas , live bullets , and mass arrests against protesters . The death of university student Abu Sayeed , captured on video , became a symbol of the movement , sparking a nationwide noncooperation movement . Millions marched to Dhaka despite curfews . In the end , Hasina resigned and fled the country , leaving Bangladesh under interim governance and deeply polarized.Hasina 's government was described by political scientists as an example of " competitive authoritarianism , " where elections occurred but the ruling party used state resources to weaken the opposition and create an uneven political landscape.While some have hailed Sheikh Hasina 's ouster as Bangladesh 's " second independence , " the country 's future remains uncertain . Reports of attacks on minorities under the interim government have raised questions about the nation 's trajectory . Will Bangladesh evolve into a more inclusive and liberal democracy , or will it move toward greater Islamization , mirroring Pakistan 's path ? Only the people of Bangladesh can decide . <h> ' Russia without Putin ' <p> In Russia , large crowds gathered on March 1 , 2024 , to mourn opposition leader Alexei Navalny . Navalny , a prominent critic of President Vladimir Putin , died in prison on February 16 , 2024 , at the age of 47 . His supporters accused the authorities of murder.During the funeral , chants like " Russia will be free , " " No to war , " " Russia without Putin , " " We wo n't forgive , " and " Putin is a murderer " were heard . Navalny was known for his sharp criticism of Putin and his policies . <p> People lay flowers and light candles for Alexei Navalny , critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin , near the Russian Embassy on February 16 , 2024 in Berlin , Germany . <p> Vladimir Putin has been the dominant figure in Russian politics since 2000 . He served two terms as president before becoming prime minister for four years , then returned to the presidency in 2012 . He won reelection in 2018 and again in 2024 . Putin has strengthened his control over state institutions and the media . This control has been reinforced by a focus on nationalism and opposition to the West . Since his return to the presidency , Russian authorities have further restricted media freedom , silencing opposition voices . <h> Afghan women sing to protest <p> In August 2024 , the Taliban introduced new " vice and virtue " laws banning women from singing in public or allowing their voices to be heard outside their homes . The laws also require women to cover their faces and have a male guardian with them while traveling or using public transportation . Additionally , women are prohibited from befriending those considered " infidels . " The laws state , " Whenever an adult woman leaves her home out of necessity , she is obliged to conceal her voice , face , and body . " Men are also required to cover their bodies from their navels to their knees when outside their homes.Women are now banned from looking directly at men they are not related to , and taxi drivers face punishment if they transport unaccompanied women . Women and girls who violate these laws can be detained and punished as deemed appropriate by Taliban officials.This is one of the few laws the Taliban have officially published since taking power three years ago , signaling their intention to restructure Afghan society and severely restrict women 's rights . The situation for Afghan women was already difficult but has worsened significantly under Taliban rule.A report by Amnesty International in March 2023 , titled " Women , Protest and Power - Confronting the Taliban , " highlighted that before the Taliban takeover in August 2021 , there were about two million girls in secondary schools , and many women were pursuing higher education and working in various fields , including medicine , politics , and business . The report noted , " the return of the Taliban in Afghanistan on August 15 , 2021 , took away these limited yet important achievements from women and girls . " But Afghan women have not given up , they have raised their voices in whatever capacity they can to show dissent against the Taliban 's illogical and anti-human laws . Following the Taliban 's takeover , women began peaceful protests demanding social and political justice and their rights . In the Amnesty report , Wahida Amiri from Afghanistan 's Women Spontaneous Movement said , " We refuse to accept being jailed in our homes , we refuse to be discriminated against , we refuse to be repressed . " In response to the new " vice and virtue " laws , Afghan women turned to the internet to protest . As a report by NPR said , they committed what would be a crime in their homeland . They sang . They sang and posted videos of themselves singing resistance songs . Fatima Etihadi , who fled Afghanistan a year after the Taliban 's takeover , shared a video on social media where she and her friends sang , " The flower will unfurl , revealing a spring of freedom . I sing the anthem of freedom , again , again , freedom . " <p> For now , Afghan women remain under a regime that views them as needing to be concealed . However , as the NPR report said , Afghan women are raising their voices to anyone who 'll hear them . <h> Pro-Palestine protests in Universities across the world <p> The Hamas attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 , and the subsequent war led to protests worldwide . Many of these demonstrations called for an end to the conflict , which caused the deaths of at least 1,200 Israelis and 44,000 Palestinians.In 2024 , US college campuses became central to the debate over pro-Palestinian demonstrations . Over 3,100 people were arrested or detained during protests , most of which were peaceful . The protests often included encampments , starting in mid-April when students at Columbia University pitched tents on campus while the president of the New York City university testified before Congress about antisemitism.The police moved in a day later and detained the protesters , sparking a wave of action at other colleges across the US . <p> A student activist waves a Palestinian flag at a pro-Palestine encampment at Oxford University on May 6 , 2024 in Oxford , England . <p> Protesters demanded that universities divest financially from Israel . This included ending investments in Israeli companies or those doing business with Israel and cutting academic ties with Israeli institutions . Student activists argued that such businesses and universities were complicit in the ongoing conflict in Gaza.These protests spread beyond the US , with students in the UK , France , Australia , Mexico , and other countries organizing similar demonstrations and creating " solidarity encampments . " <h> Iranian women continue to resist <p> Two years after the " Woman , Life , Freedom " protests shook Iran , following Mahsa Amini 's death in 2022 , women in Iran continue to resist . A young woman at Tehran 's Islamic Azad University stripped to her underwear after being confronted by security for not wearing a hijab . Moreover , it 's becoming more common to see a woman passing by without a mandatory headscarf , or hijab , a report by news agency AP said in September . <p> The report further said , " Today , passersby on the streets of Tehran , whether its tony northern suburbs for the wealthy or the working-class neighborhoods of the capital 's southern reaches , now routinely see women without the hijab . It particularly starts at dusk , though even during the daylight on weekends women can be seen with their hair uncovered at major parks . " <p> Additionally , the Iranian government has paused implementing a stricter law on the hijab , which many believe could reignite protests similar to those following Amini 's death . Amini died on September 16 , 2022 , after being arrested by the morality police for allegedly not wearing her hijab properly . Since then , more women have defied the hijab law despite the risks of arrest and harassment . <h> Protest against anti-LGBTQ laws <p> In August 2024 , protesters gathered outside the Bulgarian parliament to oppose a controversial legal amendment banning discussions of LGBTQ+ topics and " non-traditional sexual choices " in schools . The protest followed the failure of the country 's President , Rumen Radev , to veto the bill.Feminist , LGBTQ+ , and other rights groups organized the demonstration , demanding the repeal of the amendment , which its supporters referred to as a ban on " LGBTQ+ propaganda in schools . " <p> A protester with a rainbow flag during a demonstration against changes to Bulgaria 's education law outside the presidential palace in Sofia , Bulgaria , on Thursday , August 15 , 2024 . <p> The amendment was proposed by the pro-Russian Vazrazhdane party and unexpectedly supported by some pro-European Union parties.In the 240-seat Bulgarian parliament , 159 lawmakers voted in favor of the change.The amendment prohibits " the promotion , popularization , and support of ideas and opinions related to non-traditional sexual orientation or sexual identification other than biological " in schools . <h> Day of ' No ' silence <p> The Day of Silence , observed annually in April , is a student-led protest aimed at highlighting the silencing and marginalization of LGBTQ+ voices in US schools.Participants traditionally remain silent throughout the day to symbolize the struggles faced by LGBTQ+ students due to discrimination and harassment.This event traces its origins to April 1996 when Maria Pulzetti , a student at the University of Virginia , organized a silent protest for LGBTQ rights . Inspired by a class on the Civil Rights Movement , Pulzetti sought to use non-violent means to spotlight the unheard voices within her college community . Students who joined the protest stayed silent throughout the school day , distributing cards that explained their silence was a stand against homophobia and discrimination.In 2024 , however , the Day of Silence took on a new form , evolving into the " Day of ( No ) Silence . " Rather than observing silence , students and activists chose to use their voices to highlight the issues facing LGBTQ+ communities more assertively . " Being silent itself has never been the goal , that 's always been a tactic , " CNN quoted Gilliam as saying . 
@@119430177 <h> How are the Houthis of Yemen and Iran 's ' axis of resistance ' relevant to the UPSC exam ? What significance do topics like women 's participation in politics , artificial intelligence , and H-1B visas have for both the preliminary and main exams ? You can learn more by reading the Indian Express UPSC Key for December 30 , 2024 . <h> FRONT <p> Preliminary Examination : Current events of national and international importance <p> Mains Examination : General Studies-II : Effect of policies and politics of developed and developing countries on India 's interests , Indian diaspora . <p> What 's the ongoing story : Amid the public row among his supporters over the H-1B visa programme , US President-elect Donald Trump has backed key ally Elon Musk , calling himself a " believer in H-1B " and saying he has " always been in favour of the visas " . <p> Key Points to Ponder : <p> Advertisement <p> * What is the difference between a visa and a passport ? <p> * What is the history of India-US relations ? <p> * What is the H-1B visa program ? <p> * What are the key developments in India-US relations in the various sectors ? <p> * How does the H-1B visa program impact skilled migration from India to the United States ? <p> * How does the H-1B visa program affect relations between India and the United States ? <p> Key Takeaways : <p> * Trump 's remarks followed a series of social media posts from Musk , the CEO of Tesla and SpaceX , who vowed late Friday to go to " war " to defend the visa programme for foreign tech workers . <p> * The H-1B programme allows businesses in the US to employ skilled foreign nationals . <p> * The topic has become a flashpoint within Trump 's conservative base . In the past , Trump has criticised the H-1B visas , calling them " very bad " and " unfair " for US workers . During his first term as President , he unveiled a " Hire American " policy that directed changes to the programme to try to ensure the visas were awarded to the highest-paid or most-skilled applicants . <p> Advertisement <p> * Trump 's hardline immigration policies , focused mostly on immigrants who are in the country illegally , were a cornerstone of his presidential campaign and a priority issue for his supporters . But in recent days , his coalition has split in a public debate , largely taking place online , about the tech industry 's hiring of foreign workers . <p> * Software engineers and others in the tech industry have used H-1B visas for skilled foreign workers and say they are a critical tool for hard-to-fill positions . But critics have said they undercut US citizens who could take those jobs . Some on the right have called for the programme to be eliminated . <p> Do You Know : <p> * Between October 2022 and September 2023 , 72 per cent of the nearly 4 lakh visas issued under the H-1B programme went to Indian nationals . During the same period , top four Indian IT majors with a presence in the US -- Infosys , TCS , HCL , and Wipro -- obtained approval for around 20,000 employees to work on H-1B visas , as per the latest US Citizenship and Immigration Services ( USCIS ) data . <p> * The H-1B visa programme allows US employers to hire immigrant workers in specialty occupations that require " a high level of skill " and " at least a bachelor 's degree " , according to the US Department of Labour . The H-1B visa can be issued for a maximum of six years at a stretch . <p> Advertisement <p> * " The intent of the H-1B provisions is to help employers who can not otherwise obtain needed business skills and abilities from the US workforce by authorising the temporary employment of qualified individuals who are not otherwise authorised to work in the United States , " the department 's website says . <p> What 's the ongoing story : With more and more women participation in electoral exercises , the 2024 Lok Sabha elections saw 800 women candidates contesting across 390 parliamentary constituencies , the higher-ever since the second general elections in 1957 , showed an analysis of the data released by the Election Commission recently . <p> Key Points to Ponder : <p> * What are the constitutional provisions related to Elections in India ? <p> * Read about the Election Commission of India . <p> Advertisement <p> * What are the major economic and socio-cultural issues that impede women 's empowerment in India ? <p> * What are the ways of empowering women in India ? <p> * What is the significance of women 's representation in politics ? <p> * What steps have been taken by the government to promote women 's representation in politics and governance ? <p> * With 800 women candidates in the fray , this also led to a decline in the number of seats having no women candidate to its lowest-ever of 152 . Comparable data was unavailable for 1951 and 1971 . Over the years , however , the number of women candidates has been on the rise . <p> * According to EC data , no women candidate was in fray in 152 constituencies of the 543 constituencies , down from 171 in 2019 and 166 in 2014. ( see chart ) . <p> Advertisement <p> * Of the constituencies having no female candidate in 2024 LS polls , the highest of 30 was in UP , followed by Bihar ( 15 ) and Gujarat ( 14 ) . In the 2024 LS polls , 167 constituencies saw at least one woman candidate . There were two women candidates in 119 seats , 3 in 59 seats , 4 in 25 seats , 5 in 10 seats , 6 in 5 seats , 7 in 2 seats , and 8 in three seats . <p> * Three constituencies -- Baramati , Secunderabad , and Warangal -- had the highest number of women candidates at eight . Of the 800 women candidates this year , only 74 won and 629 lost their deposits , data showed . <p> * More and more women are coming out to vote , and in fact they again outnumbered men in exercising their franchise in 2024 , in continuation of a trend from 2019 . According to the poll panel , 65.78% of women voters cast their votes in 2024 ( excluding Surat ) as compared to 65.55% men . " Females outnumbered men in 2024 again like in 2019 ; this is only the second time in the history of GEs to Lok Sabha , " the EC noted . <p> Do You Know : <p> * One can argue that one of the biggest achievements of independent India 's experiments with democracy has been its commitment to universal adult franchise since its first general election in 1951-52 . The fact that all adult women in India were eligible to vote since the birth of the nation , and without much opposition , was indeed historic given that in most developed and powerful countries of the world such as Great Britain and America , suffrage for women was achieved through a long , tiresome and violent process . <p> * Despite the remarkable achievement in women 's voting rights , till about the 1990s , women voter turnout in India remained significantly lower compared to men . That trend , though , appears to have changed through a major shift in more recent years . <p> * India has elected 74 women MPs to Lok Sabha this year , four fewer than in 2019 and 52 more than in India 's first elections in 1952 . These 74 women make just 13.63% of the elected strength of the Lower House , much less than the 33% that will be reserved for women after the next delimitation exercise . <p> 3 . As per the existing rules , if a candidate contests in one Lok Sabha election from many constituencies , his/her party should bear the cost of bye-elections to the constituencies vacated by him/her winning in all the constituencies . <p> What 's the ongoing story : Fatal accidents in commercial aviation are rare , but when they do occur , they can be catastrophic with low chances of survival for passengers and crew . What is also extremely rare are two airplane disasters within the span of a week . Unfortunately , this was one of those rarest-of-rare weeks . <p> Key Points to Ponder : <p> * What is Belly-landing ? <p> * What were the key differences and commonalities in the Azerbaijan Airlines and Jeju Air crashes ? <p> * What are the global aviation safety trends ? <p> * What is the statistical safety of air travel compared to other modes of transportation ? <p> * What factors influence passenger survival in aircraft crashes ? <p> * What are the implications of military activities on civil aviation safety ? <p> * On December 25 , 38 of 67 people on board died when Azerbaijan Airlines flight J2-8243 -- from Baku to Gronzy in Russia 's Chechnya region -- crash-landed near Aktau in Kazakhstan . The aircraft ( an Embraer 190 ) was purportedly hit mistakenly by Russian air defence and was forced to divert from its intended flight path . Investigation to conclusively determine the cause of the accident is underway . <p> * Then on Sunday ( December 29 ) , a Jeju Air Boeing 737-800 aircraft operating a flight from Bangkok crashed during an emergency landing at Muan International Airport in South Korea . Of the 181 people on board , only two are reported to have survived the crash , which is now being seen as the worst aircraft disaster in the history of South Korea . <p> * The two survivors were reportedly pulled out by emergency responders from the tail section of the ill-fated aircraft . <p> * Even as investigations are on into the causes behind these accidents , it can be inferred that the two crashes were not similar on most counts . Be that as it may , there is one commonality -- the bulk of the survivors were seated in the rear part of the aircraft . <p> * While air travel is statistically the safest form of transportation and survival in any crash depends on a plethora of factors , there are some limited studies that show that the back of a plane could be the safest spot to sit , if and when that one-in-a-million crash occurs . <p> * The Time magazine , in a 2015 study , analysed 35 years of crash data up to that year and reported that statistically fewer people who were sitting in the back died in plane crashes . This study , which went through US aviation regulator Federal Aviation Administration 's ( FAA ) database tracking accidents with both fatalities and survivors , found 17 with seating charts that could be analysed . While the oldest accident was in 1985 , the most recent was in 2000 . <p> * In April 2012 , a team of television studios staged an airplane crash in Mexico , where a Boeing 727-200 fitted with crash test dummies and other scientific instruments was flown into the ground . The test result showed that passengers at the front of an aircraft would be the ones most at risk in a crash , while those seated closer to the airplane 's wings were reported as having suffered survivable injuries . The test dummies near the tail section were largely intact , so most passengers there would have likely walked away without serious injury . <p> * These statistical trends are very specific to the circumstances of the crash in question . In some crashes , such as when the tail hits the ground first , fatalities could be higher in the rear of the aircraft . In others , where the front or the middle of the aircraft bears the major brunt of the impact , those in the rear may have a better shot at surviving the accident . <p> Do You Know : <p> * Belly-landings are risky and carried out only in an emergency . With the landing gear up , the wings are very close to the ground when an aircraft touches down . Therefore , the wings must be held absolutely ' level ' ( parallel to the ground ) . With even a slight left or right bank either by the pilot or a strong gust of wind , a wing could hit the ground , flip the jet , send it cartwheeling or break it apart . <p> * Even if the landing goes well and everyone walks out alive , a belly-landing results in considerable damage to the plane , its engines and wings as the aircraft skids to a stop and can leave those onboard injured . The friction generated by the aircraft skidding on the runway can also create sparks or result in a fire . <h> THE EDITORIAL PAGE <p> Preliminary Examination : Current events of national and international importance <p> Mains Examination : General Studies-II : India and its neighbourhood- relations , Effect of policies and politics of developed and developing countries on India 's interests . <p> What 's the ongoing story : In August 2021 , there was a barely disguised triumphalism in Rawalpindi and Islamabad after the US withdrawal from Afghanistan and the swift takeover of the country by the Taliban . Then PM Imran Khan had said that the Taliban 's return marked the Afghan people " breaking the shackles of slavery " and there was talk from senior members of the government about the " creation of a new bloc " in the region . <p> Key Points to Ponder : <p> * What is Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan ( TTP ) ? <p> * What is the Durand Line ? <p> * Why has the Durand Line been a point of contention between Afghanistan and Pakistan ? <p> * How does the strained relationship between Afghanistan and Pakistan impact regional stability in South Asia ? <p> * How has the legacy of colonial borders influenced modern interstate relations ? <p> * Read about India 's international borders and related disputes . <p> * What is the history and current status of India 's bilateral relations with Pakistan and Afghanistan ? <p> * The clashes between the two countries on Pakistan 's western border -- Afghanistan retaliated with strikes across the Durand Line after Pakistan targeted what it called hideouts for militants in the former -- mark a deterioration of ties and the deepening of instability in an already volatile region . <p> * There has been an intensification of insurgencies in both Balochistan and Pashtun territories . The Pakistan Army , which has long fostered militant groups to deploy against India , faces significant challenges to its authority . It has accused Kabul of sheltering the Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan ( TTP ) and trying to foment insurgency in parts of Pakistan . <p> * The Taliban does not recognise the Durand Line -- it continues to refer to it as " hypothetical " . The Pashtun people continue to suffer at the hands of extremists and Rawalpindi 's counter-terrorist operations . <p> * The Pakistan state 's refusal to engage with the Pashtun Tahafuz ( self-respect ) Movement ( PTM ) -- the organisation was banned earlier this year -- and take seriously the grievances of the community only make a peaceful , constructive dialogue more difficult . <p> * For long , the Pakistan state has sought " strategic depth " on its western front vis-a- vis its conflict with India . At a time when the focus must be on economic reforms and expanding state capacity , the army seems to be sinking deeper into the morass of its own making . <p> * Military force can only be one aspect of dealing with an insurgency . The degree of maturity with which Pakistan deals with the current unrest and violence will be watched closely in New Delhi . That may well be among the defining elements for both regional security and bilateral ties . <p> Do You Know : <p> * The Durand Line was demarcated as the border between British India and Afghanistan in 1893 and with partition in 1947 became the border of the newly created Pakistan with Afghanistan . The McMahon Line was drawn up in British India at the Simla Conference that lasted from October 1913 to July 1914 . It separates Tibet from Assam and was named after the chief British negotiator Sir Henry McMahon . The McMahon Line became the basis of the Sino-India War of October-November 1962 . <p> * The border that divides India and Pakistan is called the Radcliffe line as it was drawn up by the Boundary Commission headed by Cyril Radcliffe . <h> THE IDEAS PAGE <p> Preliminary Examination : Current events of national and international importance <p> Mains Examination : General Studies-III : Indian Economy and issues relating to planning , mobilisation , of resources , growth , development and employment <p> What 's the ongoing story : C Rangarajan writes -- " Dr Manmohan Singh will go down in history as one of the ablest prime ministers of the country . As Finance Minister in the Narasimha Rao cabinet , he brought about fundamental changes in the Indian economy . The changes he introduced were revolutionary by any yardstick . They required vision and courage , and he had these qualities in abundance . " <p> Key Points to Ponder : <p> * What was the economic crisis of 1990 ? <p> * What are LPG reforms ? <p> * What is a market-determined exchange rate system ? <p> * What is the Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme ? <p> * Read about the National Food Security Act . <p> * What role did Manmohan Singh play in the economic reforms of 1991 ? <p> * What were Manmohan Singh 's major contributions to the Indian economy ? <p> Key Takeaways : <p> * " People are aware of the three major breaks we made in the economic paradigm in the early 1990s . The first was the dismantling of the wide network controls , licenses and permits that dominated the system . The second was to redefine the role of the state in the economy and the third was to give up the " import substitution " policy and be a part of the world trading system . It showed that India was willing to compete . " <p> * " One of the basic elements of the reform process was to introduce greater competition . We applied that principle to the banking system by allowing new banks to be set up by the private sector and also by reducing the share of government from 100 per cent to 51 per cent in public sector banks . " <p> * " The foreign exchange market underwent a big change . By 1993 , India moved to a market-determined exchange rate system . We managed the system in such a way that there were no shocks . " <p> * " Fiscal reforms were an integral part of the early reforms because they had an impact on restoring stability in the economy . The concept of reducing fiscal deficit took a more formal shape under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act . <p> * " His emphasis on efficiency did not take away his concern for the vulnerable groups . The Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme is one good example of how he tried to take care of the deprived . The National Food Security Act was another example . Given the production and procurement capabilities , he asked the Committee that he set up under my chairmanship to formulate a scheme of entitlements for the vulnerable . " <p> Do You Know : <p> * A sharp jump in oil prices in August 1990 led to an acute economic crisis , turning the balance of payment situation unmanageable , depleting foreign exchange reserves along with massive capital outflows , and pushing India closer to a possibility of default . <p> * These peculiar circumstances led to the government mounting the economic defence by devaluing the rupee on July 1 , 1991 , and the RBI transferring over 46 tonnes of gold from its reserves to the Bank of England for borrowing forex to manage immediate liquidity problems resulting from the Balance of Payment problem . <p> * It was for the first time that there was the prospect of default on external commitments as the foreign currency reserves had fallen to a mere $1 billion by mid-1991 . This crisis compelled the government to create a new framework in which the fundamental principle would be that competition is key to improving efficiency . <p> * The objective of the Economic Reform : Liberalisation , Privatisation , and Globalisation <p> * Liberalisation : The reform ended the excessive regulatory framework known as the ' license-permit raj ' system . The new industrial policy abolished industrial licensing for all projects barring a select few strategic industries , allowed the government to disinvest its shareholding in the public sector , and amended the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices ( MRTP ) Act to allow for the setting up , expansion , and merger of businesses without prior approval . These measures were followed up with liberalisation of the banking sector and capital markets . <p> * Privatisation : It led to the transfer of businesses from the control of the state to the private sector . The new policy reduced the number of areas reserved only for public sector companies from 17 to 8 . These structural reforms led to new enterprises coming into the picture both in the industrial and services sectors , growth gaining momentum , and a large number of Indians exiting poverty . With these policy reforms , nearly 80 percent of the industry was taken out of the industrial licensing framework and the MRTP Act was repealed to eliminate the need for prior approval for capacity expansion by companies . <p> * Globalisation : The main objective of globalisation was to integrate the Indian economy with the world economy by reducing trade barriers , and facilitating the free flow of capital , technology , and labour . The 1991 reform reduced the trade import duties , automatic permission was allowed to be given for foreign technology agreements in high-priority industries , and disallowed the permission for hiring of foreign technicians and foreign testing of indigenously developed technologies . The Indian government allowed direct foreign investment of up to 51 per cent foreign equity and removed bottlenecks to facilitate foreign technology agreements in high-priority industries . <p> What 's the ongoing story : Nandagopal Rajan writes -- " Our predictions for 2024 were that Artificial Intelligence ( AI ) would become all-pervasive , with a move toward responsible AI ; more Made in India tech products ; greener tech ; a more private Internet ; and virtual reality ( VR ) adding a virtual layer over reality . " <p> Key Points to Ponder : <p> * What is artificial intelligence ( AI ) ? <p> * What are the areas of AI application ? <p> * Is there any legal framework for AI regulation globally and nationally ? <p> * What are the benefits of AI ? <p> * What are the ethical challenges posed by the use of Generative AI ( GenAI ) ? <p> * What are the challenges associated with the AI ? <p> Key Takeaways : <p> * AI has indeed entered lives in a big way -- and has opened up existential issues for both the technology and its users . Everyone is adopting AI , but finding returns on these heavy investments has not been easy . <p> * In 2025 , there is going to be some recalibration of the actual use cases of AI -- with a lot of large corporations expected to cut down on the scale of deployment , limiting it to areas where the technology has had visible impact . Companies that have been early adopters have realised that while there is no future without AI , this is not the one answer to all their problems , at least not yet . <p> * So with all the caveats that the fast-moving technologies of our times warrant , here are our predictions for what to expect in the world of tech in 2025 . <p> * Takeover by AI agents : The adoption of AI agents that can perform certain tasks without any guidance , learn from their mistakes , and even make decisions on these tasks , will become the more popular way to adopt AI for enterprise as well as consumer uses . <p> * Death of dashboards : AI has started to make data more accessible , removing hurdles of skill behind analysing large data sets . This will gradually lead to dashboards being replaced by GenAI tools that answer specific data questions with visualisations , trend lines , or even predictions based on their visibility . <p> Do You Know : <p> * Artificial Intelligence ( AI ) is the ability of machines , especially computers , to perform tasks that typically require human intelligence . These tasks include things like understanding language , recognising patterns , solving problems , and making decisions . <p> * AI can be classified into two types : Artificial Narrow Intelligence ( ANI ) also known as weak AI and Artificial General Intelligence ( AGI ) also referred to as strong AI . <p> * ANI is designed for specific tasks and excels within a narrow domain . Examples include virtual assistants like Siri , recommendation systems on platforms like Netflix , and image recognition software . ANI systems are highly specialised and can not transfer their expertise to unrelated tasks . <p> * In contrast , AGI aims to replicate human cognitive abilities , enabling it to perform any intellectual task a human can do . AGI would possess general reasoning skills , understand context , and adapt to new situations across various domains . It would be capable of autonomous learning and problem-solving without requiring task-specific programming . <p> * Machine Learning ( ML ) and Deep Learning ( DL ) are subsets of AI but differ in complexity and capabilities . ML involves training algorithms to learn from data and make predictions and often requires manual feature extraction . <p> * DL , a subset of ML , uses neural networks with many layers ( hence " deep " ) to automatically learn features from large datasets . While ML works well with smaller datasets , DL requires vast amounts of data and computational power . <p> Mains Examination : General Studies- II : Effect of policies and politics of developed and developing countries on India 's interests , Indian diaspora . <p> What 's the ongoing story : Israel bombed several places in Yemen on Thursday , including the airport in Sana'a , where a high-level United Nations delegation led by World Health Organization Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus was present . <p> * Israel began directly striking the Houthi ( Ansar Allah ) militant group in Yemen last week , expanding its ongoing campaign against Iran and the so-called " axis of resistance " . <p> * Israeli war jets have carried out such long-distance operations earlier , flying more than 2,000 km for example , during its Operation Long Arm in response to a Houthi drone attack in July , which disrupted humanitarian operations at the Yemeni port of Hodeida . <p> * The scale of the ongoing strikes is wider , and the bombing of Sana'a is a first . With the capabilities of Hamas and Hezbollah severely degraded but with the Houthis continuing to succeed in direct attacks , Israelis have been debating whether to focus on the " last remaining Iranian proxy " in Yemen or to go after Iran itself . <p> * The Houthis have long had an interest in fighting the US ( which supported Saudi Arabia in its war against the Tehran-backed group ) and Israel . While the tactical necessities of the civil war , ongoing since 2014 , kept the Houthis focused on Yemen , by October 7 , 2023 -- the day of the Hamas attacks on southern Israel -- they were at an interesting juncture . <p> * Following the October 7 terrorist attacks , as Israel began its bombardment of Gaza , the Houthis declared their casus belli as stopping Israel and deterring America . At that point , they were a group that had not only survived a 10-year civil war and high- casualty Saudi and Emirati air strikes , but one that had begun to project , from 2021 onward , a certain permanence . Indeed , the US had in a show of pragmatism lifted the Foreign Terrorist Organisation ( FTO ) tag from the Houthis that year . ( The Biden Administration redesignated them in January 2024 . ) <p> * Exploiting the window of opportunity to increase their profile , the Houthis first mounted a cruise/ ballistic missile and drone campaign against Israel , before shifting their attacks to the maritime domain by December 2023 . They benefited not only from Iranian military aid and supply , but also Russian targeting intelligence . And they have remained defiant in the face of the fresh Israeli air strikes . <p> * The Houthi stock in Iranian overseas operations continued to rise through 2024 , especially as Israel significantly weakened Hezbollah and Hamas , and the fall of the Bashar al-Assad regime in Syria severed Tehran 's lines of communication with Lebanon . <p> * December may be seen as having injected a stronger instinct of self-preservation into the weakened Iranian axis -- even as Iranian government officials themselves write editorials in The Economist and Foreign Affairs signaling openness to engaging the West . The Houthis are currently the spearhead of the axis against Israel , with the Hashd enabling that effort , even as they keeps their own distance from the war , at least for now . <p> Do You Know : <p> * The Houthis are a large clan belonging to the Zaidi Shia sect , with roots in Yemen 's northwestern Saada province . Zaidis make up around 35 per cent of Yemen 's population . <p> * The Zaidis ruled over Yemen for over a thousand years until 1962 , when they were overthrown and a civil war followed , which lasted until 1970 . The Houthi clan began to revive the Zaidi tradition from the 1980s , resisting the increasing influence of the Salafists , who were funded by the state . The unprecedented success in the Red Sea and the renewed American focus on destroying them have raised the domestic profile of the Houthis . <p> * Iran , a Shia-majority country , is believed to back the Houthis , even as it has denied the charge . Its regional rival , the Sunni-majority Saudia Arabia ( along with Western allies like the US ) backs the Yemen government . Houthis ' support for Palestine is , therefore , also a manifestation of existing regional rivalries . <p> The Ministry of Commerce and Industry on Sunday said that export utilisation under the India-Australia Economic Cooperation and Trade Agreement ( ECTA ) has reached 79 per cent after two years of implementation , while import utilisation stood at 84 per cent . <p> Trade utilisation of a free trade agreement ( FTA ) indicates the extent to which trade benefits from the agreement . It also provides insights into whether businesses are effectively leveraging the FTA or finding its concession procedures burdensome . However , trade between India and Australia has declined during the current financial year . <p> In an indication of the impact of rising food prices , the share of spending on food items in the consumption basket of rural and urban households went up in 2023-24 , even as non-food items constituted the majority chunk of the spending . Fact sheet of the latest round of the Household Consumption Expenditure Survey 2023-24 released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation ( MoSPI ) on Friday also showed rural spending growing at a faster pace than urban areas , narrowing the gap between the two , and also perhaps signalling a cut in consumption by urban households . <p> Roshni Yadav is currently working as a Deputy Copy Editor with The Indian Express . She is an alumna of the University of Delhi and Jawaharlal Nehru University , where she pursued her graduation and post-graduation in Political Science . She has over four years of work experience in ed-tech and media . At The Indian Express , she writes for the UPSC section . Her interests lie in national and international affairs , governance , economy , and social issues . You can contact her via email : **30;984;TOOLONG ... Read More 
@@119430307 <h> Israel 's UN Ambassador told the UN Security Council , ' This is not a threat . It is a promise . You will share the same fate as those who sought to destroy us . ' <p> Israel 's UN Ambassador Danny Danon issued a stern warning to Yemen 's Iran-backed Houthi militants to cease missile attacks on Israel , cautioning that they risk the same " miserable fate " as Hamas and Hezbollah . He stressed on Israel 's capability to strike any target in the Middle East , including within Iran , and declared that attacks by Iranian proxies would not be tolerated . <p> Danon told the UN Security Council , " This is not a threat . It is a promise . You will share the same fate as those who sought to destroy us . " His comments follow recent Houthi drone and missile attacks launched in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza . <p> Israeli strikes on multiple Houthi-linked targets in Yemen last week prompted sharp criticism from Russia , which condemned the attacks as disproportionate . However , Israel maintains its right to defend its citizens and infrastructure . <p> The UN expressed grave concerns about escalating violence and its potential impact on regional stability , with Assistant UN Secretary-General Khaled Khiari calling for an immediate halt to hostilities . He warned that further escalation could have dire humanitarian and political consequences for millions across the region . 
@@119430920 <p> The ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas changed a lot of things , including an influx of labourers from India . Indian workers have replaced a large number of Palestinian workers . As per the latest report , approximately 16,000 Indians have entered Israel , replacing Palestinian workers in the last year . <p> Attracted by higher earnings , the construction sites , which Arabic-speaking workers dominated , have now been outnumbered by Hindi , Hebrew , and even Mandarin-speaking individuals , reported AFP . The attack marked the start of the deadliest war between Israel and Hamas in Gaza , eventually involving other Iran-backed groups , including Hezbollah in Lebanon and Houthi rebels in Yemen , with direct confrontations with Iran itself . <p> One of the Indian workers in Israel , Raju Nishad navigates the scaffolding , hammering blocks that will contribute to a new neighbourhood 's construction in Beer Yaakov , central Israel . <p> Nishad and other Indian workers , now commonplace at such construction sites , represent a significant shift in Israel 's building industry . Their presence is part of an Israeli government initiative to address a labour shortage caused by the absence of tens of thousands of Palestinian workers , barred from entering Israel . <p> Despite the risks , Nishad , 35 , saw no reason to avoid coming to Israel . " There 's nothing to be afraid of here , " he said , unfazed by the occasional air raid warnings that send workers to shelters . " Once the siren stops , we just resume our work . " <p> The high earnings in Israel , sometimes triple what workers could make back home , are a major draw . " I 'm saving for the future , planning to make wise investments and do something meaningful for my family , " Nishad explained . <p> Thousands more Indian workers are expected to come . <p> Indians have long worked in Israel , particularly as caregivers , diamond traders , and IT professionals . However , following the war 's escalation , the construction industry is now actively recruiting Indian workers . <p> Samir Khosla , chairman of Delhi-based Dynamic Staffing Services , has sent over 3,500 Indian workers to Israel since October 2023 . Khosla , whose company has placed over 500,000 Indian workers in more than 30 countries , sees Israel as a new and promising market . Responding to urgent calls for foreign labour after the war halted construction , Khosla noted , " We really had to move around and understand the needs , " adding that the strong India-Israel relationship made this partnership natural . He hopes to bring up to 10,000 Indian workers , citing a vast pool of skilled labour in India . <p> In Tel Aviv , Indian workers adapt to their new environment by combining construction expertise with a taste of home , cooking the spicy dishes they miss . Suresh Kumar Verma , 39 , another worker from Uttar Pradesh , highlighted the financial opportunities in Israel : " In a short time , one can earn more money . It 's important to work hard for the family 's future . " <p> Despite these efforts , Israeli researchers note that the current number of Indian construction workers falls short of replacing the Palestinian workforce . Before the war , approximately 80,000 Palestinians and 26,000 foreigners worked in construction . Today , the number of foreign workers stands at about 30,000 , significantly lower than pre-war levels . <p> Eyal Argov of the Bank of Israel observed that construction activity in late 2024 is roughly 25 per cent below pre-war levels . While this shortfall does not immediately affect housing availability , it could delay new projects . With Israel 's population growing by two per cent annually , these delays might lead to future housing shortages . 
@@119431005 <h> Hacked ? Ford Motor Company 's X Account Shares Israel-Gaza Tweets <p> Ford Motor Company 's official Twitter account has been compromised , as multiple contentious posts were made earlier today . The tweets , featuring statements like " Free Palestine , " " Israel is a terrorist state , " and " ALL EYES ON GAZA , " incited swift reactions on social media , racking up thousands of likes , retweets , and comments prior to their removal . <h> Quick Removal of Unauthorized Posts <p> Ford promptly reinstated its account after the breach . The contentious tweets were removed , but not prior to attracting considerable public interest . <h> Awaiting Ford 's Official Statement <p> Ford has not released any official statement regarding the incident yet . The firm is probably working with cybersecurity specialists to examine the breach , according to UK News In Pictures . <h> Widespread Social Media Reactions <p> The incident turned into a trending discussion on the internet , sparking conversations about corporate cybersecurity . Numerous users urged for improved actions to avert similar breaches . <h> Historical Cybersecurity Concerns at Ford <p> This is n't Ford 's firstencounter with cybersecurity concerns . In November , a hacker who identified as " EnergyWeaponUser " asserted that they had infiltrated Ford 's network . EnergyWeaponUser posted illicit Ford information on a hacking forum . The incident revealed confidential details , comprising 44,000 client records . The pilfered information encompassed names , addresses , and details of product purchases . It also included account codes and types of sales . <p> The information relates to consumers globally , with the sample featuring data for customers in the USA , China , Spain , Zimbabwe , Mozambique , St Lucia , among others . At this point , Ford has not made a public acknowledgment of the event so far . <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from US News , World and around the world . 
@@119431755 <p> This image is AI-generated and does not depict any real-life event or location . It is a fictional representation created for illustrative purposes only . <p> SHARE <p> In the heart of Gaza 's relentless conflict , the Al-Batran family endures unimaginable tragedy . Yahya Al-Batran discovered his newborn son Jumaa lifeless from hypothermia ; his twin brother Ali clings to life in intensive care . <p> The harsh winter compounds the plight of displaced families , with inadequate aid and no hope of immediate ceasefire . Israeli reports of aid delivery contrast sharply with international agencies ' claims of restricted supplies worsening the crisis . <p> Families huddle in tattered tents , struggling against the brutal weather and instability . The humanitarian emergency continues as hostilities between Israeli forces and Hamas insurgents show little sign of resolution . 
@@119431782 <h> WHO chief calls for end to hospital attacks in Gaza after strike <h> The Israeli military said Hamas militants were the targets of a strike on Gaza City 's Al Wafa hospital on Sunday , which the Palestinian civil defence said killed seven people . Israeli forces also detained more than 240 Palestinians including dozens of medical staff from Kamal Adwan hospital on Friday , among them its director Hussam Abu Safiya , according to health authorities in the enclave and Israel 's military . <p> The head of the World Health Organization on Monday called for an end to attacks on hospitals in Gaza after Israel struck one and raided another in the past few days . " Hospitals in Gaza have once again become battlegrounds and the health system is under severe threat , " WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a post on X. <p> " We repeat : stop attacks on hospitals . People in Gaza need access to health care . Humanitarians need access to provide health aid . Ceasefire ! " he added . The Israeli military said Hamas militants were the targets of a strike on Gaza City 's Al Wafa hospital on Sunday , which the Palestinian civil defence said killed seven people . <p> Israeli forces also detained more than 240 Palestinians including dozens of medical staff from Kamal Adwan hospital on Friday , among them its director Hussam Abu Safiya , according to health authorities in the enclave and Israel 's military . The Israeli military said the hospital was being used as a command centre for Hamas military operations and those arrested were suspected militants . It said Abu Safiya was taken for questioning as he was suspected of being a Hamas operative . <p> Tedros , who last week was caught up in an Israeli strike against Yemen 's main airport that he said might have cost him his life , called for Abu Safiya 's immediate release and said the Al-Ahli hospital had also faced attacks . Tedros said the WHO and partners had delivered basic medical supplies , food and water to Gaza 's Indonesian hospital and transferred 10 critical patients to Al Shifa hospital . Four patients were detained during the transfer , he said . <p> " We urge Israel to ensure their health care needs and rights are upheld , " Tedros said . At least 45,514 Palestinians have been killed and 108,189 wounded in Israel 's military offensive in Gaza since the Hamas attacks of Oct. 7 , 2023 , according to Gaza 's health ministry . ( Writing by Dave Graham ; Editing by Michael Perry ) <p> ( This story has not been edited by Devdiscourse staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed. ) 
@@119431786 <h> With over 75,000 Palestinians in the area already under siege for more than 80 days , the systematic dismantling of healthcare services poses a catastrophic threat to their survival . <p> The Kamal Adwan raid follows months of escalating restrictions and repeated attacks on healthcare facilities and workers in North Gaza . Image Credit : <p> SHARE <p> The World Health Organization ( WHO ) has expressed grave concern and outrage following a raid on Kamal Adwan Hospital in North Gaza , which has rendered the region 's last major health facility non-operational . With over 75,000 Palestinians in the area already under siege for more than 80 days , the systematic dismantling of healthcare services poses a catastrophic threat to their survival . <p> Initial reports indicate that the raid caused severe damage to key areas of the hospital , including the laboratory , surgical unit , engineering and maintenance department , operations theatre , and the medical store . Parts of the facility were reportedly burned . Earlier in the day , 12 patients and a female health worker were forced to evacuate to the non-functional Indonesian Hospital , where basic care is impossible . <p> By evening , the hospital was entirely emptied , with 15 critical patients , 50 caregivers , and 20 health workers transferred to the Indonesian Hospital , which lacked the equipment and supplies needed to provide adequate care . WHO has voiced serious concerns about the wellbeing of these critical patients and the Kamal Adwan Hospital director , who was reportedly detained during the raid . Contact with the director has been lost since the attack . <h> Ongoing Attacks on Healthcare <p> The Kamal Adwan raid follows months of escalating restrictions and repeated attacks on healthcare facilities and workers in North Gaza . Since October 2024 , WHO has verified at least 50 attacks on or near the hospital . Bombardments this week alone reportedly killed 50 people , including five health workers from the hospital . <h> Humanitarian Efforts Undermined <p> Despite dire needs for emergency and trauma care , humanitarian missions have been severely restricted . Between October and December , only 10 out of 21 WHO missions to Kamal Adwan were partially facilitated , delivering fuel , medical supplies , and food while transferring patients to Al-Shifa Hospital . However , international emergency medical teams were repeatedly denied entry , leaving hospitals with insufficient support . <p> With Kamal Adwan and Indonesian hospitals out of service and Al-Awda Hospital barely operational due to recent airstrikes , the healthcare system in North Gaza has reached a breaking point . WHO and its partners ' efforts to sustain operations have been undone by relentless attacks and deteriorating conditions . <h> Urgent WHO Response and Call to Action <p> WHO has announced an emergency mission to the Indonesian Hospital to assess the situation , deliver essential supplies , and transfer critical patients to Gaza City for continued care . The organization is also calling for immediate international action to : <p> Protect Health Facilities and Workers : Health workers , patients , and hospitals must be off-limits and actively protected under international humanitarian law . <p> Uphold Humanitarian Principles : The principles of precaution , distinction , and proportionality under international law must be respected . <h> A Grim Reminder <p> The attack on Kamal Adwan Hospital is reminiscent of earlier destruction in Gaza City , where hospitals became battlegrounds . WHO 's repeated calls since October 2023 to protect healthcare services have largely gone unheeded , resulting in devastating consequences for civilians . <p> " Hospitals , health workers , and patients are not just symbols of humanity ; they are lifelines that must never be attacked or used for military purposes , " WHO reiterated . <p> The international community is urged to act decisively to prevent further loss of life and protect the healthcare system in Gaza . 
@@119431827 <p> The women of Gaza are enduring immense hardships in the territory 's crowded tent camps , where privacy is virtually nonexistent . Due to Israel 's ongoing 14-month campaign , over 90% of Gaza 's 2.3 million Palestinians have been forced from their homes , seeking refuge in makeshift camps with dire living conditions . <p> Women face daily challenges , such as limited access to menstrual products , forcing them to use makeshift solutions for menstrual hygiene . The scarcity of clean water and food exacerbates these struggles , creating an oppressive cycle of exposure and humiliation . Despite aid efforts , the demand for basic supplies surpasses availability , leaving many women vulnerable . <p> The humanitarian crisis in Gaza raises significant health risks , especially for women . Amal Seyam from the Women 's Affairs Center warns of potential skin diseases and psychological issues due to unhygienic conditions . As women cope with their reduced lives in tents , they reflect on a past where dignity and personal care were possible . 
@@119432273 <h> Seema Guha <p> The visit gave both India and Bangladesh an opportunity to frankly discuss each other 's concerns . Since Sheikh Hasina had to flee the country after a bloodless people 's revolution led by the students revolution , India-Bangladesh ties took a huge hit . Whether Monday 's frank exchange cleared the air remains to be seen . <p> The Nelson Mandela Foundation , a powerful NGO played a major role in getting President Cyril Ramaphosa 's government to go before the ICJ against Israel . However if the court rules in favour of South Africa , it will be at best a moral victory . <p> The possibility of the war spilling over to other powers like Iran seems highly unlikely as neither Iran 's Supreme Leader nor the Hezbollah benefit from a full scale war . Yet , a small misstep by any party , including Israel , could embroil the region in years of conflict . <p> The iconic Pulitzer-winning picture of the ' Napalm Girl ' during the Vietnam War tugged at the heartstrings . But , many more wars followed the Vietnam War . Today , similar gut-wrenching images are emerging from Gaza . Then , there is Ukraine . Earlier , it was Syria , Yemen , Sudan , and many others . 
@@119432281 <p> ' I have nothing ... Would you take half of nothing ? ' Artwork by Indian conceptual artist Mithu Sen <p> ' I have nothing ... Would you take half of nothing ? ' Artwork by Indian conceptual artist Mithu Sen <p> In the apartment of my friends in Baghdad ( Iraq ) , they tell me about how each of them had been impacted by the ugliness of the US-imposed illegal war on their country that began in 2003 . Yusuf and Anisa are unusual people , both members of the Federation of Journalists of Iraq and both with experience as ' stringers ' for Western media companies that came to Baghdad amid the war . When I first went to their apartment for dinner in the well-positioned Waziriyah district , I was struck by the fact that Anisa -- who I had known as a secular person -- wore a veil on her face . " I wear this scarf , " Anisa said to me later in the evening , " to hide the scar on my jaw and neck , the scar made by a bullet wound from a US soldier who panicked after an IED improvised explosive device went off beside his patrol . " <p> Earlier in the day , Yusuf had taken me around New Baghdad City , where in 2007 an Apache helicopter had killed almost twenty civilians and injured two children . Among the dead were two journalists who worked for Reuters , Saeed Chmagh and Namir Noor Eldeen . ' ' This is where they were killed , " he tells me as he points to the square . " And this is where Saleh Matasher Tomal parked his minivan to rescue Saeed , who had not yet died . And this is where the Apache shot at the minivan , grievously injuring Saleh 's children -- Sajad and Duah . " I was interested in this place because the entire incident was captured on film by the US military and released by Wikileaks as Collateral Murder in 2010 . Julian Assange was persecuted largely because he led the team that released this video . It presented direct evidence of a horrific war crime . <p> Namir Noor Eldeen was twenty-two years old . During his assignment in Mosul from 2004 to 2006 , he had photographed a masked Iraqi insurgent looking straight at the camera , in one hand a rocket propelled grenade launcher and in the other a police flak jacket . Reassigned to Baghdad , Namir photographed the worst parts of the collapse of his country : pictures of dead bodies and car blasts , insurgents and survivors , US soldiers and their heavy equipment . There is one picture from January 2007 that I remember vividly : a young boy carries a football under his arms as he steps around a pool of blood , beside which sit a few rumpled schoolbooks . When I heard that Namir had been killed by US soldiers , I thought of that boy . I think of him now . He would be in his 20s , watching the livestreamed genocide in Palestine . I wonder if he remembers that pool of blood and those schoolbooks , the dead children whose bodies had been removed before he went by with his football . <p> A survey of the children in Gaza by War Child Alliance found that death feels imminent for 96 per cent of them -- traumatised by the murder of their family members and terrorised by the sound and ferocity of the bombings . <p> " No one believed us when we talked about the crimes of the United States in Iraq , even after the Abu Ghraib photos were released in 2004 , " Yusuf told me . " But when Wikileaks published the video of Collateral Murder , it was hard to deny the attitude of the US soldiers and the war crimes committed against ordinary Iraqis . " Yusuf holds one hand close to his body . He was hit in the shoulder by a US soldier 's stray bullet . Another journalist attacked for trying to tell the truth . Yusuf can not move that shoulder . But , when he first saw the video on the Wikileaks site , he tells me , he was ecstatic . It told the world what he already knew , what the victims of the War on Terror already knew . <p> " No one in our neighbourhood has been untouched by the violence . We are a society that has been traumatised , " Anisa said to me in the evening . " Take my neighbour for instance . She lost her mother in a bombing and her husband is blind because of another bombing . " The stories fill my notebook . They are endless . Every society that has experienced the kind of warfare faced by the Iraqis , and now by the Palestinians , is deeply scarred . It is hard to recover from such violence . <p> *** <p> I am walking near the Ho Chi Minh Trail in Vietnam . My friends who are showing me the area point into the fields that surround it and say that this land has been so poisoned by the United States dropping Agent Orange that they do not think food can be produced here for generations . The US dropped at least 74 million litres of chemicals , mostly Agent Orange , on Cambodia , Laos , and Vietnam , with the focus for many years being this supply line that ran from the north to the south . The campaign was known as Operation Ranch Hand because Agent Orange had been developed as a herbicide for industrial agriculture . In Vietnam it was used to tear through the vegetation in the forests and along the coastline of the Mekong Delta to remove the cover used by the Vietnamese guerrillas . The spray of these chemicals struck the bodies of at least five million Vietnamese and mutilated the land . A Vietnamese journalist Tr ? n T ? Nga published Ma Terre Empoisonn ? e ( My Poisoned Land ) in 2016 to call attention to the atrocity that has continued to impact Vietnam over four decades after the US lost the war . In her book , Tr ? n T ? Nga describes how , as a journalist in 1966 , she was sprayed by a US Air Force Fairchild C-123 with a strange chemical . She wiped it off and went ahead through the jungle , inhaling the poisons dropped from the sky . When her daughter was born two years later , she died in infancy of the impact of Agent Orange on Tr ? n T ? Nga . <p> " The people from that village over there , " they tell me , naming the village , " birth children with severe defects generation after generation . " When we walk through the village later , it becomes apparent through the sight of all manner of deformities -- including large numbers of people with hydrocephalus or swollen heads -- that the poison continues to have its deadly impact generation after generation . <p> These memories come back in the context of Gaza . <p> Of course , the genocide has taken so many lives : nearly 50,000 dead by the last official count . But there are other enduring parts of modern warfare that are hard to calculate . There is the immense sound of war , the noise of bombardment and of cries , the noises that go deep into the consciousness of young children and mark them for their entire lives . There are children in Gaza , for example , who were born in 2006 and are now eighteen , who have seen wars at their birth in 2006 , then in 2008-09 , 2012 , 2014 , 2021 and now , in 2023-24 . The gaps between these major bombardments have been punctuated by smaller bombardments , as noisy and as deadly . A survey of the children in Gaza by War Child Alliance found that death feels imminent for 96 per cent of them -- traumatised by the murder of their family members and terrorised by the sound and ferocity of the bombings . " The psychological toll on children was severe , with high levels of stress manifested in symptoms such as fear , anxiety , sleep disturbances , nightmares , nail biting , difficulty concentrating and social withdrawal , " the report noted . This is a child mental health catastrophe . <p> Then there is the dust . Modern construction uses a range of toxic materials . Indeed , in 1982 , the World Health Organisation ( WHO ) recognised a phenomenon called ' sick building syndrome ' , which is when a person falls ill due to the toxic material used to construct modern buildings . Imagine now that a 2,000-pound MK84 bomb lands on a building and imagine the toxic dust that flies about and lingers both in the air and on the ground . This is precisely what the children of Gaza are now breathing as the Israelis drop hundreds of these deadly bombs on residential neighbourhoods . There is now over 42 million tons of debris in Gaza , large sections of it filled with toxic substances . <p> In 2021 , the Israeli bombing of highly urbanised Gaza left 12,000 buildings damaged or destroyed . A World Bank study at that time found that these buildings generated 1 million tonnes of rubble and debris , and that within this debris existed 30,000 tonnes of hazardous waste that includes asbestos and medical waste . An interim assessment of the damage done by the Israeli bombing from 2023-24 shows that 88,868 buildings have been destroyed in Gaza . There is yet no account of the volume of hazardous waste , but it is thought to be enormous . The World Bank estimates that the cost of the damage is around $18.5 billion , which is 97 per cent of the total Gross Domestic Product ( GDP ) of the Occupied Palestinian Territory ( East Jerusalem , Gaza and the West Bank ) in 2022 . The United Nations ( UN ) says that it will take a minimum of 15 years to clear the debris , which means that regardless of the circumstances of a peace agreement , the Palestinians have been ethnically cleansed from Gaza for a generation . But , living in tents here and there , they will continue to breathe in the toxic materials that will generate health hazards for multiple generations to come . <p> *** <p> US President George W. Bush 's adventure in Iraq was not an aberration in the War on Terror ; it was its highest point , its defining action . Reason went out of the window and in its place came a jumble of anxieties mixed in with older currents of racism -- hatred of Arabs who were seen to be inherently duplicitous and only able to learn their lessons through violence . Unforgivable bombardment of Baghdad and Fallujah fixed the outlines , which were then coloured in by lesser actions up and down the Euphrates and Tigris Rivers . Iraq lingers despite every effort to erase it from the map . The immensity of the tragedy of Iraq -- the cause of great destabilisation in West Asia and North Africa to this day , including Syria -- has been utterly forgotten . <p> On the mantelplace , there is a small Palestinian flag and a little piece of shrapnel next to it . Anisa says that it is the shrapnel that was removed from Yusuf 's left eye socket , where he now wears a jaunty patch . Then she smiles ... Horror must be laughed at directly or survival is impossible . <p> A few years ago , I was in Sabha , in southern Libya , where a battle had been raging between two rival -- and unofficial -- armies , the forces of the city of Misrata and the Libyan National Army ( led by General Khalifa Haftar ) . Earnest protests by residents of the city for the war to go elsewhere had been ignored . Moth-eaten military bases and lucrative checkpoints were the targets of this war . Sabha sits at a strategic point in the Sahara Desert , linking the trafficking from Agadez ( Niger ) , Darfur ( Sudan ) , Zouar ( Chad ) , Kidal , Gao , and Menaka ( Mali ) and Ghat ( Algeria ) . It is through Sabha that human traffickers cart people to the Libyan coastline to become refugees to Europe or extremists for the wars in Libya and Syria as well as back to Boko Haram in Nigeria . Africa 's central region has been wracked by war , driven not merely by terrorism but by International Monetary Fund-induced economic collapse , Western-backed kleptocracy , and the wars of Africa 's Great Lakes for resources -- including those that run our cellphones -- that have spilled out of the Congo region . The North Atlantic Treaty Organization 's regime change war in Libya , the French military intervention in Libya and the presence of US Special Forces in 33 of the 54 African states did little to settle an already disturbed situation . There was little to choose between the wars in Libya and in the eastern Congo -- both catastrophic for the future of Africa , both fuelled by the capillaries of economic polices driven by the West and by an arms industry buoyed by Western arms sales . There are trillions to be made by these arms companies and their associates in the blood spilt across the Global South and in the terror inflicted on the minds of young children . <p> Anisa and Yusuf do not have any children . Their apartment is modest . There are not many photographs on the walls . There are a few prints of paintings , where I first learned of the work of Layla Ali Sadiq Al-Attar ( 1944-1993 ) , who had been the director of Iraq 's National Art Museum . The print from al-Attar on the wall of the modest living room was of the painting called Mother Earth ' ( 1980 ) that depicts a woman 's back emerging from ploughed fields . The painting is both comforting and disturbing . Al-Attar was killed on 27 June 1993 when US President Bill Clinton authorised an attack on the office of Iraq 's General Intelligence Directorate . Of the 23 cruise missiles fired at Baghdad , two struck Al-Attar 's house and killed her , her husband ( Abd al-Khaleq Jeridan ) , and their housekeeper , as well as blinded her daughter ( Reem ) . Anisa collects these kinds of stories . <p> On the mantelplace , there is a small Palestinian flag . Next to it is a little piece of shrapnel . I ask them about it . Anisa says that it is the shrapnel that was removed from Yusuf 's left eye socket , where he now wears a jaunty patch . Then she smiles . I wonder if she is pulling my leg . But it is unlikely . Horror must be laughed at directly or survival is impossible . 
@@119432283 <p> Written using an airplane in the sky above New York City in June 1982 , Chilean poet Ra ? l Zurita 's La Vida Nueva subsequently appeared as photographs of that sky-writing in Antepara ? so in 1982 . <p> " All this time I told myself we were born from war -- but I was wrong , Ma . We were born from beauty . <p> Let no one mistake us for the fruit of violence -- but that violence , having passed through the fruit , failed to spoil it . " <p> -- Ocean Vuong , On Earth We 're Briefly Gorgeous <p> Was I a fruit that had itself pierced by violence ? Was I born from war ? <p> You have now come to believe we are born from beauty . <p> Like him . <p> You could hear the drones in the sky over the phone . You have read that eyewitnesses have said Israeli forces are using sniper drones in Gaza . In November , 10 people in a tent caf ? were killed in a drone attack . You ca n't form your sentences . How do you ask someone in a place like that for a story ? You ask anyway . You are ashamed of sitting at your desk at home . The sky is quiet outside . You suddenly see him in your head , standing underneath a parapet of a destroyed building , holding his phone and looking upwards to see if a drone is headed towards him . <p> Motasem Dalloul , a journalist in Gaza , asked you for a word count and a deadline . He said he would like to tell his story . <p> His two sons and wife were killed in Israeli airstrikes in 2024 . His house was destroyed . <p> " Do n't come to Gaza , " he said . " It is dangerous . " <p> There was a pause . More drones . Like the buzzing of bees . His voice was getting drowned . <p> " You ca n't come to Gaza , " he said . " Nobody can . " <p> You know you ca n't make it to Gaza . <p> There is a wall . An iron wall . You are just a journalist . <p> There are too many walls in this world . <p> There are too many wars . <p> You remember that last line from John Milton 's Sonnet 19 : When I Consider How My Light is Spent : " They also serve who only stand and wait . " <p> How does one give a word count to someone in a war zone ? Or even a deadline . <p> " Write everything , " you had said to him . " Send it when you can . " <p> He sent a couple of lines . He said the reality of a Palestinian journalist is that he has to cover the deaths of his loved ones and the destruction of his homeland . <p> He said he would send more later . <p> You waited until the last day . <p> You kept a page in his name . It would remain blank . Awaiting , a verb . It is an active state . <p> Waiting has no ending . <p> You will wait . He can send it a century later . Your hope is sharper than a machete , more piercing than a bullet . <p> Dalloul lost his two young sons and wife in 2024 in the war in Gaza that has unleashed images of violence and loss and brutality and seems endless . He lost nephews and nieces and brothers and sisters and uncle and his home . <p> You ca n't write on his behalf . <p> *** <p> You first saw Valentina Iribagiza , a survivor of the 1994 genocide in Rwanda , almost two decades ago at your university . You remember that she was wearing a pink dress that afternoon . <p> She was at Syracuse University to tell her story . She was only 13 years old when the genocide where more than 800,000 Tutsis were killed by the Hutu majority in Rwanda happened . A Tutsi girl , she had hidden herself among the corpses of her family and neighbours in a church in her village for days . Her machete wounds had been infected and she had a fractured skull . <p> You remember a particular scene from the 1997 film , Valentina 's Nightmare : A Journey into the Rwandan Genocide , by BBC reporter Fergal Keane , that you saw then . In a dark church room , a girl moves a little . She is not dead . But that 's not enough . There are corpses around her . Nights must have been strange in that church with the dead . <p> Around 20,000 civilians were massacred on April 15-16 , 1994 , at the Nyarubuye Roman Catholic Church in Kibungo Province , where they had taken refuge during extreme violence in Rwanda that killed more than a million people , mostly belonging to the Tutsi ethnicity , in 100 days of violence . <p> For days after the slaughter of her village , Valentina , the 13-year-old Tutsi girl , lay hidden among the corpses of her family and neighbours , her wounds festering with infection . <p> How is any reconciliation possible ? <p> Valentina confronted those nights amongst the corpses of her people over and over again to tell the world what happened . <p> Violence had n't spoilt her . <p> She is here to live out loud . <p> *** <p> Zurita wrote about the Atacama Desert . He drew lines in the sand . He wrote in the sky . He poured the sea in an old building . <p> You dreamed once that you were walking through the desert with him . <p> The poet recited these lines from his poem 1973 . <p> " What matters is that <p> I need love and I 'm alone . It does n't matter <p> that men have taken off like rats . That 's <p> life . I know a lot about it . Or at least , as <p> much . It had caught up with me , life , that <p> is . " <p> He held the pen steady in his hand like he once did in another town by the sea where you met him in 2016 , where he had filled seawater in an old warehouse by the sea and written a poem for Galip Kurdi , the brother of Alan Kurdi , the three-year-old Syrian toddler who drowned in the Mediterranean Sea in the summer of 2015 , as his family fled the war in their country . Alan 's body washed up on a Turkish shore . <p> Galip , his elder brother who was five at the time , and his mother , Rihanna , all drowned . <p> Zurita called his installation The Sea of Pain . At the end , you were confronted with a poem . <p> " I am not his father , but Galip Kurdi is my son , " Zurita wrote in the poem . <p> You have walked in The Sea of Pain with Zurita . <p> He had held your hand then . <p> You have n't been to Gaza or Syria or anywhere where there are continuous wars , but Dalloul and Valentina are my people . <p> MY GOD IS LOVE . <p> It was the 1991 Gulf War that heralded another era of war across the world . They had announced that the Cold War had ended , but war , like termites , returns , corrodes and erases . There was Somalia in 1992 , Haiti in 1994 , Bosnia in 1995 , Serbia-Kosovo in 1999 , Afghanistan starting in 2001 and Iraq again from 2003 and then Ukraine and Palestine and Syria , again . <p> Africa has its own timeline that never gets punctured with peace or a pause . These places suffer from neglect and we only hear about them when they are at their extreme . <p> Outlook 's twin editions at the beginning of 2025 are about who we become when we are at war and we have almost always been at war with each other , even the oldest and the biggest democracies . <p> We have been spectators and consumers of war . Few have gone in and told the stories that are hard to cover and to report . Here , we have tried to listen . <p> Stories take a lot out of you . To listen to someone narrate the horrors is difficult . You do n't come out unscathed . <p> In these two issues , we have tried to tell the biggest story of our times . The story of wartime ... in fragments , because all wars leave us fragmented . 
@@119432285 <p> Dr Ghassan Abu Sittah who became the face of the resilience of Gaza in the face of relentless violence looks back on his experiences and how being exposed to a war-altered biosphere changes people 's well-being . <p> Dire Times : Doctors at Kemal Adwan Hospital in Gaza are forced to work in the dark due to the electricity crisis in Gaza City Photo : Getty Images <p> Dire Times : Doctors at Kemal Adwan Hospital in Gaza are forced to work in the dark due to the electricity crisis in Gaza City Photo : Getty Images <p> Dr Ghassan Abu Sittah , a British-Palestinian surgeon , is known to the world as the man standing behind a podium addressing the media surrounded by a pile of dead bodies on October 17 , 2023 , at al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza , soon after a deadly explosion at al-Ahli Hospital . The blast killed 471 people and injured 342 according to Gaza health officials . Dr Sittah called it a " massacre " and warned that more hospitals would be targeted . He had arrived in Gaza on October 9 to volunteer with M ? decins Sans Fronti ? res ( MSF ) , working at al-Ahli , al-Shifa and al-Awda hospitals . He was the doctor who revealed the practice of performing amputations in Gaza without anaesthesia , and became a key source of information on the war 's impact through his tweets . After returning to the UK , he was elected Rector of the University of Glasgow , continuing his advocacy against the ongoing genocide . He currently lives in Beirut , treating victims of the war in Lebanon . Dr Sittah spoke to Shahina K.K. about his experiences in Gaza and how the war-altered biosphere affects people 's well-being . Excerpts : <p> Q <p> In a previous interview , you said that every wound has a narrative on war . Can you tell us more about the politics of war wounds ? <p> A <p> The narrative of war is carried in the wounds it inflicts -- who caused them , who fought and all the stories tied to the conflict . These wounds stay with the afflicted for life . The injuries sustained by Iraqi and Iranian soldiers during the Iraq-Iran War of the early ' 80s remain . Even though Saddam is gone , Khomeini and Reagan are dead , and many who fought the war are no longer alive , the narrative of the wound persists . Sometimes , this narrative clashes with the current political ideology or discourse . Iraq and Iran are now allies , but the story of those wounds remains unchanged , outliving the political projects that caused the war . Similarly , the wounds of South Vietnamese soldiers who fought alongside Americans in the Vietnam War serve as a constant reminder of the conflict and its civil war component . <p> As power dynamics shift , ruling elites either celebrate or suppress these narratives , often finding them inconvenient to current political projects . This is why I say wounds act as a biological archive of the wars that caused them . <p> Q <p> How different is this idea of war from the one set by the Western world ? We were taught that wars were occasional , with peace in between . <p> A <p> The Western notion frames wars as temporal events , starting and ending at specific moments -- but this is far from reality . On the ground , the effects persist long after the official end . I am still treating victims of the recent war in Lebanon , as well as those from previous conflicts . Their wounds continue to need care . The idea of temporality pushed by the humanitarian sector -- where you arrive , address the war and then leave -- is misleading . Western narratives justify wars by claiming they begin and end cleanly , leaving no lasting impact . In truth , wars fundamentally alter the biosphere of those who live through them , causing injuries that endure . <p> Q <p> You have said that there is no such thing as an international community . Was that an expression of desperation ? <p> A <p> What we 've witnessed in Gaza -- the most televised genocide in human history -- proves it . People can see children being burned alive , mass killings and starvation , yet nothing is done . Western governments respond only by trying to silence systems like the International Criminal Court and officials highlighting the genocidal nature of this war . The so-called international community has always been a tool for policing countries in the Global South . <p> Q <p> Amidst the horrors , are there stories of hope , love and resilience you 'd like to share ? <p> A <p> Love and compassion stand as resistance against the machinery of death . Doctors remain dedicated to their patients , often refusing to leave hospitals . Families help each other , and in the aftermath of bombings , survivors dig through rubble to save lives . These are acts of rebellion against genocide . In Lebanon , I treated a two-year-old boy who lost an arm and his entire immediate family . His father 's aunt came to care for him , becoming his mother . Such acts of love remind us that humanity will endure . <p> Q <p> Our imagination of war from where we are is limited . As a doctor , can you share your thoughts on your experiences in Gaza ? <p> A <p> Each of us lives in a biosphere -- a system shaped by our biological , physical and social environment . Our health is determined by the interplay of these conditions . War profoundly disrupts this biosphere , creating a new one that reshapes health systems . Beyond the immediate harm of bombs , blasts and bullets , war damages water and sewage systems , spreads infectious diseases , impoverishes populations and tears apart communities , altering behaviour and health . The effects of war on health persist long after conflicts end , as the war-altered biosphere continues to shape people 's well-being . In regions like the Middle East , situated on a geopolitical fault line with ongoing and intermittent wars , these changes become deeply entrenched and multigenerational . The resulting biosphere of war can be compared to an endemic disease -- a persistent , geographically entrenched condition that continuously influences health in the region . 
@@119432287 <p> Some years ago , the elderly and amiable former President of Uruguay , Jose Mujica at the end of an interview he gave to the Al Jazeera journalist Theresa Bo , suggested that the world was headed to hell . Sadly , today well-intentioned calls for peace in the face of war become the littered detritus of best intentions that have always paved the road to hell , a road the world now inexorably marches on and which Mujica referenced so well . <p> The wars in the world show no signs of ending . The two most prominent ones are the ' special military operation ' in Ukraine that Russian President Vladimir Putin initiated on 24th February 2022 and which nears three years and the over a year of relentless Israeli attacks on the Gaza strip since the October 7 , 2023 , Hamas attacks . There are other , lesser-known theatres of conflict such as Sudan , where for two years a civil war has raged between the Sudanese Armed Forces ( SAF ) and the Rapid Support Forces ( RSF ) . There is also a frightening fluidity to global politics , evident in the rapidity with which the Bashar al Assad regime in Syria fell and the flurry of diplomatic activity that has accompanied the newly powerful Ahmad al-Sharaa 's overseeing of state building activity . <p> Like a festering sore that stubbornly refuses to heal and , in the process , reveals an underlying systemic disease , the current unending wars are symptomatic of a world order simply not fit for purpose . This was a world order dispensed by US-led Western hegemony , that at its best , was about conveniently and cynically maintaining a veneer of commitment towards democracy , human rights and a rules based international order . These elements were played up to the hilt after the Russian invasion of Ukraine by the Biden administration in its early days . The very same elements were shelved by the same Biden administration for the sake of its most exceptional of allies , Israel , for whom all manner of atrocities , including a livestreamed genocide , is par for the course . <p> What is the underlying sickness at the heart of the international order that manifests itself in unending wars ? This essay suggests , two immediate crucial components of the sickness are capitalism and nationalism . For the last five decades since the 1970s , we have witnessed the earlier form of Keynesian capitalism put in place to rebuild the ravages of WW II , being replaced by neoliberalism and its creation of a global market . Neoliberalism has not in its five decades of dysfunctionality provided two things that keep restive populations and especially working classes pacified : economic growth and employment . Instead , neoliberalism has turned out obscenely unsustainable levels of inequality . The forthcoming Trump presidency will prove to be a simultaneously tragic and farcical culmination of this dysfunctionality . <p> Neoliberalism created chasms of inequalities were at the best of times , just about contained by the constricted channels of liberal-democracy in its notional representation and functioning . Today , the theory and practice of even that bare minimum functioning of liberal-democracy stands undermined . The Stanford historian Walter Scheidel in his book The Great Leveler chronicles the effects of wide inequality and suggests that every time such chasmic inequalities open up , processes of social levelling he refers to as the ' ' four horsemen of the apocalypse ' ' , which are mass mobilisation warfare , transformative revolution , state failure and lethal pandemics , come into play to flatten them . That is why , it may be futile to expect any substantive political change coming from the routine rigmaroles of four to five yearly election cycles . The next few years may be characterised by more war with the most familiar historical signpost for our times being a reliving of the horrors of the 1930s . <h> Will War Sire the New World Order ? <p> The ancient 6th-century BC Greek philosopher Heraclitus observed polemos pater panton , " war is the father of all things " . Without extolling war , the purpose of the quote is to suggest that as the world awaits the birth of a new order , one hopefully less ridden with war , that birth itself may well be sired by the excesses of war . Today , war seems the default condition of human beings with peace appearing as a mere transiently punctuated and unsustainable interlude . It was out of the unsustainability of peace between Athens and Sparta that Athenian imperialism was defeated in the Peloponnesian Wars between 431 and 404 BC . The Athenian empire and its attendant democracy was stalled by this military defeat . In one of those iterative recurrences that history can often be about , the fall of US-led Western imperialism could very well arise from the expertise-induced export to the Middle East of what the Columbia University academic Timothy Mitchell in his 2011 book Carbon Democracy : Political Power in the Age of Oil , calls ever fainter and withering ' carbon ' copies of democracy . <p> Karl Polanyi in his 1944 book The Great Transformation understood the massive changes of the early decade of the 20th century as arising from the " hundred years ' peace " in Europe lasting from 1815 until the beginning of WW I in 1914 . Even the Crimean War ( 1853-1856 ) did not really reverse the trend of this " hundred years ' peace " where haute finance or high finance played a crucial role . In other words , capitalism had no vested interest in creating war . The important lesson from Polanyi 's book is his analysis of the complex carryovers of the 19th century such as the balance of power system , the gold standard and the self-regulating market that all came crashing down in the early part of the 20th century , bringing about the momentous changes that his book focuses on . Analogously , the unending wars of the 21st century are an outcome of the complex carryovers of the 20th that will not let the 21st century know peace until the unsettling ructions that roil it , remain unresolved . <h> The Complex Carryovers of the 20th Century <p> Four of these complex carryovers of the 20th century that haunt the 21st century are unregulated capitalism , settler-colonialism , racism and nationalism . All four are evident in the Gaza crisis , the likely hinge on which the world order will change . The hundred years peace that Polanyi alluded to in his book between 1815-1914 is mirrored in a subsequent " hundred years ' war on Palestine " that is the title of historian Rashid Khalidi 's acclaimed book . The UK-based political scientist Ahron Bregman in his book Israel 's Wars : A History Since 1947 notes how each of Israel 's wars such as the 1967 Six-Day war and the 1973 Yom Kippur war , among others , must be seen " in a historical perspective , as a single war with a single continuity ... " While for many , Gaza is a moral issue , the answers may lie in the brute unyieldingness of the four carryovers mentioned . It may be useful to turn to each . <p> Today , the biggest obstacle to the fight against racism , colonialism and capitalism is nationalism that has from the previous century recrudesced into a far more virulent strain . <p> Capitalism . The more conscientious have wondered how the world can stand silently by as ghastly images from Gaza of death , destruction and starvation are livestreamed to our devices . One need only look into the platform capitalism of Instagram , Facebook , Tik-Tok and X/Twitter . When the history of the Gaza genocide is written , as it inevitably must , the question will arise as to why Israeli Defense Force ( IDF ) soldiers , supposedly the most moral army of the world , digitally shared their misdeeds , when perpetrators cover their tracks . The answer again is in the digitally all-consuming nature of this genocidal Gaza war . Even those of us outraged and shocked by the depravity of war , may inadvertently be complicit in the platform capitalism that ensnares and imprisons us , much in the same way the enchained prisoners in Plato 's famous cave allegory remained transfixed to the images on the wall in front of them , that were shadows cast of objects behind them . The more compulsively we share images and videos of the Gaza destruction , the more we contribute to the profits of platform capitalism . We reinforce our trans fixation to the screens of our devices . In a shift from Plato 's cave allegory where the prisoners are collectively chained , our own imprisonment becomes more personalised through our devices that lock us into individualised silos-of-solitude that exponentially compound the prisoner 's dilemma . <p> Colonialism . Noam Chomsky and Illan Papp ? have characterised Israel as an anachronistic form of settler colonialism whose 20th-century establishment harkens back to the 17th and 18th centuries . Israel 's bellicose expansivity has been more than obvious in terms of its stated intentions in Gaza and more recently in creating a buffer further into Syrian territory , capturing Mount Hermon , beyond the initial buffer that the already annexed Golan Heights was . It is in the compulsively unstoppable quality of its settler colonialism -- that can only exist as long as it keeps expanding its borders -- that the explanation of Israel 's unending wars be found . It also reveals the hollowness of the " Israel 's right to exist " nostrum repetitively used by its defenders . <p> Racism . The racism at the heart of the US led West is evident in the opportunistic upholding of an international rules-based order . The burden of justice of the international legal system has generally fallen on African leaders such as Omar al-Bashir of Sudan when an International Criminal Court ( ICC ) arrest warrant was issued against him in 2009 or the Ugandan warlord Joseph Kony in 2005 . There was an alacrity with which Vladimir Putin 's actions in Ukraine were dubbed as war crimes . The contrasting response to the ICC arrest warrant against Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu can not be missed . A central pillar of the international rules-based order is the 1948 Genocide Convention that arose predominantly from the anti-Semitism that prevailed in Europe , prior to the end of WW II and specifically the Nazi holocaust . Today the genocide convention is instrumentally invoked in the Orwellian manner of all nations being equal with some being more equal than others . There is an outraged disbelief expressed by Israel 's Western supporters as to how the Genocide Convention can be invoked against , of all countries , Israel . <p> Nationalism . The fight against anti-Semitism as one form of racism is a good and worthy fight to redeem the 21st century and rid it of all forms of racism . That struggle must not be undermined by Zionist ultra-nationalism , which labels any and all criticism of Israel , even the extreme charge of genocide as anti-Semitism . In 2018 , then leader of the British Labour Party , Jeremy Corbyn , rejected the definition of anti-Semitism put forward by the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance ( IHRA ) that his own party was only too eager to accept . In his view the definition prevented legitimate criticism of Israel . Today , the biggest obstacle to the fight against racism , colonialism and capitalism is nationalism that has from the previous century recrudesced into a far more virulent strain . It is yet another complex carryover of the previous century that fuels the wars that consume humanity . 
@@119432299 <p> As winter sets in , the already dire conditions are worsening , with hundreds of thousands of displaced Palestinians facing freezing temperatures , shortages of essential resources , and the continued threat of violence . Meanwhile , disturbing reports of hostage abuse and rising tensions in the West Bank highlight the complex and volatile nature of the region . <p> Infant deaths due to cold in Gaza 's tents <p> The Gaza Strip is facing a dire humanitarian situation as hundreds of thousands of Palestinians , displaced by nearly 15 months of war , struggle to survive in temporary shelters . The onset of winter has exacerbated the crisis , with temperatures regularly dropping below 10 ? C ( 50 ? F ) . Tragically , the harsh conditions have claimed the lives of four infants in recent weeks , including a 20-day-old baby named Jomaa al-Batran . His father described him as being " as cold as ice " when he was found early on a Sunday morning . <p> Jomaa 's twin brother , Ali , was moved to intensive care at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital , though the hospital , like many in Gaza , is overwhelmed and functioning at only a fraction of its capacity . Al-Batran , whose family lives in a tent with limited resources , explained that it was impossible to keep the babies warm in the freezing temperatures . <p> The family 's tragic experience highlights the growing humanitarian disaster in Gaza , where medical facilities are struggling to cope with the immense casualties from the ongoing conflict . <p> An Israeli Health Ministry report , released over the weekend , has drawn attention to the severe physical , psychological , and sexual abuse faced by hostages held by Hamas . The report , based on interviews with over 100 hostages released during a temporary ceasefire , details horrifying accounts of abuse , including beatings , starvation , and sexual assault . Some of the hostages , including women and children , were forced to endure sexual violence and isolation at the hands of their captors . <p> The findings , which are being forwarded to the United Nations , are expected to put additional pressure on Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to consider negotiations for a ceasefire and the release of remaining hostages . Over 250 individuals , including children , were taken hostage by Hamas in the October 7 , 2023 attack , and at least 100 are still believed to be held in Gaza , with many feared dead . <p> Palestinian woman killed , family blame security forces <p> Tensions in the West Bank have also escalated . A Palestinian woman , 22-year-old Shatha al-Sabbagh , was shot dead in her home in Jenin , a city in the northern West Bank . The shooting occurred during a rare operation by the Palestinian Authority 's security forces , who were targeting local militants . Al-Sabbagh 's family , however , claimed that there were no militants in the area at the time of the incident and accused the Palestinian security forces of using excessive force . They also noted that Shatha was the sister of a Hamas fighter killed in clashes with Israeli forces last year . <p> This tragic incident has sparked protests in the West Bank , with some demonstrators blaming the Palestinian security forces for targeting civilians rather than addressing the ongoing Israeli occupation . Hamas has also condemned the killing , highlighting the complex internal politics between the Palestinian Authority , which cooperates with Israel on security matters , and groups like Hamas . <p> Israeli strikes on Gaza hospitals <p> In Gaza City , the violence intensified with an Israeli airstrike targeting the Wafa Hospital , which resulted in at least seven deaths and numerous injuries . The Israeli military claimed it struck a Hamas control center within the hospital , which it argued was no longer functioning as a medical facility . However , local health officials , affiliated with Hamas , contested this claim and emphasized that the hospital was still in use when the strike occurred . <p> Moreover , Israel 's military reported that militants fired five rockets from northern Gaza into southern Israel . Though some were intercepted , others landed in open areas , causing injuries to three people in the Sderot municipality . This incident marks a rare uptick in rocket fire from northern Gaza , as Israeli forces had previously conducted extensive operations in the area . <p> The Israeli offensive , which has been ongoing for over a year , has left more than 45,000 Palestinians dead , with women and children comprising more than half of the fatalities . The destruction of infrastructure , coupled with restrictions on humanitarian aid , has led to widespread hunger , putting the population at risk of disease and famine . Approximately 90 percent of Gaza 's population has been displaced , often multiple times . The region 's infrastructure , including hospitals , schools , and water supplies , has been decimated , making it difficult for aid organizations to provide essential services . The ongoing fighting and siege have made the delivery of food , medicine , and other vital resources increasingly challenging . 
@@119445442 <h> Sixth Infant Freezes to Death in Gaza <h> Share : <p> His twin brother died from the cold on December 29 , 2024 . Photo by : Said Mohmad <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - A newborn Palestinian baby died Monday morning from the extreme cold in Gaza , becoming the sixth infant to freeze to death in recent nights . His twin brother had died from the cold the day before , as the ongoing Israeli siege worsened the harsh winter conditions , making life uninhabitable . <p> Joma'a al-Batran died on Sunday , and his twin brother , Ali , followed him on Monday morning despite the efforts of medical staff at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital in central Gaza to save him . <p> According to the father , the family evacuated from Beit Lahiya to the central Gaza Strip eight months ago and did not have a tent . <p> " There are no tents or shelters . May God hold accountable everyone who caused this catastrophe . This is Juma , what was his fault for dying from the cold and freezing ? " the infant 's father asks in one clip . <p> Balakrishnan Rajagopal , the UN special rapporteur on the right to adequate housing , said he has warned for months that " more than a million Palestinians lack shelter " for winter conditions . <p> " Now babies are freezing to death , " Rajagopal added , noting that this is another " achievement " of Israel 's so-called " most moral army in the world " . <p> Six Palestinian babies have frozen to death in the past few nights in Gaza , including three who died of hypothermia in the so-called " humanitarian zone " in al-Mawasi . <p> Palestinian nurse Ahmed al-Zaharneh , who was among the crews working at the European Gaza Hospital , also died on Friday because of " extreme " weather conditions , according to the Health Ministry . <p> The Ministry said , " His body was found inside his tent in al-Mawasi area , west of the city of Khan Younis , southern Gaza . " <p> " This incident comes in light of the difficult humanitarian conditions that displaced citizens are experiencing , as the suffering of Gaza residents increases due to low temperatures and the lack of heating means in tents , " the Ministry added . <p> The deaths highlight the dire conditions in Gaza , where hundreds of thousands of displaced Palestinians are crammed into makeshift tents , fleeing Israeli shelling from various parts of the strip . <p> Gaza 's Government Media Office stated on Saturday that 110,000 out of 135,000 tents used by displaced Palestinians in the war-torn Gaza Strip are now out of service and have " completely deteriorated " . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The Office accused the Israeli military of " causing a tragic humanitarian crisis " that is once again putting the lives of thousands of civilians at risk as the freezing winter sets in . <p> " This catastrophic humanitarian situation is a direct result of the genocide committed by the ' Israeli ' occupation army , which has completely destroyed hundreds of thousands of homes of these citizens , forcing them to resort to living in tents that lack the minimum requirements for a decent life , " the statement said . <p> Occupied West Bank ( Quds News Network ) - Palestinian journalist Shaza al-Sabbagh was shot in the head and killed by Palestinian Authority ( P ) security forces on Saturday night during their ongoing raid ... <p> Palestinian Territory - Harrowing testimonies documenting serious crimes committed by the Israeli army against civilians during its storming of Kamal Adwan Hospital and the surrounding areas in northern Gaza were collected ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119445443 <h> Release Dr Hussam Abu Safiya Immediately : Amnesty International <h> Share : <p> We are extremely concerned over the fate &amp; wellbeing of Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan hospital who was detained by Israeli forces along with others during a raid on the hospital on 27 December . He must be released immediately and unconditionally . <p> For months Dr. Abu Safiya has been the voice of Gaza 's decimated health sector , appealing for the protection of his hospital and working under inhumane conditions , including following the killing of his son . <p> The raid , the latest in a series of attacks on healthcare facilities in North Gaza over the past two months , put Kamal Adwan , the last remaining major hospital in the area , out of service . <p> Since the beginning of its genocide against Palestinians in Gaza , Israel has detained hundreds of Palestinian healthcare workers from Gaza without charge or trial . Health workers have been subjected to torture and other ill-treatment and been held in incommunicado detention . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Israel must immediately release all Palestinians arbitrarily detained , including health workers . Hospitals and health workers are not targets . The int'l community esp Israel 's allies must act to bring an end to Israel 's genocide against Palestinians in Gaza <p> Occupied West Bank ( Quds News Network ) - Palestinian journalist Shaza al-Sabbagh was shot in the head and killed by Palestinian Authority ( P ) security forces on Saturday night during their ongoing raid ... <p> Palestinian Territory - Harrowing testimonies documenting serious crimes committed by the Israeli army against civilians during its storming of Kamal Adwan Hospital and the surrounding areas in northern Gaza were collected ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119445450 <h> False Saviors -- Jimmy Carter <h> Share : <p> A pious Sunday school teacher confessing to lust in his heart but swearing never to lie , he came to Washington to reestablish public faith in government just when popular disgust at monstrous U.S. crimes in Indochina had reached unprecedented heights . The big business agenda during his term in office ( 1977-1981 ) was to roll back the welfare state , break the power of unions , fan the flames of the Cold War to increase military spending , engineer tax breaks for wealthy corporate interests , and repeal government regulation of business . While portraying himself as a peanut-farming populist , Carter delivered the goods for Wall Street . <p> Having run as a Washington " outsider , " he immediately filled his administration with Trilateral Commission members , hoping that a coterie of Rockefeller internationalists could resurrect the confidence of American leaders and enrich business relations between Japan and the United States . <p> His Secretary of State was Cyrus Vance , a Wall Street lawyer and former planner of the Vietnam slaughter . Secretary of Defense Harold Brown was Lyndon Johnson 's Air Force Secretary and a leading proponent of saturation bombing in Vietnam . Secretary of the Treasury Michael Blumenthal was the standard rich corporation president . Attorney General Griffen Bell was a segregationist judge who disclosed that he would request " inactive " status as a member of Atlanta clubs closed to blacks and Jews Carter himself stated that housing should be segregated . Energy coordinator James Schlesinger was a proponent of winnable nuclear war . Transportation Secretary Brock Adams was a staunch proponent of Lockheed 's supersonic transport . National security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski was an anti-Soviet fanatic who said in an interview with the New Yorker that it was " egocentric " to worry that a nuclear war between the U.S. and U.S.S.R. would entail " the end of the human race . " ( Since it was unlikely that every last human being would perish in such event , Brzezinski recommended that critics of U.S. nuclear policy abstain from narcissistic concern for the mere hundreds of millions of people who would . ) <p> In what William Greider , author of Secrets of the Temple ( a study of the Federal Reserve Bank ) , called his most important appointment , Carter named Paul Volcker to chair the Federal Reserve Bank . Stuart Eizenstat , Carter 's assistant for domestic affairs said that , " Volcker was selected because he was the candidate of Wall Street . " The Wall Street agenda became clear when Volcker contracted the money supply and declared , " the standard of living of the average American has to decline . " <p> Wealth was funneled upward and wages and production declined . Unemployment and bankruptcy rose , unions shriveled and disappeared , Pentagon spending soared . For the first time ever American white collar families could n't save money . With urban housing costs zooming , workers fled to remote suburbs , but the increased commute expenses tended to cancel out cheaper mortgages . Moonlighting and overtime work increased , but added income disappeared in eating out , second commutes , and hired child care . As the cost of necessities outpaced wage gains , only credit cards could fill the widening gap . Hamburger stands and nursing homes proliferated while well-paid manufacturing jobs fled to the Third World . The workforce of the future was said to be a generation of superefficient robots . <p> Carter 's populist assurances simply whetted the public appetite for this kind of dismal anticlimax . While making a few listless gestures towards blacks and the poor , he spent the bulk of his energy promoting corporate profits and building up a huge military machine that drained away public wealth in defense of a far-flung network of repressive " friends " of American business . <p> The heaviest applause line in his Inaugural Address was his promise " to move this year a step towards our ultimate goal -- the elimination of all nuclear weapons from this Earth . " But after his beguiling rhetoric faded away , he embarked on a program of building two to three nuclear bombs every day . Although he had promised to cut military spending by $5 to $7 billion , he decided to increase it after just six months in office , and his 5% proposed spending increases in each of his last two years in office were identical to those first proposed by Ronald Reagan . Furthermore , having pledged to reduce foreign arms sales , he ended up raising them to new highs , and after speaking of helping the needy , he proposed cutbacks in summer youth jobs , child nutrition programs , and other popular projects serving important social needs . Similarly , though he had campaigned as a friend of labor , he refused a request to increase the minimum wage and opposed most of organized labor 's legislative agenda while handing out huge subsidies to big business . He made much ado about " human rights , " but returned Haiti 's fleeing boat people to the tender care of " Baby Doc " Duvalier , and when a member of the American delegation to the U.N . Human Rights Commission spoke of his " profoundest regrets " for the C.I.A . ' s role in General Pinochet 's bloodbath in Chile , Carter scolded him , insisting that the C.I.A . ' s actions were " not illegal or improper . " <p> Carter came to Washington proclaiming his desire for a comprehensive Middle East peace , including a solution to the Palestinian question " in all its aspects . " Yet at Camp David he failed to grasp the root of the problem , let alone propose a mature way of dealing with it . He assumed that Palestinians were anonymous refugees whose nationalist aspirations could be safely ignored . He supposed a peace treaty could be signed in the absence of the PLO , world recognized as the Palestinians ' " sole legitimate representative . " He offered no apologies for negotiating an agreement that failed even to mention Jewish settlements in the West Bank , the Gaza Strip , and the Golan Heights . He did not protest Prime Minister Menachem Begin 's presentation of the Accords before the Israeli Knesset as a " deal , " one much more favorable to Israel than to " the Arabs . " He pretended not to notice that corralling Palestinians into Bantustans was not simply a tactic of war , but constituted Israel 's boasted final product of " peace " ! Finally , his much praised Camp David accords were the death warrant for Lebanon , as Israel , its southern border secure with the removal of Egypt from the Arab military alliance , was freed to concentrate undivided attention on a long-planned invasion across its northern border . It was this invasion ( June 1982 ) that convinced Osama bin Laden that only mass murder of Americans could ever change U.S. foreign policy . <p> Carter was effusive in his praise and blind support of the Shah of Iran , who was deeply unpopular in his country due to policies of supermilitarization , forced modernization , and systematic torture . By the time Carter arrived in the White House the Shah 's throne sat atop a veritable powder keg . Iranian cities were hideously unlivable with fifteen percent of the entire country crowded around Teheran in shanty dwellings lacking sewage or other water facilities . The nation 's incalculable oil wealth reached few hands and a restless student generation had no prospects . The country 's bloated bureaucracy was totally corrupt . While Shiite leaders rallied popular support , the Shah 's secret police threw tens of thousands of Iranians into jail , the economy gagged on billions of dollars of Western arms imports ( mostly from Washington ) , and Amnesty International speculated that Iran had achieved the worst human rights record on the planet . Meanwhile , Carter declared that " human rights is the soul of our foreign policy , " though he added the following day that he thought the Shah might not survive in power , a strange expectation if indeed the U.S. stood for human rights around the world . <p> After the Shah was overthrown , Carter could not conceive of U.S. responsibility for the actions of enraged Iranian students who seized 66 Americans and held them hostage at the U.S. Embassy in Teheran , demanding the return of " the criminal Shah . " ( He had admitted the Shah to the U.S. for emergency medical treatment for cancer , thus precipitating the " hostage crisis . " ) To Carter , Americans were by definition innocent , outside history , and he dismissed Iranian grievances against the U.S. as ancient history , refusing to discuss them . In his distorted mind , Iranians were terrorists by nature , and Iran had always been a potentially terrorist nation , regardless of what they had suffered at U.S. hands . In short , without the Shah , Carter regarded Iran as a land of swarthy and crazed medievalists , what Washington today calls a " rogue state . " <p> Having " lost " Iran , a key U.S. ally in the Middle East , along with military outposts and electronic eavesdropping stations used against the Soviet Union , the Carter administration began supporting Afghan Islamic fundamentalists , not making an issue of their having kidnapped the American ambassador in Kabul that year ( 1979 ) , which resulted in his death in a rescue attempt . While U.S. officials condemned Islamic militants in Iran as terrorists , they praised them as freedom fighters in Afghanistan , though both groups drew inspiration from the Ayatollah Khomeini , who was , in the eyes of official Washington , the Devil incarnate . In a 1998 interview Carter 's national security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski admitted that the U.S. had begun giving military assistance to the Islamic fundamentalist moujahedeen in Afghanistan six months before the U.S.S.R. invaded the country , even though he was convinced -- as he told Carter -- that " this aid was going to induce a Soviet military intervention . " Among the consequences of that policy were a decade-and-a-half of war that claimed the lives of a million Afghans , moujahedeen torture that U.S. government officials called " indescribable horror , " half the Afghan population either dead , crippled , or homeless , and the creation of thousands of Islamic fundamentalist warriors dedicated to unleashing spectacularly violent attacks in countries throughout the world . <p> The list of disastrous policies can go on . For example , Carter continued the Ford Administration 's policy of backing Indonesia 's occupation of East Timor , which killed tens of thousands of Timorese during Carter 's years in office , and roughly a third of the Timorese population overall between 1975 and 1979 . In 1977-1978 while Indonesia engaged in wholesale destruction in the form of massive bombardment , wiping out of villages and crops , and relocation of populations to concentration camps , the Carter Administration extended the military and diplomatic support necessary to make it all possible . In late 1977 Washington replenished Indonesia 's depleted supplies with a sharp increase in the flow of military equipment ( Jakarta used U.S.-supplied OV-10 Broncos , planes designed for counterinsurgency operations ) encouraging the ferocious attacks that reduced East Timor to the level of Pol Pot 's Cambodia . In a 1979 interview with the New York Times Father Leoneto Vieira do Rego , a Portuguese priest who spent three years in the mountains of East Timor between 1976 and 1979 , said that " the genocide and starvation was the result of the full-scale incendiary bombing . . . I personally witnessed -- while running to protected areas , going from tribe to tribe -- the great massacre from bombardment and people dying from starvation . " In May 1980 Brian Eads reported for the London Observer that " malnutrition and disease are still more widespread than in ravaged Cambodia . " Relating the comments of an official recently back from a visit to Cambodia , Eads added that " by the criteria of distended bellies , intestinal disease and brachial parameter -- the measurement of the upper arm -- the East Timorese are in a worse state than the Khmers . " Another stellar achievement of the " Human Rights " administration . <p> Furthermore , during Carter 's brief reign he ordered production of the neutron bomb ( which his administration praised for " only " destroying people while leaving property intact ) , endorsed " flexible response " and " limited " nuclear war , lobbied for the radar-evading cruise missile , developed a rapid deployment force for instant intervention anywhere , enacted selective service registration in peacetime , and advocated the construction of first-strike MX missiles for use in a nuclear shell game along an elaborate system of underground railroad tracks proposed for the Utah desert . While lecturing the Soviets on human rights , he escalated state terror in El Salvador , crushed democracy in South Korea , gave full support to Indonesia 's near genocide in East Timor , and maintained or increased funding for the Shah , Somoza , Marcos , Brazil 's neo-Nazi Generals , and the dictatorships of Guatemala , Nicaragua , Indonesia , Bolivia , and Zaire . He refused to heed Archbishop Romero 's desperate plea to cut off U.S. aid to the blood drenched Salvadoran junta , and Romero was promptly assassinated . Furthermore , he said nothing at all when the London Sunday Times revealed that the torture of Arabs implicated " all of Israel 's security forces " and was so " systematic that it can not be dismissed as a handful of ' rogue cops ' exceeding orders . " And though he presented himself as sympathetic to those who had opposed the Vietnam war , he refused to pay reconstruction aid on the grounds that during the devastating U.S. attack on the tiny country , " the destruction was mutual . " ( Try arguing that the Nazi invasion of Poland was n't a crime because " destruction was mutual . " ) <p> Carter turned domestic policy over to Wall Street , refusing to increase the minimum wage and telling his Cabinet that increasing social spending " is something we just ca n't do . " According to Peter Bourne , special assistant to the president in the Carter White House , he " did not see health care as every citizen 's right , " though every other industrial state in the world except apartheid South Africa disagreed with him . He understood that liberals desired it , but , Bourne notes , " he never really accepted it . " Instead , " he preferred to talk movingly of his deep and genuine empathy for those who suffered for lack of health care , as though the depth of his compassion could be a substitute for a major new and expensive government solution for the problem . " In point of fact , money can be saved under a government funded plan , but Carter was uninterested . He insisted on controlling business costs rather than providing universal coverage , neglecting to note that under Medicare -- universal insurance for the elderly -- administrative costs were a fraction of those charged under private HMOs . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Carter simply could not comprehend the vast unmet social needs that existed ( and exist ) in the United States . He thought there was a way to maintain a global military presence , balance the budget , and keep business costs low while adequately meeting social welfare needs via reorganizing programs . When his Secretary of Health , Education , and Welfare , Joe Califano informed him that without increased funding many welfare recipients would be worse off after any reorganization than before , Carter erupted : " Are you telling me that there is no way to improve the present welfare system except by spending billions of dollars ? In that case , to hell with it ! " In response to a comment that his denial of federal funding for poor people 's abortions was unfair , Carter summed up the political philosophy that rendered him hopelessly unprogressive : " Well , as you know , there are many things in life that are not fair , that wealthy people can afford and poor people can not . " <p> Manmohan Singh , a prominent figure in Indian economic and political history , is remembered for a legacy that evokes both admiration and reflects deep contradictions . As the architect of India 's economic ... <p> A globally recognized and deeply respected human being , Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami is a stalwart in the political landscape of Jammu and Kashmir . Renowned for his unwavering dedication to the socio-economic ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119446144 <h> 10 major global events that shaped 2024 <p> The grand Ambani wedding was a major media event of 2024 that witnessed the presence of politicians and celebrities including Rihanna , Kim Kardashian and Nick Jonas among others . <h> Anant Ambani and Radhika Merchant 's wedding <h> Photo credit : Reuters <p> History was made on December 12 when D Gukesh became the youngest world chess champion ever after defeating Ding Liren of China in the final game of their match . <h> Gukesh Dommaraju becomes youngest world chess champion <h> Photo credit : PTI <p> Donald Trump was the target of an assassination attempt on July 13 while speaking at a campaign rally near Butler , Pennsylvania . While Trump narrowly escaped , an audience member was fatally shot . <h> Assassination attempt on Donald Trump <h> Photo credit : Reuters <p> Former Syrian President Bashar al-Assad was ousted from power on December 8 following a surprise offensive from rebel group HTS , marking a significant shift in the country 's political landscape . <h> Ousting of Bashar-al-Assad <h> Photo credit : Reuters <p> Sheikh Hasina , former Prime Minister of Bangladesh , resigned and fled the country on August 5 after widespread protests and international pressure , following allegations of authoritarianism and human rights abuses . <h> Resignation and ousting of Sheikh Hasina <h> Photo credit : Reuters <p> The war between Israel-Palestine has not yet reached a ceasefire agreement as Palestinians displaced from southern Gaza try to return to their homes in the north , in central Gaza on April 15 . <h> Israel-Palestine conflict <h> Photo credit : Reuters <p> Former One-Direction member Liam Payne died on October 16 after allegedly falling from his hotel room balcony in Argentina . His funeral was attended by his family and former One-Direction band mates . <h> Death and funeral of Liam Payne <h> Photo credit : Reuters <p> India achieved its first ICC trophy in 11 years by winning the 2024 T20 World Cup , defeating South Africa on June 29 . Key performances from Jasprit Bumrah , Virat Kohli , and others contributed significantly . <h> Indian men 's cricket team receives a grand welcome in Mumbai <h> Photo credit : ANI <p> 2024 was a year of magical concerts including that of Indian singer , Diljit Dosanjh , who collaborated with Ed Sheeran in Birmingham as part of his record making Dil-Luminati tour . <h> Ed Sheeran and Diljit Dosanjh share the musical stage <h> Photo credit : Instagram /@teddysphotos <h> South Korea plane crash <h> A Jeju Air Boeing 737 crash landed at Muan International airport after a routine flight from Bangkok on December 29 , leaving 179 people dead , making it the country 's worst plane crash in over two decades . 
@@119452218 <p> Deir Al-Balah : For Gaza 's women , the hardships of life in the territory 's sprawling tent camps are compounded by the daily humiliation of never having privacy . <p> Women struggle to dress modestly while crowded into tents with extended family members , including men , and with strangers only steps away in neighbouring tents . Access to menstrual products is limited , so they cut up sheets or old clothes to use as pads . Makeshift toilets usually consist of only a hole in the sand surrounded by sheets dangling from a line , and these must be shared with dozens of other people . <h> Also Read <p> Alaa Hamami has dealt with the modesty issue by constantly wearing her prayer shawl , a black cloth that covers her head and upper body . <p> " Our whole lives have become prayer clothes , even to the market we wear it , " said the young mother of three . " Dignity is gone . " <p> Normally , she would wear the shawl only when performing her daily Muslim prayers . But with so many men around , she keeps it on all the time , even when sleeping -- just in case an Israeli strike hits nearby in the night and she has to flee quickly , she said . <p> Israel 's 14-month-old campaign in Gaza has driven more than 90% of its 2.3 million Palestinians from their homes . Hundreds of thousands of them are now living in squalid camps of tents packed close together over large areas . <p> Sewage runs into the streets , and food and water are hard to obtain . Winter is setting in . Families often wear the same clothes for weeks because they left clothing and many other belongings behind as they fled . <p> Everyone in the camps searches daily for food , clean water and firewood . Women feel constantly exposed . <p> Gaza has always been a conservative society . Most women wear the hijab , or head scarf , in the presence of men who are not immediate family . Matters of women 's health -- pregnancy , menstruation and contraception -- tend not to be discussed publicly . <p> " Before we had a roof . Here it does not exist , " said Hamami , whose prayer shawl is torn and smudged with ash from cooking fires . " Here our entire lives have become exposed to the public . There is no privacy for women . " <p> Even simple needs are hard to meet <p> Wafaa Nasrallah , a displaced mother of two , says life in the camps makes even the simplest needs difficult , like getting period pads , which she can not afford . She tried using pieces of cloth and even diapers , which have also increased in price . <p> For a bathroom , she has a hole in the ground , surrounded by blankets propped up by sticks . <p> The UN says more than 690,000 women and girls in Gaza require menstrual hygiene products , as well as clean water and toilets . Aid workers have been unable to meet demand , with supplies piling up at crossings from Israel . Stocks of hygiene kits have run out , and prices are exorbitant . Many women have to choose between buying pads and buying food and water . <p> Doaa Hellis , a mother of three living in a camp , said she has torn up her old clothes to use for menstrual pads . " Wherever we find fabric , we tear it up and use it . " <p> A packet of pads costs 45 shekels ( $12 ) , " and there are not even five shekels in the whole tent , " she said . <p> Anera , a rights group active in Gaza , says some women use birth control pills to halt their periods . Others have experienced disruptions in their cycles because of the stress and trauma of repeated displacement . <p> The terrible conditions pose real risks to women 's health , said Amal Seyam , the director of the Women 's Affairs Center in Gaza , which provides supplies for women and surveys them about their experiences . <p> She said some women have not changed clothes for 40 days . That and improvised cloth pads " will certainly create " skin diseases , diseases related to reproductive health and psychological conditions , she said . <p> " Imagine what a woman in Gaza feels like , if she 's unable to control conditions related to hygiene and menstrual cycles , " Seyam said . <p> Everything is destroyed <p> Hellis remembered a time not so long ago when being a woman felt more like a joy and less like a burden . <p> " Women are now deprived of everything , no clothes , no bathroom . Their psychology is completely destroyed , " she said . <p> Seyam said the centre has tracked cases where girls have been married younger , before the age of 18 , to escape the suffocating environment of their family 's tents . The war will " continue to cause a humanitarian disaster in every sense of the word . And women always pay the biggest price , " she said . <p> Israel 's campaign in Gaza has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians , over half of them women and children , according to the territory 's Health Ministry . Its count does not differentiate between combatants and civilians . <p> Israel launched its assault in retaliation for the October 7 , 2023 , attack by Hamas on southern Israel , in which militants killed some 1,200 people and abducted around 250 others . <p> With large swaths of Gaza 's cities and towns levelled , women wrestle with reduced lives in their tents . <p> Hamami can walk the length of her small tent in a few strides . She shares it with 13 other people from her extended family . During the war , she gave birth to a son , Ahmed , who is now 8 months old . Between caring for him and her two other children , washing her family 's laundry , cooking and waiting in line for water , she says there 's no time to care for herself . <p> She has a few objects that remind her of what her life once was , including a powder compact she brought with her when she fled her home in the Shati camp of Gaza City . The makeup is now caked and crumbling . She managed to keep hold of a small mirror through four different displacements over the past year . It 's broken into two shards that she holds together every so often to catch a glimpse of her reflection . <p> " Previously , I had a wardrobe that contained everything I could wish for , " she said . " We used to go out for a walk every day , go to wedding parties , go to parks , to malls , to buy everything we wanted . " <p> Women " lost their being and everything in this war , " she said . " Women used to take care of themselves before the war . 
@@119452228 <h> Also Read <p> The airstrikes reportedly resulted in numerous casualties , including an injury to a UN Humanitarian Air Service crew member . <p> According to the statement , a high-level UN delegation , headed by World Health Organisation Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , was at the airport when the strikes occurred . <p> The delegation had just concluded discussions on the humanitarian situation in Yemen and the release of detained UN and other personnel . <p> Expressing deep concern about the risk of further escalation in the region , the UN chief reiterated his call for all parties concerned to cease all military actions and exercise utmost restraint . <p> He also warned that airstrikes on Red Sea ports and Sanaa airport pose grave risks to humanitarian operations , the statement said . <p> Earlier December 25 , Yemen 's Houthi group announced that they had launched two drones at the Israeli cities of Tel Aviv and Ashkelon , targeting ' vital ' and ' industrial ' areas . <p> " We carried out two military operations , the first of which targeted a vital and sensitive zone in Tel Aviv city . The second operation targeted the industrial zone in Ashkelon city , " Houthi military spokesperson Yahya Sarea said in a statement broadcast by the Houthi-run al-Masirah TV . <p> " The two operations were carried out by two drones and achieved their goals successfully , " he added , stating that the group 's operations against Israel " would not stop until the aggression on Gaza stopped and the siege on it was lifted . " <p> There was no immediate comment from the Israeli side . <p> Earlier that morning , the Houthi group had claimed responsibility for a ' hypersonic ballistic missile ' attack on Tel Aviv , which the Israeli army said had been intercepted . <p> The Houthi group had intensified its attacks on Israel following pledges by Israeli officials to launch a significant offensive against it . 
@@119457900 <p> Donald Trump was elected president of the United States in November 2024 , becoming only the second leader ever to win a second non-consecutive term at the White House . But he was coming to the position slowly from the start of the year , inch by inch . <p> Advertisment <p> The year started with the first major opponent of Trump , Florida Governor Ron DeSantis , pulling out of the race after Trump threatened to expose him . Soon , other contenders came in , including Indian-origin leaders Vivek Ramaswamy and Nikki Haley . While Ramaswamy , a political newcomer , switched alliances with Trump , Haley remained a holdout till the last moment , eventually accepting him as the Republican candidate , albeit grudgingly . <p> Trump rewarded Ramaswamy for his newly expressed loyalty by putting him in charge of the upcoming Department of Government Efficiency , along with the world 's richest man , Elon Musk . But he did not forget the vitriol unleashed by Haley on the campaign trail , by not including her in his cabinet even after making the right noises . Not only that , he went on to openly say that she 'll not be included in his team , adding insult to injury . <p> Was Trump 's victory a foregone conclusion ? In many ways , yes . Trump was able to articulate and exaggerate ' the fear of the other ' among the mostly white majority who supported him . But more than that , he appears to have chipped into the traditional Democratic voting base of minorities and women too . Every community that had grievances against the Democratic administration of Joe Biden seems to have voted for Trump , or stayed away from voting , ' in revenge ' . Particularly prominent among such voters were the Muslim and Arab Americans . Their community leaders were vocal against the continuing support of the US for Israel 's war against Hamas in Gaza in retaliation for the October 7 , 2023 terror attack . In spite of massive casualties of Palestinian civilians and a humanitarian catastrophe , Biden continued to support and arm Israel , and Democrats paid a heavy price at the election . <p> Blacks and Hispanics who voted for Trump may have done so due to the continuing slow economic growth and a perception that migrants -legal and illegal - were taking away American jobs . By promising to revive local manufacturing and create jobs , Trump played the right tunes they wanted to hear . <p> The white majority voted for Trump to maintain their way of life . That involved jobs , without the threat of cheap labour replacing them at the workplace , and maintaining sentimental and religious beliefs they hold dear . Trump 's antagonist approach to LGBTQ and transgender rights , in the view of his supporters , was advocating traditional family and marriage ( as the one between a man and a woman ) . <p> Advertisment <p> Many of his supporters believed Trump when he said on the campaign trail that he was the only one who could stop the wars raging in Ukraine and West Asia . It 's true , though the mainstream media hardly gives him any credit , that Trump did bring about rapprochement between Israel and some of its traditional Arab rivals through the Abraham Accords . It 's also true that Trump has a direct line with Russian President Vladimir Putin and could bring about an end to the Russia-Ukraine war . Trump is no fan of either Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky or the NATO military alliance that 's propping up his country against the mighty Russians even when aware that the two countries are no match in military terms . Zelensky suddenly started talking about a peace deal soon after Trump won , clearly aware that the flow of arms and cash would end once Biden exits the White House . <p> Trump is also the only president who has had a direct meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un . Kim , whose troops have now joined Russia in the Ukraine war , has vowed the strongest anti-US policy as Trump takes over , but Trump might still have the ability to bring him to the negotiation table , which Biden did n't even attempt . <p> The Trump phenomenon was not only helped by his strong stance on domestic issues , illegal migrants , the economy and the traditional American way of life . His stance was boosted by the continuous efforts of what his backers call the deep state to discredit him . <p> The only way to ensure Trump does n't win was to prevent him from running for office . Throughout 2024 , the Democratic establishment hounded him with court cases : from 2020 election interference to Stormy Daniels hush money case and tax evasion . Had he not been as rich as he is , Trump would have fallen victim to these . With money in the bank , boosted by the rise of his social media platform Truth Social , Trump not only fought the cases but successfully turned them in his favour in the eyes of his supporters . They believed him when he said it was all a witch hunt . <p> Those who felt sympathy towards Trump but were still sitting on the fence about voting for him were fully converted when Trump survived an assassination attempt . What could have changed the course of events , worked massively in favour of Trump . <p> It 's partly the boost to his popularity following the bid on his life , that led Democrats to reconsider Biden as the rival for Trump . Till then , Biden was fully confident of winning a second term and pushed back against attempts within the party to persuade him to exit the race . But eventually , the palace coup won . Biden , who even did a presidential debate with Trump , was forced to exit the race by his own party , which brought in his vice president Kamala Harris as the new Democratic candidate . <p> Coming in at the fag end of the election year , Harris suffered at the election from what could only be called ' too much in too little time ' . Contrary to what mainstream media and paid punditry made one believe , Harris did n't stand a chance . The electorate was divided almost evenly . It was only a question of who will win the electoral votes . And Trump eventually won both the electoral votes and the popular vote . <p> The Trump phenomenon is only resuming in 2024 . It had made its impact in his first term . And it will be at full display after he takes over on January 20 . By vocalising the prejudices and fears of the majority , Trump has managed to divide the polity . There 's going to be a rise in hateful rhetoric , racism , police brutality and border crackdowns which were the hallmarks of his first term . Trump is re-entering a country and world roiled by divisions and conflicts not seen in recent memory . Will he ameliorate them , or accelerate them ? Will Trump the candidate be different from Trump the president ? Going by his current priorities as president-in-waiting - accession of Greenland , control of Panama Canal and making Canada the 51st state - the lunacy is only beginning . <p> Disclaimer : The views of the writer do not represent the views of WION or ZMCL . Nor does WION or ZMCL endorse the views of the writer . 
@@119466590 <h> The year that was in international affairs and what to look forward to in 2025 <p> As 2024 comes to an end , there 's no denying that the year was full of developments that shook the world . From the theatres of conflict in Ukraine and West Asia to the far east ; from Donald Trump 's re-election as US President to Europe 's evolving security posture ; from developments in India 's neighbourhood to multiple elections across the globe . There were changes galore , portending more changes to come . <h> New Year Special <p> Here 's both a lookback at 2024 and what potentially awaits us in 2025 . Ukraine : The war in Ukraine saw very important shifts in momentum during the year . It 's clear that 2024 will go down as the year when Russian military technology was exposed . Notwithstanding Moscow unveiling the Oreshnik intermediate range ballistic missile -- which was really a cannibalised and re-branded version of another Russian missile -- Russia can no longer claim technical military superiority . Ukraine , meanwhile , stepped up its own defence production , including an impressive array of drones that has proved deadly on the battlefield.True , Russia has been making gains in eastern Ukraine in recent months . But those have come at a huge cost . In fact , Russia this year suffered around 4,27,000 casualties , including those killed and injured , taking overall Russian losses in the course of the full-scale war to nearly 7,90,000 . This is because Russia is making its gains through human-wave tactics , not bothering with casualties to its troops.What does 2025 hold ? All eyes on the incoming Trump presidency in the US . One can reasonably assume that US military support for Ukraine will slow in momentum in the coming year , if not fully stop . We still have no idea how Trump plans to end the war as he promised . But even Kyiv is preparing for potential negotiations to end the war on its terms . Towards that end , it will need global support for its territorial integrity , fair compensation and justice for Russian aggression , and a huge effort to rebuild Ukraine . The good thing is Ukraine has achieved subjecthood in the last two years . It can now use that to expand its global connections , reinvigorate the Ukrainian state , and build solid chains of cooperation and trade so that everyone has a stake in Ukraine 's future security . That process should begin in 2025 . <p> Israel and West Asia : The war in Gaza upended the order in West Asia this year . Hezbollah in Lebanon has taken a serious blow , Hamas in Gaza , though still fighting , is a much depleted force , Assad has been ousted in Syria , and Iran and Israel have traded blows to a status quo . Efforts are underway to end the war in Gaza , but negotiations are dragging on . But there are three clear takeaways from this conflict . First , Israel 's <p> Netanyahu has proved himself to be a political survivor through this conflict . He is like a cat with not nine but 12 lives . Heading the most right-wing government in Israel 's history , he has redrawn Israel 's red lines . However , this does n't solve Israel 's security issue . That even after 14 months of conflict Hamas is alive and kicking shows that the Palestinian group ca n't be eradicated as Netanyahu and his acolytes wish . Second , Iran 's axis of resistance has been eroded . But it too has n't gone away . The Houthis in Yemen are still firing missiles at Israel . So for long-term peace in the region , there has to be a negotiated settlement of the decades-old Israel-Palestine conflict . Without this the cycle of violence will only repeat itself . And third , Russia has taken a hit in the region as highlighted by Assad 's fall in Syria . Moscow paid the price of being bogged down in Ukraine . Hence , the longer the Ukraine war drags on , Russia is likely to lose elsewhere . Add to this unforeseen situations as with the recent downing of a civilian aircraft from Azerbaijan by Russian forces , which has strained Moscow-Baku relations . Therefore , 2025 will see the actors and stakeholders in West Asia seek a new equilibrium . And there are choices and dilemmas for each of them . Trump and China : This is another big one . Trump has threatened to slap an additional 10% tariff on Chinese imports , effectively heralding another round of trade war with global ramifications . Trump 's focus on taking on China works well with his politics and MAGA base . But the problem is his ' America First ' approach does n't even spare allies and friends . And that 's where Trump got it wrong in his first term . The tariffs against China did n't really work -- Washington 's trade deficit with Beijing only increased -- and US 's alliances came under serious strain.This time around China seems to be better prepared for Trump 's tariffs . As is EU . Strategically , China has already moved to try and mend ties with India . Nato nations , on the other hand , are boosting their own defence spends to counter any slack in American security commitments . And given the people Trump is surrounding himself with this time around , Washington could become even more unpredictable than Trump 1.0 . How Trump 2.0 pans out will be the defining feature of 2025 . The world has to buckle its seat-belt and hold on to its chair for this one.India 's neighbourhood : If New Delhi looks around its neighbourhood today , it will be clear that its ' neighbourhood first ' policy of Modi 1.0 has gone awry . Recent developments in Bangladesh have been a disaster . Pakistan remains a perennial problem . We have just about managed to rescue ties with the Maldives . Sri Lanka has a completely new dispensation , an unknown quantity . The situation in Myanmar has impacted India 's Northeast . Nepal-India relations are changing with each new dispensation in Kathmandu . And Afghanistan under Taliban has become a black hole . Surely , this is not the neighbourhood policy New Delhi had envisioned in 2014 . Thus , one foresees New Delhi trying to improve this situation in 2025 . It wo n't be easy , especially with Bangladesh which appears to be moving towards a compact with Pakistan . This in turn would mean that India has to prepare a three-front security strategy keeping in mind Pakistan , Bangladesh and China . That will be quite taxing on the state 's resources . Indian diplomacy and strategic community must rise to the challenge and fix India 's neighbourhood policy in the new year.World : What does all of this mean for the world ? Global affairs are certainly in a flux . Alliances and systems are under strain . And regional conflicts are popping up across continents . It might seem like the end of multilateralism and global cooperation . But there 's still hope . Despite all the turmoil , conflicts , negative social media and polarisation , humanity today is still in a better shape than it has ever been in human history . Technology has given us the power to reach out and connect like never before , even in the remotest parts of the world . We can empathise and help people in need . We can galvanise around important global issues that affect us all . All of these things are available to us . The reach of our digital hands is endless should we choose to use them in a positive direction . We have the tools to better humanity , stand up for universal rights and save the planet . What we need is the will . Governments will play their international cards according to their strategic interests . But we the people can do a lot of positive things on our own . That 's one lesson we should take into 2025 . Happy New Year everyone ! 
@@119466917 <h> As 2024 comes to an end , let 's recall the global headlines that kept the world on toes throughout the year . <p> 2024 was a year of significant global upheaval , marked by historic events that will shape the future . Bangladesh 's student protests led to PM Sheikh Hasina 's ouster , while Donald Trump won the US presidential election . ( File Photo ) <p> The year 2024 unfolded as a mosaic of human triumphs and challenges , marked by historic political shifts , unexpected tragedies , and escalating environmental crises . With each headline , came a picture of societal struggles , unresolved tensions , and the fragile balance of power . <p> As these events played out across our screens , they shaped conversations and opinions . As we usher in the new year 2025 , here are the top ten issues that defined 2024 and are set to influence the year ahead . <h> Bangladesh students ' protest and Hasina ouster <p> In 2024 , Bangladesh was plunged into chaos as anti-government protests forced Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina to resign and flee to India . Weeks of deadly demonstrations , fuelled by anger over civil service job quotas , culminated in protesters storming Hasina 's residence . <p> At least 91 people were killed in clashes on a single day , the highest toll in recent history . The military , led by General Waker-uz-Zaman , declared an interim government and pledged peace . Opposition leader Khaleda Zia and detained protesters were released while student leaders called for democratic reforms . The UN and the US urged restraint as the nation faced an uncertain future . <h> Trump back to White House <p> Donald Trump won the 2024 US presidential election , securing both the Electoral College with 312 votes and the popular vote -- a rare feat for Republicans since 1988 . He swept all seven battleground states , defeating Vice President Kamala Harris by a margin of 1.62% . However , his victory margins were historically narrow , with only 2.5 million more votes than Harris . <p> Donald Trump won the 2024 US presidential election . ( File Photo ) <p> Down-ballot Republicans saw limited gains , as Democrats retained key Senate seats and made inroads in some state legislatures . Experts described Trump 's win as significant but not an overwhelming endorsement of the Republican Party , suggesting potential challenges for the GOP in future elections . <h> Assad 's ouster <p> Syrian rebels , backed by Turkey , entered Damascus unopposed , overthrowing President Bashar al-Assad and ending over five decades of his family 's rule . Assad fled to Russia , where he was granted asylum . The fall of Assad 's regime marked a turning point in the Middle East , disrupting Iran and Russia 's regional influence and raising hopes for the return of millions of displaced Syrians . <p> Advertisement <p> President Bashar al-Assad 's regime has reportedly come to an end after over five decades , with Assad allegedly seeking refuge in Russia , where he 's been granted asylum . ( File Photo ) <p> Celebrations erupted in Damascus , with freed prisoners and jubilant crowds taking to the streets . Rebel leader Abu Mohammed al-Golani declared a new era , while global leaders acknowledged the challenges ahead in rebuilding Syria after its devastating 13-year civil war . <h> South Korea impeachment <p> In December 2024 , South Korea experienced a political crisis marked by the impeachment of two presidents in quick succession . The turmoil began on December 3 when President Yoon Suk Yeol declared martial law , prompting parliament to impeach him . Acting President Han Duck-soo then took over but was also impeached two weeks later . <p> South Korea Presidential Office , South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol speaks at the presidential office in Seoul , South Korea . ( AP/ File Photo ) <p> The National Assembly voted 192-0 to remove Han , with ruling party lawmakers boycotting the vote after the speaker reduced the threshold for impeachment . Han was accused of stalling Yoon 's impeachment trial by refusing to appoint judges . Finance Minister Choi Sang-mok is now serving as acting president amid the instability . <h> France political bizarre <p> In 2024 , France faced political upheaval after snap elections left the Assembl ? e Nationale split into three almost equal blocs -- left , center , and far-right -- without a clear majority . President Emmanuel Macron refused to appoint a prime minister from the left-wing New Popular Front ( NFP ) , which won the most seats . <p> Advertisement <p> President Emmanuel Macron refused to appoint a prime minister from the left-wing New Popular Front ( NFP ) , which won the most seats . ( File Photo ) <p> Despite days of talks aimed at resolving the deadlock , Macron rejected the NFP 's candidate , warning that their government would face an immediate no-confidence vote . His decision provoked outrage from the left , with threats of impeachment . The political stalemate highlighted the challenges of governing a deeply polarised France . <h> Hezbollah 's ' war of support ' -- a catastrophe <p> The year 2024 was marked by new escalation of armed conflict across the Middle East , with Israel expanded operations into Lebanon to target Hezbollah , whose militants have fired hundreds of rockets into Israel in what it calls a " war of support " for Hamas . <p> An Iranian demonstrator holds up a poster of the leader of Lebanon 's militant Hezbollah group Hassan Nasrallah in a gathering to support Hezbollah . ( AP photo ) <p> From , decade-long Mossad infiltration leading to remotely detonating explosives hidden in thousands of pagers and walkie-talkies used by Hezbollah in mid-September , a missile strike in July , that assassinated senior commander Fuad Shukr , to the killing of Hezbollah 's feared leader , Hassan Nasrallah , who for decades commanded a Lebanese militia in its fight against the Israeli state , as well as multiple withering aerial bombardment in the three main Shia strongholds : southern Lebanon , the eastern Bekaa Valley , and the southern suburbs of Beirut , with the aim of destroying thousands of missiles and rockets capable of hitting Israel , every day of year marked a catastrophic culmination for the group . <p> At the end , Hezbollah 's capitulation came in form of a US-brokered November ceasefire , which forced the group to retreat north of the Litani River , weakening their southern Lebanon operations and straining ties with Iran . <p> Advertisement <h> Iran : President Raisi 's death , new entrant in war <p> In a shocking turn of events , Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi was killed in a helicopter crash on May 19 , 2024 . The crash occurred in Azerbaijan and claimed the lives of eight individuals , including Raisi 's foreign minister . While some Iranians celebrated his death due to his controversial presidency marked by repression and economic turmoil , it sparked immediate concerns about potential power struggles within the Iranian regime . However , reports suggest that Raisi 's death is unlikely to significantly alter Iran 's foreign policy or internal governance , as Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei maintains tight control over these areas . <p> People lay flowers near the pictures of late Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi , during a vigil to pay tribute to him and other victims who died in a helicopter crash . ( REUTERS ) <p> In parallel , tensions between Tel Aviv and Tehran escalated significantly , with both nations engaging in reciprocal strikes targeting each other 's military installations . While these strikes did not result in major casualties , they marked a sharp increase in hostilities . Israel intensified its military operations in Syria and Iraq , focusing on Iranian military infrastructure in those regions <p> The incidents has implications for Iran 's geopolitical stance amidst ongoing tensions with United States , particularly regarding its support for proxy groups like Hezbollah . <h> Russia-Ukraine : No endgame ! <p> In 2024 , the Russia-Ukraine conflict has become a war of attrition . Russia gained the upper hand after Ukraine 's 2023 counteroffensive faltered , capturing Avdiivka and opening a new front in Kharkiv . Despite ammunition shortages and slowed foreign aid , Ukraine launched a surprise incursion into Russia 's Kursk region , gaining leverage in ceasefire talks . Both sides rely on external support , with Russia receiving drones from Iran and ammunition from North Korea , while Ukraine seeks long-range missiles and continued Western backing . <p> Advertisement <p> Ukraine 's attack in Kursk , which began early on August 6 , came after months of steady gains by Russia on the battlefield . ( AP Photo ) <p> Militarily , Russia 's vast manpower and superior equipment outweigh Ukraine 's defenses , but the risk of internal discontent limits further Russian mobilization . While , Russia has faced increasing pressure from Western nations through sanctions and military aid to Ukraine . <p> The war 's future increasingly hinges on US policy under a prospective Trump administration and its impact on negotiations . <h> Hamas ' likely demise : Haniyeh , Sinwar death <p> The man dubbed by Israel a " dead man walking " is dead in 2024 . <p> As calendars in 2024 , marked a year of deadliest terror attack in the Israel 's history , Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar , the man believed to be the mastermind of the October 7 attack in 2023 was killed in October 2024 , following a year-long manhunt -- a year of pounding by Tel Aviv , which has left swathes of Gaza flattened , killed more than 42,000 people , and left Hamas greatly weakened . <p> Advertisement <p> Ismail Haniyeh , center left , and Masoud Pezeshkian raised their hands together after Pezeshkian was sworn in as Iran 's president in Tehran . ( The New York Times ) <p> However , this was n't the only blow Hamas experienced this year , the series started with killing of Ismail Haniyeh , the former head of the political bureau , in an Israeli assassination operation at the end of July in the heart of Tehran . Reports indicate that he was killed by an explosive device planted in his guesthouse in Tehran attending the inauguration of Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian . <p> While , the reports highlighted the leadership of the Palestinian armed group has been left in " a state of shock " by the assassination of its two biggest political leader , the group still stress that the Resistance will continue and will follow in the path . <h> Pakistan : Air pollution top charts <p> While , air pollution can be story of every year for the south-east Asia now , Pakistan in 2024 , experienced some of the worst air quality in November . In November , Lahore recorded an average Air Quality Index ( AQI ) over deadly mark of 2,000 making it the most polluted city in the world . <p> A fruit seller arranges his stall in early morning as smog envelopes the area of Lahore , Pakistan , Thursday , Nov. 14 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/K.M . Chaudary ) <p> However , amid worsening air quality in Lahore , Pakistani minister Marriyum Aurangzeb cited winds from India as a contributing factor to the pollution . When India 's Met department disputed the claim providing their own analysis of wind patterns post-Diwali , Islamabad promptly clarified it is not blaming India for Lahore 's pollution , attributing the AQI spike to crop residue burning , industrial emissions , and the annual October-November pollution crisis in Pakistan . Additionally , Secretary for Environment and Climate Change Raja Jahangir Anwar said that there is a need to acknowledge climate diplomacy as a " regional and global issue . " <p> Advertisement <p> Meanwhile , Lahore toped global pollution charts , prompting school closures and a " green lockdown . " The health crisis impacted residents as smog envelops the city , leading to severe health warnings and government measures . <p> Mashkoora Khan is a sub-editor on the global desk . With a background as a multimedia journalist , her work has been featured in publications such as Down to Earth , Feminism in India , and The Wire , among other local and national outlets in India . ... Read More 
@@119467201 <h> In Short <p> India 's BJP won a third term but lost seats ; opposition gained ground . <p> 2024 was a year of profound political and social upheaval , a year when democratic systems were tested like never before . From elections held in more than 80 countries to conflicts that reshaped the global landscape , the year saw both triumphs and challenges for nations navigating their political futures . As we enter 2025 , let 's reflect on the defining stories of 2024 -- stories of elections , government shifts , and global conflict . <p> advertisement <p> The Year of the Vote <p> Dubbed " The Year of the Vote , " 2024 marked a historic moment in global democracy . Over 80 countries held elections , with more than half of humanity casting ballots in what was a record turnout . From bustling urban centers to remote villages , democracy was tested everywhere -- from the world 's largest democracies to fragile states . Countries from India to the U.S. , the U.K. to Pakistan , saw unprecedented voter engagement , but also struggles that highlighted the vulnerabilities in their political systems . <p> The Election Scene : Shifting Power and Political Drama <p> India : Battle for Continuity and Change <p> In India , the world 's largest democracy , the general election from April to June was monumental . Over 900 million eligible voters participated , reflecting the vibrancy of Indian democracy . Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) secured a third consecutive term , but fell short of its ambitious target , winning only 292 seats in the Lok Sabha , down from 303 in 2019 . Opposition parties like the Samajwadi Party and Indian National Congress made significant gains , and the election also marked the return of democracy to Jammu and Kashmir with the first assembly elections held in nearly a decade . <p> United Kingdom : Labour Rises Amid Apathy <p> Across the Atlantic , the United Kingdom experienced a seismic shift in power when Keir Starmer 's Labour Party ousted 14 years of Conservative dominance . Starmer became the new Prime Minister , securing a parliamentary majority of 60% . Yet , voter apathy became a glaring issue , with just over half of British adults turning out to vote . The public 's disenchantment with traditional political institutions raised concerns for the future of British democracy . <p> Bangladesh : A Government Toppled <p> In Bangladesh , Sheikh Hasina won a fifth term as Prime Minister in January , but the election was marred by allegations of voter suppression and violence . With just a 40% voter turnout , public dissatisfaction festered . By August , mass protests led to Hasina 's forced resignation , marking a triumph of people 's power . A Nobel laureate-led interim government stepped in to rebuild Bangladesh 's democratic institutions . <p> Pakistan : Victory Without Power for Imran Khan <p> On February 8 , Pakistan held elections that saw former Prime Minister Imran Khan 's party , the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf ( PTI ) , emerge as the most voted party . However , despite his popularity , Khan was unable to return to power due to political maneuvering by a coalition of rival parties . The country faced continued instability as political factions fought for dominance amidst ongoing economic challenges . <p> advertisement <p> Russia : Illusion of Democracy ? <p> In March , Russian President Vladimir Putin secured a fifth term with 87% of the vote , but the election was widely criticized as a sham . With no meaningful opposition and the assassination of Putin critic Alexei Navalny , the election symbolized the Kremlin 's continued grip on power . The international community condemned the elections held in occupied Ukrainian territories , highlighting Russia 's authoritarian drift . <p> Mexico : A Milestone for Gender and Leadership <p> Mexico made history in June with Claudia Sheinbaum becoming its first female and Jewish president . Her victory was a triumph for representation , but the nation still grapples with serious issues like gang violence and migration relations with the U.S. The challenges she faces will shape her presidency and Mexico 's future . <p> Sri Lanka : A Leftist Revival <p> Sri Lanka witnessed a political reset with the election of Anura Kumara Dissanayake , leader of the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna ( JVP ) , on September 21 . His victory marked a rejection of the old political elite , blamed for the country 's economic collapse . Dissanayake 's leftist policies promise to tackle systemic corruption and revitalize the Sri Lankan economy . <p> United States of America : Trump 's Unprecedented Return <p> Perhaps the most dramatic political showdown of the year occurred in the U.S. Presidential election . In a race fraught with tension , former President Donald Trump overcame legal challenges , including surviving an assassination attempt , to reclaim the White House . His victory over Kamala Harris marked a historic moment , making him the first president in U.S. history to win non-consecutive terms . With the Republicans also gaining control of both houses of Congress , the U.S. faces a sharp turn in its political landscape . <p> advertisement <p> The Global Picture : Democracy 's Triumphs and Trials <p> While 2024 witnessed an upward trend in voter turnout globally , the year also exposed democracy 's deep vulnerabilities . Press freedoms were increasingly threatened in many parts of the world , and gender representation remained a glaring issue , with women holding only 27% of parliamentary seats globally . The issue of climate change , often considered an existential threat , took a backseat as immediate concerns like inflation and housing dominated electoral narratives . <p> Global Conflicts : The Year of Geopolitical Shifts <p> Beyond elections , 2024 was marked by intensified conflicts that had wide-reaching consequences . The wars in Israel and Ukraine dominated the headlines , with mounting human costs and regional instability . <p> The War in West Asia : A Year of Destruction <p> 2024 began with Israel reeling from the October 7 Hamas attack , which killed over 1,200 Israelis . In response , Israel declared war on Hamas , with operations continuing throughout the year . Despite claims of significant military victories , including the elimination of Hamas leadership , the conflict escalated into a multi-front war with Hezbollah , Iran-backed forces , and even Houthi rebels targeting Israeli interests . The situation in Gaza worsened , and by December , the war showed no signs of resolution , with Gaza facing a humanitarian disaster and over 45,000 casualties . <p> advertisement <p> Russia vs Ukraine : The Stalemate Continues <p> The Russia-Ukraine war entered its third year in 2024 , with no end in sight . The year saw a shift in the dynamics of the conflict , with Ukraine 's counteroffensive regaining territories like Crimea , while Russia deepened its ties with Iran and North Korea . Tensions escalated as Ukraine launched missile strikes deep inside Russia , and Moscow responded with its nuclear doctrine changes , signaling a growing risk of escalation . With Donald Trump set to become the U.S. President again , the future of U.S. involvement and the potential for peace talks remains uncertain . <p> A Year of Reckoning <p> 2024 will be remembered as a year that tested the resilience of democratic institutions worldwide . From elections that reshaped political landscapes to conflicts that redefined international relations , it was a year of defiance , resilience , and reckoning . While some nations saw democracy thrive , others faced its erosion . The challenges of the past year will continue to shape the political and social dynamics of 2025 , making the future uncertain yet full of possibilities for change . 
@@119467214 <p> India 's top Google searches in 2024 included a mix of curiosity , culture , and breaking news . Whether driven by headlines or deeper societal shifts , these words captured the nation 's collective attention . <p> In 2024 , Indians turned to Google to decode words shaped by cultural shifts , global news , and viral trends . From geopolitical buzzwords like ' Rafah ' to emotional expressions like ' pookie ' , and deeper societal concerns like ' cervical cancer ' , these searches reveal the nation 's collective curiosity . <p> advertisement <p> Whether inspired by headlines or pop culture , these top 10 words provide a snapshot of India 's diverse interests and evolving conversations this year : <h> 1 . ALL EYES ON RAFAH <p> The phrase gained global traction due to geopolitical tensions in the Middle East . Rafah , a border city between Gaza and Egypt , dominated headlines as a humanitarian crisis unfolded , prompting Indians to dig deeper into its context . <h> 2 . AKAAY <p> Akaay , meaning ' sky ' in Sanskrit , became a buzzword thanks to its use in popular Indian cinema and advertising campaigns that evoked cultural pride . <h> 3 . CERVICAL CANCER <p> Public health campaigns on HPV awareness spurred a spike in searches . This was further amplified by Bollywood celebrities endorsing preventive measures , driving discussions about women 's health to the mainstream . <h> 4 . TAWAIF <p> As period dramas made a comeback , this Urdu term for courtesans in historical India intrigued audiences . Searches spiked after a viral debate on the representation of ' tawaifs ' in media and literature . <h> 5 . DEMURE <p> This word , meaning reserved or modest , reflected evolving conversations on gender and behaviour . Its popularity surged after being the Merriam-Webster Word of the Year , sparking curiosity about its exact meaning . <h> 6 . POOKIE <p> A term of endearment , ' pookie ' found its way into Indian search trends thanks to memes and reels . Its playful nature made it a hit among younger audiences . <h> 7 . STAMPEDE <p> News of tragic stampedes at religious and public events led Indians to search for its meaning . This word sadly reflected the darker side of crowd management issues in the country . <h> 8 . MOYE MOYE <p> This catchy phrase from a viral song became a household name , with everyone curious about its origin and meaning . Turns out , it 's gibberish -- catchy but meaningless ! <h> 9 . CONSECRATION <p> Religious debates and temple inaugurations kept this word in the limelight . Consecration , meaning the formal dedication of something to the divine , resonated with India 's spiritual core . <h> 10 . GOOD FRIDAY <p> With Christianity being a significant minority faith in India , searches for Good Friday 's meaning often spike yearly . In 2024 , interfaith conversations highlighted its historical and spiritual significance . 
@@119467239 <h> New Year 2025 has already arrived in some countries like New Zealand and Australia with a gleaming display of fireworks and festivities as the clock struck midnight . <p> Happy New Year 2025 : Festivities erupt in Auckland and Sydney as the cities welcomed 2025 . <p> The bells of the New Year 2025 rang loudly and festivities hung in the air as people bid farewell to the year 2024 with dazzling fireworks displays and more after a year marred by conflicts and economic woes . <p> Kiritimati ( Christmas Island ) , located in the small Pacific Island nation of Kiribati , was the first place to celebrate the new year , followed by the Chatam Islands in New Zealand . <h> related stories <p> A dazzling fireworks display was seen New Zealand 's Auckland , which was the first major city to welcome 2025 , followed by Fiji , the first country . People celebrated on the streets of key Australian cities of Melbourne , Sydney and Canberra to welcome the new year with grace and jubilation . <p> The arrival of the New Year comes with a vibrant mix of traditions and diverse cultural expressions with parties of grandeur , firework displays and prayers to mark another year hopeful of happiness , prosperity and success . <h> 2024 : A Year Of Political Turmoil <p> People would be eagerly waiting for 2025 as the outgoing year saw deep political turmoil across the world , with two wars in Ukraine and Gaza , climate-fueled disasters and armed rebellions in several years , the latest being Syria . <p> The year marked elections in more than 60 countries , which means that half of the world 's population went to polls in 2024 . Russian President Vladimir Putin secured a sixth term in an election that his critics described as a sham . In India , Prime Minister Narendra Modi secured a historic third term in Parliament . <p> Another closely watched election was in the United States , where Donald Trump upstaged his Democrat rival Kamala Harris to become the first President to serve non-consecutive terms in over a century . While he is yet to take office , his position on immigration and foreign policy have triggered big debates . <p> On the other hand , Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina was ousted from power in an unprecedented student-led protest movement that swelled into an anti-government agitation , bringing an end to her 14-year rule in the country and throwing Asian politics in an era of uncertainty with a growing Islamist shift in Dhaka . <p> Furthermore , Syrian President Bashar al-Assad 's over two-decade rule came to a violent conclusion as rebel forces led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) launched a lightning offensive in December to snatch power , ending the Assad family 's reign of over 50 years . <p> Wars continued in Ukraine and Gaza , with a daring campaign against Hezbollah through doctored explosions in a wave of assassinations targeting the Lebanon-based Hezbollah group . Throughout its campaign in 2024 , Israel notched up significant victories with the death of Hamas chief Ismail Haniyeh and Hezbollah chief Hassan Nasrallah , dealing a critical blow to Iran 's ' Axis of Resistance ' . <h> How Inflation Impacted Geopolitics In 2024 ? <p> 2024 was a year of anti-incumbency , with the exception of India , fuelled by a hefty increase in prices for household items to energy over the past few years . The British put an end to 14-year Conservative rule by electing Labour PM Keir Starmer in July . The inflation-driven anti-incumbent sentiment also ushered in new governments in Britain and Botswana , Portugal and Panama . <p> South Korean voters also put the opposition into power in its parliament , a check on President Yoon Suk Yeol due to a rising cost of living . In early December , the president imposed martial law , a move the National Assembly quickly reversed . <p> In business , companies around the world grappled with how to adapt to artificial intelligence . The dominance of tech companies for investors can be summed up in this simple fact : seven tech firms -- the so-called Magnificent Seven -- now account for more than one-third of the S&amp;P 500 's market cap . <h> What Next In 2025 ? <p> Alas , there is no one way of answering this question due to the unfamiliar terrain of contemporary geopolitics . The Russia-Ukraine war nears a grim three-year anniversary in February , while civilians grow weary of the grinding war in Gaza , where more than 45,000 Palestinians have already been killed . <p> However , US President-elect Donald Trump has promised to bring an end to the war in Ukraine within a single day , although uncertainties prevail on how he would do it . There was also hope and trepidation as the new year approached in Syria following Bashar al-Assad 's ouster . <p> In the new year , we can expect Artificial Intelligence ( AI ) to dominate public discourse . Rampant inflation is also tipped to slow in the upcoming year . The combination of tech companies and political power , given Elon Musk 's close ties with Trump , could also define 2025 . <p> Some 400 million pilgrims are expected at the spectacular Kumbh Mela festival in Uttar Pradesh 's Prayagraj -- billed as the largest gathering of humanity on the planet . India will also hold elections in two important states . <p> People are also looking forward to numerous sports events -- like the ICC Champions Trophy and the 32-team US Club World Cup . India will host the 2025 Kabaddi World Cup . In entertainment , Britpop bad boys Oasis will make a long-awaited reunion , while K-pop megastars BTS return to the stage after military service in South Korea . <h> top videos <p> The UK weather service has already forecast sweltering global temperatures for 2025 , suggesting it is likely to rank among the hottest years recorded . But with electric vehicle sales growing and renewable energy on the rise , there is a shred of hope that glacial progress on climate change may finally gain momentum . 
@@119467275 <h> Israel intercepted a missile launched from Yemen by Houthi rebels on December 30 , 2024 , before it entered Israeli airspace . No casualties were reported . <p> Israel on Monday intercepted a missile launched from Yemen before it crossed into the country 's territory . There were no reports of any casualties in the attack , Israel 's emergency service provider , Magen David Adom was quoted by news agency AFP as saying . <p> According to The Times of Israel , the missile was intercepted before it crossed into Israeli airspace , and sirens sounded across the centre of the country shortly after 11.00 pm ( local time ) due to protocol for fear of falling debris . <h> related stories <p> The missile launch also caused brief interruptions at Ben Gurion Airport in Israel , the Ynet news site reported , with arrivals and departures briefly halted due to fears of falling debris . <p> This came hours after Israel 's ambassador to the United Nations issued what he called a final warning to Yemen 's Iran-backed Houthi militants to halt their missile attacks on Israel , saying they risked the same " miserable fate " as Hamas , Hezbollah and Syria 's Bashar al-Assad if they persisted . <p> The ambassador , Danny Danon , also warned Tehran that Israel can strike any target in the Middle East , including Iran . He added that Israel would not tolerate attacks by Iranian proxies . <p> In an X post , the Israel Defense Forces wrote , " Millions across Israel are currently running to shelter due to a projectile from Yemen " . <p> " Following the sirens that sounded a short while ago in central Israel , a missile launched from Yemen was intercepted by the IAF ( air force ) prior to crossing into Israeli territory , " the Israeli military said in a statement . <p> Videos widely shared on social media claimed to show a " ballistic missile launched at Israel from Yemen " . <p> Yemen 's Iran-backed Houthi rebels have been firing missiles and drones at Israel and ships in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden in what they describe as solidarity with Palestinians since the war in the Gaza Strip broke out in October of last year . <p> In recent weeks , they have claimed to have fired several missiles at Israel , triggering retaliatory strikes from Israel targeting the rebels ' strategic assets and infrastructure . <p> The Huthis have controlled large parts of Yemen since seizing Sanaa and ousting the government in 2014 . <p> They have stepped up their attacks since November 's ceasefire between Israel and another Iran-backed group , Hezbollah in Lebanon . 
@@119467567 <p> Hamas militants entered Israel killing approximately 1200 civilians and taking back many as hostages . <p> Photo : iStock <p> Hamas spent seven years hacking security cameras and gathering intelligence before its coordinated attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 , according to a report . During the assault , the group and its allies killed at least 1,200 people -- mostly civilians -- and kidnapped 251 . Israel 's retaliatory strikes killed over 45,000 Palestinians and displaced nearly the entire population in Gaza , as reported by the Gaza health ministry . <p> Documents seized during Israeli operations revealed that Hamas had been spying on kibbutzim ( community living areas ) , kindergartens , and health clinics for nearly 7 years . They reportedly obtained IP addresses and serial numbers of security cameras installed in the most affected areas . " We see a very , very accurate and very detailed intelligence from an army ... that collects intelligence on its targets for attack and is preparing files for attack , " said Shalom Ben Hanan , a former senior official of Israeli intelligence agency Shen Bet . <p> The operatives even had access to phone numbers of security guards stationed at the border . Reports suggest the hackers exploited civilians sharing device access codes on WhatsApp and Telegram . <p> The group tracked movements of senior Israeli officials , including Sdot Negev Regional Council 's Chief Tamir Idan and Sha'ar Hanegev Regional Council chair Ofir Libstein . Former Eshkol Regional Council head Gadi Yarkoni revealed he was a potential target but noted their information was outdated . " Apparently they had looked into this a long time ago or they did n't have new information , because I moved departments three years before ( the October 2023 attack ) , and they came to my old home , " he said . <p> Criticising the Israeli military 's preparedness , Yarkoni said , " They did n't give me any clue of any of this . I 'd be surprised if the ( Israeli military ) did n't know about it . " 
@@119468205 <h> A report claimed that 72 percent of all misinformation related to the Bangladesh crisis came from Indian accounts . <p> An analysis by a Bangladeshi fact-checking organisation Rumor Scannerfound that " 72% of the accounts spreading ... misinformation " related to Bangladesh 's interim head Mohammed Yunus and the socio-political climate " are located in India " . <p> The Quint 's WebQoof , which also has been working to debunking mis and disinformation , related to the crisis in Bangladesh has published at least 70 discrete fact-checks since August . In our work , we were able to identify six unique X accounts , all subscribers of X Premium , which routinely spread harmful narratives and misinformation related to Bangladesh - with some having millions of followers and garners even more views . <p> It was not just X , users on other social media platforms like Facebook and YouTube were also responsible in spreading disinformation on the topic . We also covered misinformation spread by Hindi and English media organisations . In this month 's analysis , we look at the Indian social media users and media organisations who were responsible for spreading misinformation about the situation in Bangladesh . <p> The Context : <p> The public unrest over quota reforms and the political turmoil which followed in Bangladesh led to the former Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina being ousted from her position in August 2024 . Hasina fled to India , after which the country formed an interim Mohammed Yunus-led government . This period was marked by all kinds of violence , including politically motivated attacks . <p> Bangladesh 's population is majorly Muslim , with only 7.8 percent of its population belonging to the Hindu community . At times , the Hindu minority in the country has faced violence , especially around the time of Durga Puja . <h> The Big Players <p> The most prominent account we came across was ' @RealBabaBanaras ' , 14 of whose posts The Quint has debunked . These posts carrying misinformation saw massive engagement , cumulatively amassing over six lakh views on them and were shared by more than 10,000 users . <p> The first viral piece of misinformation this account shared was related to Bangladeshi cricketer Liton Das . At the beginning of the political unrest , ' @RealBababanaras ' had shared a video of a house on fire alongside Das ' photo , claiming that he had been attacked due to his Hindu identity . <p> In reality , we found that video was of former Bangladeshi cricket team captain and Member of Parliament ( MP ) Mashrafe Mortaza 's house being set on fire . <p> It also saw high engagement on false claims about Hindu places of worship being targeted by the Muslim community in Bangladesh . <p> Several of this user 's posts have been marked with X 's Community Notes , which adds context to misleading or false information . <p> The account has nearly 70,000 followers and got ' verified ' in September 2024 , weeks after its misinformation about Das ' house went viral . <p> X 's ' verification ' system allows people subscribing to the platform 's ' premium ' subscription to make money off their posts , which increases when the account sees high engagement . <p> Apart from using misleading visuals to claim that Hindus are constantly attacked in Bangladesh , the account also shares posts vilifying the Muslim community in India , spreading Islamophobic sentiments and sharing pro-Hindutva content . <p> A strong example of this are two posts that this account shared , showing right-wing organisation Hindu Raksha Dal 's Pinky Chaudhary attacking and demolishing a shanty in Ghaziabad , accusing its residents of being ' Bangladeshi infiltrators ' . <p> Team WebQoof went on the ground to find out the truth behind this violent act and viral claim , to find that the people had simply come to Ghaziabad from Uttar Pradesh 's Sahranpur , looking for work . <p> You can watch this episode of our series on the real impact of fake news here . <p> One of the claims about Hindu places of worship being attacked was shared by several other X accounts . Sharing a video of a shrine of a Sufi saint being demolished in Bangladesh , the account falsely claimed that it showed people from the Muslim community vandalising a temple . <p> This false claim was reshared by the other notable accounts we came across in our investigation , which included @ssarath1 and @jpsin1 . <p> The first account here , which goes by the screen name ' Tathvam-asi ' , has also shared at least five communal claims that The Quint debunked , ranging from false claims about Hindu temples being demolished to sharing videos of politically motivated clashes as those of Hindu women being harassed due to their religious identity . <p> One claim that went viral with over 18,500 views was a video of a cafe on fire , which the user falsely shared as one of a Hindu temple which was set ablaze during the initial days of the turmoil . <p> Similarly , out of the seven fact-checked claims that user @jpsin1 shared , three of them falsely claimed to be recent incidents of Hindu temples being attacked in Bangladesh , while the remaining incorrectly claimed that they showed instances of Hindu men and women being targeted for killings or abuse . <p> The nature of this disinformation is exceptionally troublesome , as Singh 's account is not only verified , which may act as a monetary incentive to share posts which invite engagement but also has nearly 93,000 followers . <p> The first account , too , follows this pattern of being a ' premium ' subscriber , with more than 55,000 followers <h> Repeat Offenders <p> We also saw some of the usual suspects sharing Bangladesh-related misinformation , which was more often than not communally charged . These accounts include those of ' Mr Sinha ' , Megh Updates , and Kreately Media . <p> While these accounts may not have shared disinformation as frequently as the others mentioned , their history of sharing false content while being ' verified ' accounts poses a risk , as people tend to believe disinformation which comes from sources that have the ' blue tick ' and have a large following . <p> Mr Sinha 's account gained a significant amount of followers during the ' Boycott Maldives ' trend on social media amid diplomatic tensions between the two nations in January 2024 , which is also when he ' verified ' his account i.e , subscribed to X premium . <p> With a growing number of followers and an opportunity to monetise high-engagement posts , we saw that the account went on to spread political disinformation ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections , which was overwhelmingly pro-Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) . <p> It has continued to follow this pattern , as seen in false , communally coloured claims that it shared related to Bangladesh and the condition of the Hindu minority there . <p> Both Kreately Media and Megh Updates have been called out for spreading mis- and disinformation by several media organisations , social media users , and fact-checkers in the past , and have previously faced suspension from the platform . <p> Together , these three accounts amass over 10.9 lakh followers , and have repeatedly been called out for disinformation . <p> We also found other ' verified ' accounts which had shared these falsehoods and communal claims . <p> These include JIX5A , Jaipur Dialogues , FrontalForce , and SaffronSunanda , all verified accounts , which have routinely shared misinformation which Team WebQoof has debunked . <p> ( Swipe ) <h> The video shows a college protest . <p> ( Photo : The Quint ) <h> The clip is one of an activist in Bangladesh , who spoke up against a political party . <p> ( Photo : The Quint ) <h> The video is one of an&amp;nbsp ; announcement which temporarily placed restrictions during a festival . <p> ( Photo : The Quint ) <h> The woman was forcefully abducted by her former partner from the same community . <p> ( Photo : The Quint ) <h> What About Facebook ? <p> The content spread by these spilled over to other social media platforms as well . However , on Facebook , the platform 's policy of partnering with third-party fact-checkers may have helped it combat misinformation more proactively than X. <p> One of the core features of the platform 's fact-checking policy is that it deranks content flagged as misinformation , lowering its visibility for all Facebook users . Due to this policy , we were unable to find many pages or users who had consistently shared disinformation as compared to X users . <p> However , the platform had claims for over half of the fact-checks The Quint had published between August and 15 December . <p> A group of pages with names which were different versions of saving or advocating Hindus in Bangladesh shared misinformation at least once during the course of our analysis . <p> The Facebook page ' Voice of Bengali Hindus ' , run from West Bengal , is one example of a page like this , sharing at least three false claims which The Quint had debunked since August 2024 . Since the page has a very small follower count , the impact of this page in promoting falsehoods is uncertain . <p> In a set of twoposts , a verified entertainment page called ' Filmibeat.com ' , shared the same video of women being tied up to pillars , linking it to violence against Hindus in Bangladesh . <p> However , there was no communal angle to this incident , as it shows student protesters tying up workers of the Bangladesh Chhatra League . <p> Similarly , the page shared two other posts which shows a woman , surrounded by a mob , being manhandled , claiming to show harassment of Hindu women in the country . <p> This claim , too , is false , as the woman in the video was also identified as a Chhatra League worker who belongs to the Muslim community . <p> However , social media was not the only source of mis- or disinformation . <h> ' India is Responsible ' <p> While Rumor Scanner 's analysis that most of the misinformation related to Bangladesh on X came from India , other Bangladeshi news organisations , such as The Daily Starand Prothom Alo published reports about " industrial scale of exaggeration " of events by media outlets , with the latter pegging the number of organisations involved in spreading misinformation at 49 . <p> In a previous analysis , The Quint explored how bad actors had shared communal and AI-generated misinformation related to students protests and political crisis in Bangladesh in August 2024 . <h> Disinformation in the Media <p> These ' bad actors ' include the media , which have misreported information , fuelling communal or political misinformation . <p> For instance , in August , news agency ANI shared a video of an elderly man in distress , claiming that it showed a Hindu man looking for his missing son amid the violence against Hindus in Bangladesh . <p> However , the man was identified as Babul Hawaldar , from the Muslim community , who was looking for his son Mohammed Sunny Hawaldar , who went missing in 2013 . Read here . <p> ANI issued a clarification related to the misinformation and deleted its X post , but the damage had already been done . This was evident in a post by X user ' RealBababanaras ' who shared the same video and received 32,500 views and issued no clarification . <p> The nation 's former leader , Sheikh Hasina , was not spared either . Several media organisations , including The Economic Times , Moneycontrol and Firstpost shared a false statement which stated that Hasina had accused the US of being involved in the coup that led to her ouster . <p> Her son , Sajeeb Wazed , denied that his mother made this statement , calling it " false and fabricated , " while the US denied any involvement in the turmoil that led Hasina to quit office and flee the country . <p> As Indian netizens pushed for the protection of minorities in Bangladesh , specifically Hindus , since August , BJP leader and West Bengal 's Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari attempted to assuage these concerns in August . <p> Speaking to the media , Adhikari said , " One crore Hindu refugees will come to West Bengal . I urge the governor and the chief minister of West Bengal , be prepared . Consult with the Central government , there is CAA , " referring to the Citizenship Amendment Act . With this , he implied that Hindus fleeing Bangladesh would qualify for citizenship under the Act . <p> Adhikari was incorrect while pacifying people , as only those who entered India before December 2014 are eligible for Indian citizenship under CAA . <p> This deep dive has only looked into mis- and disinformation related to Bangladesh , and how social media accounts grow by spreading falsehoods and misleading narratives . <p> As seen earlier this report , the phenomenon is not restricted to the Bangladesh issue . Our team found similar patterns of prominent accounts sharing incendiary content during other crises , such as the one in Manipur , Israel 's attacks on Gaza , Russia 's invasion into Ukraine , and many more . <p> Whenever there 's a significant event and you 're not sure whether some information you 've come across is true or false , you can follow tips given here in this video : <p> ( At The Quint , we question everything . Play an active role in shaping our journalism by becoming a member today. ) 
@@119468328 <p> UNICEF Executive Director Catherine Russell described 2024 as " one of the worst years on record for children in conflict , " citing the increasing scale and impact of violence on young lives . Image Credit : <p> SHARE <p> The impact of armed conflicts on children worldwide has reached devastating and potentially record-breaking levels in 2024 , according to UNICEF . The agency 's review of the latest data reveals a grim reality : more children than ever are living in conflict zones , forcibly displaced , and facing severe rights violations . From hunger to disrupted education and healthcare , the challenges are unparalleled and worsening . <h> Unprecedented Scope of Conflict 's Impact on Children <p> An estimated 473 million children -- one in six globally -- now live in areas affected by conflict . This marks a significant rise from the 1990s , when approximately 10% of children lived in conflict zones , compared to 19% today . These areas are among the most dangerous for children , with a record 32,990 grave violations against 22,557 children verified in 2023 alone . Trends suggest this number will rise further in 2024 . <p> By the end of 2023 , 47.2 million children had been displaced due to conflict and violence . Intensifying conflicts in regions such as Haiti , Lebanon , Myanmar , the State of Palestine , and Sudan have exacerbated this crisis , leading to additional displacements this year . Children , who represent just 30% of the global population , account for 40% of refugees and nearly half of all internally displaced people . <p> UNICEF Executive Director Catherine Russell described 2024 as " one of the worst years on record for children in conflict , " citing the increasing scale and impact of violence on young lives . <h> Education , Nutrition , and Healthcare Under Siege <p> The crisis has severely disrupted education for more than 52 million children in conflict-affected areas . In the Gaza Strip and Sudan , many children have missed over a year of school , while schools in Ukraine , the Democratic Republic of the Congo , and Syria have been destroyed or repurposed for non-educational uses . <p> Malnutrition has reached alarming levels , driven by food system disruptions and restricted humanitarian access . North Darfur , Sudan , experienced famine conditions for the first time since 2017 , with over half a million people in conflict zones living under extreme food insecurity ( IPC Phase 5 ) . <p> Healthcare access is another critical concern . Approximately 40% of under-vaccinated children live in conflict-affected areas , leaving them highly vulnerable to diseases like measles and polio . Humanitarian efforts to provide healthcare have been hampered by insecurity and targeted attacks on medical personnel , with 2024 recording 281 aid worker deaths globally , the highest number on record . <h> Psychological Impact and Vulnerable Populations <p> The mental health toll on children is staggering . Exposure to violence , displacement , and the loss of loved ones has left countless children grappling with depression , anxiety , and trauma-related symptoms . In Haiti , there has been a 1,000% increase in reported cases of sexual violence against children this year , highlighting the acute risks faced by girls and vulnerable groups , including children with disabilities . <h> UNICEF 's Call to Action <p> UNICEF is urging all parties to conflicts , as well as those with influence over them , to take immediate steps to uphold children 's rights and adhere to international humanitarian law . <p> " Children in war zones face a daily struggle for survival that deprives them of their childhood , " Russell said . " As we look towards 2025 , the international community must act decisively to save and improve the lives of these children . " <p> Despite these plans , UNICEF faces significant funding shortfalls . The agency has called for increased global support to scale up its humanitarian response . <p> As conflict drives approximately 80% of global humanitarian needs , 2024 serves as a stark reminder of the urgent need to address the underlying causes of violence and displacement . The international community must come together to protect the world 's most vulnerable population -- its children . 
@@119468738 <p> As the year comes to an end , three major wars -- Israel 's continued genocide in Gaza , Vladimir Putin 's pulverisation of Ukraine and the lesser-known but no less murderous , the ' civil ' war in Sudan -- rage on . International diplomacy and the international legal order seem unable or unwilling to bring these hostilities to an end . In addition to human lives , homes and homelands , these wars have blown the fiction of ' a rule- based global order ' and the related lie of ' just war ' , to smithereens . <p> Bob Marley 's 1976 song speaks of wars without end . At any time , some part of the world is engulfed in , struggling out of , or preparing to go to war . <p> Wars seem to be a permanent condition of human life . They are the purest examples of human barbarity , though paradoxically , they are always waged in defence of civilisation and for the promise of an elusive peace . Wars remain popular -- they energise flagging political fortunes , give us new heroes and a sense of collective identity . Even genocides are popular -- the actions of the Israel Defence Forces in Gaza and the continuation of Putin 's operations in Ukraine are gaining massive support among Israelis and Russians , respectively . <p> When are wars ' justified ' ? When is the conduct of wars ' just ' ? The answers to these two related questions have long been dominated by liberal international relations theory , and its subsidiary -- the ' just war ' theory . With the terminal decline of liberal world order -- a process that gained speed in the 1990s -- these theories , too , have lost ground . <p> The need to go to war is recognised in international law -- as wars start when politics and diplomacy have failed , and there is verifiable evidence that some party has dangerous weapons , attacked another country and taken its territory , and has a deranged leadership . When such conditions apply -- as the collective West argued in the early 2000s in relation to Iraq -- a war is justified . <p> Wars seem to be a permanent condition of human life . They are the purest examples of human barbarity , though paradoxically , they are always waged in defence of civilisation and for the promise of an elusive peace . <p> Classically , ' just wars ' require rival combatants to agree on and remain within the limits specified by mutually agreed rules of war . These include proportionality , not targeting non-combatants , allowing aid and medical assistance and sparing the lives of captured enemy soldiers . These rules are enabled when rivals share cultural similarities and values . However , these conditions of ' just wars ' can only be met when rivals share a morality and when they recognise the humanity of their enemy . As per the theory , when enemies hold different religious beliefs , belong to a different race , speak different languages or identify with different civilisations , it is then that they see each other as " less than human " and are more willing to abandon the conventions of restrained warfare . <p> One is hard-pressed to think of wars -- not only older but also more contemporary ones -- that meet this criterion . The keepers of the liberal world order and the arbiters of which wars are ' just ' themselves have been the main destroyers of that order and of the very concept of ' just wars ' . Examples include Colin Powell 's orders to massacre withdrawing Iraqi troops in the first Gulf War , Tony Blair 's ' dodgy dossier ' of false ' facts ' against the offensive capabilities of Saddam Hussein 's Iraq , and Israel 's reduction to rubble of Gaza in retaliation for a terror attack on illegal settlers . <p> Considerable effort goes into constructing the enemy as deserving the full wrath of war and in going beyond the fictional boundaries of ' just wars ' . <p> In the aftermath of Hamas ' attacks on Israeli settlers -- which it justified on the grounds that such settlements were illegal under international law -- Zionist propaganda came alive . It insisted that Hamas had burnt babies alive , gang-raped many captive women , and hid its soldiers -- labelled ' terrorists ' -- in schools , hospitals and other civilian facilities . Curiously , many Hindutva social media influencers were hyperactive in disseminating such propaganda . The mainstream consent in Israel for the Gaza genocide rotated around these fictions and the claim that Palestinians had supported the October 7 massacres . <p> As it happens , these charges were proven to be false . But they served the purpose of gaining the assent of the collective West to back the conduct of a war , in which genocide was permitted in self-defence . It was told to the West that the high body count was made acceptable because the Palestinians were less-than-human , and so , were not deserving of human rights , including food aid . <p> Ominously , for India , Hindutva influencers -- desperately seeking parallels between Hamas attacks on Israel and the perceived threats to India from its Muslim population -- justified the drip-drip of daily lethal violence by extremist groups on minorities within the country . In both cases , the enemy deserved annihilation because the enemy was not fully human , or at least human-like-us . <p> The popularity of the ' just war theory ' does not rest on any empirical evidence . No war is just , however much those justifying these wars might insist . After all , wars within Europe -- whether the world wars , the more recent wars in the Balkans , or between Ukraine and Russia , in which the enemies have shared cultural values and civilisational affiliation -- have all provided evidence of genocide , the presence of concentration camps and the complete destruction of cities . Even the wars between groups in Africa -- often among culturally similar groups -- have been restrained . In the civil wars in Syria , Bashar al-Assad 's sacking of Aleppo was comparable to any urbicide conducted in wars between nations . <p> The popularity of the ' just war theory ' does not rest on any empirical evidence . No war is just , however much those justifying these wars might insist . <p> These wars are nowhere near ending . In fact , the death count and the instances of adoption of ever more innovative methods of killing have only escalated . ' Just wars ' have proven to be cruel and self-serving fictions -- an empty phrase used by those dominant in combat to justify their aims and methods . Even the goals of war have changed -- ' victory ' and ' peace ' have been replaced by extermination , annihilation and the destruction of the very conditions of life after war , something that we are watching helplessly in Gaza . <p> More than the cynical fictions of the ' just war ' theory , increasingly , what governs the conduct of a war , is the sceptic view -- that ethical concerns do not have a place in the conduct of war because the enemy is not sufficiently human to deserve the courtesy of war within self-imposed restraint . Increasingly , bellicose parties have fallen on religion to justify war brutalities . <p> The Islamic State relied on particular readings of the Islamic religious tradition to justify its excessive cruelties towards perceived enemies who were non-Muslims or not sufficiently so . Justifying the complete abandonment of restraint towards them , Benjamin Netanyahu named all Palestinians as ' Amalek ' , and quoted sections from the Old Testament exhorting Israelis to ' kill all men , women , infants and sucklings ' if they attacked Israel . Theoreticians of terror groups as well as nation-states argue that brutality , lawlessness and annihilation of the enemy are justified in the restoration of order and righteousness . <p> The dream of a world without war and beyond war was a fantasy entertained by European liberals , whose abandonment of it in the post-9/11 world was well-captured in Joseph Stromberg 's felicitous phrase -- " Kantians with Cruise Missiles " . The liberal world order -- within which the fiction of ' just wars ' rests -- is crumbling around us , under the weight of its own hypocrisies and contradictions . <p> In theory , the liberal world order and the ' just war ' theory was premised on the assumption of common humanity . But in practice , it was based on treating many populations -- the colonised , the post-colonies and the collective non-West as not fully human . Also , the assertions by the post-colonies in international politics have challenged liberalism on the grounds of its complicity with colonialism and imperialism . This has led to the justified critique that while it professes an idea of a common humanity , it actually has prevented its definition to cover the majority of the world . <p> This story was published as part of Outlook Magazine 's ' War And Peace ' issue , dated January 11 , 2025 . To read more stories from the Issue , click here . <p> It is bad enough that the ' liberal world order ' and ' just war theory ' have been proven to be vicious fictions . What is worse is that , in this time of divisive hyper-nationalism , the denial of a common humanity to perceived ' others ' is not just a matter of relations between nations . It is also common to promote violent conflicts within them -- violence against minorities , migrants , asylum seekers , refugees and dissidents is now widespread and is a road to acquiring state power in countries across the world . To these population categories , meting out arbitrary violence and the denial of basic justice is enthusiastically supported by the electorally significant part of the population . This involution of war has taken its logic to everyday spaces and relations . In India , the invocation of multiple jihads -- love , land , UPSC , thook , to name a few -- functions to deny equal humanity to Muslims and justifies vigilante and State violence on , and the denial of justice to , them . <p> What will germinate from the embers of the bonfires of liberalism and the ' just war ' theory ? With no credible move to create a movement behind the idea of universal humanity , wars and their spiralling brutality will seemingly be with us for some time to come . <p> Social media and the dawning of the post-truth age have made it easy to spread -- and to believe -- terrible things about nations and fellow citizens . Artificial Intelligence , drones and new technologies of surveillance and murder have made killing easier , and more remote . This will , over the long run , further build support for war , and increase the scope of its ability to cause mass death . 
@@119468739 <h> Artists For Palestine : An Ode To Gaza <p> Resistance Art : A ' Free Gaza ' -themed mural titled ' Invasion Kills Children ' made by Palestinian artists on the walls of demolished houses in Deir al-Balah city in Gaza Photo : Getty Images <p> Resistance Art : A ' Free Gaza ' -themed mural titled ' Invasion Kills Children ' made by Palestinian artists on the walls of demolished houses in Deir al-Balah city in Gaza Photo : Getty Images <p> " Always pray for me , and do not forget me . I do n't want to be just another number on the news ticker . I am a story " -- these were some of the last words of Mahasen Al-Khateeb , a renowned young artist and digital illustrator , who had been sharing her stories of resilience in the face of destruction in North Gaza . Al-Khateeb 's last uploaded digital artwork on Instagram was on Sha'ban al-Dalou -- the 19-year-old who was filmed while being burnt alive in Deir el-Balah , when Israeli forces bombed the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital complex in the late hours of October 13 . Her page , otherwise filled with delightful images of hope , now had the gut-wrenching illustration of Sha'ban burning . On October 18 -- hours after this illustration was posted , captioned ' We are burning ' -- Al-Khateeb was killed by an Israeli airstrike on her home in the Jabalia refugee camp in North Gaza . <p> This story was published as part of Outlook Magazine 's ' War And Peace ' issue , dated January 11 , 2025 . To read more stories from the Issue , click here . <p> Suhad Khatib , a prominent Palestinian artist based in Amman , Jordan , shares how she almost crossed paths with Al-Khateeb . " The indirect connections with artists from Gaza have left a true impact in my heart . One of them is with a Palestinian artist named Mahasen Al-Khateeb , " she says . " I did n't know her in person but I used to follow her page . I knew her friends and they were working on an art workshop for youth in Gaza . They asked me if I would be interested in volunteering some time , and I agreed . They decided to put me in touch with this Palestinian woman in Falasteen who was going to plan the workshop . That woman happened to be Mahasen . In the same week that I was supposed to talk to Mahasen , she was martyred , " Khatib recounts . " When I was done with my book -- which is about martyrs -- a Gazan woman came to my studio . She knew Mahasen and was selling some of her works to support her family . I bought most of the works so that I could include them as gifts with my book . So that , everyone who buys my book also gets a gift from Mahasen , " she reminisces . <p> Unlike Al-Khateeb , Khatib never got a chance to set foot in her homeland . Born in Oman , she has lived in exile across the globe all her life . While her father comes from Lyd , her mother belongs to a village near Tulkarm . " In 1948 , my father had to walk for three days to survive a massacre when he was five years old . That was the last time my father ever saw Falasteen , " she says . She is referring to the Nakba , when Palestinian Arabs were violently displaced from their land , as Israel declared its independence . <p> For Khatib , art came to her as soon as she learned to hold a pen . When asked about the significance of art during a genocide , she wonders . " What does it mean to continue to paint during a genocide ? It becomes a question like every other question : what does it mean to continue living your life during a genocide , to continue to drink a sip of water while your people are deprived of water ? I do n't know . " <p> Diyala Zada , a Syrian-British artist based in Cairo , believes that art serves as a healing process and helps her grow stronger . " For me , creating art during a genocide is a way to express and relieve the intense emotions I feel about what 's happening . It 's also a means of preserving memories and sending messages to future generations , " she says . Like Khatib , Zada too has consistently been creating art that talks about Palestine . Being a children 's book illustrator , a lot of her illustrations are like children 's art -- but no child must have to hear the stories they tell . Her work reflects the pain that stems from belonging to a war-torn homeland . When asked what she thinks about the current state of affairs in Syria , Zada says , " What I see now is the hope to rebuild our tired Syria after 50 years of oppression and the tyranny that destroyed humanity and dignity . I hope we can stay on the right path and overcome the lasting traces of this injustice . " She is aware that the wait will be long and the journey wo n't be easy . <p> In Memory : Self portrait of Palestinian artist Mahasen Al-Khateeb , who was killed in North Gaza by an Israeli airstrike <p> In Memory : Self portrait of Palestinian artist Mahasen Al-Khateeb , who was killed in North Gaza by an Israeli airstrike <p> Khatib and Zada are both part of a pool of artists , whose art has consistently talked about the ongoing massacre in Gaza at the hands of Israel . Their works are an important testament to the kind of stories that have been wiped out by Israel since October last year . Often , narrating these stories has come at great personal cost . " I dedicated my life , not just my work , to art . And for art to be worth giving your life to , it has to be art of meaning , " says Khatib . " It becomes a choice whether to allow people to silence you or just tell the story as is and leave it to those closest to you with the hope that one day , the world will find meaning in them , outside of all of the silencing and tyranny . I was fired from my job because of my work and I 've lost friends . Some of my friends were killed , some were imprisoned and I 'm in a constant state of exile . I had to move countries to be able to continue doing my work and continue to be a freethinker , to liberate myself , little by little , from the Empire , " she says . " But I learn from my family . When I ask my father about the massacres that they went through , and the extreme poverty they overcame after the Nakba in 1948 , he says something that I hear a lot of Palestinians in Gaza say today : ' What we went through is nothing when compared to what others went through . ' This is how we Palestinians move through life . " <p> Such cross-cultural conversations about Palestine and art are now finding a footing in India too . Small but steady groups of artists are coming together across the country to spread awareness about Gaza through their art . But the initiative does n't stop there . They are also pooling together their artworks to mobilise funds to help families in Gaza . Meghna Prakash , a poet who runs an Instagram page called ' Artist Dialogue ' , turned to mutual aid when she felt that raising funds single-handedly was n't sufficient . " Initially , I had been raising money myself for ten families in Gaza in the past year . I realised that it was really hard because the money was never consistent and barely enough to support the families , " she says . Given the drastic inflation in North Gaza , a family can sustain merely for two days with 150 US dollars . " The scale of the money needed was huge and we were barely scraping it . I felt like it was n't a feasible way to go forward . I know many incredibly talented people and it made sense for all of us to pool in our resources and do a mutual aid together . " Prakash and her friends have evolved a thorough process of verifying the Palestinian families they choose to aid . From vetting ID cards to conducting video calls and checking who handles their funding pages from other countries , the process is intended to ensure that donors can trust the initiative . " Many of the NGOs and grassroots organisations in Gaza are not reaching the families that I am in touch with . They 're completely reliant on Instagram , which has been censoring them by shadow banning their accounts and blocking them . It 's brutal because that 's the only way they can get access to any funds . We know that we have less capacity so we are just trying to help 10-11 families to get through the days and support them till they reach stability , " she says . Since October 10 , she has been able to raise more than ten lakh rupees for ten Gazan families . <p> " It becomes a choice whether to allow people to silence you or just tell the story as is and leave it to those closest to you with the hope that one day , the world will find meaning in them . " <p> Being an artist has also helped Khatib forge new solidarities across the world . She describes the community around her as ' Hadina ' , which means ' incubator ' in Arabic . " The kind of love and admiration I get from around the world , not just from Palestinians , is incredible . An artist in Sudan started telling me the stories of Sudanese murders . He studied them the way I do , because he was inspired by my studies . Someone sent me a little illustration this morning by their six-year-old niece , who drew me because she visited my studio once and was in awe of my work . I became one of her heroes apparently , " she says , joyfully . " It 's not just a connection for me but a conversation that has been going on between artists in Africa , in Asia and everything in between . My conversation with them is much more intellectually honest and I never feel like I am alone in this world . " <p> Neha Shetty , an illustrator who goes by the username ' That Zany Martian ' on Instagram , is one of the contributors to ' Artist Dialogue ' . When asked how it occurred to her to use art to raise funds for Gaza , she says , " As an artist , one of my main purposes is to serve the collective . Because art and design have a way to go under the radar of algorithmic censorship , if done right , I thought it would be a great way to drive funds to help families , without having to go though the usual roadblocks that the non-art calls for funds were getting . " Pooling resources together has helped many budding artists in finding a way to contribute towards raising funds for Gaza . Paule , or ' Madpaule Diaries ' , thinks that most artists are not really good at raising funds independently , especially when it comes to art with dissent . That 's where a collective like ' Artist Dialogue ' becomes crucial . Mitali Panganti , or ' Moonclayinsta ' agrees . While attempting to raise funds on her own , Panganti encountered a lot of censorship on Instagram , which decreased the reach of her artwork among her followers . But being a part of the collective helped her showcase her art towards organising funds for Gazan families . <p> Artists for Palestine , another budding collective on Instagram , also works towards bringing together digital artists and illustrators who wish to contribute in organising mutual aid for Gaza . When asked about what kind of future such an initiative can have , given the deteriorating situation in Gaza in the past year , they say , " The role of an artist is not just to highlight what 's important but also to instil a proactive approach to problems . Worsening of the situation , especially with the targeted attacks on organisations providing aid in Gaza , demands that we act in larger numbers than before . The collective aim is to inspire more people to act rather than lose hope . " Prakash also holds a similar view about the future of ' Artist Dialogue ' . " I do n't think an initiative like this can have an end game anytime soon . I know that once we have put these families to safety , there will be others in need . We will keep going till we need to keep going . We are trying to create a model that is replicable . We want as many people as possible to replicate this . I 'm just talking about ten-eleven families , but there are thousands of families like this , who need mutual aid support . So , everyone needs to do their bit , " she says . <p> While financial support is the need of the hour , it is also imperative to ask whether art can disturb the status quo . Does art really have the power to outrage people enough to question their governments ? Paule , whose work embodies significant political commentary , believes so . " Art records history like no politician or media can write . It gives power to the coming generations and becomes the language of people beyond borders , " he says . " Artists do n't sugarcoat or sensationalise . Instead , they hand over a mirror to the society and make them realise how each one of us is responsible for the chaos and injustice and how important it is to speak up , " he adds . Paule has been subjected to extensive censorship for his works , leading to a restricted reach and removal of posts for so-called violations by Instagram . The solution , he feels , is to work around the loopholes . Asked if his artistic style makes him vulnerable to State surveillance , he says , " Art and vulnerability go hand in hand . But we are humans and sometimes we can not look away . People go through the worst during wars and genocides and when I think of that , everything else seems like a luxury . Governments should be answerable to us , not the other way round . How can anyone take away your right to live with dignity ? " <p> Khatib , on the other hand , believes that art is often confused with propaganda . " I know that art has the power to change people and to document stories . But art is not propaganda . Propaganda has the power to outrage people against governments . What true art does is remind people of the need to resist oppression , not to be outraged , " she believes . " I think that 's why despite all of the assassinations , imprisonment and silencing , Palestinians have been able to birth real artists , who remind them of the need to resist , to remain , to exist in this world . Palestinian artists give humanity the meaning of art outside the dull peripheries of Western art -- a lot of which has been governmental projects like Jackson Pollock . Palestinians still have artists like Ghassan Kanafani and Naji al-Ali , who remind humanity of the necessity of resistance . " 
@@119468745 <p> . . . think of that opening scene from Kubrick 's 2001 with its brief shots of nature at different times of day and of the year until at some point an already human-like horde appears . And then , as you know , there 's that one grandiose step : at the end of a bloody fight , one of the primitives grabs his weapon , a bone that he has just used as a club , and throws it into the air -- it flies up and up , turns/and the next thing we see is a bone-shaped spaceship . <p> This marks the beginning of civilisation , the beginning of humanity , so to speak , in whose inner being violence and manslaughter have been contained from the very beginning , and thus signifies the beginning of homo faber . <p> -- Reinhard Jirgl in a letter to me <p> The Last Supper . By Madhvi Parikh . Has this catalogue entry by Cioran : <p> On the night of the Garden of Olives , Judas slept for a few moments and dreamed , dreamed of Jesus , because one dreams only of those one loves or of those one kills . And Jesus said to him : ' Why did you kiss me ? You could have scored me with your sword , to mark me . My blood was ready , like a goblet , for your lips ; my heart did not resist death . I was waiting for your face to appear among the branches . <p> ' Why did you kiss me ? No mother will want to kiss her son because of what you 've done , and now anything that kisses for love on the earth , the leaves or the sunshine , will resist the shadowy caress . How will I be able to erase that kiss from the light so that it does n't overpower the lilies of this springtime ? Behold , you have sinned against the world 's trust ! <p> ' Why did you kiss me ? The murderers are already wiping off their gaffs and knives ; they 're already clean . There were bonfires before , but no kiss . <p> ' How can you live now ? For the tree 's bark adapts to its wounds but you 'll have no other lips to kiss with ; if you kissed your mother she 'd turn grey at your touch , as the olive trees that watched you and turned white with shock when they understood . <p> ' Judas , Judas , who taught you that kiss ? ' <p> ' The prostitute , ' he answered chokingly , and his lips were drowned in a sweat that was also of blood and he gnawed at his own mouth to tear it away , like a tree with a gangrenous bark . <p> On the skull of Judas , the lips remained ; they stayed there without dropping off , partially opened , prolonging the kiss . His mother laid a stone on them to try to close them ; the worm chewed through them to shred them ; the rain soaked through in vain to make them rot . In vain . They keep on kissing , even under the ground . <p> There will always be betrayal . And therefore , expulsion , and death and destruction . <p> The night slipped in through the open window . <p> It begins with first stripping entire populations of their self-esteem using policing methods that include a combination of constant surveillance and violence and detention and imprisonment without recourse to law , this ' enforcement ' spreads to take in as much of the populace as possible . No longer just supplicants but dehumanised surviving entities who spend their entire ' living-lives ' attempting to survive . Entire regions like Gaza turned into laboratories of mass destruction . Testing ground for weapons that would otherwise remain in the realm of the ' imagined ' . The new marketplace of war becomes a gladiator sport of unfolding destruction with the highest bidders getting the most ' effective ' weapons tried and tested in front of their eyes . Forget notions of who belongs and who does n't ; who has rights to be a citizen and who does n't ; note the fact that the law no longer stands as a counter-force against this enforcement . On the contrary , it grants it the language of legality . Justice is no longer autonomous . The very language that framed our Constitution is now the language of sanction and oppression . <p> This story was published as part of Outlook Magazine 's ' War And Peace ' issue , dated January 11 , 2025 . To read more stories from the Issue , click here . <p> The way I see it , language is the only form of resistance we have left . But for language to find utterance in the time of genocide it needs to break through the ' deathness ' that our minds have been reduced to . It has to overcome its own vow of silence . Some of us try and survive at any cost because we want to bear witness . And yet we can not bear witness if our words are full of artifice that plays to the gallery . As Reinhard Jirgl in a letter to me says , " Because there is a soul in language , veiled by syntax and grammar , because this linguistic soul must be resilient ! ' Resistant ! ' if possible , not using any clich ? s , no ' ready-made ' linguistic building blocks &amp; that 's why they promise quick applause &amp; quick success with a mass audience , who often only want to hear &amp; read what they have always heard &amp; read . And where there is nothing more to say , words become childish &amp; sweet . <p> Thus clich ? s form a mental gateway for the language of power , the death of language ! " <p> Perpetual war is our immediate reality . In fact , there is no way we can rid ourselves of this . At least we have n't since World War II . <p> Listen then to Sartre after the war : <p> " The war ended in indifference and anxiety . Nothing had changed in everyday life . <p> We would have liked some sort of marvel . A sign in the heavens , to prove to us that peace had written itself into things . Instead People went by on the bridges and in the streets with lifeless eyes , busy with their chronic hunger and their own concerns . <p> How are we , with our empty stomachs , to rejoice at the end of this war that just goes on ending and which , after ravaging our land , has gone off to die at the back of beyond , around those islands whose name reminds us of double almonds and family betting games . And what an abstract end . There may , it seems , be turmoil in Japan ; the Japanese army is counter-attacking in Manchuria and the emperor and his captains speak of impending revenge ; the Chinese are on the verge of civil war . And , in the background , immense emergent powers eye each other with some surprise and a formal coldness , weighing each other up and keeping a respectful distance , like those wrestlers who rapidly stroke each other 's forearms and shoulders before coming to grips . <p> Yet certain men in their offices have decided the war is over . One of them announces it , speaking at a microphone , a piece of paper in his hand . To believe him , we would have had not to have learned to disbelieve the words of men who come to microphones with pieces of paper in their hands . It is not that one dares imagine he is lying . One merely thinks this whole business of war and peace unfolds at a certain level of truth : the truth of historical declarations , military parades and commemorative ceremonies . People look at each other with a vague sense of disappointment : is this all that Peace is ? <p> It is n't Peace . Peace is a beginning . We are living through death throes . <p> Today , 20 August 1945 , in this deserted , starving Paris , the War has ended but Peace has not begun . " <p> I have said this often enough . Our beings are constantly being reduced into physical shells awaiting our demise . Not always a bodily death . The emptying of our sense of self , our esteem , our creative abilities , is death . The mind has imagination sucked out of it . It is Empty . Survival is an intuitive reflex but one that has lost the will to live . There is no escape from the numbness . The stupor that the mind is forced to embrace . Like poison that contaminates . Every bit of our body , our surroundings , the earth we inhabit at the moment of this vast and forced ' emptying ' is an act of violence . Do not for a moment be fooled into believing that anyone wants peace in Gaza or Ukraine . Too much is at stake for the money-mongers that run our lives . Perpetual . Ruin . For it is amongst the ruins that ' global investors ' seek their fortune . The returns of war . The rebuilding of the very destruction that caused entire nations to be reduced to rubble is the aim . This business of humanitarian aid whose sole purpose is to create ' future dependencies ' at a high price . <p> Literature as memory . As memorial . In a time that is fast erasing both history and evidence . <p> There will always be writing . And you know what they say about whispers . They travel . So , there will be speaking . However muted . And yes , witnessing . Having said that there is the fear that publishing with the freedom we do may be stripped . But we will have to find other ways . While there is breath there is purpose . However fearful they make it . I refuse to indulge in the conjecture that precedes anxiety in these matters where stripped of both law and human rights an entire nation is hurtling towards a constant state of anticipatory violence . One just has to take it a day at a time and see how things unfold and then respond . <p> As for karma . I just believe in the doing bit . And the consequences of this ' doing ' . Now whether that is good or bad karma and whether it is deserved or undeserved fate I frankly have n't a clue . <p> Of course , when faced with extreme situations of the kind that robs one of ' light ' I can only hope I will find myself equal to the task of finding ways to continue to subvert the status quo . Like my friend Reinhard Jirgl . Who refuses to get published but continues to write . For his drawer ! Therefore Clandestine . Yes , the writing and the dissemination of what is written need to continue . There will be moments when the light I speak of will be cut off . Like being in a tunnel that is like a labyrinth and you can not find your way out because there is nothing remotely illuminating to find your way out . Like being trapped in a mineshaft , I guess . When this happens we will can only hope we will figure out a way . Or not . But I know that we will keep trying . <p> The Labours of Sisyphus <p> Taking the silver surface of the still winter lake he hung it in the sky . Like a mirror . In place of the sky he had buried under the earth . In a hurriedly dug grave . Covering it with earth . Strangling the clouds in mid-conversation . He looked up to see the sky reflected in the lake above the mountains . This seemed to make him angry . So he took the mirror he had created from the uppermost layer of the lake in winter and buried it in the sky in a hurriedly dug grave . And covered it with clouds . Taking the stars by surprise . He looked down at his handiwork and found the sky he had buried . Under the earth . In the hurriedly dug grave . Staring back at him . This seemed to make him angry . So he took the sky he had created from the surface of the mirror that lay at the bottom of the lake and hung it in the sky that lay buried in the clouds above the tall mountains . Then he proceeded to dig a grave for the stars . And this time he covered the grave he had dug with the large rock he had pushed up the hill for precisely this purpose . <p> After all , he did not want any witnesses . <p> Naveen Kishore is a publisher , writer , photographer and theatre practitioner 
@@119468747 <p> " Do Gazans truly die when their body is not whole or can not be found and when they can not be properly grieved ? " asked Mariam Mohammed Al-Khateeb , a 20-year-old Palestinian from Gaza , in a prose titled , ' The Luxury of Death ' , published in June 2024 -- eight months since Israel launched its war on Gaza . " To die with a full body in Gaza is a luxury , " she declared . <p> When she saw a photograph of the body of her friend , Buthaina , she could not believe how her blue eyes had turned black . " Did the missile shoot black ink into your eyes ? " she asked her dear dead friend . <p> In ' Where will I hide my poem ? ' , she described how " debris wrecked my words until the poem bled . " Her poem was killed -- a poem " made of words/ overlooking graveyards/ words overlooking death . " As no place was safe -- from her ruined home to the bombed refugee tents -- she hid her poem in the eyes of the children . But bombs found the children . <p> She says , every day , Death puts his hand on her mouth and takes her truth and gives it to the air . <p> A dentistry student , poet , oud player , translator and community activist from Gaza , currently residing in Egypt , MariamAl-Khateeb spoke to Snigdhendu Bhattacharya about her life , art , and activism as Israel 's all-out war on Gaza crossed one year , claiming over 42,000 Palestinian lives while leveling cities and towns . <p> My primary identity is that I am a genocide survivor . This is the most important thing that the war has done to me . When I want to tell someone about me , the first thing that comes to my mind is that I 'm a genocide survivor . I prefer to say , ' I 'm a genocide survivor ' over saying ' I 'm a writer , a Palestinian writer , poet , student , worker , freelance journalist , or speaker ' . Everything does not have the same importance as your life . <p> Life has completely changed onwards October 7 , 2023 . Even after the genocide ends , our lives will never be the same . We will never live as normal people . This genocide will be in our genes . This genocide is in our blood , in our thinking , in our daily routines , in everything . It has affected the smallest things in our lives -- how we act , think and deal with life . <p> It 's really hard to consider genocide as a usual happening , to take it as something that will pass . No . Genocide is a hard reality that 's coming to us . It 's a hard reality unfolding in my city . I have lost my city . My city was killed . My city was starved . Every bad thing possible has happened to our city . <p> What were you engaged in when the Israeli offensive started ? <p> I was studying in my second year at my dental school at Al Azhar University . I was an intelligent student , in the sense that I was working , writing , learning to play oud and organising poetry events . But everything changed after October 7 . My college was bombed . My friend who was teaching me how to play oud lost his wife . Bombs took her away . The streets of Gaza , the flowers , the trees , the libraries , and humanity , everything bore signs of destruction . October 7 is the darkest day of my life because I ca n't wake up as a normal person since then . I ca n't handle my things with the same control anymore . I have become a lonely , genocide survivor . <p> Now , in Egypt , I am trying to start afresh . This is hard . Every Gazan has to start from zero -- they need to be born again to start their lives . Each student , each parent in Gaza needs to be reborn to start a new life . And it 's really hard because we start our lives under the rubble of our dreams . Our dreams are under the rubble of Gaza . We leave Gaza , but Gaza will never leave us . <p> My family is still stuck in Gaza , and they are dying , starving and breathing under bombs and rockets . But I 'm out to start from zero . I would have been in my third year of dental school if I were in Gaza . But now , I 'm in my first year at a dental school in Egypt . I have lost two years but that 's better than losing my life and more things like that . <p> How did the war impact your family and friends ? <p> Every family member had his or her own dreams and plans . My elder brother , Khalil , relocated to Egypt five years ago in search of jobs . When the bombardment started in October 2023 , my sister Marah was waiting for her high school to end so that she could go to the university to study engineering . My brother Zain-Al-Abedin wanted to excel as a chess player . My father wanted to start a new project . My mother , who is a worker , had her own dreams . But since October 7 , everything has been lost . There are no running schools or colleges in Gaza . They were intelligent and hard-working . But they now have nothing . Instead of being in schools or colleges , they queue up for bread and drinking water , sleep in tents , and get evacuated and evacuated . <p> This genocide is about killing machines . The pump rockets , the bombs and the rubble killed more than 27 of my friends and family . The Israeli occupation burned my grandmother in Al Shefa hospital . They killed my friends Mohammed and Mohammedani . They killed my friend Buthaina under the rubble of her house . They killed my friends Samah , Nadine and Youssef . They killed Tareq Mohammed . They killed Wafaa and Ismael . They killed a lot of my friends , and I really miss them . Also , they split up my friends . Some are outside Gaza , some in the tents and some under rubble . They split all friendships . I miss my friend . I do n't even know who 's alive and who 's dead . I can no longer go and hug them and feel safe . We ca n't see each other . <p> But it is important that we keep speaking clearly and aloud , our voices reach every nook and corner of the world . I love the sea . But the situation made me hate looking at the sea because , in Gaza , the seaside is full of tents and dead bodies . <p> Tell us a little more about how writing has helped you cope with the situation . <p> Writing gives me a feeling of being blessed . It makes me feel that I have a message to spread . I want to write to feel that I 'm free inside . I can talk with my mind , I can talk through papers , I can talk about my ideas and my hard feelings about what I have gone through . I can talk about everything . Everything that I ca n't discuss with others , I can discuss in my writing . <p> I have been writing since I was 10 years old . I grew up with the idea of writing . I started writing in Arabic but over the past two years , I have been associated with the We Are Not Numbers project . That 's when I started writing for English magazines . It 's something really beautiful -- that we are not numbers . We try to give voices to all Palestinian writers , give space to their personal stories , lend voice to their messages , and give strength to their writing . I work with the ' We Are Not Numbers ' project not because I 'm a writer , but because I have a message , I have a topic , because I need to talk , and I need to face my feelings , face this world , face everything , to write about everything in Gaza . <p> When I Left Gaza , I promised myself that I will never ever stop talking about Gaza , about the stories of Gaza , and about what 's happening in Gaza . I will never stop . <p> How does it feel to stay away from family , whose lives are at risk ? <p> I 'm the oldest student to move out of Gaza without my family . I made a hard decision . One day , I felt that I did n't want to be killed . I did n't want to lose the last hope in my life . I do n't want my dream to get under the rubble . I wanted to speak to the world about my dream , my story , and my friends ' dreams that were getting buried under the rubble . And I decided in November ( 2023 ) that I wanted to leave . I wanted to survive this genocide and speak to the world about how much we deserve life , how much we deserve learning , how much we deserve to make things that matter to the world and how knowledgeable we are . <p> So , I said to my father that I wanted to leave . I do feel guilty . I feel that I 'm selfish , I let my family die and moved out alone . I also tell myself that I 'm fighting for our future , our city , and our collective dreams . It started from my personal dream , but it has grown larger than that . This dream is surviving because I want to survive and unite with my city and family . <p> Leaving one 's home is a hard decision , especially when living under the shadows and sounds of the rockets , leaving your mother in tears , leaving your father 's voice . I could n't say goodbye to my family and friends , to my favorite places , to the things that I loved in Gaza . I had to rush to cross the border . I hugged my dad , and I saw his tears . I had to rush to go to the border crossing before it closed . Can you feel how I felt when I hugged my dad and saw him in tears , when I bade him goodbye , not really certain if I will ever see him ? I could n't say goodbye to my mother because it was just a really tough time . <p> I do n't know if I will see them ever . I 'm still their hope for a way out of the country . I do n't know if I can help the rest of the family cross the border , but funds are being raised . <p> However , Palestinian families , especially Gazan families , have become accustomed to this life . They prefer their children . They believe in the future . They trust in God . And they know the importance of science and studying around the world . 
@@119468757 <p> Oncology patients hold up sheets of paper with the words " Stop War " in a basement used as a bomb shelter at the Okhmadet children 's hospital in central Kyiv , Ukraine , Monday , Feb. 28 , 2022 Photo : AP /Emilio Morenatti <p> Oncology patients hold up sheets of paper with the words " Stop War " in a basement used as a bomb shelter at the Okhmadet children 's hospital in central Kyiv , Ukraine , Monday , Feb. 28 , 2022 Photo : AP /Emilio Morenatti <h> World War II ( 1939-1945 ) <p> ? ? Days : 2,191 Estimated deaths : Over 70 million people <p> In the Pacific theater of World War II , U.S. Marines hit the beach and charge over a dune on Iwo Jima in the Volcano Islands Feb. 19 , 1945 , the start of one of the deadliest battles of the war against Japan Photo : AP/JOE ROSENTHAL <p> In the Pacific theater of World War II , U.S. Marines hit the beach and charge over a dune on Iwo Jima in the Volcano Islands Feb. 19 , 1945 , the start of one of the deadliest battles of the war against Japan Photo : AP/JOE ROSENTHAL <p> ? ? The war started on 1 September 1939 with German Fuhrer Adolf Hitler 's invasion of Poland . Hitler 's malevolent ambition was to conquer all of Europe. ? It was rooted in his demonic ideology that promoted the superiority of the German race while deeming the Jewish people as inferior . This belief system set the stage for the conflict between the Axis powers -- Germany , Italy , and Japan -- and the Allies , which included France , Great Britain , the United States , the Soviet Union , and , to a lesser extent , China . The six-year war was one of the bloodiest conflicts in history , marked by a brutal genocidal campaign against the Jewish people , and resulting in the deaths of over 50 million civilians . <h> Arab-Israel Wars ( 1948 , 1956 , 1967 , 1973 , 1982 and 2006 ) <p> Days : 458 Estimated deaths : 86,200+ people <p> The conflicts between Arabs and Jewish people over the right to self-determination peaked after the United Nations in 1947 voted to partition the British mandate of Palestine into a Jewish state and an Arab state . On 15 May 1948 , Israel declared independence , leading to immediate attacks on Tel Aviv from Arab forces including Egypt , Jordan , Iraq , Syria and Lebanon . Israel managed to occupy most of the Palestine territory , causing the first exodus of Palestinian people , known as Nakba . Arab and Israeli forces clashed again notably in 1956 during the Suez Canal crisis after Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser nationalised the vital waterway and blocked Israeli ships from using the canal . In the 1967 six-day war Israel took control of the Gaza Strip and the Sinai Peninsula from Egypt and took sole control of Jerusalem . The Yom Kippur War of 1973 ended in a peace agreement with Egypt . In 1982 , Israel invaded Lebanon to attack militants of the Palestine Liberation Organisation and Hezbollah . Hezbollah continued to press Israel over border disputes and Israeli detention of Lebanese prisoners during the 2006 Second Lebanon War . <h> Korean War ( 1950-53 ) <p> Days : 1129 Estimated Deaths : 200,000 to 300,000 people <p> A Korean child sits in smoldering ruins of his home destroyed by fire in the Suwon area on February 3 , 1951 , as allied troops burned dwellings which might provide shelter for red troops Photo : Jim Pringle / AP <p> A Korean child sits in smoldering ruins of his home destroyed by fire in the Suwon area on February 3 , 1951 , as allied troops burned dwellings which might provide shelter for red troops Photo : Jim Pringle / AP <p> The collapse of the Japanese empire after WWII ended its occupation of Korea . The United States and the Soviet Union agreed to temporarily divide the Korean territory for administrative purposes at the 38th parallel ( latitude 38 ? N ) . In the following years , Kim Il-sung , a guerilla leader , strengthened his hold over the Communist party in the north and launched incursions in the South , which wanted to become an independent country of South Korea . The fighting expanded between the South 's Republic of Korea Army ( ROKA ) , the North 's Korean People 's Army and the Korean border constabulary . On 25 June 1950 , North Korea , aided by the Soviet Union , invaded the South . The US and the UN came to the aid of the South while China supported North Korea 's actions . The fighting between the two sides ended in 1953 causing the deaths of over 3 million people on both sides . Korea remained divided into two hostile states , with the two sides refusing to accept negotiations . The front line has been accepted ever since as the de facto boundary between North and South Korea . <h> Algeria War ( 1954-62 ) <p> Days : 2694 Estimated Deaths : 400,000 -- 1,500,000 people <p> Algeria , a French colony in North Africa fought a long battle for independence . The conflict gained momentum after France failed to fulfil its promises of greater self-rule in Algeria after World War II . The National Liberation Front ( FLN ) , a nationalist group , launched a guerrilla war against France and sought diplomatic recognition at the UN to establish a sovereign Algerian state . To curtail the crisis , French forces cracked down heavily against Algerian fighters , torturing and executing them brutally . The conflict resulted in serious political instability in France , with French citizens launching major agitations against the occupation . The Paris police drowned hundreds of protesting Algerians in the Seine River with their hands tied behind their backs , or strangulated or wounded with bullets . In 1959 , amidst waning international support , Charles de Gaulle , President of the Fifth Republic , opened a series of negotiations after declaring that the Algerians had the right to self-determination . The 1962 ? vian Accords paved the way for the withdrawal of French troops from Algeria . In the same year , Algeria gained independence , bringing closure to the 132-year-long French occupation . <h> Angolan Civil War ( 1975-2002 ) <p> Days : 9855 Estimated Deaths : 500,000 -- 800,000 people <p> After Angola gained independence from Portugal in 1975 , the country quickly descended into the chaos of civil war . The new government was based on a three-way power-sharing agreement between the People 's Movement for the Liberation of Angola ( MPLA ) , a Marxist organization led by Agostinho Neto ; the National Front for the Liberation of Angola ( FNLA ) , led by Holden Roberto , with strong ties to the U.S. ; and the anti-communist National Union for the Total Independence of Angola ( UNITA ) , an offshoot of the FNLA , led by Jonas Savimbi and supported by the country 's largest ethnic group , the Ovimbundu . Lack of trust and power struggle between the three partners led to tensions , turning Angola into a Cold War battleground . The US supplied aid and training for the FNLA and UNITA fighters whereas the Soviet Union provided military training and equipment for the MPLA . The conflict also saw intervention from China , Cuba and South Africa assisting the opposing factions , and creating further complications for any agreements . The 27-year war witnessed periods of major fighting -- from 1975-91 , 1992-94 and from 1998-2002 . In 1989 , all foreign forces withdrew allowing for the transition from Angola , towards a multiparty political system . The UNITA and FNLA abandoned the armed struggle and joined electoral politics as political parties from 1991-92 onwards . In 2002 , following the death of Jonas Savimbi , the military leader of UNITA , UNITA and the MPLA , ? agreed to a cease-fire . The Angola civil war was characterised by the phenomenon of ' blood diamond trade ' . UNITA 's hold over diamond mines helped it to fund the war and gain the support of Western countries . The war also spilled into the neighbouring Democratic Republic of the Congo and South Africa . It contributed to a disastrous humanitarian crisis internally displacing 4.28 million people -- one-third of Angola 's total population. ? <h> Afghan War ( 1978-1992 , 1992-1996 ) <p> Days : 6570 Estimated Deaths : 700,000+ people <p> Soviet Army soldiers wave their hands as their unit crosses a bridge on the border between Afghanistan and then Soviet Uzbekistan near the Uzbek town of Termez , Uzbekistan on Feb. 15 , 1989 Photo : Leonid Yakutin/Defense Ministry Press Service via AP <p> Soviet Army soldiers wave their hands as their unit crosses a bridge on the border between Afghanistan and then Soviet Uzbekistan near the Uzbek town of Termez , Uzbekistan on Feb. 15 , 1989 Photo : Leonid Yakutin/Defense Ministry Press Service via AP <p> The Afghan war began in 1978 after the government of President Muhammad Daud Khan was overthrown by left-wing military officers led by Nur Mohammad Taraki , in a coup called the Saur Revolution . The new Communist government shared close ties with the Soviet Union . It began extensive land and social reforms that were bitterly resented by the devoutly Muslim and largely anti-communist population . To counter communism , various Muslim tribes -- known as mujaheddin-- launched a resistance movement against the government . In 1979 , Soviet troops invaded Afghanistan in large numbers to support the government and crush the mujahideen insurgency . Heavy bombing , violence and atrocities against the ethnic population resulted in a massive exodus -- around 2.8 million Afghans took refuge in neighbouring Pakistan and another 1.5 million to Iran . The U.S. eventually helped the mujahideen , supplying them with shoulder-fired anti aircraft missiles to neutralise Soviet air power . <p> Soviet troops withdrew in February 1989 , and the war came to an end with the ouster of Dr Mohammad Najibullah 's communist regime in 1992 . ? After the collapse of the government , civil war raged in Afghanistan as different mujahideen groups like Tajiks and Uzbeks in the north , Hazaras in the centre , and Pashtuns in the east and south vied to control Kabul . Severe human rights violations , including executions , imprisonment , rapes and sexual violence against women took place in this period . Taliban , a hardliner Islamist group eventually took over Kabul in 1996 , imposing strict Sharia laws , staging public executions and prohibiting women from public life. ? <h> Iran-Iraq War ( 1980-88 ) <p> Days : 2920 Estimated Deaths : 1,000,000 people <p> The neighbouring countries of Iran and Iraq were involved in a brutal war in 1980 , fueled by territorial and political disagreements . Iraqi President , Saddam Hussein , wanted to seize control of the rich oil-producing Iranian region of Khuzestan and the strategic waterway of the Shatt al-Arab River , which historically acted as the Iran-Iraq border . In September 1980 , shortly after Iran 's new theocratic Islamic Revolutionary government came to power , Saddam Hussein invaded Kuzhestan in Western Iran . Iranian forces pushed back Iraqi troops . Iraq voluntarily withdrew its forces from all captured Iranian territory soon after . As the conflict dragged on , the two countries began attacking each other 's oil tanker shipping in the Persian Gulf . The UN Security Council unanimously passed Resolution 598 in July 1987 , urging Iraq and Iran to accept a ceasefire and settle their border disputes . The two sides ended fighting in the 1988 cease-fire , but a formal agreement leading to normal diplomatic relations and the withdrawal of troops took place only in August 1990 . <h> Rwanda Civil War ( 1990-94 ) <p> Days : 1386 Estimated deaths : 500,000 - 800,000 people <p> Ethnic tensions between the minority Tutsi ( 14 per cent ) who were favoured in jobs , education and social privileges over the Hutus ( 85 per cent ) worsened once again in the 1990s . On 1 October 1990 , the Rwandan Patriotic Front ( RPF ) composed mainly of Tutsi exiles in Uganda to reform the Rwandan government on political power sharing , launched a major attack on Rwanda . The attack spurred the Rwandan government to target the minority Tutsis and label them as traitors and accomplices of the RPF . Media outlets , particularly radio played a significant role in fuelling propaganda and perpetuating violence against Tutsis . Peacemaking efforts of the Organisation of African Unity ( OAU ) led to the signing of the Arusha peace agreements in August 1993 , to end the conflict between the Hutu-dominated government and the opposition RPF . However , the conflict turned ugly after an aircraft carrying Rwandan president Juv ? nal Habyarimana and Burundian president Cyprien Ntaryamira , both Hutu , was shot down with surface-to-air missiles on 6 April 1994 . The Radio Television Libre Des Mille Collines ( RTLM ) attributed the plane crash to the RPF and incited people to eliminate " Tutsi cockroaches . " The next day onwards , the Rwandan army alongside civilians began killing Tutsis and several moderate Hutu leaders including Prime Minister Agathe Uwilingiyimana . Over 800,000 Tutsis were massacred in a three-month-long period until July 1994 when the RNF forced the interim government into exile . Approximately 2,000,000 Hutus also fled to the Democratic Republic of Congo , Burundi , Tanzania and Uganda . <h> Sierra Leone Civil War ( 1991-2002 ) <p> Days : 3954 Estimated Deaths : 50,000-70,000 people <p> On 23 March 1991 , Sierra Leone came under attack from the neighbouring Liberian leader Charles Taylor 's National Patriotic Front of Liberia ( NPFL ) and the rebels of the Revolutionary United Front ( RUF ) , who wanted to overthrow the Joseph Momoh government . Momoh was deposed in a coup in April 1992 and severe political instability gripped the country . A series of coups and hostilities between various rebel groups continued over the next decade . The Lom ? Agreement , proposing a peace agreement between the government and rebel forces was signed in 1999 . However , fighting continued till 2001 , when the UN Mission to Sierra Leone ( UNAMSIL ) brokered a compromise . An official end to the civil war was declared in January 2002 . The 11-year-long civil war left over 50,000 dead and some 2,000,000 people displaced by the conflict . <h> Bosnian War ( 1992 -- 1995 ) <p> Days : 1347 Estimated deaths : 200,000 people <p> A father and his son pass the dead body of a Bosnian policeman killed when a shell landed next to his guard house in Sarajevo , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Dec. 30 , 1992 Photo : AP/Santiago Lyon <p> A father and his son pass the dead body of a Bosnian policeman killed when a shell landed next to his guard house in Sarajevo , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Dec. 30 , 1992 Photo : AP/Santiago Lyon <p> After the breakup of Yugoslavia , the socialist republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina , inhabited by Muslim Bosniaks ( 44 per cent ) , Orthodox Serbs ( 32.5 per cent ) and Catholic Croats ( 17 per cent ) , passed a referendum for independence on 29 February 1992 . The Bosnian Serbs who controlled about 70 percent of the land , boycotted the referendum and rejected its outcome . Radovan Karad ? ic with the support of Serbian President Slobodan Milo ? evic and the Yugoslav People 's Army ( JNA ) , mobilised troops inside Bosnia and Herzegovina to secure ethnic Serb territory . The Bosniak population was attacked and expelled from many areas . Bosnian Serb forces perpetrated the massacre of more than 7,000 Bosniak men in acts described as ethnic cleansing . With the backing of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation , a final ceasefire agreement known as the Dayton Accords was negotiated in 1995 . <h> Second Congo War ( 1998-2003 ) ? <p> Days : 1811 Estimated deaths : 5.4 million people <p> The Second Congo War ( 1998-2003 ) was one of the deadliest wars in the history of modern Africa . It started soon after the First Congo War ( 1996 -- 1997 ) which began in the wake of the 1994 Rwandan Genocide after nearly two million Hutu refugees took refuge in Congo 's North Kivu and South Kivu provinces . After coming to power , Congolese President Laurent-D ? sir ? Kabila banned political parties and public demonstrations and removed ethnic Tutsis from his government , weakening Rwanda 's military presence in the DRC . Kabila 's former allies Rwanda and Uganda backed rebel groups against the new Congolese government . In response , he received support from the Angolan , Namibian , and Zimbabwean governments in its fight against the rebels . The war involved nine African nations and about 25 armed groups . The 1999 Lusaka Peace Accord was aimed at ending all the hostilities ; however , it was not fully implemented , and fighting continued . Kabila was assassinated in January 2001 and was succeeded by his son , Joseph , who declared his commitment to end the war . In 2003 , a new interim government took over with Joseph Kabila as the President . Although the war came to an end , it caused tremendous destruction and was responsible for large casualties , diseases , and famine . <h> Second Chechen War ( 1999-2009 ) <p> Days : 3540 Estimated deaths : 25,000-200,000 people <p> The Second Chechen War was fought between the Russian Federation and the breakaway Chechen Republic of Ichkeria . In the first Chechan war ( 1994-97 ) , Russia attacked the capital city of Grozny in an attempt to overthrow the Chechen government . The conflict resumed in August 1999 after Chechen separatists infiltrated the Dagestan region in Russia in a bid to create an Islamic state . Moscow blamed Chechen rebels for a series of apartment block bombings in Russian cities , killing around 300 people . Russian troops along with pro-Russian Chechen paramilitary forces attacked Chechen separatists and seized Grozny . Russia heavily bombed Chechnya , flattening and destroying much of Grozny . Moscow installed a pro-Russian government by appointing **26;479;TOOLONG Akhmat Kadyrov as head of its administration in Chechnya . In 2003 , a new constitution granted Chechnya autonomy but stipulated that Chechnya was part of the Russian Federation . President Kadyrov was assassinated in a bomb blast by Chechen rebels after which his son Ramzan Kadyrov was appointed as President in 2007 . <p> ? <h> Second Intifada ( 2000-2005 ) <p> Days : 1594 Estimated Deaths : 5800+ people <p> The Second Intifada also known as al Aqsa intifada was a Palestinian uprising against Israel 's military occupation , in the wake of the failure of the 2000 Camp David Summit peace process . Despite expectations of autonomy , the Palestinian Authority controlled less than one-fifth of the West Bank , while Israeli occupation continued in the remainder . The uprising erupted after Israeli opposition leader Ariel Sharon made a provocative visit to the Temple Mount ( where Al-Aqsa Mosque , one of Islam 's holiest sites , is also located ) , which outraged Palestinians and sparked widespread violence . Israel launched military operations to reoccupy the West Bank and parts of Gaza and erect a separation barrier in the West Bank . More than 4,300 fatalities were registered , with the majority of deaths of Palestinian people . The fighting ended with the Sharm el-Sheikh Summit of 2005 after Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon agreed to take definitive steps to de-escalate the hostilities <h> Afghanistan : 2001-2014 <p> Days : 4830 Estimated Deaths : 70,000 people <p> Following the 9/11 attack , a U.S.-led international coalition invaded Afghanistan to topple the Taliban regime due to its links with al Qaeda and other militant groups . America launched an intensive manhunt for Taliban chief Mullah Omar , al Qaeda head Osama bin Laden , and deputy chief Ayman al-Zawahiri . After ousting the Taliban from power , the US launched reconstruction and nation-building efforts . Hamid Karzai , a tribal leader , was appointed as the head of the interim government in December 2001 . The Taliban , which had retreated into rural countryside and along the border with Pakistan began to reorganise . Between 2002-05 , the Taliban launched several high-profile attacks through IED and suicide bombings against the international coalition to expel foreign troops and took control of large parts of villages and towns . The U.S. gained major success with military operations and drone strikes ; however , faced difficulties in negotiating an end to the conflict . In late 2014 , Ashraf Ghani was finally inaugurated as president after which the U.S. and NATO formally ended their combat mission in Afghanistan. ? <h> Iraq war ( 2003-2011 ) <p> Days : 3195 Estimated Deaths : 113,728 people <p> An Iraqi baby lies in a cradle while a woman argues with US soldiers searching for weapons , explosives and information about militants in the area during a foot patrol in neighbourhoods of Mosul , June 26 , 2008 Photo : Reuters <p> An Iraqi baby lies in a cradle while a woman argues with US soldiers searching for weapons , explosives and information about militants in the area during a foot patrol in neighbourhoods of Mosul , June 26 , 2008 Photo : Reuters <p> In continuation of its war on terror following the September 11 attacks , a U.S.-led coalition invaded Iraq over its alleged possession of weapons of mass destruction ( an accusation that was later proved erroneous ) and its support for the al Qaeda terror group . In less than two months the coalition removed Iraqi President Saddam Hussein and his Ba'ath Party from power . It declared the end of major combat operations paving the way for a political transition . The first Iraqi parliamentary election was held in 2005 and Nouri al-Maliki became the Prime Minister . After the fall of the Ba'ath regime , sectarian civil war raged between the Shia majority and Sunni minority . Whereas , Sunni militants raised insurgency against the U.S.-led coalition and the new Iraqi government . The US gradually reduced its military presence in Iraq and officially withdrew in December 2011 . <h> Darfur War ( 2003-2020 ) <p> Days : 6396 Estimated Deaths : 3,000,000 people <p> The War in Darfur , Sudan began in February 2003 after the Sudan Liberation Movement ( SLM ) and the Justice and Equality Movement ( JEM ) took up arms against the Arab-dominated government for discriminating against black African communities . The government , in response , lashed out against them by unleashing the notorious Popular Defence Forces militia or Janjaweed and massacring hundreds and thousands of non-Arab people , raping , killing , looting and burning their villages . The UN estimates 300,000 people were killed and 2.5 million displaced in the conflict . The International Criminal Court , in 2009 held Sudan 's President Omar al-Bashir , on charges of war crimes , crimes against humanity and genocide . However , he continued to be in power over the next decade . In 2019 , the military overthrew al-Bashir after months of widespread protests against his nearly 30-year rule . He was convicted on charges of corruption and has been on trial in Khartoum . <p> Sudan has since been led by a transitional civilian-military administration that has pledged to bring justice to victims of crimes committed under Bashir . The arid and impoverished region continues to be afflicted with conflict and humanitarian crises . <h> Libya Conflict ( 2011 -- Present ) <p> Days : 2352 Estimated Deaths : Over 14,882 people <p> The Arab Spring protests reached Libya , a North African country home to some of the largest oil fields , with demonstrators calling for the end of Muammar al-Qaddafi 's four-decade dictatorship . The peaceful protests quickly escalated into a full-scale civil war , leading to international military intervention in support of the opposition . As protests spread from Benghazi to Tripoli , the government began to use lethal force against demonstrators including using air power . As clashes between civilians and government forces escalated , international efforts intensified to pressure the regime to halt the bloodshed . Qaddafi 's efforts to hold on to power were weakened after the U.N. , the U.S. and the European Union imposed a no-fly zone along with severe sanctions against his regime . Western countries sought to dislodge Qaddafi and weaken his control over the oil-rich coastal region by promoting a democratic political transition . They aimed to remove his regime and support establishing a more democratic government in Libya . Using NATO military power , the US , UK and France , launched airstrikes to target members of Qaddafi 's inner circle . The move was opposed by several countries who argued that the coalition 's aggressive targeting of pro-Gaddafi ground forces had exceeded the mandate set by the UN Security Council to protect civilians . On October 20 Qaddafi was discovered and killed by rebel fighters in his hometown , Sirte . Libya remains deeply divided between opposing rebel factions and continues to be mired in armed conflict and political instability with no clear resolution in sight . <h> Syria Conflict ( 2011 -- Present ) <p> Days : 5037+ Estimated Deaths : 620,000 people <p> In March 2011 , pro-democracy protests erupted against the authoritarian regime of President Bashar al-Assad , whose family had been controlling Syria since 1970 . The protests as part of the popular Arab Spring uprisings challenged Assad 's authority . The Syrian government used violence to suppress demonstrations , with the use of police , military , and paramilitary forces . The government forces were opposed by militias of Sunni Islamists and rebel groups who expanded the conflict into a full-fledged civil war . Iran and Russia militarily supported the Assad regime by fighting against the opposition forces . On the other hand , jihadi groups and Islamists also entered the battlefield . By 2013 , the hardliner Salafi jihadi group , Islamic State of Iraq and Syria ( ISIS ) , occupied Syrian territory and declared a Caliphate . ISIS administered the occupied territory of Raqqa ruthlessly , delivering justice under Sharia law , public executions of disbelievers , or those found committing apostasy , and destruction of shrines , museums and ancient heritage sites . The US-led international coalition entered Syria in September 2014 to fight ISIS . With the help of the Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) , a Kurdish-Syrian Arab alliance , ISIS was militarily defeated in Iraq and Syria in 2019 . In late 2024 , as the government 's support from military allies collapsed , opposition forces surrounded the capital city of Damascus . In early December Assad fled to Moscow . <h> South Sudan Civil War ( 2013-2020 ) <p> Days : 2260 Estimated Deaths : 400,000 people <p> The new country of South Sudan descended into civil conflict in December 2013 , shortly after it was declared independent on 9 July 2011 . President Salva Kiir accused his opponent of attempting to oust him from power with a coup d ' ? tat . Fighting broke out between Kiir 's Sudan People 's Liberation Movement and the Sudan People 's Liberation Movement in Opposition ( SPLM-IO ) triggering a civil war . Kiir was supported by Uganda which deployed its troops to fight alongside the South Sudanese government . The civil war led to severe human rights violations , including killings , forced displacement , and attacks on activists , ? journalists and civil society members . An August 2015 peace agreement , which aimed to establish a transitional unity government and end the violence , failed to bring lasting peace as fighting persisted . Despite the continued unrest , the transitional unity government was eventually formed in April 2016 which militarily stabilised the country by 2020 . Since the war 's end , South Sudan has been governed by a coalition between the former warring leaders , Salva Kiir Mayardit and Riek Machar . As of 2024 , the young country 's struggle for democracy remains deeply scarred , with ongoing instability continuing to destabilise the nation . <h> Yemen Conflict ( 2014 -- Present ) <p> Days : 3756+ Estimated Deaths : 377,000 people <p> A boy sits in a car damaged during the ongoing three year conflict in Mocha , Yemen , Feb. 10 , 2018 Photo : AP/Nariman El-Mofty <p> A boy sits in a car damaged during the ongoing three year conflict in Mocha , Yemen , Feb. 10 , 2018 Photo : AP/Nariman El-Mofty <p> The conflict in Yemen began in September 2014 when Houthi forces seized the capital city Sanaa . The Houthis are Shia militants and it was believed that the conflict was backed by Iran . The civil war is widely regarded as part of the Iran-Saudi proxy war . To counter Iran 's influence , a coalition of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) responded with airstrikes in 2015 against the Houthi rebels to reinstate the internationally recognised government of President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi . The coalition 's air campaign , lasting 7 years , caused massive destruction in Yemen , with countless attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure , creating what the UN described as the " greatest humanitarian catastrophe . " Attempts at negotiating a truce and cease military action by all parties to the conflict have failed . The conflict has escalated since then , with Houthis attacking Israel in solidarity with the Palestinians and Israel conducting airstrikes in Yemen . Yemen continues to be afflicted by man-made disasters that have spurred famine , food insecurity and starvation . <p> Russia launched a full-scale military invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022 marking a significant escalation point in the conflict which first began in 2014 . President Vladimir Putin claimed that Russia did not intend to occupy Ukraine but wanted to ' demilitarise and denazify ' the country . He demanded NATO to end all activity in its Eastern European member states and ban Ukraine from ever joining NATO . In an attempt to annex the breakaway regions , Moscow held referendums in regions of Kherson , Zaporizhzhia , Donetsk , and Luhansk -- collectively representing about 15 per cent of Ukrainian territory . Russia 's acts of aggression causing widespread atrocities , including indiscriminate bombing , torture , enforced disappearances , looting , and other human rights abuses were widely condemned internationally . The European Union and the US imposed sanctions against Moscow and supported Ukraine with military equipment and humanitarian aid . Ukraine pushed back against Moscow with a counteroffensive that allowed it to push back Russian forces and regain control of strategic ground despite heavy casualties and destruction . In the aftermath of the war , millions of Ukrainians fled the country as Russia intensified attacks on civilian areas . The conflict continues as of 2024 . ? <h> Israel-Gaza war ( 2023-Present ) <p> Days : 450 Estimated Deaths : 46,000 + people <p> The ongoing war started on 7 October after Hamas militants conducted a surprise raid breaching Israel 's border and attacking civilians and military bases . Around 1,195 Israelis were killed and another 251 were taken captive in Gaza . In response to the aggression , Israel launched a massive offensive with airstrikes and ground incursions with the stated goal of wiping out the Hamas militant group . The war has killed over 46,000 Palestinians , including over 15000 children . Women and children have been the worst victims , and nearly 17 percent of the children belong to a unique phenomenon that has emerged in the war : Wounded Child No Surviving Family ( WCNSF ) . The Israeli forces have destroyed all essential civilian infrastructure , hospitals , and medical facilities in the Gaza Strip , leaving no access to water , sewage treatment , or electricity . Tel Aviv has also tightened the blockade restrictions , prohibiting the entry of commercial trucks carrying humanitarian and medical aid , which has worsened the food shortage and hunger crisis . Israel 's actions have also been termed a textbook example of genocide . The United Nations and several humanitarian aid agencies have labelled Israel 's aggressive unilateral offensive as one of the worst military actions ever that has unleashed an unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe . The war has continued for over 15 months , with no signs of slowing down . 
@@119468774 <p> corpses for sale all around the streets no grave buys them the corpses are melting he cries again : corpses for sale no answer . The dogs buy them at bargain prices they cry out for more . The ice cream man has promised <p> Short Bio : Batool Abu Akleen is a Palestinian poet and painter whose work transcends borders . At 15 , she won the Barjeel Prize for her poignant poem I Did n't Steal the Cloud . Displaced from Gaza City after October 7 , 2023 , Batool continues to write and share her powerful poetry , reflecting resilience and displacement . Her poetry has been translated into multiple languages , including Italian and English , and has been published in renowned magazines worldwide . Currently , she serves as the Poet in Residence with Modern Poetry in Translation ( MPT ) . Those poems are part of her forthcoming poetry collection , to be published next year by Tenement Press , England . 
@@119468777 <h> ' I want to write my story ' : A Journalist 's Voice from Gaza 's Endless War <p> " They also serve who only stand and wait . " - John Milton 's Sonnet 19 Motasem Dalloul , a journalist in Gaza , in his voice notes to Outlook 's Editor Chinki Sinha revealed the reality of a Palestinian journalist , he has to cover the deaths of his loved ones and the destruction of his homeland . He sent a couple of lines too . He said he would send more later . We will wait . Waiting has no ending . He can send it a century later . Our hope is sharper than a machete , more piercing than a bullet . Dalloul lost his two young sons and wife in 2024 in the war in Gaza that has unleashed images of violence and loss and brutality and seems endless . He lost nephews and nieces and brothers and sisters and uncle and his home . We bear witness . 
@@119468894 <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 636 <p> After a legal battle of nine years , a District Judge aspirant got relief as the Supreme Court recently held him eligible for appointment after invalidating the decision of the Manipur High Court to prescribe minimum cut-off marks for interview . A bench comprising Justices Hrishikesh Roy , Sudhanshu Dhulia and SVN Bhatti noted that the relevant statutory rule governing the recruitment of District Judges , the Manipur Judicial Service Rules , 2005 , did not provide for a separate cut-off for interview . Hence , such a requirement could not have been introduced through a Full Court resolution without amending the rules . Also , the requirement of a separate cut-off for the interview was not specified in the advertisement and was introduced only after the written test , that too without intimating the candidates . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 639 <p> The sale of lottery tickets by a State Government is not a service but an activity to earn additional revenue , observed the Supreme Court . Hence , the wholesale lottery purchasers are not promoting or marketing any service rendered by the State so as to attract service tax liability under the head " business auxiliary service . " <p> The appellants before the Supreme Court were wholesale lottery purchasers , who bulk purchase lotteries from the State at a discount and sell them to retailers on a margin . <p> The issue before the Court was whether the lottery wholesalers were liable to pay service tax under the heading ' business auxiliary service ' in terms of the provisions of the Finance Act , 1994 . The tax authorities contended that the activity of the appellants amounted to " promotion or marketing of services provided by the client " which comes under the head " business auxiliary service " as per Section 65(19) of the Finance Act 1994 . <h> Case Details : Chirag Bhanu Singh v. State of Himachal Pradesh <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 664 <p> While directing the Himachal Pradesh High Court Collegium to reconsider the elevation of two District Judges , the Supreme Court held that the Chief Justice of a High Court can not individually reconsider a recommendation . <p> The Court reiterated that the decision has to be taken collectively by the Collegium ( comprising CJ and two senior judges ) after deliberations . <p> " The process of judicial appointments to a superior court is not the prerogative of a single individual . Instead , it is a collaborative and participatory process involving all Collegium members.The underlying principle is that the process of appointment of judges must reflect the collective wisdom that draws from diverse perspectives . Such a process ensures that principles of transparency and accountability are maintained , " observed the bench comprising Justices Hrishikesh Roy and Prashant Kumar Mishra . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 674 <p> The provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act ( PMLA ) , 2002 , will prevail over the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 ( CrPC ) in relation to the summoning of a person , held the Supreme Court in the judgment dismissing the appeals of Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee and his wife Rujira Banerjee challenging the summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate for their appearance in Delhi in connection with a coal scam case . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 675 <p> The Supreme Court held that an accused already in custody in connection with one case can apply for anticipatory bail in connection with another case . <p> A bench comprising Chief Justice of India , Justice JB Pardiwala and Manoj Misra delivered the judgment in a case which raised the legal issue whether anticipatory bail can be granted when the accused is arrested in another case . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 678 <p> The Supreme Court dismissed a petition seeking the suspension of military exports from India to Israel amidst the ongoing war against Gaza . <p> The Court said that it was beyond its jurisdiction to direct the Government of India to not export materials to any country , as it was a matter which was completely within the domain of foreign policy . <h> Case Details : Javedali Mahebubmiya Saiyed v. State of Gujarat &amp; Anr . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 691 <p> The Supreme Court observed that alleged involvement in a crime is no ground for demolishing a legally constructed property , and the Court can not ignore such demolition threats in a nation governed by the rule of law . <p> " In a country where actions of the State are governed by the rule of law , the transgression by a family member can not invite action against other members of the family or their legally constructed residence . Alleged involvement in crime is no ground for demolition of a property . Moreover the alleged crime has to be proved through due legal process in a Court of law . The Court can not be oblivious to such demolition threats inconceivable in a nation where law is supreme . Otherwise such actions may be seen as running a bulldozer over the laws of the land " , the Court observed . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 693 <p> In an important ruling concerning the Arbitration and Conciliation Act , the Supreme Court held that an application for extending the time for passing of an arbitral award can be filed even after the expiry of the twelve-month or the extended six-month period . <p> " we hold that an application for extension of the time period for passing an arbitral award under Section 29A ( 4 ) read with Section 29A ( 5 ) is maintainable even after the expiry of the twelve-month or the extended six-month period , as the case may be . " , the bench comprising Justices Sanjiv Khanna and R. Mahadevan said . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 694 <p> A bench of Justices Surya Kant and Ujjal Bhuyan pronounced verdict on two petitions filed by the Aam Aadmi party chief challenging his arrest and seeking bail in the CBI case . It had heard the matter and reserved orders on September 5 . <p> Justice Kant held that Kejriwal 's arrest was legal and did not suffer from any procedural irregularity . There is no merit in the contention that the CBI failed to comply with the mandate of Section 41/41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure while arresting him , the judge said . <p> At the same time , both the judges were unanimous in the decision to grant bail to Kejriwal considering the fact that the chargesheet has been filed in the case and that the trial is unlikely to be completed in the near future . Kejriwal 's continued incarceration would infringe upon the right to personal liberty under Article 21 , the Court said . <p> While Justice Kant upheld the arrest , Justice Bhuyan had a differing view regarding the necessity and timing of Kejriwal 's arrest . <p> Remarking that CBI 's arrest raised more questions than it sought to answer , Justice Bhuyan noted that CBI did not arrest Kejriwal for over 22 months and arrested him on the cusp of his release in the ED case . <p> However , both Justices Kant and Bhuyan dismissed Kejriwal 's petition challenging the CBI arrest . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 728 <p> Setting aside a Madras High Court judgment which held that mere storage of child pornographic material without any intention to transmit the same was not an offence under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ( POCSO Act ) , the Supreme Court on September 23 held that the storage of such material , without deleting or without reporting the same , would indicate an intention to transmit . <p> Observing that the High Court committed an " egregious error " in quashing the criminal proceedings , the bench comprising CJI DY Chandrachud and Justice JB Pardiwala set aside the decision set it aside and restored the criminal prosecution . <p> The Supreme Court held that watching child pornography over the internet without downloading would also amount to " possession " of such material in terms of Section 15 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ( POCSO ) . <h> Case Details : Fulleshwar Gope v. UOI &amp; Ors . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 729 <p> " In matters of strict construction , when a timeline is provided , along with the use of the word ' shall ' and particularly when the same is in the context of a law such as the UAPA , it can not be considered a mere technicality or formality , " the Supreme Court observed . <p> The Supreme Court held that a sanction for prosecution under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act ( UAPA ) can be challenged on grounds such as the authority has not applied its mind or that the materials were not sufficient . However , such challenge by the accused must ideally be raised at the earliest opportunity . <h> Case Details : V. Senthil Balaji v. The Deputy Director <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 750 <p> The Supreme Court while granting bail to former Tamil Nadu Minister Senthil Balaji , held that higher thresholds for granting bail in stringent penal statutes like the PMLA , UAPA , and NDPS Act can not be a tool to keep an accused incarcerated without trial . <p> A bench on Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Augustine George Masih emphasized the incompatibility of stringent bail provisions with prolonged delays in trial . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 770 <p> The Supreme Court held that the mere existence of a benchmark disability is not a reason to bar a person from pursuing medical education unless there is a report by the disability assessment board that that candidate is incapacitated from studying the MBBS course . <p> Mere quantification of the disability will not disbar a candidate and the capacity to pursue the course has to be examined by the disability assessment board <p> The negative opinion of the disability assessment board is not final and can be reviewed by the judicial bodies till appellate forums are created , the Court added . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 771 <p> The Supreme Court laid down crucial guidelines for the prevention of segregation and division of labour solely on the basis of the caste of the prisoners in Prisons . <p> The Court struck down the provisions of the Prison Manuals of several States as per which jobs were assigned to prisons based on their castes . The Court held that assigning cleaning and sweeping to the marginalised castes and assigning cooking to higher-caste prisoners is nothing but a direct caste discrimination and a violation of Article 15 . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 772 <p> The Supreme Court set aside the judgments of the High Courts which held that the Taxation and Other Laws ( Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions Act ) ( TOLA ) 2021 will not extend the time limit for issuing notices for re-assessment under the Income Tax Act . <p> A bench comprising Chief Justice of India DY Chandrachud , Justice JB Pardiwala and Manoj Misra delivered the judgment allowing a batch of 727 appeals filed by the Income Tax Department against the various orders passed by the High Courts . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 774 <p> The Supreme Court held that if construction of a building is essential for supplying services such as renting out , it could fall into the " plant " exception to section 17(5) ( d ) of CGST Act which provides that Input Tax Credit can not be claimed for construction material ( other than plant or machinery ) for immovable property construction . <p> " If the construction of a building was essential for carrying out activity of supplying services such as renting or giving on lease or other transactions in respect of the buildings or part thereof which are covered by clauses 2 and 5 of the Schedule 2 of the CGST Act , the building could be held as a plant . Functionality test will have to be applied to decide whether building is a plant " , the Court held . <p> A bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Sanjay Karol held that the functionality test will have to be applied to the facts of each case to decide whether a building is a plant . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 777 <p> The Supreme Court cautioned that judges should avoid casual comments which are misogynistic and prejudicial to any community . <p> A 5-judge bench comprising Chief Justice of India DY Chandrachud , Justice Sanjiv Khanna , BR Gavai , Surya Kant and Hrishikesh Roy was hearing the suo motu matter relating to the viral clippings of the controversial comments made by Justice V Srishanandan of Karnataka High Court during hearings . <p> " Casual observations may well reflect a certain degree of individual bias particularly when they are likely to be perceived as being directed against a particular gender or community . Courts therefore have to be careful not to make comments in the course of judicial proceedings which may be construed as being misogynistic or prejudicial to any segment of our society , " the bench observed in the order . <h> Citation : 2024 Livelaw ( SC ) 783 <p> While granting relief to a female Sarpach of a village who was disqualified on technical grounds , the Supreme Court raised concerns about the discriminatory attitudes which permeate through all levels of administration towards women representatives . <p> The Court observed that the matter related to the removal of an elected representative should not be taken lightly , especially when it concerns women in rural areas . <h> Case Details : In Re : Section 6A Citizenship Act 1955 <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 808 <p> CJI DY Chandrachud in his judgment said that the Assam Accord was a political solution to the problem of illegal migration and Section 6A was the legislative solution . The majority held that the Parliament had the legislative competence to enact the provision . The majority held that Section 6A was enacted to balance the humanitarian concerns with the need to protect the local population . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 811 <p> The Supreme Court has suggested to the Parliament to consider outlawing child betrothals by amending the Prevention of Child Marriage Act(PCMA) , 2006 . Since that PCMA does not deal with child betrothals , the Court noted that it can be used to evade the penalties under the Act . <p> The bench comprising Chief Justice of India DY Chandrachud , Justice JB Pardiwala and Justice Manoj Misra was delivering the judgment in a PIL filed by the Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action seeking steps to stop child marriages . <p> While issuing various guidelines for the prevention of child marriages , the Supreme Court refrained from deciding the issue whether the Prevention of Child Marriage Act , 2006 overrides personal laws which sanction such marriages . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 820 <p> In an important judgment , the Supreme Court urged the High Court judges to ensure that if they are pronouncing only the operative part of the judgment by saying that reasons will follow , then they should endeavour to give the reasons within 2-5 days . <p> A bench comprising Justices Dipankar Datta and Prashant Kumar Mishra observed that if a judge feels that the reasons ca n't be given within 5 days due to work pressure , then it would be prudent to reserve the judgment . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 826 <p> The Supreme Court set aside the order of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal which closed the insolvency proceedings against ed-tech company Byju 's ( Think and Learn Pvt Ltd ) accepting a settlement between it and the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( BCCI ) for about Rs 158 crores . <p> The Court held that the NCLAT erred in allowing the withdrawal of the insolvency application by invoking its inherent powers under Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules 2016 . When there is a specific procedure provided for the withdrawal of insolvency applications , the NCLAT can not invoke its inherent powers . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 828 <p> In a significant judgment , the Supreme Court asked the High Courts to consider issuing practice directions to all Courts to append a coversheet to all judgments on conviction and dismissal including bail applications informing the convicts of their right to free legal aid facility for pursuing higher remedy . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 832 <p> A nine-judge Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court , held by 8:1 majority , held that the States have the power to regulate ' denatured spirit or industrial alcohol ' . <p> The majority concluded so by holding that the term " intoxicating liquor " in Entry 8 of List II ( State List ) of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution will include industrial alcohol . <p> The majority held that the term " intoxicating liquor " can not be interpreted narrowly to include only alcohol which is fit for human consumption . It was held that liquids which contain alcohol which can be used or misused for human consumption can be included within the term " intoxicating liquor " . <p> Justice Nagarathna , in her dissent , held that ' industrial alcohol ' means alcohol which is not fit for human consumption . An artificial interpretation can not be adopted to give a different meaning to the term ' intoxicating liquor ' which is contrary to the intention of the framers of the Constitution . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 855 <p> The Supreme Court held by a majority of 7:2 that all private properties can not form part of the ' material resources of the community ' which the State is obliged to equitably redistribute as per the Directive Principles of State Policy under Article 39(b) of the Constitution . <p> The Court held some private properties may come under Article 39(b) provided they meet the qualifiers of being a ' material resource ' and ' of the community ' . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 857 <p> In a significant stride towards social recognition of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities ( PwDs ) , the Supreme Court stressed the need to give opportunities to PwDs in the medical sector and devise qualitative standards for testing disabilities in the procedure for medical course admissions . <p> The bench led by CJI DY Chandrachud comprising Justices JB Pardiwala and Manoj Misra in its judgement allowed a candidate suffering from muscular dystrophy to participate in the ongoing counselling for NEET-UG 2024 . In doing so , the Court underlined that Persons with Disabilities ( PwDs ) needed to be perceived not with an element of sympathy but as an essential part of the society we live in today . It is imperative to further the cause of inclusion of the PwDs to achieve the national project of eradicating all forms of discrimination that the Country is scarred with . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 859 <p> The Supreme Court held that a person holding a driving license for a light motor vehicle(LMV) can , without any specific endorsement , drive a transport vehicle having an unladen weight of less than 7500 kg . <p> If the gross weight of the vehicle is within 7500 kg , the driver with an LMV license can drive such a transport vehicle . The 5-judge Constitution Bench noted that no empirical data has been brought before it to show that LMV license holders driving transport vehicles are a significant cause of road accidents . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 869 <p> In the case relating to the minority status of Aligarh Muslim University ( AMU ) , a 7-judge bench of the Supreme Court ( by 4:3 majority ) , overruled the 1967 judgment in S. Azeez Basha v. Union of India to the extent it held that an institution incorporated by a statute can not claim to be a minority institution . <p> The issue whether Aligarh Muslim University is a minority institution as per Article 30 of the Constitution is now left to be decided by a regular bench based on this view of the majority . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 874 <p> The Constitution Bench held that while PSUs can maintain a panel of potential arbitrators , they can not compel the other party to select its arbitrator from the panel . <p> The Constitution Bench comprising Chief Justice of India DY Chandrachud , Justice Hrishikesh Roy , Justice PS Narasimha , Justice JB Pardiwala , and Justice Manoj Misra was considering the validity of an arbitration clause which prescribes that the appointment of the arbitrator will happen from a panel of arbitrators curated by one of the parties , which is mostly a public sector undertaking ( PSU ) in majority of the cases . <h> Citation : 2024 LiveLaw ( SC ) 884 <p> Sending a strong message against the trend of " bulldozer justice " , the Supreme Court held that the executive can not demolish the houses/properties of persons only on the ground that they are accused or convicted in a crime . <p> Permitting such action by the executive is contrary to the rule of law and also a violation of the principle of separation of powers , as it is for the judiciary to pronounce on the guilt of a person . <p> The Court also held that the public officials who demolish the properties in such a manner should be held accountable . <p> A bench of Justices BR Gavai and KV Viswanathan passed the judgment in a batch of petitions filed by Jamiat Ulema-i-Hind and various other petitioners seeking directions to stop the trend of " bulldozer justice " . 
@@119469838 <h> Words Of The Year 2024 : Here is a list of the 26 most heard and used words of 2024 , which provide a fascinating snapshot of the year that was . <p> Words Of The Year 2024 : As we bid farewell to 2024 , the year leaves behind a lexicon that reflects its pivotal events , cultural shifts , and influential figures . From technological advancements and political controversies to global conflicts and cultural phenomena , the words that dominated our conversations the past 12 months paint a vivid picture of the year that was . <p> Here is a list of the 26 most heard and used words of 2024 , arranged alphabetically to provide a structured yet fascinating snapshot of the year . From " Artificial Intelligence " shaping industries to " Donald Trump " remaining a polarising figure in global politics , from " M-pox " dominating health headlines to " Quiet Quitting " redefining workplace dynamics , these terms encapsulate the essence of 2024 . <p> This archive of 2024 's buzzwords , carefully curated by ABP LIVE , offers insights into the stories , trends , and people that defined an unforgettable year . <h> A : Artificial Intelligence <p> From AI on phones to AI for security , there was hardly a sector that was n't touched by this seemingly magical tech . Tech giants like Google and OpenAI went to war on who could bring out the biggest generative AI , phone makers like Samsung and Apple dived headlong into in-built assistants , and even the world 's first AI legislation was passed by the EU . Not to forget , there was an AI beauty pageant too . Safe to say , AI was the top flavour of 2024 . <h> B : Bangladesh <p> Bangladesh made global headlines this year when local protests against the government forced then prime minister Sheikh Hasina to leave the country on August 5 . She had been serving as the PM since 2009 , and had won in January the parliamentary elections boycotted by the opposition parties . Economist and Nobel Peace Prize winner Muhammad Yunus is now leading an interim government running the country . <h> C : Conflict <p> In 2024 , the world grappled with escalating turmoil as conflicts erupted , crises deepened , and climate-driven disasters surged . According to the UN , nearly 123 million people had been forced to flee their homes by mid-year due to conflict and persecution -- a number that has only grown with the intensification of violence in the Middle East and ongoing displacement in Sudan , Ukraine , the Democratic Republic of the Congo , Syria , and beyond . <h> D : Donald Trump <p> The comeback kid ( or septuagenarian ) did it again . Despite several federal indictments and a shaky first term , Trump is set to take oath as the 47th US President on January 20 , 2025 . Driven by a strong MAGA support on Elon Musk-owned X and even multiple " failed assassination attempts " during his campaigns , Trump edged over Democratic Kamala Harris , winning both the Electoral College and the popular vote . <h> E : Elon Musk <p> 2024 has clearly been Musk 's year . Look at his report card : SpaceX achieved Starship 's orbital velocity and captured a Super Heavy booster ( mid-air ) , Tesla advanced its Optimus 2 humanoid robot with a stunning live showcase , xAI raised $6 billion , and Neuralink made strides with its first human brain implant . If all that does n't impress you , Musk 's net worth surpassed $400 billion this year . Oh , and he is now in the US government as well . After helping Donald Trump taste victory , he will now co-lead the planned Department of Government Efficiency ( DOGE ) to help reduce expenditures . <h> F : Fake <p> What even is real anymore ? Ever since the onslaught of AI , deepfakes have taken over the Internet . While some video clips are harmless ( cats singing " APT. " ) , and some are concerning ( PM Modi dancing to songs ) , most of them are serious crimes ( actress Radhika Mandanna in objectionable clips ) . Even on X , we do n't know if a clip of speech by Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is genuine , or if a tweet by Donald Trump is real . Even governments are taking ethical use of AI seriously , bringing out G20 New Delhi Leaders ' Declaration to control and eliminate instances of deepfake . <h> G : GST ( on popcorn varieties ) <p> Late in 2024 , Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced something rather strange . If you buy a bag of non-branded popcorn ( with salt and/or spices ) , you have to pay 5% GST . If you buy a pre-packaged branded popcorn , your GST goes up to 12% . Now , if the popcorn is of the caramel kind , it 's not a salty snack . As a sugar confectionery , it will now attract 18% GST . This decision not only baffled citizens , it also triggered a memefest on social media <h> H : Hezbollah <p> Hezbollah was a focal point of global attention in 2024 due to its escalating involvement in the Israel-Hamas conflict and the subsequent war in Lebanon . Backed by Iran , Hezbollah intermittently launched missile strikes into Israel after the Gaza conflict began , prompting a significant military response . In late September , Israel initiated an eight-week air offensive targeting Hezbollah strongholds in southern Lebanon , the Bekaa Valley , and Beirut , marking a major escalation in regional tensions . The group hit headlines also after the assassination of its long-standing leader , Hassan Nasrallah , on September 27 , in a high-profile underground strike . Nasrallah 's death signalled a pivotal moment in the conflict , leading to intensified violence and geopolitical repercussions . <h> I : Israel <p> Israel continued to remain a central focus of global news in 2024 . Even as the Gaza war continued , with the conflict showing no signs of slowing , Israel 's geopolitical actions extended beyond its immediate conflicts , influencing broader regional and international dynamics . Israel 's military offensive against Hezbollah in Lebanon heightened tensions across the Middle East , drawing reactions from Iran , which backs Hezbollah , and other regional players . <h> J : Justice For RG Kar <p> In August 2024 , a 31-year-old woman doctor was raped and murdered at RG Kar Medical College in Kolkata . This led to a Domino effect that saw West Bengal 's medical fraternity take to intense protest ( including a 17-day hunger strike ) to bring women 's safety to the forefront . From demonstrations targeted at CM Mamata Banerjee 's resignation to " Reclaim The Night " protests at midnight across the country -- " Justice For RG Kar " became a call to action more than just a slogan . The state government introduced the Aparajita Woman and Child Bill , 2024 . The CBI is in charge of the probe at the time of writing , with one arrest under suspicion so far . <p> Junior doctors with other residents take out a rally to demand justice for the rape-murder victim , who was a medic at RG Kar Medical College and Hospital in Kolkata Photo : PTI <h> K : Khalistan <p> The Khalistan problem became a major headache for the Indian government in 2024 that even threatened to upend robust bilateral ties between India and the United States even as two-way relationship between India and Canada reached nadir over the alleged assassination of Khalistan activist Hardeep Singh Nijjar leading to a major diplomatic row . In October this year , owing to that row which began in 2023 , New Delhi recalled its envoy Sanjay K. Verma from Ottawa even as India complained that Canada did not produce any evidence that showed any linkage of Nijjar 's killing and the involvement of Indian officials . <h> L : LAC <p> The year 2024 closed on a cautiously optimistic note for India 's prolonged military standoff with China in the eastern Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control ( LAC ) . On October 21 , New Delhi announced a significant patrolling arrangement allowing troops from both sides to patrol critical areas in Demchok and the Depsang Plains . This breakthrough followed a landmark meeting between Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping during the BRICS Summit in Kazan , Russia -- their first bilateral interaction in five years . The patrolling agreement marks a continuation of the disengagement process that began in 2022 in the Galwan Valley , Gogra Hot Springs , and Pangong Lake areas . While challenges persist , the agreement underscored a tentative step toward de-escalating tensions in this strategic border region . <h> M : Mpox <p> In 2024 , Mpox re-emerged as a global health concern , with the World Health Organization ( WHO ) declaring a Public Health Emergency of International Concern ( PHEIC ) in mid-August due to a surge in cases across several African nations . The Democratic Republic of the Congo , Burundi , and Nigeria bore the brunt of the outbreak , reporting the highest case numbers . India too reported some cases . The zoonotic viral disease previously known as Monkeypox gets transmitted through prolonged close contact or exposure to contaminated items . <h> N : NEET <p> Uproar and anxiety filled students as the 2024 NEET-UG , conducted by premier agency NTA , involved multiple discrepancies , irregularities , and malpractices during the exam . Allegations of question paper leaks surfaced on May 5 , 2024 , with social media claims contradicting the NTA 's denial . In Patna , 13 arrests were made , who allegedly paid Rs 30-50 lakh to obtain the question paper beforehand . The exam results , declared on June 4 , 2024 , sparked further controversy due to an unusual increase in top rankers and impossible scores . The SC ultimately acknowledged that at least 155 students benefited from the paper leak but ruled out a large-scale leak and re-examination . <p> AISF activists during a protest march over alleged irregularities in NEET exam , among other issues , in Patna , in July 2024 Photo : PTI <h> O : Ozempic <p> Ozempic has become the ultimate cheat code for those who would rather conquer their cravings than a treadmill . The drug , originally designed to help diabetics manage blood sugar , found an unexpected fanbase among the rich and Insta-obsessed , who embraced it as a divine intervention against both excess weight and gym memberships . Even Elon Musk jumped on the bandwagon , hilariously dubbing himself " Ozempic Santa " in a Christmas post showing off his newfound slimness -- Santa belly not included . Ozempic does n't just reduce blood sugar ; it curbs hunger , slows digestion , and leaves you feeling full , all without breaking a sweat . But like most divine gifts , it 's reserved for the elite -- whether it 's to manage a life-threatening condition like diabetes or to shed a few pounds for that perfect selfie . The wallet does all the heavy lifting here ; the cost of the " miracle " drug may not be easy on everyone 's pocket . <h> P : Pager Attack <p> You might think pagers are " dinosaur " devices , and that only doctors use them in hospitals . But , in September , pagers were used to kill 40 and injure 3,000 in Lebanon . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu confirmed he approved the pager attacks . The explosions , attributed to Hezbollah operatives , were a retaliation to Israel 's military operation against the group . Hezbollah blamed Israel and vowed retaliation for the deadly blasts . <h> Q : Quiet Quitting <p> ' Quiet Hiring ' is a situation where your boss puts more work and responsibility on you without any hike or promotion . It seems such workers have found a way to retaliate : ' Quiet Quitting ' . Here , employees do the bare minimum , shirk away from extra responsibilities , and swiftly exit office once official work hours are over . With ' work-life ' balance a matter of contest this year , ' Quiet Quitting ' turned out to be the preferred solution for most workers with a low pay and lack of recognition . Remote works stress and changing generational values are also considered to be primary causes . <h> R : Radhika Merchant <p> In 2024 , Radhika Merchant captured national attention , securing her place as the eighth most searched person in India , thanks to her grand wedding to Anant Ambani , scion of the Reliance empire . Their July 12 nuptials were nothing short of a spectacle , drawing celebrities and eminent personalities from across the world . Months of pre-wedding festivities included a mehendi , haldi ceremony , a luxury European cruise , and a lavish three-day celebration in Jamnagar , culminating in a unique ' Samuh Vivah ' that drew widespread admiration . The sheer scale of the celebrations and Radhika 's emergence as a new member of the Ambani family made her a cultural phenomenon . <h> S : Sunita Williams <p> Sunita Williams , NASA astronaut and space veteran , has found herself in an extended cosmic layover that is turning into an interstellar marathon . What began in June 2024 as an eight-day test of Boeing 's Starliner spacecraft alongside fellow astronaut Butch Wilmore has stretched into an epic saga , thanks to glitches in the spacecraft that forced NASA to bring the Starliner back to Earth uncrewed . Initially slated to return in February 2025 via a SpaceX capsule , the two astronauts ' stay aboard the ISS now extends to at least late March 2025 -- because , naturally , space drama likes to keep us on the edge . Back on Earth , Sunita 's prolonged stay has turned into a content goldmine , with the media scrambling for fresh angles -- from " Will Sunita get osteoporosis in zero gravity ? " to " Why Sunita Williams is losing weight in space " -- to keep readers hooked . At this rate , we half expect Bollywood casting rumours for her inevitable biopic . Sunita , meanwhile , seems unfazed , proving yet again that she is not just orbiting the Earth -- she 's orbiting all our imaginations , one headline at a time . <h> T : Tata <p> In 2024 , the name of Ratan Tata was on every mind after the iconic business leader passed away at the age of 86 . The industrialist was known for modernising the Tata Group and putting it on the global map with acquisitions like Jaguar Land Rover and Corus Steel . While Ratan Tata was celebrated for his visionary leadership , beyond business his philanthropy , modest lifestyle , and love for dogs also captured imaginations , making ' Tata ' synonymous not just with industrial might but with compassion and humanity . <h> U : UFO <p> In 2024 , UFOs were back in the spotlight , proving once again that our fascination with extraterrestrial life is as eternal as the universe itself . As usual , most sightings are taking place in the US , from pilots spotting mysterious flying objects in Oregon sky to a traveller heading to JFK Airport in New York noticing supposed ' UFOs ' over New Jersey sky . Meanwhile , people are either confused or busy weaving conspiracy theories . The Pentagon did n't help matters , releasing yet another grainy video of " unidentified aerial phenomena " . While investigations are on in all sincerity , the big questions remain unanswered : Are aliens real ? Are they just bad at making first impressions ? Or are they avoiding Earth because of all the nonsense we 've got going on ? Whatever the truth , UFOs ensured 2024 was out of this world -- literally and metaphorically . <h> V : Vinesh Phogat <p> It was a year that Vinesh Phogat will never forget ! Disqualified from the Paris 2024 Olympics gold medal match and denied even a place near the podium , she faced one of the toughest challenges of her career . The nation sympathised with her as the rulebooks governing weight requirements in wrestling were examined and debated . Amidst this , public love and support for her took a new turn as she announced her entry into politics . It was a trial by fire when she decided to contest the Haryana elections on a Congress ticket . In her debut election , she triumphed , winning the Julana seat by defeating BJP 's Yogesh Kumar with a margin of over 6,015 votes . Yet , for the grappler , it was far from an easy victory . <h> W : Work-Life Balance <p> Work-life balance emerged as a defining buzzword in 2024 , sparking heated debates across boardrooms , social media platforms , and public discourse . From Infosys co-founder NR Narayana Murthy criticising the concept , harping on a 70-hour work week instead , to Swiggy Food Marketplace CEO Rohit Kapoor championing its importance , opinions on the topic revealed stark generational and ideological divides . Tragic incidents , such as the death of a young EY employee attributed to toxic work demands , amplified the urgency of the conversation , highlighting the dire consequences of unchecked " hustle culture " . Business leaders such as Elon Musk may advocate for the necessity of extreme effort , younger generations are pushing back . Surveys revealed that Gen Z workers now prioritise job satisfaction , growth opportunities , and holistic well-being over high salaries or traditional job stability . This generational shift underscores a broader cultural movement toward redefining success -- not as relentless toil , but as a harmonious integration of professional ambition and personal fulfillment . In 2024 , work-life balance was n't just a trend ; it became a rallying cry for a more humane and sustainable approach to work . <h> X : Disease ' X ' <p> In 2024 , Disease X became a global health concern , symbolising the looming threat of an unknown pathogen that could unleash the next pandemic . An outbreak was reported in the first week of December in the Democratic Republic of Congo , with the World Health Organization ( WHO ) recording over 400 cases and 30 deaths , and it has raised concerns that it could be an instance of Disease X. Coined by the WHO , the term represents a yet-to-be-identified disease with the potential to spread rapidly and wreak havoc on public health systems . The intense focus on Disease X this year stemmed from increasing zoonotic disease outbreaks , the impact of climate change on pathogen evolution , and heightened awareness after the Covid-19 pandemic . <h> Y : Yusuf Dikec <p> The Paris Olympics 2024 gave us several stars , from Sweden 's Armand Duplantis who broke pole vault records ( and melted hearts with an intense kiss with girlfriend during the Games ) to France 's L ? on Marchand who is touted by many as the next Michael Phelps . However , if the meme culture is to be believed , there is one athlete who shot his way into our hearts , just by being a " chill guy " . Turkey 's Yusuf Dike ? came ( casually ) , saw the target ( again , casually , without special eye gear like most other artists ) , and conquered ( casually winning Silver in 10m mixed routine ) . His ( seemingly ) casual shooting stance not only made him an overnight star , but was also copied by several other Olympians as well ( including Duplantis ) . <h> Z : Zakir Hussain <p> Ustadji has left the building . The son of tabla legend Alla Rakha , Hussain achieved more in 73 years than what musicians can only dream of . He won four Grammy awards . He was awarded the United States National Endowment for the Arts ' National Heritage Fellowship , the highest honour for traditional musicians . He was honoured with Sangeet Natak Akademi Award as well as the Sangeet Natak Akademi Fellowship , Ratna Sadsya . He showed how a tabla artist can sell out tickets to the biggest concerts around the world . But perhaps , most endearingly , he became a household favourite thanks to his now-iconic " Wah Ustad ! " in Brooke Bond Taj Mahal Tea commercials . 
@@119480332 <h> Share : <p> Occupied Palestine ( Quds News Network ) - Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has clarified that the occupation state will resume the genocide in Gaza even if a deal is reached with Hamas , reported Yedioth Ahronoth . A senior political source stated that any agreement will not mark the end of the war , as Israel remains committed to ' achieving all its objectives ' . <p> The comments were justified by claims from senior Israeli security officials about the lack of a post-war governance plan for Gaza . These officials said that without an alternative to Hamas , the situation could revert to the conditions prior to October 7 . <p> Netanyahu emphasizes that Israel 's primary goal is to eliminate Hamas entirely . " Even if a deal is reached , Israel will return to fighting to complete the war 's objectives , " the political source confirmed . The source added that the issue of the so-called " the day after " Gaza is being discussed in appropriate forums and that Netanyahu 's policy ensures no presence of Hamas or the Palestinian Authority in Gaza 's civil governance . <p> " Thanks to the prime minister 's determined strategy , Israel has achieved significant victories , safeguarded its security , and will meet all war objectives , " the source said . <p> Meanwhile , Israeli Army Radio quoted sources saying that while negotiations for a prisoner exchange deal are not frozen , there have been no new developments . The sources revealed that the Israeli army continues to exert military pressure on Hamas ' , a term that Israel usually uses to describe its brutal attacks on civilians , despite the failure of this strategy in recent months . <p> Hamas leader Osama Hamdan stated that the movement has shown maximum flexibility in negotiations but maintains conditions . These include ending the aggression , a complete Israeli withdrawal , unrestricted aid delivery , and reconstruction . <p> In an interview with Al-Aqsa TV , Hamdan stated that Israel is reneging on agreements at every stage of the talks . He said Israel insists on two non-negotiable points : refusing a full withdrawal from Gaza and continuing its military aggression . <p> Hamdan also dismissed Israeli claims of destroying Hamas 's capabilities . He said the resistance remains strong and continues to demonstrate remarkable resilience . " The scenes broadcast by the resistance show only a fraction of the heroism displayed by the Palestinian people , " he added . <p> Prisoner exchange negotiations , mediated by Qatar , Egypt , and the United States , have repeatedly stalled . This is due to Netanyahu 's insistence on controlling the Philadelphi Route along the Gaza-Egypt border , Rafah crossing , and blocking the return of Palestinians to northern Gaza . Israel demands thorough inspections of returnees via the Nitzarim area in central Gaza . <p> Hamas , however , stands firm on its demand for a complete Israeli withdrawal from Gaza and a full cessation of the war before accepting any deal . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Israel currently holds over 10,300 Palestinian detainees , while Hamas estimates that around 100 Israeli prisoners remain in Gaza . Hamas also says that dozens of Israeli prisoners have been killed in indiscriminate Israeli airstrikes . <p> Since October 7 , 2023 , Israel has launched an ongoing genocide in Gaza , supported by the United States . Over 153,000 Palestinians have been killed or injured , most of them women and children . More than 11,000 are still missing , amidst unprecedented destruction and a worsening humanitarian disaster . <p> Occupied West Bank ( Quds News Network ) - Palestinian journalist Shaza al-Sabbagh was shot in the head and killed by Palestinian Authority ( P ) security forces on Saturday night during their ongoing raid ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119480333 <h> Five more Palestinian detainees from Gaza Strip killed by Israel in period of 24 hours ; Euro-Med Monitor urges int'l action <h> Share : <p> Palestinian Territory -- Following the news that five more detainees from the Gaza Strip have been killed in a 24-hour period , Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor urges the United Nations to take swift action . The UN must send an international investigative mission to look into the grave crimes and violations that Palestinian prisoners and detainees endure in Israeli prisons and detention facilities . <p> Since the October 2023 start of Israel 's genocide against the Palestinian people in the Gaza Strip , the number of crimes involving premeditated killing , killing under torture , torture , ill-treatment , and enforced disappearances of Palestinian prisoners and detainees -- particularly those from the Strip -- has increased at an unprecedented rate in the prisons and detention facilities operated by the Israeli army and prison administration authorities . Given the methodical and pervasive way in which these crimes are committed in Israeli prisons and detention facilities , they can not be regarded as the isolated behaviours of individual perpetrators . <p> Three detainees from the Gaza and Northern Gaza governorates have been confirmed dead by Euro-Med Monitor . One of them , Mohammed Rashid Saeed Al-Akka ( 43 ) , was killed in the Negev Prison today ( Monday 30 December ) . He was arrested by Israeli forces in October 2023 at a military checkpoint on Salah Al-Din Street , south of Gaza City , while being forced to move from the Zeitoun neighbourhood to the southern Strip after his neighbourhood and the school-turned-shelter where he had sought safety were both destroyed . <p> The second detainee , Samir Mahmoud Al-Kahlout , was taken into custody by the Israeli army on 25 October 2024 , while he was being treated at Kamal Adwan Hospital . He died on 3 November 2024 , just nine days after being taken into custody -- the result of ongoing torture that was concealed until yesterday ( Sunday 29 December ) . <p> Ashraf Muhammad Fakhri Abd Abu Warda ( 51 ) , a resident of Jabalia , in the north of the Strip , was the third detainee . He was arrested on 20 November 2023 , while being forced to flee from Jabalia to the southern section of the Strip , and died on 29 December in Israel 's Soroka Hospital , two days after being moved from the Negev Prison to the hospital . Notably , his family has said that he had no health issues . <p> The fourth inmate was 58-year-old Zuhair Omar Al-Sharif , who had been in custody since 7 October 2023 . While he was employed in Israel , he was arrested by the occupation . Al-Sharif was married and had six children . Euro-Med Monitor notes that his family has said that he did not have any health issues . He was killed on 18 October 2023 . <p> The fifth victim was 57-year-old Muhammad Anwar Labad , who was arrested by the Israeli occupation army on 18 November 2024 , during his displacement from the north to the south alongside his family . He was married and had eight children . Before his arrest , he suffered from liver cirrhosis and diabetes . He died on 27 November 2024 . <p> The recent deaths of these detainees bring the total number of Palestinian prisoners and detainees killed in Israeli prisons and detention facilities since 7 October 2023 to over 54 , including 35 incarcerated individuals from the Gaza Strip . According to former detainees ' testimonies , the true number of victims could be more than twice as high . <p> Euro-Med Monitor stresses that , given the systematic and pervasive nature of these crimes and the complete immunity enjoyed by their perpetrators , whether at the judicial , political , military , or social levels in Israel , crimes committed in Israeli prisons and detention facilities can not be seen as isolated behaviours committed by individual " bad apples . " <p> In addition to the dozens of Palestinians who have suffered physical and psychological injuries with irreversible effects and are now disabled as a result of being subjected to one or more of the 40+ forms of torture and ill-treatment reported by survivors , dozens of prisoners and detainees in Israeli prisons have died in recent months due to harsh detention conditions , torture , and ill-treatment practices . These crimes frequently start at the time of arrest and continue throughout the investigation and detention phase , right up until the moment of release . <p> In addition to the unprecedented rise in direct and indirect killings of prisoners and detainees , the international community 's continued silence regarding the facts and documented reports of killing , torture , ill-treatment , and rape in Israeli prisons and detention centres , as well as the crime of genocide that has affected all Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and led to the killing and wounding of roughly 7% of them , has given Israel the go-ahead to continue committing these crimes and even intensify them . <p> In addition to being acts of genocide against the Palestinian people , the crimes committed by the Israeli army and other Israeli security forces against Palestinian prisoners and detainees from the Gaza Strip are also full-fledged war crimes and crimes against humanity . This is especially true given that the crimes are routinely carried out against Palestinians with the intention of destroying them as a people , including by killing them and causing them severe physical and psychological harm through torture , mistreatment , and sexual violence , including rape . <p> All nations and relevant international organisations must act swiftly and forcefully to prevent Israel 's systematic , pervasive crimes of killing , torture , and other grave violations against Palestinian prisoners and detainees to further intensify . These nations and relevant groups must also immediately and unconditionally free those who are arbitrarily detained , permit visits from qualified local and international organisations to all Israeli facilties , and allow victims to hire attorneys . <p> These crimes must be investigated by the International Criminal Court , and it is imperative that they be added to the list of charges brought against Israeli officials . <p> The UN Human Rights Council must fire Alice Gill Edwards , the Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel , inhuman , or degrading treatment or punishment , for her demonstrated inability to carry out her mandate , her bias , and her wilful failure to complete her assigned tasks , as she is clearly unable to effectively and impartially address the grave crimes that Palestinian prisoners and detainees endure . Additionally , a new Special Rapporteur must be appointed who is neutral , unbiased , and steadfastly committed to universal humanitarian principles , without discriminating against victims or aggressors based on their race , nationality , religion , or any other status . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> In order for the fact-finding and investigation committees and international courts to consider , investigate , and conduct trials regarding Israeli crimes , hold those responsible accountable , and compensate the victims in accordance with the rules of international law , the Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial , summary , or arbitrary executions , the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention , and the Working Group on Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances must perform prompt and thorough investigations into all crimes committed by the Israeli army in the Gaza Strip , communicate with the victims and their families , and submit reports on the findings to all pertinent parties . <p> Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor is a Geneva-based independent organization with regional offices across the MENA region and Europe <p> Occupied West Bank ( Quds News Network ) - Palestinian journalist Shaza al-Sabbagh was shot in the head and killed by Palestinian Authority ( P ) security forces on Saturday night during their ongoing raid ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119480334 <h> Jimmy Carter , Israel and the Apartheid Question <h> Share : <p> The late centenarian , Jimmy Carter , occupied a difficult position in the line of imperial magistrates we know as US Presidents . Coming to power in the aftermath of murderous US adventurism in Indochina and the debauching of the presidency by Richard Nixon ( " when the president does it , it means that it is not illegal " ) , he took an axe to the welfare state , nourished the strapping , dangerous creature that would become neoliberalism , and made foreign policy decisions of disastrous consequence , punctuated by such successes as normalising relations between Egypt and Israel . <p> This record was marked by the gold plating of human rights , intended as the acme of foreign policy but bound to be scratched . While Carter found it easy to niggle the Soviet Union about the mistreatment of its citizens , approaches varied depending on region and circumstance . His Central American record was more than patchy , finely characterised by aid to El Salvador 's military dictatorship . A plea penned by San Salvador archbishop ? scar Romero to Carter on February 17 , 1980 , asking that Washington cease such aid , fell on deaf ears . On March 24 , 1980 , Romero was slain during mass by gunmen trained by US personnel . <p> The subsequent period following his one term in office ( 1977-1981 ) could be seen as a lengthy phase of atonement , realised through the charitable ventures of the non-profit Carter Center and the award of the Nobel Peace Prize in 2002 . " Rejected by the voters in 1980 , " writes historian John Whiteclay Chambers II , " he was at best an average president ; yet Carter has emerged as perhaps America 's greatest ex-president with his strengths generally outweighing his weaknesses . " <p> Beyond his stint in office , the tongue worked more easily , and opinions expressed with greater ease . Over time , for instance , he frowned with matronly disapproval at Israel over its treatment of Palestinians . Having been central to creating the framework that led to the Egypt-Israel Peace Treaty of 1979 , for which he was admired by Israeli officials and diplomats , he came to be seen by critics as walking off the reservation in Palestine : Peace Not Apartheid . " Israel 's continued control and colonization of Palestinian land , " he wrote , " have been the primary obstacles to a comprehensive peace agreement in the Holy Land . " <p> The 2006 publication did what was then the unmentionable : relate two situations previously seen as non sequiturs in argument . Apartheid had been considered an exceptional racial experiment of separation imposed by a South African white supremacist government upon its non-white subjects . How could it be said that an enlightened Israel could be doing the same thing to its Palestinian subjects , especially in the West Bank ? From Carter 's viewpoint , such features as the building of the West Bank wall , ongoing expansion of Israel 's illegal settlements on occupied Palestinian territory , onerous impositions on Palestinian movement and the denial of direct access points , and the saturating presence of military checkpoints , yielded a clear enough answer . <p> From the groves of academe to chat shows and the think tank circuit , reaction to this prescient , albeit uneven work , was one of hysteria . A review in the Mediterranean Quarterly , to take one example of academic tittering , dismisses the use of " apartheid " as merely " one of the current themes of the anti-Israel propaganda machine . " <p> Fourteen members of the Carter Center advisory board resigned in a huff . " It seems you have turned to a world of advocacy , even malicious advocacy , " they scoldingly wrote in a letter to the former president . " We can no longer endorse your strident and uncompromising position . " <p> Deborah Lipstadt , currently President Joe Biden 's Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Antisemitism , condescendingly wrote that the book " ignores a legacy of mistreatment , expulsion and murder committed against Jews . It trivialises the murder of Israelis . " It wallowed in the Palestinian refugee experience , yet only made " two fleeting references to the Holocaust . " <p> The Holocaust , as with so many apologists for Israeli policies , is the crutch and excuse for bad behaviour . Privileged victimhood comes with its perks . If criticism is made of this credo , then the person must be antisemitic . Ditto if that same person makes any reference to funding lobbies and publicity relations attempting to silence dissent from the glossy Israeli narrative . This latter point was frequently made by the Anti-Defamation League , which attacked Carter 's book for propagating " myths like Jewish control of the government and media . " <p> Lipstadt 's reasoning is telling and finds hideous form in Israel 's current defence of its brutal policies against the Palestinians of Gaza and the West Bank . Before the International Court of Justice defending its position against claims of genocide made by South Africa , Israel 's legal representatives reasoned , in essence , that the country 's retaliation for being attacked on October 7 , 2023 by Hamas negated any accusation that its military methods could ever be genocidal . The shadow of the Holocaust was cast so long , it could exonerate the current practices that have left over 45,000 Palestinians dead and the processes of displacement and destruction more vigorous than ever . <p> Whatever the faults of his book , Carter 's overall sense that apartheid 's symptoms were present has stormed the citadels of legal and human rights debate . In this year 's advisory opinionsought by the UN General Assembly in 2023 , the ICJ found that the Israeli settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem , along with " the regime associated with them , have been established and are being maintained in violation of international law . " <p> This involved policies and practices of imposed separation between the Palestinian populace and Israeli settlers that had been " transferred " into the territories . Such a regime was physical and juridical , breaching Article 3 of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination ( CERD ) . The Convention expressly condemns both racial segregation and apartheid , with state parties undertaking to prevent , prohibit and eradicate such practices in territories under their control . <p> In Israel , the human rights activist organisation B'Tselem has explicitly accepted the premise , but gone further than Carter , whose concerns of developing apartheid only extended to Israeli treatment of Palestinians in the occupied territories . " The Israeli regime enacts in all the territory it controls ( Israeli sovereign territory , East Jerusalem , the West Bank , and the Gaza Strip ) an apartheid regime . " <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> In his last days , Carter did witness a change of heart from some former critics . Steve Berman , one of the resignations from the Carter Center in response to the book , opined in Forward that America 's Jewry " should apologize to Jimmy Carter , and thank him for everything he has done for us and the world . " Over time , Berman " came to realize that the Jewish state was indeed burying its head in the sand . Israel was not facing the demographic realities , and was fast becoming a state that could not be both democratic and Jewish . " He pondered Carter 's warning that Israel 's future lay in apartheid if its " leadership kept ignoring the general direction of the country . " How tides can change . <p> Dr. Binoy Kampmark was a Commonwealth Scholar at Selwyn College , Cambridge . He currently lectures at RMIT University . Email : email protected <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119480335 <h> Do n't Deify Jimmy Carter <h> Share : <p> Jimmy Carter may have done good works out of office , but in power he fomented a series of domestic and foreign policy disasters . <p> This , That or the Other Carter -- by Mr. Fish <p> Jimmy Carter , out of office , had the courage to call out the " abominable oppression and persecution " and " strict segregation " of Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza in his 2006 book " Palestine : Peace Not Apartheid . " He dedicated himself to monitoring elections , including his controversial defense of the 2006 election of Hugo Chavez in Venezuela , and championed human rights around the globe . He lambasted the American political process as an " oligarchy " in which " unlimited political bribery " created " a complete subversion of our political system as a payoff to major contributors . " <p> But Carter 's years as an ex-president should not mask his dogged service to the empire , penchant for fomenting disastrous proxy wars , betrayal of the Palestinians , embrace of punishing neoliberal policies and his subservience to big business when he was in office . <p> Carter played a significant role in dismantling New Deal legislation with the deregulation of major industries including airlines , banking , trucking , telecommunications , natural gas and railways . He appointed Paul Volcker to the Federal Reserve , who , in an effort to combat inflation , drove up interest rates and pushed the U.S. into the deepest recession since the Great Depression , a move that saw the start of punishing austerity cuts . Carter is the godfather of the pillage known as neoliberalism , a pillage fellow Democrat Bill Clinton would turbo charge . <p> Carter fell under the disastrous influence of his Svengali-like national security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski , a Polish exile , who rejected the Nixon-Kissinger reliance on d ? tente with the Soviet Union . Brzezinski 's life 's mission , one that meant he saw the world in black and white , was to confront and destroy the Soviet Union along with any government or movement he deemed to be under communist influence or sympathetic to it . <p> Carter , under Brzezinski 's influence , walked away from the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks treaty ( SALT II ) with the Soviet Union , which sought to curb nuclear weapons deployment . He increased military spending . He sent military aid to the IndonesianNew Order government during the Indonesianinvasion andoccupation ofEast Timor , which many have characterized as a genocide . He supported , along with the apartheid state of South Africa , the murderous counter revolutionary group , the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola ( UNITA ) , led by Jonas Savimbi . He provided aid to the brutal Zairian dictator MobutuSese Seko . He supported the Khmer Rouge . <p> He instructed the Central Intelligence Agency to back opposition groups and political parties to bring down the Sandinista government in Nicaragua once it took power in 1979 , leading under the Reagan administration to the formation of the Contras and a bloody and senseless U.S.-backed insurgency . He provided military aid to the dictatorship in El Salvador , ignoring an appeal from Archbishop Oscar Romero -- later assassinated -- to cease U.S. arms shipments . <p> He poisoned U.S. relations with Iran by backing the repressive regime of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi until the last minute and then allowing the deposed Shah to seek medical treatment in New York , triggering the occupation of the U.S. Embassy in Tehran and a 444-day hostage crisis . Carter 's belligerence -- he froze Iranian assets , stopped importing oil from Iran and expelled 183 Iranian diplomats from the U.S. -- played into Ayatollah Khomeini 's demonization of the U.S. and calls for Islamic rule . He obliterated the credibility of Iran 's secular opposition . <p> Carter gave Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos , although he ruled under martial law , billions in military aid . He armed the Mujahideen in Afghanistan after the Soviet intervention in 1979 , a decision that cost the U.S. $3 billion , saw the deaths of 1.5 million Afghans and led to the creation of the Taliban and Al Qaeda . The blowback from this Carter policy alone is catastrophic . <p> He backed the South Korean military in 1980 when it laid siege to the city of Gwangju , where protestors had formed a militia , which led to the massacre of some 2,000 people . <p> Finally , he sold out the Palestinians when he negotiated a separate peace deal , known as the Camp David Accords , in 1979 between Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin . The agreement excluded the Palestine Liberation Organization from the talks . Israel never , as promised to Carter , attempted to resolve the Palestine question with Jordan and Egypt 's involvement . It never permitted Palestinian self-government in the West Bank and Gaza within five years . It did not end Israeli settlements -- a refusal that led Carter to later claim Begin had lied to him . But since there was no mechanism in the agreement for enforcement , and since Carter was unwilling to defy the Israel lobby to impose sanctions on Israel , the Palestinians found themselves , once again , powerless and abandoned . <p> Carter , to his credit , did appoint the civil rights activist Patricia Derian as his Assistant Secretary of State for Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs , leading to the blocking of loans and reduction in military aid to the military junta in Argentina during the Dirty War , restrictions the Reagan administration removed . Derian 's commitment to human rights was genuine . She supported Philippines leader Benigno S. Aquino Jr . and the South Korean dissident and former president Kim Dae-jung . Carter allowed her to anger a few of our most repressive allies . But his human rights policy was primarily designed to back democratic dissidents and worker movements in Central and Eastern Europe , especially Poland , in an effort to weaken the Soviet Union . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Carter had a decency most politicians lack , but his moral crusades , which came once he was out of power , seem like a form of penance . His record as president is bloody and dismal , although not as bloody and dismal as the presidents who followed . That 's the best we can say of him . <p> Chris Hedges , who graduated from seminary at Harvard Divinity School , worked for nearly two decades as a foreign correspondent for The New York Times , National Public Radio and other news organizations in Latin America , the Middle East and the Balkans . He was part of the team of reporters at The New York Times who won a Pulitzer Prize for their coverage of global terrorism . Hedges is a fellow at the Nation Institute and the author of numerous books , including War is a Force That Gives Us Meaning . <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119480336 <h> Share : <p> With President Jimmy Carter 's passing and Donald Trump about to return to the White House , it 's a good time to recall a phone conversation that Carter had with Trump during his first term . Carter 's advice would serve Trump well if he really wants to fulfill his campaign promise to Put America First -- something he failed to do in his first term . <p> In April 2019 , Jimmy Carter told his church congregation in Georgia that President Trump had called him for advice about China . Carter said he told Trump that China was economically overtaking the United States as the world 's largest and most dynamic economy because the United States had spent decades wasting trillions of dollars to fight endless wars , while China had instead focused on economic development and lifted hundreds of millions of its people out of extreme poverty . " China has not wasted a single penny on war , " Carter said , " and that 's why they 're ahead of us , in almost every way . " <p> The next day , the White House confirmed that the two presidents " had a very good telephone conversation about President Trump 's stance on trade with China and numerous other topics . " <p> Some of Trump 's statements during the election campaign suggest that he has n't forgotten Carter 's advice . At the very least , he got the message that peace would be good for America , and that a lot of Americans understand that . Majorities of Americans have long supported a ceasefire in Gaza , and a plurality now support a negotiated peace in Ukraine , too . Trump promised to deliver on both . He even said that he would end the war in Ukraine in 24 hours , based on his good relations with leaders in Russia and Ukraine . <p> Americans may be more worried about problems closer to home than the Middle East or Ukraine , but President Carter connected the dots between U.S. war-making and our quality of life in America . <p> " And I think the difference is , if you take $3 trillion and put it in American infrastructure , you 'd probably have $2 trillion leftover , " Carter explained to his congregation . " We 'd have high-speed railroad . We 'd have bridges that are n't collapsing , we 'd have roads that are maintained properly . Our education system would be as good as that of say South Korea or Hong Kong . " <p> What Carter described to Trump is the classic choice between " guns and butter " that faces every society . In the late 19th and early 20th century , the United States was a rising economic power , like China today . Europe 's imperial powers destroyed each other in the First World War , leaving even the victors , Britain and France , with multibillion dollar debts to J.P . Morgan and the U.S. Treasury . The United States ' economic success made it the world 's banker and industrial leader and gave it a decisive role in the history of the 20th century . <p> Today , it is the United States that has an unprecedented national debt of $36 trillion , and our military budget consumes 56% of federal discretionary spending , putting the squeeze on all our other needs . But we can still enjoy shared prosperity and a brighter future if Trump can do as Carter advised him and wean our government off its addiction to war . <p> So why are we not reassured by Trump 's promises to make peace and put America first ? There are three things that worry us : his first-term track record ; his second-term cabinet picks ; and his aggressive rhetoric since the election ( as opposed to what he said on the campaign trail ) . <p> Let 's start with his track record . Despite loud promises to tackle the entrenched interests of the " Deep State " and to " Drain the Swamp , " Trump 's first term was four years of Christmas Days for billionaires and corporate interests , starting with the military-industrial complex . In FY2025 inflation-adjusted dollars , Trump spent an average of $292 billion per year on Pentagon " investment " accounts , or payments to weapons makers and other military suppliers . That was a 24% increase over Obama 's second term . <p> Trump 's record tax giveaway to his billionaire buddies was not balanced by any cuts in military spending , which was as much of a sacred cow to him as to Bush , Obama and Biden . This toxic combination blew up the national debt , leaving nothing in the kitty for improving education , healthcare , public transportation or any of our society 's other critical needs . That tax cut will expire in a year 's time , but Trump has made it clear that he intends to give even greater tax breaks to his billionaire buddies . <p> Trump deserves credit for not starting any new wars during his first term , but his escalations of Bush 's and Obama 's wars made his first year in office in 2017 the heaviest year of U.S. and allied bombing since the First Gulf War in 1991 , dropping more than 60,000 bombs and missiles on Iraq , Syria , Afghanistan , Yemen , Libya , Pakistan and Somalia . <p> Many Americans remember Trump 's shocking statement that " When you get these terrorists , you have to take out their families . " What the U.S. corporate media swept under the rug was that the Iraqi forces who captured the bombed out ruins of Islamic State 's stronghold in Mosul 's Old City took Trump at his word and killed all the survivors , including women and children , just as Israel is doing in parts of Gaza today . Maybe now Trump can understand that normalizing war crimes only leads to more war crimes , not to peace or stability . <p> When it comes to Trump 's new cabinet picks , he might have jettisoned some of the worst hawks in his last coterie , such as John Bolton , but some of his nominees for top foreign policy jobs are awful , including Secretary of State nominee Marco Rubio , National Security Advisor nominee Mike Waltz and Secretary of Defense nominee Pete Hegseth . <p> Tulsi Gabbard is a more encouraging choice as National Intelligence Director , but as a House member , she voted for two thirds of Obama 's and Trump 's military spending bills , and was always a pushover for expensive new weapon systems . As we asked when she ran for president in 2020 , which Tulsi Gabbard will we see in her new job ? The one who opposes regime change wars and the new Cold War with Russia , or the one who could n't say no to nuclear-armed cruise missiles in 2014 , 2015 or 2016 ? And who will Trump listen to ? Tulsi Gabbard and JD Vance , who is more non-interventionist , or warmongers Rubio and Waltz ? <p> We do n't want to place too much stock in Trump 's often contradictory public statements , but he has sounded very hawkish lately . If you believe everything Trump says , he wants to buy Greenland , invade Mexico to fight immigrants and drug gangs , annex Canada as the 51st state , put 25% tariffs on Canada and Mexico , and seize the Panama Canal and close it to China . In Trump 's last term he badgered NATO countries to increase their military spending to 2 percent of GDP , but now he is calling on them to spend a staggering 5 percent , far more than the 3.1 percent of GDP that the U.S. spent in 2024 . <p> This is a test for the American people . Do we want a showman , tough guy president , playing ringmaster of the corporate media circus ? Do we want a leader who threatens to invade Canada , Mexico , Panama ( again ) and Greenland , like an American Netanyahu dreaming of a Western Greater Israel ? Or should we demand a president who really puts America First ? A president who makes peace in Ukraine and the Middle East ? A president who finally starts bringing our troops home from those 800 foreign military bases all over the world ? A president who can look at a map and see that Guantanamo is in Cuba and the Golan Heights are in Syria ? <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> As Jimmy Carter told Trump , by making peace and renouncing war and militarism he can actually put America First , save trillions of dollars and invest in America . The Democrats have had their chances to do right by the American people and they 've blown it so many times we 've lost count . So the ball 's in Trump 's court . Will he follow Carter 's sage advice ? <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can . 
@@119482800 <h> Houthis are giving sleepless nights to Israel , Hamas is unwilling to surrender , Houthis , Hamas changing stance due to Netanyahu 's ... <h> Sirens began to sound in central Israel . <p> New Delhi : With barely a few hours remaining before the new year 2025 sets in , Israel has still got no respite from the continuous attacks launched by the resistance forces . <p> Yemen 's Houthi rebels have launched a new front of war by firing missiles at Israeli areas . On the other hand , Hamas is putting a fight even as the conditions for a ceasefire are being talked upon . <p> Israel is now involved into direct combat at three fronts . Israel 's war with Hamas and Hezbollah continues . On the other hand , talks between Hamas and Israel over the ceasefire in Gaza have come to a halt . Israeli media reported that Hamas had to release 34 prisoners according to the condition , but Hamas has reneged at the last moment . <p> All this is happening at a time when Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is hospitalized after prostate surgery . <p> The Israeli military said late Monday that its air defense system intercepted a ballistic missile fired at Israel from Yemen . However , the attacks caused sirens to sound throughout central Israel . This is the seventh attack in less than two weeks . The military said the missile was intercepted before it could enter Israeli airspace . <p> Sirens began to sound in central Israel after 11 p.m . The wreckage of the missile caused no major damage , but a large fragment of it fell in the Ramat Beit Shemesh Aleph area of the city of Beit Shemesh near Jerusalem . <h> Israel warns Houthis <p> " We are just starting with them , " Netanyahu was quoted as saying by The Times of Israel . " We will not allow them to attack Israel these days , today and any day . We will strike a final blow at them until they learn . As I said , Hamas learned , Hezbollah learned , Syria learned , now the Houthis will also learn . " <h> Hamas rejects ceasefire <p> The Hamas has rejected a list of hostages Israel says should be freed during the first phase of a ceasefire agreement with Hamas , the Kan public broadcaster reported . <p> According to the report , Hamas is willing to release 22 of the 34 hostages on the list , but is refusing to release the other 12 . The report said the Gaza-based Hamas offered to release 22 surviving hostages and 12 bodies during the first phase of the agreement . <p> The report says that Israel has refused to accept this proposal of Hamas . It has said that under the ceasefire agreement , Hamas would have to return 34 prisoners alive in the first phase . The report did not provide details on the hostages Hamas has refused the proposal . <p> Egypt 's Al-Ghad outlet reported that Israel has requested the inclusion of 11 people whom Hamas considers Israeli soldiers in the list of hostages to be released in the first phase of a possible deal . 
@@119482826 <h> Farewell 2024 : That Was the Year That Was <p> Indian PM Narendra Modi returned to power for the record-equalling third term as Prime Minister while several incumbent leaders had to quit their nations amid rising protests against their regimes , marking 2024 as a year which will go down as one of the most eventful 12 months in history.IBNS correspondent Supriyo Hazra revisits some of the major events of 2024 . Excerpts . <h> Narendra Modi returns for third straight term <p> History was created in Indian general polls when PM Narendra Modi-led National Democratic Alliance ( NDA ) returned to power for the third straight term despite facing a surprisingly spirited performance by the opposition INDIA alliance in June , following a staggering seven-phase elections . <p> PIB India <p> Writing a new chapter in the Indian political journey , Narendra Modi created history when he became the first non-Congress PM who returned to power for the rare third straight term though to lead a coalition government . <h> Donald Trump comes to power for second term <p> Meanwhile in another part of the world Donald Trump created a ripple with a spectacular comeback . After a whirlwind campaigning session , which saw him escaping two assassination attempts , Donald Trump defeated his opponent Kamala Harris in the high-voltage US general polls to return to power for the second non-consecutive term . <p> Donald Trump Instagram page <p> The US elections saw dramatic moments when President Joe Biden left his re-election bid after an unimpressive run in a nationally televised debate against Republican candidate Trump , paving the way for Kamala Harris to compete in the polls . Trump 's victory dashed the hopes of a large number of Democrats who were expecting to see the country run by its first female president . Trump is the first President since Grover Cleveland who returned to the White House after a gap of four years since his eviction following his defeat in the previous election . <p> Donald Trump will assume his office early next year . <h> Rishi Sunak exits , Keir Starmer storms to power <p> In the UK , Rishi Sunak , the country 's first Indian-origin PM , failed to deliver big in the elections and power swung towards the Labour Party which won to end the 14-year-old regime Conservative regime . <p> Rishi Sunak Instagram page <p> In the July 4 polls , the Labours Party won over 400 out of the 650 parliamentary seats , marking the largest mandate in decades . Keir Starmer became the country 's new PM , replacing Sunak . <h> Power shifts in Sri Lanka <p> Sri Lanka , the nation which made it to the headlines for its cash struggle and economic woes a few years ago , saw a major political shift on September 21 when Anura Kumara Dissanayake of the National People 's Power ( NPP ) alliance defeated his rivals to win the Presidential polls . Dissanayake defeated prominent politician Ranil Wickremesinghe , who was then the incumbent president , in the elections . <p> The Left leader 's victory assumes significance since it clearly showed people 's willingness to remove the incumbent from power two years after they ousted Gotabaya Rajapaksa in 2022 by protesting against his regime . <p> In November , Sri Lanka hosted the parliamentary polls where the National People 's Power ( NPP ) secured 159 out of the 225 seats , marking a landslide victory in the Island Nation 's elections . <h> Pakistan Coalition <p> The Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz ( PML-N ) , led by former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and the Pakistan People 's Party ( PPP ) joined hands to form a coalition government in Pakistan , under the leadership of PM Shehbaz Sharif , following the February 8 elections which saw Imran Khan 's PTI putting up a strong show , despite being banned from fighting the polls . The election was held with former PM Imran Khan languishing in jail and his PTI being prevented from fighting the polls . <p> Despite being banned , several PTI candidates fought the polls as independent candidates and emerged victorious in the polls . <h> Sheikh Hasina returns , Sheikh Hasina flees <p> The year began with Sheikh Hasina and her Awami League returning to power for the fourth consecutive term after winning 224 seats in the Jatiyo Sangsad . The polling was held with questions over its fairness and the major alliance BNP boycotted the results of it , charging the government of suppressing the opposition voices . <p> PID Bangladesh <p> Within months , Bangladesh saw a massive protest against the Hasina regime over a job quota issue soon spiralling into a mass uprising against her government , leading to the collapse on August 5 . Sheikh Hasina escaped to India , ending the tenure of the longest-serving PM of the Muslim-majority nation that was formed in 1971 . <p> Following her ouster , Nobel laureate Muhammad Yunus took charge of an interim government on August 8 , promising to fill up the vacuum caused by Hasina 's escape to the neighbouring nation . However , Yunus has so far failed to restore harmony in the nation especially with the rise in attacks on minorities , mostly Hindus , drawing the ire of neighbouring India . Moreover , several hardcore Islamists and criminals were freed from prisons , along with those unfairly locked up activists , plunging the country into uncertainty and anarchy . <p> The minorities held protests over the arrest of a Hindu leader Chinmoy Krishna Das over sedition charges and demanded the interim government to ensure their rights are protected . The death of a Muslim lawyer further sparked tension in the already jeopardised state . The repeated attacks on Hindu temples and properties and the burning down of Christian houses in a village on Christmas Eve clearly showed the inefficiency of the Yunus regime in restoring peace and harmony in the post-Hasina era . <h> Syria Assad 's ouster <p> War-torn Syria witnessed a seismic political shift when former President Bashar al-Assad 's government toppled suddenly after rebel groups captured Damascus and other major cities of the nation . <p> Assad 's 24-year struggle to hold onto power ended dramatically despite surviving civil wars in the past . He escaped to Russia following the collapse of his government . His escape also rang down the curtains on his family 's rule over the Gulf nation for decades . <h> Israel and Middle East crisis <p> 2024 marked a year since the crisis in the Middle East began with the Hamas attacking Israel on October 7 , 2023 . There seems to be no end to the conflict with Israel continuing to pound Gaza and killing several major Hamas leaders including Yahya Sinwar and Ismail Haniyeh . <p> Tensions escalated further after Israel killed Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah in Lebanon 's Beirut . Iran retaliated by firing 180 missiles . Israel countered with their airstrikes , leading to the ongoing proxy conflict in the region . Israel , however , launched a full-blown ground operation against Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> The group had been attacking Israel as a show of solidarity with Hamas . Ending weeks of major escalation , Israel and Lebanon announced a 60-day ceasefire agreement on November 27 . <p> Till Dec 10 , 2024 , over 46,000 people -- 44,786 Palestinian and 1,706 Israeli -- have been reported killed in the Israel -- Hamas war besides 141 -- 156 journalists and media workers , 120 academics , and over 224 humanitarian aid workers , a number that includes 179 employees of UNRWA . In the remaining days of 2024 , the toll only rose with more men , women , children and media professionals losing their lives . <h> Ukraine continues to burn <p> Russia 's continuous strikes on Ukraine left the country in ruins . With no sign of an end to the war , the world looks forward to a solution in the upcoming year . <p> Civilians continue to face the brunt of Russian attacks that left a large portion of the country 's energy infrastructure destroyed . Despite Russian aggression , Ukraine tried to counter after receiving air defence support from Western defence allies . <h> Ebrahim Raisi dies in helicopter crash <p> Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi died on January 12 after his helicopter crashed when he was returning from an official trip to the country 's northern region . The country faced severe political uncertainty following his death . <h> Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny dies <p> Under mysterious circumstances , Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny died in prison in August . A prominent critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin , he had earlier survived a poisoning attack in 2020 . He was imprisoned on charges which many believe were politically motivated . <p> His sudden death sparked protests across Russia . The global community , especially several Western nations , described it as an assassination orchestrated by the Russian government to eliminate opponents . <h> Civil aviation tragedies in Dec break hearts <p> Aviation mishaps occurred in different locations across the globe in December within a span of few days with the deadliest taking place in South Korea where Jeju Air 's Boeing 737-800 aircraft belly-landed and skidded off the end of the runway to erupt in flames when it slammed a wall at Muan International Airport . At least 179 people died on December 28-December 29 . The plane was carrying 181 passengers , including six crew members , when the mishap occurred at the airport , marking one of the deadliest aviation crashes in the country . <p> Ahead of the South Korea tragedy , an Azerbaijan Airlines plane crashed in Kazakhstan , killing 38 people . Flight J2-8243 crashed in a ball of fire near the city of Aktau in Kazakhstan after diverting from an area of southern Russia where Moscow . According to reports not denied by Moscow , it is likely that the Russian air defence system warding off against Ukrainian drone strikes downed the plane by mistake . <h> Ram Mandir consecration <p> India stood still for a day on January 22 when PM Narendra Modi led the country for the successful consecration of Ram Lalla 's idol in the landmark Ayodhya Temple during the much-awaited ' Pran Prathistha ' ceremony in the holy north Indian city . <p> Capturing the emotions and devotional faith of hundreds of Indians , the statue , designed by Mysore-based artist Arun Yogiraj , stood still in the temple which was opened to the public in a successful culmination of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party 's poll promise . <h> Wayanad landslides <p> A major tragedy hit the Wayanad region in Kerala when a massive landslide left at least 230 people dead . The landslide was a result of a cloudburst which mainly affected lives in Meppadi , Mundakkai , and Chooralmala . Monsoon caused widespread devastation in the region , a natural disaster which highlighted the growing risk of climate change in the world . <h> Lady doctor 's death in Kolkata triggers unprecedented protest <p> The issue of sexual violence against women once again took centre stage following the rape and murder of a lady on-duty doctor in Kolkata 's RG Kar Medical College and Hospital in August . <p> The incident led to massive protests across West Bengal with the doctor fraternity across the state and India showing solidarity with the victim and demanding swift justice for her . <p> Anant Ambani and Radhika Merchant 's dreamy marriage ceremony remained the talk of the town with national and international celebrities joining their gala event . With Rihanna and Justin Beiber performing in the mega marriage ceremony , the extravagant celebration around the marriage grabbed headlines for weeks . <p> India 's 17-year wait finally ended with Rohit Sharma and his men winning a thrilling final encounter against South Africa to clinch the T20 World for the second time in the tournament 's history . <p> BCCI X page <p> India had won the inaugural edition of the tournament in 2007 under the leadership of Indian cricket icon MS Dhoni . <p> Rohit Sharma-Virat Kohli-Ravindra Jadeja end T20 journey <p> Virat Kohli Instagram page <p> Moments after the Indian team won the T20 World Cup in West Indies by beating a spirited South African squad , Indian batting maestro Virat Kohli , heroic skipper Rohit Sharma and all-rounder icon Ravindra Jadeja announced their retirement from the shortest format of the game , ending an era in the country 's cricketing history . <h> India 's Olympic pride <p> India sent a strong 117-member contingent to hunt for medals in the ongoing Oscars 2024 . Overall , India won one silver and five bronze medals in the iconic sporting event . <p> Manu Bhankar Instagram <p> Manu Bhaker won the first bronze medal to begin India 's winning race . The Indian shooter returned home with two bronze medals . She became the first Indian female shooter to win two medals in a single edition of the Olympics . <p> In the mixed team 10m air pistol event , Bhaker clinched the bronze medal with fellow Indian shooter Sarabjot Singh . <p> Shooters shined bright in this edition of the Olympics with Swapnil Kusale adding the third medal of the historic event . <p> Indian golden boy Neeraj Chopra failed to defend the yellow medal but managed to bring home the silver . He lost the gold medal to Pakistani athlete Arshad Nadeem . <p> The Indian hockey team left fans elated with its spirited performance in this edition of the Olympics by clinching the bronze medal . <p> Aman Sehrawat bagged a bronze medal for India in the 2024 edition , further increasing the country 's medal tally . <h> Heartbreak <p> Veteran Olympian Vinesh Phogat suffered a heartbreak after she reached the Olympics wrestling final . Her journey took an unexpected turn when she was disqualified for exceeding weight by 100 grams . She later announced her retirement from the game and joined politics with a Congress party ticket . <h> Paralympians shine <p> The Paralympics witnessed the tricolour shining brightly with the athletes winning 29 medals . The tally remained 10 more than Tokyo records . <h> D Gukesh becomes youngest Indian World Chess Champion <p> Indians ended the year on yet another positive note after grandmaster D Gukesh , 18 , became the youngest player to win the World Chess Championship by beating defending champion Ding Liren after competing in a closely fought 14-round encounter . <h> Humpy rules <p> Indian Grandmaster Koneru Humpy defeated Indonesia 's Irene Sukandar to clinch the historic second title at the World Rapid Chess Championship in New York . <h> Those who left us <h> Indian economy 's architect Manmohan Singh dies <p> Manmohan Singh , two-time former Indian PM and the architect of the country 's liberal economy , died on December 26 in New Delhi . He was 92 . <h> Veteran industrialist Ratan Tata dies <p> Ratan Tata , a face of the Indian business world and the former chairman of the Tata Group , died on October 9 . He was 86 . <h> Indian New Wave Cinema Architect Shyam Benegal Dies at Age 90 <p> Shyam Benegal , architect of India 's arthouse cinema who won multiple National Awards for his films besides the highest film honour Dadasaheb Phalke , passed away in Mumbai at age 90 on Dec 23 . <p> As long as I have the strength and my mind works , I 'd like to make movies , Benegal said in an interview this year . Photo courtesy : Wikipedia Creative Commons <h> Ustad Rashid Khan leaves a legacy behind <p> Indian classical music patron Ustad Rashid Khan left a deep void in the hearts of his fans when he died after fighting a battle against cancer at a private hospital in Kolkata on January 9 . He was 55 . <p> Photo Courtesy : Wikimedia Commons <h> Ghazal king Pankaj Udhas leaves fans in mourning <p> Pankaj Udhas , one of the prominent Ghazal singers in India , died on February 26 and left behind a bunch of evergreen songs for his fans to celebrate forever . He was 72 . <p> Photo Courtesy : Zakir Hussain 's Instagram page <h> Zakir Hussain 's tabla stops breathing <p> Grammy award-winning celebrated Indian tabla maestro Zakir Hussain died at a hospital in the USA on December 15 . He was 73 . He reportedly died due to complications of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ( IPF ) . <h> Support Our Journalism <p> IBNS is not driven by any ism- not wokeism , not racism , not skewed secularism , not hyper right-wing or left liberal ideals , nor by any hardline religious beliefs or hyper nationalism . We want to serve you good old objective news , as they are . We do not judge or preach . We let people decide for themselves . We only try to present factual and well-sourced news . 
@@119482842 <h> Hospitals closed , aid denied , civilians trapped in Gaza <p> Essential services that sustain life - healthcare , emergency aid , and humanitarian access - are being systematically dismantled in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , according to the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( OCHA ) . <p> A stark example of this escalation was highlighted by the Director-General of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , who confirmed that the Kamal Adwan hospital in North Gaza is now out of service . <p> On 27 December , the facility was raided , its patients and staff were forcibly evacuated , and its director detained . <p> The humanitarian fallout has been severe . Ten patients were transferred to the Indonesian Hospital , which itself has since ceased functioning due to a lack of water , electricity , and sanitation . <p> Of these patients , four were arrested by Israeli forces at a checkpoint , leaving the remaining seven patients , 15 caregivers , and health workers stranded in deplorable conditions . <p> Obstacles to humanitarian aid <p> The delivery of aid to affected areas has faced relentless obstacles . <p> UN Associate Spokesperson Florencia Soto Ni ? o-Martinez noted that over 150 attempts to access North Gaza since October had been denied by Israeli authorities . <p> Even missions initially approved have encountered severe delays . Between 27 and 29 December , three out of four aid missions to the area were blocked . <p> One mission succeeded on Sunday , delivering basic medical supplies , food , and water to survivors evacuated from Kamal Adwan . <p> However , the situation remains dire . OCHA emphasised that it should not require breaking a siege to help survivors in critical need . <p> " Aid workers must be granted safe and unhindered access to assist people wherever they are , " she said . <p> Looting and supply shortages <p> Armed looting has further exacerbated the crisis , with two incidents over the past three days in southern Gaza targeting dozens of truckloads of supplies . <p> These incidents not only reduce the availability of desperately needed aid but also expose aid workers to grave risks . <h> Support Our Journalism <p> IBNS is not driven by any ism- not wokeism , not racism , not skewed secularism , not hyper right-wing or left liberal ideals , nor by any hardline religious beliefs or hyper nationalism . We want to serve you good old objective news , as they are . We do not judge or preach . We let people decide for themselves . We only try to present factual and well-sourced news . 
@@119485365 <p> We are not alone in the world in being insular as a people . Let there be the smoke of war and burnt flesh wafting in and mixing with crop stubble ash in our air . Or the noise of people 's coups around the corner . Regimes toppling as if in a game theory scenario come true , countries threatening to disappear off the map . Yes , the world order itself can shift its axis . It really did , in 2024 , the year that saw the birth pangs of a world about to come . <p> But we do n't look up from our phones . Let the Cassandras say the world could be ending , they always say that anyway . Our traumas are related to a web series ending . Catch us taking our eyes off the last over of a T20 match , a Turkish thriller , or whatever your poison is . Just give us our caramelised popcorn in our pushback multiplex seats , and we Indians wo n't trouble the world thereafter . At least for the next couple of hours . We never get much troubled by it anyway . <p> We are not alone in the world in various other ways either . The year we are leaving behind was the hottest ever since temperature recording on a planetary scale began in 1880 . Come to think of it , that means hotter than any time during the entire life span of many modern nations , including ours . Nationalism itself , as an accepted way of dividing up the planet , has been in full force for only about a century . Could that finally be a trigger for us to think together as a species ? <p> A polar ice cap 's chance in hell . We are bargaining with each other for a 21st-century crisis with a 19th-century mindset . As if 41 extra days of " dangerous heat " , which is what we had in 2024 ( and promises to be just a trailer ) , is the sort of thing that will only touch Karachi and not Coimbatore . In reality , there 's not even the deluded comfort of Niem ? ller 's classic line that it may " first come for x " ( that ' x ' being someone else ) . Everyone sinks -- or burns -- together . We thought Covid taught us that . <p> New Delhi was , of course , hot for other reasons , too , in 2024 . It 's among the few major world capitals where the ruling party was sworn back in after a general election , though trimmed a little in terms of its body mass index . It was a busy year for democracy globally . The Pew Research Center counted well over 60 countries that saw elections , and called it " a difficult year for incumbents " . <p> Only some , like the BJP in India , managed to endure . It was Narendra Modi , therefore , who rubbed shoulders with other world-dominating figures who do n't have to bother much with elections at all , like a Xi or a Putin , at the BRICS summit in Kazan . In Japan , the ruling party had been an incumbent almost uninterruptedly since 1955 . In 2024 , it survived one of its biggest scares , and the opposition got its best score ever . In France , too , Emmanuel Macron barely survived a snap poll and is now very dependent on allies . Sounds familiar ? <p> What else was common ? More than just the number of fallen incumbents , the Pew Center helpfully told us that voters in many countries were " rattled by rising prices , divided over cultural issues and angry at the political status quo , ( and thus ) sent a message of frustration " . No one who bothers to look up from a homemade TikTok video in rural India will find that idea too foreign . Likewise , though more invisible , the corporatisation of elections is truly global . Glib " election executives " who manage vast armies that profile voters digitally and create marketing material for sundry parties are everywhere . <p> Many ruling parties did not survive . The Indian imagination may still be nostalgically colonised by the goings-on in the United Kingdom , where a Rishi Sunak managed a charmingly British statement of self-deprecation with his " life comes at you fast " speech . But really , our former masters do not matter much in the new world order -- their role is practically over , except as a caddie to the Big Boy who struts around the entire golf course . <p> And that is , of course , where the most famous regime change happened . And Donald Trump promises to be a Black Swan event all by himself . Why should the post-Covid world have it so easy ? He may be just the biggest piece of evidence in a world-wide lurch to the Right , and there 's much interest in terms of pure political theory . He comes in 20 days after the last Sun of 2024 sets but occupies the very frontiers of Right Libertarian ' minarchism ' -- a self-contradictory being -- along with someone who came in 20 days before the first sunrise of 2024 : Argentinian president Javier Milei . <p> Someone who dislikes the state as the big boss of the biggest state . How does that work ? Most people in Gaza , those still left that is , have no time to spend on the results of that experiment . They have their own laboratory , where they are the Guinea pigs . Treblinka might have passingly ( and tremblingly ) felt a touch of d ? ja vu as some estimates of the numbers consigned to history ranged up towards 200,000 . A letter published in the Lancet suggesting such a range finally caused some heads to turn in the world . <p> How many died in Gaza in 2024 ? The factual answer is that we will never really know . How many were babies ? That 's a ' we do n't know ' within a ' we do n't care ' . Counting the dead is a grim and boring but professional exercise , and there are analysts who pore over all kinds of data and results from statistical modelling -- satellite imagery of the acreage of bombed buildings , and the like -- but it 's always a range . In the Ukraine-Russia war , the total number of dead and injured is apparently about one million . In Syria , in the last dozen years or so , the death toll alone is upwards of 600,000 . How many Israeli soldiers have died ? They do n't tell so easily . <p> Too much of a digression . The world is only interested in who will finally control the untapped lithium beneath Ukraine 's soil , said to be the world 's largest . Whether Israel wants just the land , or also the water and anything else that may lie under the land . Whether a gas pipeline from the Arab states can now pass through Syria onward to Europe via Turkey , through a peace enforced by the children of ISIS ( nurtured by the Big Boys ) . Can Syria fall off the map altogether ? Can countries cease to exist ? Why did South Korea have three presidents in one month ? Will Iran survive ? ... 
@@119485368 <p> " I told them Ali is six years old . They gave me a plastic bag containing 18 kg of body parts and told me ' This is your son ; go and bury him , ' " said Hassan Ahmad , a Palestinian father . Ahmad 's son was among the displaced Palestinians offering the morning prayer at a small mosque in the Al-Taba'een school in the Al-Daraj neighbourhood of eastern Gaza , a designated " safe zone . " Israel bombed the school on the dawn of August 10 , killing more than a hundred Palestinians , mostly women and children . <p> The victims were dismembered beyond recognition , thereby leaving the hospital authorities with no option to identify the deceased . Thus , they reportedly collected the flesh and other body parts spread around the site , put it into separate plastic bags each weighing 70 kgs and gave it to families of those who were reported missing after the attack . The authorities made sure that they packed the bags with a little less flesh , if it was to be given as the remains of a child . <p> " I do n't know if this is my son or not , I do n't know what I 'm carrying in this bag . They said it is my son , I do n't know anything , I do n't see anything of my son in this bag , " Hassan Ahmed told media . <p> Three days later , on the morning of August 13 , another Palestinian father went out to get the birth certificates of his three days old twins- Aser and Aysel . Minutes later , Abu al-Qumsan returned to find his twins , along with their mother and grandmother killed in an Israeli strike that targeted their apartment at the Deir Al-Balah area in the centre of the Gaza strip . Abu al-Qumsan said his family had moved to the apartment , in a designated " safe zone " after being displaced from their home . <p> If these heartbreaking stories resonate with you , the official number of civilian casualties in the West Asia crisis since October 2023 will be more devastating . Israel 's ground and aerial operations in Gaza have claimed the lives of 42,000 people , with a majority being women and children . As of October 4 , the total civilian deaths in the West Asia crisis stood at 43,706 , including 42,000 Palestinians and 1,706 Israelis . <p> While there are civilian deaths both sides , the glaring difference in the numbers obviously raises a troubling question : Is Israel targeting civilians , particularly innocent women and children , in blatant violation of the Law of War , International Humanitarian Law and the Principle of Proportionality ? <p> The grief in Gaza <p> " Gaza was the first time I held a baby 's brains in my hand . The first of many , " Dr. Mark Perlmutter , an American orthopaedic surgeon who volunteered in Gaza wrote in a letter addressed to the US government . <p> " Every one of us who worked in an emergency , intensive care , or surgical setting treated pre-teen children who were shot in the head or chest on a regular or even a daily basis . It is impossible that such widespread shooting of young children throughout Gaza , sustained over the course of an entire year is accidental or unknown to the highest Israeli civilian and military authorities , " said the letter signed by as many as 99 American healthcare professionals . <p> " This war is a war on children . It is a war on their childhood and their future , " said UNRWA Commissioner-General Philippe Lazzarini after a UN report released on March 14 revealed that Israel has killed more children in the five-month period between October 2023-February 2024 than all conflicts worldwide did in the past four years combined . <p> According to a recent Oxfam report , more women and children have been killed by Israel in Gaza over the past year than in any other conflict over the past two decades in a single year . <p> The report also noted that Israeli explosive weapons hit civilian infrastructure in Gaza - including schools , hospitals and aid distribution points - once every three hours . <p> According to the latest figures announced by the Health Ministry of Gaza , at least 17,000 of the 42,000 Palestinians killed by Israel in Gaza are children . This includes as many as 2100 infants and toddlers . Israeli forces also killed as many as 3,000 embryos stored in Gaza 's largest fertility clinic . <p> " The record number of women and children killed in Gaza does not include those among nearly 20,000 people who are either unidentified , missing or entombed beneath rubble. , " the Oxfam report noted . <p> A recent study by The Lancet Journal reveals that these figures could be inaccurate due to the peculiar circumstances including the destruction of infrastructure and limited resources in the Gaza strip that makes data collection difficult . The Lancet Journal estimates the real death toll to be more than 1,86,000 i.e 7*9% of the total population in the Gaza Strip . This hints at a further staggering number of murdered children as most attacks carried out by Israel on the Gaza strip post October 7 , 2023 have seen an overwhelming number of women and children being killed . <p> Israel 's war on Gaza is unprecedented in several ways for the extent of crimes committed against humanity , as noted by several reports . Israel has killed the most number of journalists in the shortest period ( even more than those killed during World War II which lasted six years ) . Israel has also killed an overwhelming number of healthcare professionals including 165 doctors , 260 nurses , 300 management and support personnel , 184 health associate professionals , 76 pharmacists and 12 other health workers . At least 77 healthcare workers have already been killed by Israel in Lebanon . As many as 902 Palestinian families have been wiped off from the face of earth by Israel , according to a statement published by the Government Media Office in Gaza on October 2 . <p> As Israel has extended its attacks to Lebanon , Yemen and Syria , the deafening silence around the crimes committed by it raises a question . How is Israel able to get away with it ? <p> ' Legally killed children ' <p> On the night of May 26 , just two days after the International court of justice ( ICJ ) ordered Israel to halt its military offensive in the southern Gaza city of Rafah , Israel dropped around eight missiles on a camp packed with makeshift tents sheltering displaced Palestinians . <p> The attack killed at least 45 , mostly women and children . Images of dozens of burnt , beheaded children were all over the social media . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the attack was a " tragic mistake . " <p> After bombing the Al-Taba'een school situated in a " safe zone " designated by its own military , Israel said the attack was on a " command and control centre " of " Hamas terrosits , " without any evidence to prove the claims . In the same week it bombed four other schools , all housing displaced Palestinians . It gave the same justification , again without providing any evidence . <p> Two weeks into its war on Gaza , Israel bombed the al-Ahli Arab Hospital situated in Gaza 's Old City killing at least 500 Palestinians , mostly women and children . A month into the war , Israel has already committed 137 attacks on the healthcare facilities in Gaza . It also attacked and destroyed the Al Aqsa Hospital , the largest in Gaza , killing hundreds of civilians including children , patients , medics , journalists and women . <p> Israel justified the attacks saying Hamas used it as " command centres , " again without providing any evidence . <p> American doctors who volunteered in Gaza testified that they saw no signs of militant activity in Gaza 's hospitals . <p> " The 99 signatories to this letter spent a combined 254 weeks inside Gaza 's largest hospitals and clinics . We wish to be absolutely clear : not once did any of us see any type of Palestinian militant activity in any of Gaza 's hospitals or other healthcare facilities , " the letter said . <p> " We urge you to see that Israel has systematically and deliberately devastated Gaza 's entire healthcare system , and that Israel has targeted our colleagues in Gaza for torture , disappearance , and murder , " the doctors said . <p> " It is possible to kill children legally if for example one is being attacked by an enemy who hides behind them . But the sight of a legally killed child is no less disturbing than the sight of a murdered one , " the article argued . <p> The article was met with severe criticism from various circles with many questioning the dehumanization of Palestinian children encompassed in the argument . <p> " The Atlantic published a justification for the murder of Palestinian children -- making the distinction between a " legally killed child " and a " murdered one , " and arguing that killing Palestinian children is not just a legitimate act of war but a necessary one . Today , a video out of Rafah showed a martyred baby , beheaded with no legs . This , for The Atlantic , is a " legally killed child , " " the ' Writers Against War on Gaza ' wrote on Instagram . <p> The proportionality principle requires the parties involved in a military conflict to strike a balance between incidental civilian causalities and military advantage . It prohibits any military action that results in excessive incidental civilian causalities as compared to the " concrete and direct military advantage anticipated . " <p> Can this law be used to justify the killing of children and other Palestinian civilians ? <p> " The answer is no . There is no existing legal provision that justifies murder of Palestinian children , " Suchitra Vijayan , an expert in international law , writer and founder of The Polis Project told The New Indian Express . <p> She explained that even in cases of clear military targets , attacks that would cause excessive civilian damage are not justified under the proportionality law . <p> " If an attack is going to harm civilians in excess , you can not do it . This means the attack on Al Shifa Hospital by Israel is not justified under international law . The attack on UN schools can not happen , " she said . <p> " Often proportionality happens in the context of a military target . Civilians are not military targets . The issue is that they have now claimed that the entire Muslim population whether it is Palestinian , Lebanese , Yemenis , Syrian or Libyan are all military targets , " she said . <p> Dr Waiel Awwad , senior war journalist and West Asia strategist told The New Indian Express that Israel 's attacks are targeted at ethnically " cleansing the Palestinians and annihilating the historic Palestine . " <p> " The main objective of the Israeli government led by Netanyahu is to cleanse the Palestinian people in the Gaza Strip and West Bank and annihilate the whole of historic Palestine , so the dream of having a Jewish state will be fulfilled , " Awwad said . <p> " They ( Israel ) do not believe in a Palestinian state ... they want Palestinians under occupation to give up their land and surrender to Israel , " Awwad said adding that the " blind support " granted to Israel by the US is facilitating the atrocities and war crimes committed by it . <p> Anil Trigunayat , writer and former Indian ambassador to Libya and Jordan told The New Indian Express that Israel resorted to carpet bombing of Gaza , thereby targeting the civilians . <p> " Gaza is a very narrow strip , the most densely populated area in the world . Israel carpet-bombed this area . It was only recently they started precision strikes on tunnels and so on . They shifted people from one end to the other and then attacked the same place . The civilian casualties have occurred because of that , " Trigunayat noted . <p> Since such targeted and excessive killings of civilians can not be justified under the international law , Israel came up with the idea of " human shield , " noted Suchitra . <p> " This concept did not exist in international law until Israel , the US , and Britain created an exception to the proportionality law . That is why they take the proportionality test and say the entire population is a military target , " Suchitra said . <p> This was made possible by the Obama administration through the ' Kill Chain , ' she explained . Before that , even though civilians were targeted it was n't easy to justify it . <p> It is very lethal , she pointed out , because they have taken a rule that is supposed to limit civilian casualties and attacks on properties , twisted it , and used it to justify killing the same civilians . <p> " That entire concept is reversed on its head , " she said . <p> Suchitra , who teaches Human Rights &amp; Oral History at Columbia University pointed out that this " manipulation of legal language " have happened before . <p> " They ( the US ) did this when they picked up young Muslim men from across the world and took them to places like the Guantanamo and other extraordinary rendition sites . They came up with a word called " forever prisoner " which enabled them to incarcerate people whom the US felt as a threat for as long as they want without having to provide any proof , " she said . <p> " Who is going to go after them(Israel) if they are supported by the United States ? " asked Trigunayat adding that defiance of international law has become a norm . <p> The unconditional support extended by the West to Israel is also reflected in narratives like " legally killed children " being pushed through its media to legitimise the crimes committed by Israel , Suchitra noted . <p> " Media is the single most potent machine of propaganda . We saw this in 9/11 , and we are seeing it again now . Media manufactures consent , it justifies imperialism and manufactures impunity , " she said . <p> She pointed out the double standards of Western media when it comes to reporting on crimes committed by Israel and the West . <p> " Media plays the single most important role in amplifying the propaganda of the empire . This ( Israel ) is an empire , not a war . You can not go into another country like Israel did in Lebanon , it 's called occupation . This is modern-day colonization which is banned under international law . Look at how the media is reporting on it . Not a single word about invasion or colonization , " she pointed out . <p> " When it comes to Russia and Ukraine it is reported as an invasion but when it comes to violence committed by Israel against Palestine and Lebanon , it is reported as " sending ground troops , " Suchitra said . <p> " It is insane that they portray the counter attacks on Israel as horrifying while glorifying Israel 's indiscriminatory attacks on thousands of innocent civilians . This encourages their respective countries to send more weapons to Israel to further escalate the aggression . These propagandists are helping in this vicious war as partners in crime against humanity , " Awwad said . <p> In April 2024 , The Intercept reported that The New York Times had instructed its journalists covering Israel 's war on Gaza to refrain from using terms like " genocide " and " ethnic cleansing . " It also reportedly asked the journalists to not use the phrase " occupied territory " when describing the Palestinian land . <p> " Since the US media is mostly controlled by a Jewish lobby , it is quite possible that they only give the Israeli narrative , " noted Trigunayat . <p> Suchitra alleged that media contributes to dehumanisation and framing of an entire population which enables these powers ( the West ) to carry out their attacks with impunity . <p> " The New York Times reporting on the mass rape in Gaza has been debunked several times but both Joe Biden and Kamala Harris continue to use it as justification . When the invasion of Libya happened , Hillary Clinton said that the men of the Libyan army were taking ' Viagra ' so they could rape more women . This framing of Arab Muslim men as sexually deviant beings was used by Clinton as an excuse to invade Libya , while a disproportionate amount of mass sexual violence against people have actually been committed by the European and Western armies , " she explained . <p> Though these narratives are prevalent and dominant , it is being challenged extensively and new narratives are emerging , Trigunayat said adding that many European countries have recognised the state of Palestine . <p> " We have seen that there have been protests and a lot of debates even in the House of Congress and Parliaments across the world including the West " in favour of the Palestinian cause , Trigunayat said . 
@@119485547 <p> The United Nations Human Rights Office released a report on Tuesday condemning Israeli airstrikes on hospitals in Gaza , which it says have severely devastated the region 's healthcare system . The report highlights the consequences of these attacks , emphasizing that they raise serious concerns about Israel 's adherence to international humanitarian and human rights laws . <h> Destruction of Gaza 's Healthcare System <p> The 23-page report documents various attacks on hospitals and medical facilities in Gaza from October 12 , 2023 , to June 30 , 2024 . It concludes that these attacks have effectively destroyed the local healthcare infrastructure , leaving Palestinians with little access to necessary medical care . The report notes that the destruction of the healthcare system , along with the killing of patients , medical staff , and civilians , is a direct result of Israel 's disregard for international laws governing armed conflict . <p> The UN report asserts that deliberately attacking hospitals and medical facilities , which are not military targets , is a violation of international humanitarian law and could constitute a war crime . The UN also warned that a pattern of rights abuses against civilians could amount to crimes against humanity . This statement underscores the severity of the situation and the potential legal consequences for the actions taken by Israeli forces . <h> Israeli Defense and Counterarguments <p> The Israeli government has rejected the claims made in the UN report , arguing that Hamas uses hospitals as command centers for military operations . Israel maintains that its military actions are aimed at neutralizing Hamas militants and that hospitals have been targeted because they were believed to harbor military activities . However , the UN report found insufficient public evidence to substantiate these allegations . <p> The Israeli military also responded by stating that they have taken extensive measures to minimize civilian harm , including setting up field hospitals , providing evacuation routes , and offering aid to the affected population . Despite these claims , the UN report points to a systemic pattern of violations that undermines these assertions . <p> UN High Commissioner for Human Rights , Volker T ? rk , strongly condemned the attacks , calling them a " blatant disregard for international humanitarian and human rights law . " T ? rk emphasized that while the bombing and ongoing violence in Gaza had already created a dire humanitarian crisis , the attacks on hospitals further exacerbated the situation . He described hospitals -- the sanctuaries for the wounded -- as being turned into " death traps " for Palestinians . <h> Humanitarian Crisis in Gaza <p> According to Palestinian health officials , more than 45,500 Palestinians have been killed as a result of the ongoing conflict , with much of Gaza turned into a wasteland due to the continuous bombardment . The war began after a Hamas attack on southern Israel on October 7 , 2023 , which killed 1,200 Israelis and led to the abduction of 251 hostages , according to Israeli officials . <p> The humanitarian toll in Gaza continues to mount , with a collapsing healthcare system and widespread suffering among the population . The UN 's condemnation and the report 's findings highlight the urgent need for international intervention to protect civilians and uphold international law in the conflict . <p> The UN report paints a grim picture of the human rights violations taking place in Gaza , particularly regarding the destruction of its healthcare system . With ongoing attacks on hospitals , the international community faces growing pressure to hold Israel accountable for violations of international law and ensure that humanitarian efforts reach those in dire need . The situation remains one of the most critical challenges in the region , with no clear resolution in sight . 
@@119486222 <h> Black Swans in West Asia <p> For many in the Global South , the West 's contrasting reactions to Ukraine and Gaza conflicts mark a fitting requiem to the rules-based international order . <p> Image Source : Getty <p> Black Swans , Nassim Nicholas Taleb says in his classic 2007 book , are highly improbable events that have a high impact and where we cover our shock by concocting post facto explanations . Applied to his native West Asia , the last fifteen months have seen the appearance of more than one black swan and the high impact of each is still working its way through the region 's fault lines . <p> The massive terrorist attack launched by Hamas on October 7 , 2023 , was a Black Swan event that initially cracked the legend of Israel 's invincibility . The heavy loss of life and abduction of 251 citizens inflicted a collective sense of trauma on the Jewish state , accompanied by a reckoning that retribution alone could restore its sense of security . That retribution has led to over 45,000 dead Palestinians in Gaza , some 70% of them women and children . And yet , the bloodlust continues . Every day , day after day . Social media posts by Israeli soldiers , politicians and news anchors gloating over the orgy of death and destruction point to a stunning loss of humanity in a people whose own sense of history should have made them more sensitive to the sheer injustice of collective punishment . <p> The massive terrorist attack launched by Hamas on October 7 , 2023 , was a Black Swan event that initially cracked the legend of Israel 's invincibility . <p> On the Arab street , October 7 was seen as a possible game changer , an end to a debilitating status quo , and a hope that the Iran-led Axis of Resistance would seize the opportunity and that Hizbollah and Hamas would inflict enough damage on Israel to bring it to the negotiating table . They clearly had n't anticipated Israel 's willingness to use overwhelming and completely disproportionate force in the densely populated civilian areas of Gaza , nor its targeted assassination of key leaders of Hamas , Hizbollah and even of Iran 's Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps , nor the impotence of the international community to enforce a ceasefire . The killing of Ismail Haniyeh in an Iranian safehouse in Tehran , of Hassan Nasrallah in a basement in Beirut and the simultaneous detonation of thousands of pagers used by Hizbollah cadres were mini Black Swans in their own right . Fear of Israel 's defense and intelligence capabilities was restored and the lack of a damaging response from Iran dashed any wishful thinking that October 7 might lead to a Palestinian state . <p> Israel 's pursuit of retribution has been accompanied by a cavalier disregard of international humanitarian law . Judges at the International Criminal Court have issued arrest warrants against Prime Minister Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes including starvation , murder , deliberate targeting of civilians and persecution . The International Court of Justice has also held Israel 's continued occupation of Gaza , the West Bank and east Jerusalem to be completely illegal . Israeli 's strident defiance of these rulings has been matched by the Biden Administration 's staunch defense of its principal ally in West Asia even as Trump 2.0 threatens sanctions against these international organizations for their temerity in citing the rule of law . For many in the Global South , the West 's contrasting reactions to Ukraine and Gaza mark a fitting requiem to the rules-based international order . <p> To Israel 's north , Hizbollah often acted as a state within a state and the fading of its dark shadow opens the possibility of Lebanon becoming a more normal state , something that its beleaguered citizens have yearned for decades . <p> The improbable evisceration of Hizbollah and diminution of Iran 's bluster has also had a high impact in Israel 's immediate neighbourhood . To Israel 's north , Hizbollah often acted as a state within a state and the fading of its dark shadow opens the possibility of Lebanon becoming a more normal state , something that its beleaguered citizens have yearned for decades . And in Syria , the sudden weakening of Hizbollah and Iran created an equally improbable opportunity for Hayat Tahrir Al Sham ( HTS ) to move out of its stronghold in Idlib province , take the cities of Aleppo , Hama , Homs and Damascus in barely a week and topple the hated Assad dynasty that had ruled Syria with an iron fist for over five decades . The euphoria over the unexpected flight of Bashar Assad to Moscow amongst ordinary Syrians , however , is tempered by the unsavoury antecedents of Ahmed Al Sharaa , aka Abu Mohammed Al Jolani . The HTS leader was closely affiliated with Al Qaeda and there are legitimate questions about the extent to which his jihadi tendencies were merely a youthful indiscretion . To be fair , he has hardly put a foot wrong during the three weeks or so since he assumed power . Schools , government offices and markets are functioning with a remarkable sense of normalcy and HTS has gone out of its way to reassure Syria 's sizeable Christian , Alawite and Druze minorities that their religious rights and personal freedoms will be respected . After a brutal civil war that lasted for over a decade , the current transition period will be crucial to get the country back on its feet and will need the active support of both the international community and of regional powers . <p> But this might be a tall order because Turkey , which backed HTS , is triumphantly flexing its muscle while Iran is ruing the demise of a regime that provided both a strategic alignment and a land bridge to Tehran 's Hizbollah partners in Lebanon . Russia , which had steadfastly stood with the Assad regime during the civil war , was forced to abandon its prot ? g ? on account of its own preoccupation with Ukraine . The departure of Assad now places a question mark on Russia 's naval base in Tartus and its Airforce base near Latakia . Despite his customary swagger at his yearend press conference , President Putin finds himself in the uncomfortable position of having to negotiate with Turkey over the fate of its strategic foothold in the Mediterranean . <p> Leaders of the extreme right-wing factions within the Netanyahu government now speak of beachfront homes in Gaza and annexation of the West Bank and Syria 's Golan Heights within a Greater Israel while Netanyahu promises that after Syria , he will bring about a regime change in Iran . <p> Which brings us back to Israel and the Palestinians . Under Prime Minister Netanyahu , Israel has won the war but has n't shown any capacity for winning the peace . There is n't even a peace plan on the table , nor a roadmap for Gaza once ( if ) Israel withdraws its troops . If anything , the military successes in Gaza , Lebanon , Syria and Iran have fed into hubris and a sense of impunity . Leaders of the extreme right-wing factions within the Netanyahu government now speak of beachfront homes in Gaza and annexation of the West Bank and Syria 's Golan Heights within a Greater Israel while Netanyahu promises that after Syria , he will bring about a regime change in Iran . <p> The black swans of 2024 have clearly reshuffled the geopolitical map of West Asia and produced some unexpected winners and losers . The Trump presidency could be another Black Swan just over the horizon . But do n't concoct another false narrative to write off Iran and do n't forget the Palestinians . Both will remain critical for peace and stability in the region . 
@@119486301 <h> Cities across globe prepare to welcome New Year ; New Zealand rings it in first <p> Wellington : Auckland has become the first major city to welcome 2025 , with thousands of revellers counting down to the new year and cheering at colourful fireworks launched from New Zealand 's tallest structure , Sky Tower , and a spectacular downtown light show . <p> Thousands also thronged to downtown or climbed the city 's ring of volcanic peaks for a fireworks vantage point , and a light display recognising Auckland 's Indigenous tribes . It follows a year marked by protests over Maori rights in the nation of 5 million . <h> Also Read <p> Countries in the South Pacific Ocean are the first to ring in the New Year , with midnight in New Zealand striking 18 hours before the ball drop in Times Square in New York . Other cities around the world are readying with celebrations highlighting local cultures and traditions , after a year roiled by ongoing conflict and political instability . <p> In Australia , more than 1 million people are now expected at Sydney Harbor for the traditional fireworks . British pop star Robbie Williams will lead a singalong and Indigenous ceremonies and performances will acknowledge the land 's first people . <p> Asia gets ready for the Year of the Snake <p> Much of Japan has shut down ahead of the nation 's biggest holiday , as temples and homes underwent a thorough cleaning , including swatting floor mats called " tatami " with big sticks . <p> The upcoming Year of the Snake in the Asian zodiac is heralded as one of rebirth -- alluding to the reptile 's shedding skin . Stores in Japan , which observes the zodiac cycle from January 1 , have been selling tiny figures of smiling snakes and other snake-themed products . Other places in Asia will start marking the Year of the Snake later , with the Lunar New Year . <p> In South Korea , celebrations were cut back or cancelled as the country observes a period of national mourning following the Sunday crash of a Jeju Air flight at Muan that killed 179 people . <p> In Thailand 's Bangkok , two major shopping malls competed for crowds with live musical acts and fireworks shows . While CentralWorld is the older venue , relative newcomer ICONSIAM has the scenic advantage of its Chao Phraya riverside location and a performance by popular rap singer Lisa , the Thai member of the South Korean girl group Blackpink , scheduled just ahead of midnight . <p> New Year celebrations in Jakarta will feature a dazzling fireworks display , including a drone show featuring 800 drones , followed by countdowns to midnight at the city 's iconic Hotel Indonesia Roundabout . <p> West 's rivals exchange goodwill <p> Chinese state media covered an exchange of New Year 's greetings between leader Xi Jinping and Russian President Vladimir Putin in a reminder of growing closeness between two leaders who face tensions with the West . <p> Xi told Putin that their countries will " always move forward hand in hand , " the official Xinhua News Agency said Tuesday . <p> China has maintained ties and robust trade with Russia since the latter invaded Ukraine in 2022 , helping to offset Western sanctions and attempts to isolate Putin . <p> China 's leader in his annual pre-recorded New Year 's Eve address said the country has " deepened solidarity and cooperation with the global South " while praising the " responsible " role it has played with " the world in turmoil . " <p> Xi also said China 's economy , which has slowed down in recent years , was " improving and recovering . " <p> He also addressed Taiwan , the self-ruled island claimed by Beijing . " We Chinese on both sides of the Taiwan Strait belong to one and the same family . No one can ever sever the bond of kinship between us , " Xi said . <p> Conflicts cast a shadow in the Middle East <p> New Year 's celebrations are likely to be subdued in Israel as its war with Hamas grinds through a 15th month and scores of hostages remain in captivity . Meanwhile , the extent of starvation has been hard to assess in northern Gaza where thousands have fled an intensified Israeli military crackdown that aid groups say has allowed delivery of only a dozen trucks of food and water since roughly October . <p> Lebanon is in the grip of a severe economic crisis , and many areas were heavily damaged during the war between Israel and Hezbollah , which ended with a shaky ceasefire . Syrians are meanwhile expressing hope and uncertainty for the coming year after the overthrow of President Bashar Assad . <p> In Dubai , thousands are expected to attend an annual fireworks show at the Burj Khalifa , the world 's tallest skyscraper . <p> Midnight Mass , with bubbles <p> Rome 's traditional New Year 's Eve festivities have an additional draw : the start of Pope Francis ' Holy Year , the **26;1070;TOOLONG celebration projected to bring some 32 million pilgrims to the Eternal City in 2025 . <p> On Tuesday , Francis will celebrate a vespers at St. Peter 's Basilica , followed by Mass on Wednesday , when he is expected to once again appeal for peace amid wars raging in Ukraine and the Middle East . <p> Meanwhile , in the United States , the Cathedral of Saint Paul in Minnesota will host an 11 pm . Mass followed by a champagne reception with toasts . January 1 is a day of obligation for Catholics , marking the Solemnity of Mary , and many churches will hold vigil Masses on Tuesday afternoon and evening . <p> German leader calls for solidarity in a new year <p> Hours before Germany rings in the new year , Chancellor Olaf Scholz called on the country 's 84 million residents to stick together despite the many global crises and wars , the country 's ailing economy and a deadly Christmas market attack that shocked the nation . <p> " We are a country of togetherness . And we can draw strength from this -- especially in difficult times like these , " Scholz said in his prerecorded speech . <p> Paris recaptures the Olympic spirit <p> Paris will cap a momentous 2024 with its traditional festive countdown and fireworks extravaganza on the famed Champs-Elys ? es . <p> The Summer Olympics and Paralympic Games hosted in the French capital from July to September transformed the city into a site of joy , fraternity and astonishing sporting achievements , and marked another major milestone in its recovery from deadly extremist attacks in 2015 by al-Qaida and the Islamic State group . <p> Britons will brave wintry weather <p> London is due to ring in the New Year with a pyrotechnic display along the River Thames and a parade through the city centre on Wednesday featuring 10,000 performers . The fireworks will explode against the backdrop of the London Eye , the massive Ferris wheel across the river from Big Ben and the Houses of Parliament . <p> With a storm bringing bitter weather to other parts of the United Kingdom , however , festivities in Edinburgh , Scotland -- including the Hogmanay Street party , garden concert and castle pyrotechnics show -- were already cancelled . <p> Rio to see 2 million revellers <p> Rio de Janeiro will throw Brazil 's main New Year 's Eve bash on Copacabana Beach , with 10 ferries offshore bearing 12 straight minutes of fireworks . Thousands of tourists in six cruise ships will witness the show up close . <p> Rio 's City Hall was closely guarding its plans for a display of lights and sounds . More than 2 million people are expected at the Copacabana , hoping to squeeze into concerts by superstar Brazilian artists such as pop singer Anitta and Grammy-award winner Caetano Veloso . <p> American traditions old and new <p> In New York City , the organisation managing Times Square has tested its famous ball drop , and inspected 2025 numerals , lights and thousands of crystals , as part of a tradition going back to 1907 . This year 's celebration will include musical performances by TLC , Jonas Brothers , Rita Ora , and Sophie Ellis-Bextor . <p> The party , covering multiple blocks around the city 's main tourism and theatre hub , is expected to draw large crowds despite rain and chilly weather . <p> Meanwhile , Las Vegas will bid farewell to 2024 with old -- and some new -- traditions . Its annual eight-minute pyrotechnic show will be on in the Las Vegas Strip , with 340,000 people anticipated as fireworks are launched from the rooftops of nine casinos . <p> Nearby , the massive Sphere venue will display for the first time countdowns to midnight in different time zones . <p> Country music , football and a midnight race <p> In Pasadena , enthusiastic Rose Parade spectators were to camp out on the cold streets and ring in the New Year hoping for prime spots for the iconic Southern California tradition . The parade precedes the Rose Bowl football game between the Ohio State Buckeyes and the Oregon Ducks on January 1 . <p> Thousands are to participate in a midnight 5K race following the parade route . <p> Some 200,000 people will flock to a party in Nashville , Tennessee , featuring a five-hour show by some of country music 's biggest stars . At midnight -- an hour after New York 's -- a 16-feet tall music note weighing 400 pounds will drop as fireworks light the sky . <p> Celebrations will echo around the globe as the New Year arrives in different time zones , with American Samoa among the last to welcome 2025 a full 24 hours after New Zealand . 
@@119491529 <p> Hamas took control of the Gaza Strip after defeating Fatah in the 2006 election . The group had a rule , which included an Islamist crackdown in the Palestinian territory and repeated incursions into Israel . <p> However , it came to an end with the October 7 attack on Israel . <p> Further , Hamdan said , " Hamas rejects international legitimacy , meaning UN resolutions , " adding , " The world can not accept a situation where a party does not accept international resolutions . " <p> Hamdan also said PA President Mahmoud Abbas " still supports realistic relations with the Americans in order to achieve the aspirations of the Palestinians . " <p> Disclaimer : WION takes the utmost care to accurately and responsibly report conflicts in West Asia involving Israel , Iran , Syria , Iraq , and non-state actors like the Islamic State , among others . In this context , claims and counterclaims are being made online and offline . WION can not independently verify the authenticity of all statements , social media posts , photos , and videos . 
