<h> Why the Polisario Front Threatens Morocco -- and the Region <p> By : Ahmad Sharawi An independent Western Sahara run by the Polisario Front would likely turn into another source of regional insecurity . You would be forgiven for forgetting Western Sahara , a territory on the west coast of North Africa with a population of 600,000 . However , it 's a place worth remembering and one undergoing a transition that will have an impact far beyond its borders . Western Sahara was once a Spanish colony , but it was less decolonized than abandoned and then annexed by Morocco in 1975 . After that , plans for referenda on self-determination never quite came to fruition . Whatever your position on national independence in general , in this instance , Morocco is all that is standing in the way of Western Sahara becoming home to a jihadi government . More and more countries are coming to agree with this stance . The United Kingdom recently recognized Moroccan sovereignty over Western Sahara , joining the United States , France , and Israel . Even Syria has grown tired of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it from the country just days ago . Polisario 's main backers are Algeria and Iran , with Syria 's new government now backing Morocco 's claim to the largely desert territory . With friends like that , it 's clear that the Polisario Front should n't be given an entire nation as a base of operations . A report by Germany 's Die Welt revealed direct ties between the group and Iran-backed Hezbollah , including intercepted calls between Mustafa Muhammad Lemine Al-Kitab -- Polisario 's Syria liaison -- and a Hezbollah agent . In these conversations , Al-Kitab expresses ideological solidarity with Iran 's axis of resistance , praising the October 7 Hamas attack on Israel and envisioning a unified front that includes Gaza , the Golan Heights , Lebanon 's south , and even Western Sahara . He explicitly supports the idea of coordinated attacks on Israel involving Hamas , Hezbollah , Algeria , and Iran . While acknowledging Polisario 's limited capabilities , he solicits further assistance from Hezbollah and Iran to attack the Israeli embassy in Morocco . Moroccan foreign minister Nasser Bourita accused Iran of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ region , including the Polisario Front , by supplying them with drones in an effort to " undermine security and stability in the region . " In 2022 , a Polisario official said Iran would also supply them with kamikaze drones . Once seen as a secular nationalist movement , the Polisario has , in recent years , aligned itself with some of the most radical actors in the region . While Marxist ideology shaped the group with backing from Cuba and Gaddafi 's Libya , that legacy has given way to a far more dangerous reality . Today , the Tindouf refugee camps in southwest Algeria -- where more than 170,000 people fled from an earlier conflict with Morocco -- are under Polisario control . They have become a breeding ground for jihadist recruitment and a nexus for extremist networks operating across the Sahel . The group 's ties to extremism are well documented . Adnan Abu al-Walid al-Sahrawi , a former Polisario fighter , went on to lead the Islamic State in the Greater Sahel ( ISGS ) before being killed by French forces in Mali in 2021 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Tindouf camps , followed by the " Khilafah " group in 2009 , which pledged allegiance to ISIS . A German intelligence report noted that " ISIS and al-Qaeda operate freely in the Tindouf camps and the broader Sahel-Sahara region . " It was Polisario that ended a 29-year ceasefire in 2020 , and the group has carried out multiple attacks targeting Moroccan civilians since 2021 . Polisario also has a long record of recruiting child soldiers . A Geneva-based NGO told the UN Human Rights Council that Polis ...
