<h> Historical background to the creation of Israel <p> Knowledge of history will help us understand issues of the past and present . But knowledge alone will not solve today 's problems , but it will make us understand people 's positions a bit better on issues where there is disagreement . Sometimes conflicts go on for so long that people have forgotten what the reasons for them really were , including negative attitudes and opinions about others . But uneven access to resources , land and opportunities often remain as real reasons to protracted conflicts.I believe we know too little about the history of the creation of the State of Israel in 1948 , and the mistakes that were made when a true and viable Palestinian state was not created at the same time . In hindsight , it is easy to see the mistakes made by the UN , the UK , the USA , and the other winners of WWII . The decisions were supported by the zeitgeist and mindset of the time , although not all decisions were unanimous.In 1948 , the UN was young , having been founded by 51 member countries in San @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member on 30 September 1947 . Today , the UN has 193 members . The Security Council , with veto power , remains the same today as at the time of the founding , made up of the largest winners of WWII , the USA , UK , France , China , and Russia ( that time the Soviet Union ) . The interests of the Palestinian people were not given the right attention after WWI . There was a rise in both Jewish and Arab nationalist movements , and several conflicts followed , including the major armed conflicts in 1936-1939 and 1944-1948 . The UN Partition Plan of the Palestinian land into two states , one Jewish and one Arab , was passed by the UN on 29 November 1947 , with 33 to 13 in favour , and 10 abstaining . On 14 May 1948 , the Palestine War ended with the proclamation of the State of Israel . Alas , the land of Palestine was not clearly declared as a state . We should know that at the end of WWII , the USA , the UK @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jewish refugee issue , including in sending Jews from Europe to Mandatory Palestine , mostly to objection from the Palestinians.Today , most people believe the only way out of the everlasting conflicts and wars between Israel and Palestine , is a two-state solution . But we should also know that there were some voices in 1947 advocating a Federal State for both Jews and Arabs . The UN Special Committee on Palestine ( UNSCP ) had a few country members voting for a one-state solution , notably India , Iran and Yugoslavia . In hindsight , we would most likely say this would have been better , indeed in principle , since race , ethnicity and similar factors should not play a role when drawing a state 's borders.When Mandatory Palestine was chosen by the international community as the land for the State of Israel , a Jewish homeland , other areas were also discussed , albeit perhaps not quite seriously , but Brazil , Madagascar , and other African countries were talked about . That time , most of Africa was still under colonial rule , hence decisions were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Palestine , made the decision where to create the State of Israel . They took into consideration historic , religious and emotional reasons , noting that the area has been the homeland both for Jews and Palestinians for thousands of years , and it is the birthplace of Judaism and Christianity , and thus also Islam , the last Arbrahamic religion . The area , and therefore Israel , has special meanings to believers everywhere , not the least to charismatic Christians in USA . Jerusalem is a holy city to all.As for foreign support for Israel and Palestine today , it is a fact that generally the USA and the West are strongly on the side of Israel , even after the 6-day war in 1967 when Israel occupied the West Bank and Gaza , worsened later , building up to the terrible ongoing Israel-Palestine/Hamas War . The USA has special closeness to Israel , much as a foothold against other Arab states . However , USA also has close cooperation with Egypt , and in recent years more than before , with Saudi Arabia and other Arab states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iraq . A major proportion of USA 's development an military aid goes to Israel and Egypt , without which the security situation would have been different.The Soviet Union and the Non-Aligned countries supported Palestine . Also in Europe and elsewhere in the West , there was support and activism on the side of Palestine , and at the same time , other groups and the establishment , were for Israel . When the Oslo Peace Accords of 1993 were presented , that was to some extent seen as radical and risky , as it could be interpreted as siding too much with the Palestinians . On the other hand , it was not much more than reviving what was the intention in 1948 , alas not being followed up actively that time , and not after 1993 . If the Holocaust tragedy had not happened , there would have many tens of millions of Jews in Europe and elsewhere today , to everyone 's benefit . Then it is probably not likely that Israel would have been created , but a good number of Jews would have settled in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , let me add here that this is hypothetical , as is also when some say that Israel should not exist . We have to debate within real-politic parameters and history can not be changed.I believe in the two-state solution as recommended in the Oslo Peace Accords of 1993 -- and the UN when the State of Israel was created in 1948 , parallel with a separate Palestinian State . Yet , had the decisions been made in 2023 , not in 1948 , I believe a Federal Israeli-Palestinian State would have been established , probably with provinces having a major degree of self-rule and autonomy . Such a state would have had Arab-Palestinian majority , but indeed included Jews . This type of state would be right in principle , but it is unrealistic in practise . Urgent efforts must be taken to implement a real two-state solution .
