<p> EVERY life lost in Israel 's campaign of extermination in Gaza is precious . The Jewish state is not differentiating between man , woman or child , combatant or non-combatant . In fact , the Israeli president has suggested there are no innocent civilians in Gaza , while Tel Aviv 's defence minister has described the besieged Strip 's people as ' animals ' . If anything , it is Israel that has displayed bestial behaviour by pursuing a scorched earth policy against the Palestinians . Part of its campaign of terror is the targeting of journalists and aid workers in the conflict zone . According to the Committee to Protect Journalists ' latest figures , at least 33 journalists and media workers have been killed since hostilities started on Oct 7 ; 28 are Palestinian , four Israelis and one Lebanese . Moreover , UNRWA , the multilateral body 's relief agency , says it has lost 70 staffers in the conflict . From these numbers it is clear that Israel is targeting journalists to silence voices highlighting the brutality in Gaza , as well as attacking aid workers trying to provide succour to the Palestinian people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Al Jazeera reporter Wael al-Dahdouh , who learnt that his wife , son , daughter and other family members had been massacred in an Israeli air raid while he was on air . <p> As we have just observed the International Day to End Impunity for Crimes against Journalists , it should be remembered that Israel is slaughtering media workers and their families with brazen impunity . Reporters Without Borders has said that war crimes have been committed against Palestinian journalists . While statements are important , global media bodies and civil society in the West particularly must pressure their governments to call for an immediate ceasefire , and hold Israel to account for its atrocities against civilians , including journalists and aid workers . Claims by states to respect media freedom will ring hollow until those responsible for forever silencing the voices of Palestinian journalists are brought to justice .
