<h> Faizabad Dharna Case <p> The one-of-its-kind precedence set by the Supreme Court in its Faizabad Dharna Case verdict is again in the spotlight , after review petitions filed by multiple political parties and institutions . As the hearing is making some progress , calling on the former chairman of Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority ( PEMRA ) , Absar Alam , to appear and submit a response clarifying his accusations of meddling in running news channels during the Faizabad Dharna of 2017 , is a bold and right move by the SC.Any interference or pressuring media goes on to set a very unhealthy and wrong precedent in keeping up democratic values . Media being the fifth pillar of democratic statecraft must stand as an independent institution . PEMRA 's former chief 's allegations of media coverage being manipulated make the Faizabad Dharna situation of 2017 a matter of national importance . Whether or not the media was being pressured must be established clearly and consequent action taken if such interference is proven.The original verdict itself stands as a democratic precedence that seriously questions the involvement of non-civilian institutions in politics . The apex court 's ongoing seriousness in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and make it public knowledge . Media holds extreme centrality in pushing public discourse , and for a sit-in that disrupted life and carried within it seeds of violence , the media 's role assumes even more responsibility . The events of 2017 though are long over but this case will make strides in upholding accountability and transparency when it comes to free media.In today 's world , the way media propaganda works is no more a secret . The Gaza-Israel situation is a big case in point . Our very recent history is also rife with propaganda campaigns run successfully through the media . But this only compromises the integrity of this democratic institution and as the review petitions make a headway , it will be a win if principles of justice find their way through the haze and failures are identified and corrected for the future .
