<h> South African govt has been strongly worded in its condemnation of Israel 's military operation in Gaza <p> JOHANNESBURG-South Africa and Chad have announced they will recall diplomats from Israel for " consultation " in response to the Israel-Hamas conflict . " The South African government has decided to withdraw all of its diplomats in Tel Aviv for consultation , " Minister in the Presidency Khumbudzo Ntshavheni said on Monday in a news conference to announce the outcome of a cabinet meeting held November 1 . The South African government told CNN that the country has three diplomats in Israel to be recalled . " Cabinet has also noted the continuing disparaging remarks of the Israeli ambassador to South Africa about those who are opposing the atrocities and the genocide of the Israeli government , " Ntshavheni said in the briefing , adding that the ambassador 's role " is becoming very untenable . " " A genocide under the watch of the international community can not be tolerated , " Ntshavheni said.Israel 's ambassador to South Africa , Eliav Belotserkovsky , has been a regular presence in South African media , including the public broadcaster , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed a resolution to downgrade its ties with Israel.The South African government has been strongly worded in its condemnation of Israel 's military operation in Gaza . In a media statement on November 4 , its foreign ministry said " it is a war crime for Israel to directly target Palestinian civilians in hospitals , ambulances , schools , apartment buildings , and in their private cars . " The ministry reiterated South Africa 's call for an " immediate ceasefire . " Meanwhile , Chad recalled the country 's charg ? d'affaires to Israel on November 4 in reaction to the conflict in Gaza , according to a statement from the government spokesperson posted on Facebook by the Chadian Ministry of Foreign Affairs . A post on the Chadian presidency website Monday said that the decision to recall the senior diplomat for consultations was taken in " indignation " at the ongoing conflict . " Chad condemns the loss of human lives of many innocent civilians and calls for a ceasefire leading to a lasting solution to the Palestinian question , " the government spokesperson 's statement said regarding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to call their diplomats back from Israel since the Gaza conflict began . Turkey has recalled its ambassador to Israel for " consultations " due to the " unfolding humanitarian tragedy in Gaza " and continuing Israeli airstrikes , the Turkish foreign ministry said in a statement Saturday . Several other countries , including Honduras , Colombia , Chile , Jordan and Bahrain , have also withdrawn their ambassadors . Last week , Bolivia said it was cutting diplomatic relations with Israel , citing " crimes against humanity committed against the Palestinian people " in the wake of Israel 's war with Hamas.
