<h> Ethical Cricket <p> Pakistan Cricket Board asking Muhamamd Rizwan to delete his X ( formerly Twitter ) post showing support for Gaza is a sorry state of affairs . Rizwan 's fans were enormously happy when he dedicated Pakistan 's win against Sri Lanka to the people of Gaza fighting oppression . But the unnecessary pressure on the Pakistani wicketkeeper to take down his post represents nothing but the intersection of politics , sports , and commercial interest . Seeing commercial interests win over ethics is a disappointing sight.There is generally a lot of pressure on cricketers regarding the code of conduct and performance . But the fact that PCB is not coming out to protect the cricketers against outside pressure but is , in fact , succumbing to that pressure is not a good precedence . Under duress from the International Cricket Board ( ICC ) and Board of Control for Cricket India ( BCCI ) , PCB is stealing away freedom of expression from popular cricket stars . This is a telling of how sponsorships and commercialism dominate the sports landscape and often push it towards immoral practices.The revelation that PCB accepted sponsorship from surrogate betting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trust in the organisation . Instead of protecting the cricketers , the PCB is indulged in dealings that take it off course in controlling illegal betting . For the cricketers who wish to play good cricket and uphold principles , this is a morale-breaking reality . It is rather easier to lose ethics to the glamour of the world of cricket but still , stars like Babar Azam and Muhammad Rizwan chose to decline multi-million offers from betting sponsors.These striking divergent attitudes of PCB and cricketers represent a clash of interests . It is important that PCB officials work towards transparency and that more scrutiny is employed to stop any person in power from accepting seemingly attractive but unethical sponsorships . The cricketers must be encouraged for their principled conduct and should be appreciated and recognised for the same . Pakistan cricket needs good performance as much as it needs ethical ownership of the sport .
