<h> Thousands of pro-Palestinian protesters march in Washington <h> Demonstrators stepping up pressure on President Joe Biden to end US support of Jewish state <p> WASHINGTON - Tens of thousands of pro-Palestinian protesters , some of them chanting ' Allah-o-Akbar ' marched through Washington Saturday in what was called the biggest US demonstration since Israel began its bombardment of Gaza , stepping up pressure on President Joe Biden to end U.S. ' support of the Jewish state . Similar protests were also held in cities across the United States that denounced Israel and called on the Biden administration to pressure Israel to stop its genocide of Palestinian people , according to US media reports.In Washington , raising slogans such as ' From the river to the sea , Palestine will be free , ' and donning black and white keffiyehs while holding Palestinian flags , the protesters , predominantly young individuals , gathered on the street leading to the White House . The protesters also splashed red paint at the gates of the White House , symbolizing the blood of Palestinians being ruthlessly killed and besieged Gaza , and attempted to scale the fence around the president 's residence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scene . Protesters also placed Palestinian flags and signs on monuments around the city . Organizers representing or endorsed by dozens of pro-Palestinian groups directed marchers to Freedom Plaza in the nation 's capital before looping past the White House . " Now is the time to stand with the besieged people of Palestine ! Gaza is being bombed by the hour . Its people are denied food , water and electricity by Israel . Tens of thousands more people are likely to die . We must ACT ! " the Act Now to Stop War and End Racism ( Answer ) coalition said on its website . The march , alongside protests in New York , Seattle and other US cities , was part of an intensifying push to demand both a ceasefire in the Israel-Gaza conflict and an end to US and western military aid to Israel . Demonstrations in support of Palestine were also staged in London , Berlin , Paris , Ankara and Istanbul with a similar message for both Israel and supportive Western governments.Meanwhile , US Congresswoman Rashida Tlaib criticized President Biden , saying he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his administration 's support for Israel . Tlaib posted a video to X , formerly known as Twitter , showing pro-Palestinian marches around the country with tens of thousands of participants , adding a message for the president . " Mr. President , the American people are not with you on this one , " she said . " We will remember in 2024 , " the year US elections are due to take place . The Biden administration has strongly backed Israel in its conflict against Hamas , including pledging billions in aid for the country . In recent days , the administration has called for a " humanitarian pause " in the war in order to assist Gaza civilians . Tlaib , who is of Palestinian heritage , is one of the loudest voices in Congress in favour of a full cease-fire in the Middle Eastern conflict . Over a dozen House Democrats , Tlaib included , signed a resolution backing a cease-fire last month . Israeli air strikes have killed more than 9,200 Palestinian people , including over 3,800 children . Humanitarian organizations have described a dire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been displaced and most are running out of food , water and medical supplies . Israeli air strikes leveled entire neighbourhoods , and Israel cut off all communication in the last week for hours . Gaza is still without fuel deliveries due to an Israeli blockade , which United Nations leaders have warned will likely lead to an end of aid deliveries and result in the territory completely going without power , including at critical hospitals . Secretary of State Antony Blinken was in Israel on Friday to advocate for the Biden administration 's proposal of a humanitarian pause in the conflict , but Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has signaled that there will be no pause .
