<h> Pak Multilateral Commitments <p> Pakistan 's regional and multilateral commitments are headed in the right direction with the caretaker Prime Minister participating in the summit of the Economic Cooperation Organisation ( ECO ) . ECO , despite its shortcomings , is an important regional organisation and making it functional in areas of trade , transport , and connectivity will very much benefit the member countries . Subsequent participation of the caretaker PM in the emergency conference of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation ( OIC ) on Palestine , which will be convened in Saudi Arabia , reflects the country 's steadfastness in its moral and principled commitments.The ECO forum is an opportunity for Pakistan to engage bilaterally with member countries . Being hosted for the first time in Uzbekistan , this summit holds significance . Uzbekistan , in the past few months , has surfaced as the host of many important multilateral forums . Being an important country in Central Asia and also a member country of the Trans Afghan Railway Project ( the joint connectivity venture of Pakistan , Afghanistan , and Pakistan ) , Uzbekistan can be considered Pakistan 's key partner . In times when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that can benefit it economically , close cooperation with Central Asian countries will be helpful.Being one of the three founding members of ECO , Pakistan 's presence and commitment to Vision 2025 will motivate other members to follow suit . For the Muslim world , the ongoing Gaza situation is very challenging and though ECO 's prime agenda revolves around trade and economics , the summit can still be a solidarity forum and a message must come out of it . The following OIC conference is , however , definitely expected to present the stance of the Muslim world on Israel 's unjust war on Gaza.Pakistan has , in its 76 years of existence , stood firmly in its economic as well as moral commitments . The ECO summit is a shred of evidence of Pakistan seeking economic relations with the countries of the region , while participation in the OIC conference speaks for the country 's unwavering stance on humanitarian causes , especially where violence is inflicted on Muslims .
