<h> Canadian poet Rupi Kaur declines White House invitation to Diwali event for US support to Israel <p> OTTAWA-Renowned Canadian poet Rupi Kaur said she is declining an invitation from the White House to attend a Diwali event hosted by the vice president , citing the Biden administration 's support of Israel as an intensifying bombardment of Gaza continues.Kaur criticised the administration for its backing of Israel as it continues a military offensive in the besieged Palestinian enclave , where the death toll has continued to mount . " I refuse any invitation from an institution that supports the collective punishment of a trapped civilian population -- 50% of whom are children , " the " Milk and Honey " author said in a statement , adding that the Biden administration continues to " justify this genocide against Palestinians . " CNN has reached out to the White House for comment . More than 10,000 people have been killed in Gaza since Israel launched its military offensive a month ago , the Hamas-controlled health ministry in the strip said Monday . Israel declared war on Hamas after the Islamist militant group launched a brutal attack on October 7 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Israel retaliated by launching an air and ground offensive on Gaza , vowing to eliminate the militant group . Israeli airstrikes have since hit schools , refugee camps , and ambulances , sparking outrage from the international community and fueling large protests around the globe . Israel has said it is targeting Hamas operatives and military infrastructure in Gaza , and that the group " intentionally embeds its assets in civilian areas " and uses civilians as human shields.Kaur , an Indian-born poet who has garnered a strong following on social media , said the Hindu holiday of Diwali is meant to be a " celebration of righteousness over falsehood and knowledge over ignorance . " " I 'm surprised this administration finds it acceptable to celebrate Diwali , when their support of the current atrocities against Palestinians represent the exact opposite of what this holiday means to many of us , " she writes . For Kaur , Diwali is a time " to reflect on what it means to fight for freedom against oppression , " according to the statement .
