<h> Germany , Turkey leaders trade barbs over Israel-Hamas war <p> BERLIN-Germany and Turkey 's leaders traded barbs Friday over Israel 's war on Hamas , with Frank-Walter Steinmeier stressing the country 's right to exist while Recep Tayyip Erdogan demanded an end to Israel 's military operation . Erdogan is on a highly controversial visit to staunch Israel defender Germany , made more tricky by his accusations directed at Israel . The Turkish leader has repeatedly branded Israel a " terror state " and defended Gaza 's rulers Hamas as " liberators " fighting for their land.In response to the statements , Steinmeier made clear Germany 's position that the unprecedented October 7 onslaught by Hamas on Israel was a " terror attack " , and Berlin viewed the group as a " terror organisation " . A separate statement issued by the Turkish presidency on the talks said " Erdogan stated that Israel 's attacks on Palestinian lands must end and that the reaction from the whole world against human rights violations is important " . Erdogan has been increasingly critical of Israel 's war against Hamas , triggered by the group 's attack that Israel said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 240 hostages taken . While Chancellor Olaf Scholz travelled to Israel to offer Germany 's unconditional and unwavering support , the Turkish leader has accused Israel of committing war crimes with its bombardment and ground incursion in Gaza . The death toll there has hit 11,500 , mostly civilians and including thousands of children , according to Gaza 's Hamas-run health ministry.Erdogan 's stance has sparked questions in Germany about the wisdom of hosting him at this time , with the opposition conservatives and even the liberal FDP , a member of Scholz 's coalition , urging the chancellor to scrap the invitation . The tensions were palpable as Erdogan arrived at Steinmeier 's official residence earlier Friday . The unsmiling leaders exchanged a terse handshake before the Turkish president was led indoors to sign a guestbook , while his German counterpart stood stony-faced by his side . Later Friday , Erdogan is due to dine with Scholz . Characterised as an " uncomfortable partner " by Scholz 's spokesman , Erdogan was on his first visit to Germany since 2020 . Scholz gave a hint of the tone at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fascism " accusation against Israel by Erdogan as " absurd " . Yet the Turkish leader ramped up his verbal attacks against Israel this week , calling it a " terror state " and alleging the West was " trying to exonerate the murderers " . The daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung said Germany offered the " ideal stage " for Erdogan to position himself as a voice for the " global south " . " As the loudest critic of Israel , he is underlining his demand for leadership of the Islamic world , " said the daily . Another issue that Erdogan may raise is Turkey 's hopes to buy 40 Eurofighter Typhoon jets , which , according to Turkey 's defence ministry , co-manufacturer Germany opposes . Because of the differences , Scholz 's centre-left-led government said it was all the more important to keep talking . " We have always had difficult partners whom we have to deal with , " said Scholz 's spokesman Steffen Hebestreit , acknowledging that it is a visit " that will be challenging given the current circumstances " .
