<h> ' No more life there ' : Gaza refugees start anew in Bosnia <p> Salakovac - Bosnia and Herzegovina , Nov 24 ( AFP/APP ) : More than three decades after Palestinian Samir El-Barawy and his new Bosnian bride fled to Gaza to escape bloody fighting in Yugoslavia , the couple has been forced out again by war . The flight back to Bosnia from his home in northern Gaza was filled with peril , and their house was hit by an air strike just days after a Hamas onslaught across southern Israel triggered conflict anew . " I left everything behind , but I 'm alive " , the 59-year-old Palestinian told AFP just days after arriving at a refugee centre in Bosnia 's Salakovac . El-Barawy said the strike on his home " was like an earthquake . " Following the attack , El-Barawy and more than a dozen family members decided to move south along bombed-out roads littered with the dead . " We saw corpses along the road , dead people in cars . Dogs were roaming around the corpses . There was a very strong smell , " said El- Barawy . Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel 's retaliatory strikes and ground offensive have killed about 15,000 people , according to the Hamas government in Gaza . El-Barawy 's return to Bosnia marks a dramatic change in fortunes for his family . The Palestinian first arrived in Yugoslavia decades ago when the socialist federation welcomed students from around the world . In 1991 , he was studying in Sarajevo as war threatened to overrun Bosnia , following an outbreak in fighting first in Slovenia and then later Croatia . " It 's going to erupt here , " said his wife 's father as he encouraged them to leave . The couple along with their infant daughter Dalila followed the advice and fled before Sarajevo was encircled by Serb forces in a years-long war that saw around 100,000 killed in Bosnia . Despite perennial bouts of fighting amid the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , the family prospered in Gaza . El-Barawy ran a strawberry plantation just " 500 metres from the Israeli border " and exported thousands of tonnes of fruit annually , including to European markets .
