<h> The Lesson to be Learnt from War on Gaza <p> Israel is a terrorist state . It has thrown into dustbin the UN resolutions and OSLO Accord . America and England are supposed to intervene and settle the Middle East conflict amicably and peacefully according to UN resolutions . But it is highly sorrowful that they are backing Israel . It is the shocking element of their foreign policy and they have incurred the wrath of all people worldwide who believe in humanity , justice and peace . The American president Joe Biden and the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu plan to contest the upcoming elections . They are fanning the war flames to win the hearts of the religious extremists and want victory at the cost of the blood of the innocent civilians of Gaza . It is said that Benjamin Netanyahu is involved in financial corruption . He has no chance to win the next elections . He is acting like Adolf Hitler . Gaza tragedy is the Second Holocaust . Benjamin Netanyahu must be summoned by International Court of Justice and punished for War crimes.I salute the Prime Minister of Spain , who visited Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately stop attacking the civilians of Gaza and end the war . No Muslim country has severed the diplomatic relations with Israel . Shame on them . Great are the countries which are non- Muslims and have cut the diplomatic relations with Israel . I salute the President of South Africa , who announced to lodge complaint and file case against the Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu as a war criminal . The way the citizens of Gaza are killed , it is unprecedented in the recent human history . UN Secretary General is a great humanitarian . He is doing his best to end the war and resolve the crisis in the light of UN resolutions but his cry is a cry in the wilderness . It is falling on deaf ears.The temporary cease fire for four days is a good omen for peace . Both sides have signed the truce to release the hostages and prisoners . Benjamin Netanyahu is under great pressure from the Israelis to get released the hostages . America and the West pleaded for the release of the Israeli hostages but never spoke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who were in Israeli jails for decades . Where lies justice ? The tall claim of justice and democracy need impartial attitude and action . Are the Palestinians animals and Israelis angels ? Justice is justice . Justice for all is the slogan of the Americans guaranteed in the American constitution . I fear that after getting the Israeli hostages released , Benjamin Netanyahu may feel free to kill the innocent civilians of Gaza and quench his thirst with the blood of Muslims . He is a political fox cherishing cunning designs . He has shed the blood of fifteen thousand Muslim citizens . The Zionists believe the shedding of the blood of non- Jews as a virtue . They still lament on their defeat by the Muslims in the Battle of Khaiber , fought between them and the Prophet Mohammad . The Christian hardliners still desire vengeance for the Crusades fought between the Muslims and the Christians . Thanks to God , the enlightened and humanitarian Jews and Christians shun such historical bitter events and play their potent rule for peace . They are the people who are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Palestinians have never made the Middle East dispute as a religious conflict . They only want the right to live as an independent nation . They want political rights as granted to them by UN . They want the implementation ofTwo State Formula . But , the Israelis have made it a religious issue . It is mentioned with a heavy heart that the radical Jews and Christian hardliners have joined to kill the innocent Muslims of Gaza . But great are those Jews and Christians who have raised their voices against the violation of human rights in Gaza by Israel . Their rallies and protests are the proof of their respect for human rights . Such people are the cream of humanity . They believe in justice and peace , irrespective of religious and racial differences.There are 57 Muslim countries . They lag behind in education , modernization , science and technology . They have no unity . Twenty Arab Muslim countries are under the stone wall of monarchy . Some others are in the tight and tenacious grip of military dictatorship . A few are democratic but their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into zero is equal to zero . Zero added by zero is equal to zero . Then what to do ? All Muslims must revolt against monarchies and establish democratic systems . The Muslims must abandon sectarianism , priesthood and pseudo Sufism and promote enlightenment , rationality and scientific research and scientific mindset to face their enemies . Until , there are monarchies , the Muslims will never unite . Let the non- monarchies unite and make " Muslim United League " to protect the Muslims rights . Organization of Islamic Countries ( OIC ) has totally failed to protect the rights of the Muslims.It is a plaything in the hands of monarchists . I strongly appeal to the pioneers of peace to shed aside religious extremism and racial discrimination and unite humans in the name of humanity . Without justice , there can be no peace . The freedom fighters of one nation are the terrorists of the other nation and the terrorists of one nation are the freedom fighters of the other nation . Who is who ? What is the criterion to judge as to who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ones who are aggressors and do not abide by International Law and do not implement UN resolutions are terrorists . Now , let the peace lovers decide whether Israel is a terrorist state or the Palestinians are terrorists.In the end , I would like to share with all humans world wide the lesson that I learned from the tragedy of the genocide of the civilians of Gaza . And that is : Abulala Al- Muarri was a great Arabian poet . He was so kind and soft hearted that he never eat the meet . He used to eat vegetables and beans . Once , his host put before him a dish of a roasted partridge . He refused to eat it and said a few verses . Dr. Allama Iqbal in his poetry book titled ( The Wing of Gabriel ) wrote a poem titled " Abulala Muarri " and conveyed the message of the poet in his own words . Muarri addresses the partridge and says :
