<h> We Are on Precarious Ground <p> Clearly , public opinion has shifted in a more pro-Palestinian direction , especially among younger Americans and people of color . Up until now , this fact has registered mainly in polling data . But with the past six weeks of Israel 's brutal assault on Gaza , there 's been an outpouring of statements of support for Palestinian rights and opposition to Israel 's unrelenting war against the Palestinian people.It was expected that pro-Palestinian support would be countered by groups supportive of Israel . But the virulence of the pro-Israeli counterattacks has been worrisome . A major American Jewish organisation purporting to defend civil rights called on universities to ban Students for Justice in Palestine ( SJP ) , calling it antisemitic , and , in an extraordinary move , called on the US government to investigate whether the students could be charged with " providing material support for terrorism . " While incautious language may have been used by some students expressing support for Palestinians , there 's nothing to substantiate the dangerous charge of terrorism . Some universities have responded by banning the SJP , together with Jewish Voice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young progressive American Jews supportive of Palestinian rights . Despite its Jewish membership , JVP has also been termed antisemitic by the same pro-Israel advocates.A week ago , a Midwestern state 's Democratic Party chair sent a press release denouncing officers of the Young Democrats on one of the state 's college campuses . The student Democrats ' letter ended with a nuanced version of what pro-Israel groups have come to insist is a controversial statement . Instead of saying " From the river to the sea , Palestine shall be free , " they wrote " May every Palestinian be free , from the river to the sea . " Despite the student 's best efforts , the state party chair accused them of using antisemitic language , making Jewish students feel unsafe on campus , and supporting genocide against the Jewish people , and called on them to resign from their elected positions in the Democratic group . In justifying this harsh response , the chair cited the definition of the original phrase , provided by a pro-Israel group.Last week , a respected community-based organisation in Maryland that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of the Palestinian people . They denounced the massacres perpetrated by Hamas on October 7th and the Israeli bombing campaign that had taken the lives of thousands of Palestinians . The CASA statement continued that as people of color they identified with the struggle for justice and freedom because , " the Palestinian struggle mirrors our won . " CASA 's solidarity was met by a letter from a group of Maryland legislators and elected officials demanding that CASA rescind their statement , declaring it " antisemitic . " As state legislators who decide the state 's budget , they more pointedly stated : " This might be an appropriate time to reevaluate the state 's mechanism for providing financial aid and support to our immigrant community . " Subtle , this was not . Since thousands of immigrants depend on CASA for critical services and advocacy , they felt compelled to apologise and take down the statement . The legislators have not yet relented in their threat to eliminate the group 's funding.Finally , an op-ed published in the New York Daily News this week calling for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and outrage . Instead , it passed without comment from elected officials concerned about the spread of hate . The column 's author , a prominent New York philanthropist , praised JDL founder Meir Kahane and extolled the group 's virtues , claiming it represented strong Jews and a firm response to treats against their safety . He ignored the facts that for decades the JDL was on the FBI terrorism list , was a major perpetrator of terrorist violence during the 1970s and 1980s , and was banned in Israel as a racist terror group that spawned the likes of the individual who massacred Muslim worshippers in Hebron 's Ibrahim Mosque and the individual who assassinated Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin . That a major US paper would publish such a piece without comment indicates just how dangerous the situation has become.From these examples , it would seem the wrong discourse is being scrutinised .
