<p> JERUSALEM : As the Advent season unfolds , the Middle East remains embroiled in deadly conflicts , with violence spreading across Israel , Gaza , Lebanon , and Syria . Peace is a distant hope for many , and the spirit of joy , which marks this time of year , feels increasingly absent . Yet , amidst the devastation , Cardinal Pierbattista Pizzaballa pic , the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem , has called on Christians to hold on to hope and work toward reconciliation . <p> In a recent interview with Renardo Schlegelmilch , editor-in-chief of Germany-based Domradio.De , Cardinal Pizzaballa reflected on the ongoing challenges facing the region , particularly during Advent . " It is a very painful situation , very distressing , " the Cardinal stated . " We must be resilient . We can not give in to this situation . Advent is a time for us as Christians to live in the expectation that Jesus Christ is not just a word but a force for good in our real lives . " <p> The cardinal has lived at the heart of the Middle East for over three decades , witnessing the cyclical nature of violence in the region . Though not the first war in his tenure , he noted that this conflict has a unique emotional and psychological toll on both Israelis and Palestinians . " The emotional impact on both sides is enormous , " he explained . " The war creates mistrust and hatred , and while the destroyed infrastructure can be rebuilt , the relationships will take a long time to heal . " <p> Though many view the ongoing conflict through a religious lens , Cardinal Pizzaballa emphasised that the situation is far more complex . He firmly believes that religions have the potential to drive reconciliation and healing , provided that religious leaders embrace their roles as agents of peace . " Religion can become a promoter of encounter and life if we do not isolate ourselves and pay more attention to others , " he said . <p> One of the cardinal 's most striking gestures occurred at the outset of the Gaza war when he offered himself as a hostage to Hamas . This self-sacrificial act , which made headlines globally , was motivated by his desire to counter the prevailing rhetoric of violence and fear . " I have no family , " he explained . " My life is important , but my way of living also involves giving life . " <p> While political solutions may seem elusive in the current climate , Cardinal Pizzaballa believes that hope can still thrive . " Hope comes from within , " he reflected . " It is an attitude to life . We see its signs in the selfless actions of people , even in the most difficult of circumstances . " <p> For the cardinal , Advent remains a time of reflection and renewal . Despite the chaos around him , he remains convinced that the spirit of hope , grounded in faith and acts of kindness , can transcend the darkness . " Everywhere , even in war zones , there are wonderful people who give up part of their lives for others . That gives us hope . " --Agencies
