<h> Gaza to Kashmir <p> Ashraf Sehrai is one of the many names who fearlessly spoke up for Indian-Occupied Kashmir for as long as he lived . Yesterday , his third death anniversary was observed . His death in Indian captivity is one grain in the desert of oppression Occupied Kashmir has witnessed . Looking closer , the projection of ' all is well ' turns out to be a masquerade only . The ruling BJP in India is perhaps well aware of what it has brought on Kashmir since Article 370 and hence the special status of the valley was revoked . And that is exactly why there is no single candidate of the BJP contesting elections from Kashmir . <p> Kashmir 's indigenous All Parties Hurriyat Conference ( APHC ) under the chairmanship of Mirwaiz Umar Farooq survives as one key unified symbol of the Kashmiri freedom struggle . India , after banning various factions of Hurriyat one after the other in recent months , will soon come for the remaining political leaders and parties that represent the actual will of the native Kashmiris . After all , oppressors behave alike , be it Gaza or Kashmir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when it comes to their years of history as perpetual oppressors . Tied otherwise in an unbreakable defence partnership , both countries converge on these morally indefensible tactics . It should not surprise us that India uses similar oppressive tactics in Kashmir as Israel does in Palestine and especially Gaza these days , right ? Mass graves in Kashmir and excessive use of rape to inflict moral damage are well-documented crimes India has committed in Kashmir . Not to mention the tying of civilians to military cars as human shields . <p> While Omar Farooq reiterates the cause , it reminds each one of us that Kashmir is far from settled . The difficult thing to remember and to keep reminding the world is that the dispute is not resolved yet . India 's one-sided forced action does not settle it for the Kashmiris who have opened their eyes dreaming of nothing but freedom . This stance must be repeated at all times on all fora so that the world knows that this political issue requires a political settlement .
