<h> JI slams Israeli attack on Iran <p> LAHORE : - Jamaat-e-Islami Emir Hafiz Naeem ur Rehman has urged the government to take immediate and practical steps in support of Iran . " Israel has become a rampaging elephant , posing a grave threat to regional security , " he saidwhile addressing the newly elected Central Consultative Council ( Majlis-e-Shura ) at Mansoorah on Saturday . " We strongly condemn Israel attack on Iran . It is a dangerous escalation that threatens the peace and stability of the entire region , " he said , reaffirming the party 's solidarity with the government and people of Iran . The people of Pakistan , he said , stand firmly with Iran in the face of Israeli aggression.The three-day session of the Shura is being held at the JI headquarters in Lahore , with elected members from across the country in attendance . Over ninety male and female members took oath at the opening session . A unanimous resolution was also passed condemning Israeli terrorism and expressing support for Iran . Hafiz Naeem ur Rehman is chairing the proceedings . In his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supported the government during the 1965 war despite political differences with President Ayub Khan . He added that the JI revived that spirit during the recent Pakistan-India military crisis by prioritizing national interest over political disagreements . Commenting on the attack on Iran , Rehman said , " It is tragic and condemnable . Jamaat will playits role in this critical hour . The government must step forward in Iran 's support . Iran is a majorforce backing resistance movements like Hamas . " He appreciated the recent resolutions passed by the National Assembly and Senate in supportof Iran , and also welcomed the National Assembly Speaker 's statement rejecting the recognitionof Israel.Highlighting Israeli atrocities in Palestine , Rehman called it the worst form of oppression inhuman history . He expressed deep disappointment at the silence of the internationalcommunity , including the United Nations , the OIC , and Muslim governments . He urged theGovernment of Pakistan to reflect the will of the nation and take a leading role in protecting thepeople of Gaza from Israeli terrorism . He demanded a clear message be sent to Israel and itsally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must end . <p> He also called for urgent arrangements to deliver food , medicines , and aid to Palestinians.On the Kashmir issue , Rehman reiterated Jamaat-e-Islami 's long-standing position that thedispute must be resolved in accordance with UN resolutions . He condemned India 's continuedhuman rights violations in Occupied Kashmir and stated that no negotiations with India shouldproceed without addressing Kashmir . He warned that the Modi-led Hindutva regime 's maliciousagenda must be exposed globally , saying , " Israel , India , and the United States form an axis of evil . " <p> Rehman said Jamaat-e-Islami is a movement for the establishment of Islamic values and <p> justice . He called on party members and leadership to be fully prepared to lead social change ,
