<h> Qatar : The Regional Mediator <p> Asad Mirza In a region besieged with internal squabbling 's , tribal and regional superiority , false pride and mostly hollow pompous statements not followed by any ground action , Qatar has emerged as a powerful mediator . This is not the first time that the tiny and wealthy Gulf nation has stepped in as a crisis mediator or a facilitator of talks between arch enemies . In the past it has successfully worked on deals that relate to Yemen in 2007 , Lebanon in 2008 , and most recently in Afghanistan in 2021 , besides those in Syria , Sudan , Chad , and Eritrea . It has also brokered talks between Russia and Ukraine , securing the return of several Ukrainian children . The emirate has spent nearly two decades deploying its oil and gas wealth , the powerful Qatari-owned television channel Al Jazeera , and a significant portion of its increasingly skilled diplomatic corps , to make itself one of the world 's most indispensable fixers . A Qatari official speaking on condition of anonymity told AFP that mediation and conflict resolution is an essential part of Qatar 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engaged on this part of the diplomacy . It has carved out an unusual niche as a key American ally -- it hosts a major U.S. military base -- with extensive Islamist connections , strong enough for Washington 's bitter enemies to feel comfortable living in Doha not far from U.S. troops . Qatar 's rise as a mediator achieved global prominence a decade ago , when it allowed establishment of " political offices " for Hamas and the Taliban -- embassy-like bases for senior figures of the organisations -- to set up in Doha under U.S. auspices , to facilitate negotiations . Qatar 's role as a mediator and a close U.S. ally offers obvious strategic dividends for a small country surrounded by large , well-armed neighbours in a volatile region . It shares its only land border with Saudi Arabia , and it sits across the Gulf from Iran . Qatar essentially bolstered its soft power image through the phenomenal reach of Al Jazeera , which also helped it counter negative coverage against the country in the western media about migrant labour , particularly during the run-up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues such as its treatment of women . Allegedly , Doha serves as one of two main external bases for Hamas , the other is in Turkey . In this regard the Israeli Government has helped too . Over the past five years it has allowed Qatar to fund Hamas in Gaza through transfers of cash -- around $30 million a month -- and fuel . Israel has done so principally to avoid taking responsibility for the welfare of people living there , but also in the hope that by sustaining Hamas in Gaza it would widen the split between Gaza and the West Bank , undermine the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) and make the prospect of a unified Palestinian position impossible . Commenting on Qatar 's ties with Hamas , Bader Al Saif , a professor of history at Kuwait University told APR that Hamas has different ties with Qatar . Qatar has been a very key interlocutor when it comes to presenting aid to Gaza 's infrastructure in the past . Gaza has been decimated a few times by Israel in the past , and that required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely veiled by various parties in the region in the Middle East , but by Qatar as well . Al Saif presented another perspective of the Qatari foreign policy saying that as a small state , it requires a secure region for it to thrive . So it would like to see peace and prosperity become the mainstream in the region . That has n't been the case , unfortunately , for the Middle East . In addition , Qatar has also been a victim of a Gulf rift in the past few years when Saudi Arabia , UAE and others blockaded it in the region . But through gritty tenaciousness it emerged as a winner in that situation too , proving the capabilities of its rulers . In the current conflict , the Qataris claim their close ties with Hamas have enabled them to help secure the release of an American mother and daughter from Chicago , who were visiting the Nahal Oz kibbutz less than two miles from Gaza when Hamas terrorists launched their attack , captured them and took them into captivity . The release of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official statement thanking the Qatari and Israeli governments " for their partnership " in securing the release of the two Americans Apparently , signals from Qatar that it may be able to secure the release of more hostages has also been a key factor in Israel 's decision to delay its ground invasion of Gaza as part of the newly-formed Israeli emergency government 's aim to annihilate Hamas . Qatar began to carve out its role as a credible mediator years ago , beginning in 2008 , when it brought the Hezbollah and its western-backed opponents to the negotiating table , when Hezbollah took over key infrastructure installations in Lebanon , including the airport and major seaports . The talks resulted in the Doha Agreement , which prevented the crisis from escalating and plunging Lebanon into another civil war . Qatar 's working relationships with traditional U.S. adversaries such as Iran and Russia -- or non-state groups like Hamas and the Taliban -- have made it an invaluable partner for the U.S. and other Western countries . Analysts say the ability of Qatar to maintain good relations with both non-state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while still being a strategic partner to the United States , will continue to enhance its importance on the global stage . Lina Khatib , director of the SOAS Middle East Institute at SOAS University of London , in an article last week for Barron 's opined that , Qatar is framing this achievement -- and associated praise from the U.S. -- as proof that it is correct in its strategy of keeping communication lines open with multiple opposing actors . Its role in the current conflict is giving its geopolitical ambitions a boost . Though its geopolitical ambitions might be a bit debatable , but its approach has proved that a sane and doggedly pursued policy utilising diplomatic and mediation skills can certainly provide you a seat at the high table at the global level . ( The author is a Delhi-based senior political and international affairs commentator. )
