<h> Israel pressured by allies over plight of civilians in Gaza as thousands flee enclave 's north <p> PTI Updated : November 08 , 2023 22:31 IST <p> Deir Al-Balah ( Gaza Strip ) , Nov 8 ( AP ) Israel faced pressure from some of its closest allies on Wednesday over the plight of civilians in Gaza , where thousands streamed on foot out of the enclave 's north because of dwindling food and water and increased fighting in urban areas . Over 7 per cent of Gaza 's population of 2.3 million have already left their homes , but the number making their way south has quickened recently as Israeli troops battle Hamas militants inside Gaza City and the humanitarian situation grows increasingly dire . The Group of Seven wealthy industrial nations announced a unified stance on the Israel-Hamas war after intensive meetings in Tokyo , condemning Hamas and supporting Israel 's right to self-defence . But the group also called on Wednesday for the " unimpeded " delivery of food , water , medicine and fuel , and for " humanitarian pauses " in the fighting . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has left open the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has ruled out a broader cease-fire unless all hostages are freed . There is no end in sight to the war triggered by Hamas ' deadly October 7 assault inside Israel . Israel has said the battle to end Hamas ' rule and crush its military capabilities will be long and difficult , and that it will maintain some form of control over the coastal enclave indefinitely -- though how it will achieve that remains unclear . Support for the war remains strong inside Israel , where the focus has been on the fate of the more than 240 hostages taken by Hamas and other militant groups . THE ROAD OUT OF THE NORTH About 15,000 people fled northern Gaza on Tuesday -- triple the number that left Monday -- according to the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs . On Wednesday , thousands more made their way down Salah al-Din Street , Gaza 's main north-south highway , during a daily window set by Israel , now extended to five hours . Families filled the road , almost all on foot , with men and women carrying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Most had only a few belongings in backpacks . A few families rode on donkey carts , holding white flags as they approached Israeli tanks . The UN said some reported people arrested as they crossed Israeli checkpoints . " We did n't have food or drinking water ... They struck the bakeries . There is no life in Gaza , " said Abeer Akila , who left her home in Gaza City with her family and neighbours after heavy bombardment overnight . Residents reported loud explosions overnight into Wednesday across Gaza City and in the adjacent Shati refugee camp , which houses Palestinian families who fled from or were driven out of what is now Israel during the 1948 war surrounding its establishment . The Israeli army 's chief spokesperson , Rear Adm . Daniel Hagari , said late Tuesday that ground forces had reached " the depths of Gaza City . " The army said Wednesday that it killed one of Hamas ' leading developers of rockets and other weapons , without saying where he was killed . Hamas has denied that Israeli troops have made any significant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to independently confirm battlefield claims from either side . Israel is focusing its operations on the city , which was home to some 650,000 people before the war and where the military says Hamas has its central command and a labyrinth of tunnels . Hundreds of thousands of Palestinians have heeded Israeli orders in recent weeks to flee the north . But tens of thousands remain , many sheltering at hospitals or UN schools . The trickle of aid entering Gaza from the south is largely barred from going north , which has been without running water for weeks . Hospitals running low on supplies are performing surgeries -- including amputations -- without anesthesia , the UN aid office said . It said the last functioning bakeries shut down on Tuesday for lack of fuel , water and flour , and some of those on the road south have talked about living on only one piece of pita bread a day . Majed Haroun , a teacher who remains in Gaza City , said women and children who lost families go door to door begging for food . " No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . CONDITIONS LITTLE BETTER IN THE SOUTH The new arrivals from the north are squeezing into homes with extended family or in UN schools-turned-shelters where hundreds of thousands are taking refuge . At one , 600 people must share a single toilet , according to the UN office . Israeli strikes have continued in the southern zone . One on Wednesday hit a family house in the Nuseirat refugee camp , killing at least 18 people and wounding dozens of others , according to Iyad Abu Zaher , director of Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital , where the dead and wounded were brought . He said the toll could rise as medics and first responders searched the rubble . Hundreds of trucks carrying aid have been allowed to enter Gaza from Egypt since October 21 . But " there is an ocean of needs in Gaza right now , and what 's been getting in is a drop in the ocean . We need fuel , we need water , we need food , and we need medical supplies , " Dominic Allen of the United Nations Population Fund said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Nasser hospital in Khan Younis , doctors say they have seen a sharp rise in premature births that they blame on the trauma of the war . In one bed , Shouq Hararah was recovering after giving birth to premature twins three days ago ; a boy and a girl . " There were no proper birth procedures , no anesthesia , painkillers , or anything " she said . A month of relentless bombardment in Gaza since the Hamas attack has killed more than 10,500 Palestinians -- two-thirds of them women and minors , according to the Health Ministry in the Hamas-run territory . More than 2,300 others are believed to have been buried by strikes that in some cases have demolished entire city blocks . More than 1,400 people have died in Israel since the start of the war , most of them civilians killed by Hamas militants during their incursion . Israel says 32 of its soldiers have been killed in Gaza since the ground offensive began , and Palestinian militants have continued to fire rockets into Israel on a daily basis . Israeli officials say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilian deaths on Hamas , accusing it of operating in residential areas . Gaza 's Health Ministry does not distinguish between civilians and combatants in its casualty reports . The war has stoked wider tensions , with Israel and Lebanon 's Hezbollah militant group trading fire along the border . More than 160 Palestinians have been killed in the Israeli-occupied West Bank since the war began , mainly during violent protests and gunbattles with Israeli forces during arrest raids . Some 250,000 Israelis have been forced to evacuate from communities along the borders with Gaza and Lebanon . ( AP ) PYPY <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
