<h> Hezbollah says it is introducing new weapons in ongoing battles with Israeli troops <p> PTI Updated : November 11 , 2023 22:31 IST <p> Beirut , Nov 11 ( AP ) The leader of Lebanon 's militant Hezbollah group said Saturday his fighters have introduced new weapons , including a missile with a heavy warhead in the ongoing fighting along the Lebanon-Israel border , adding that they will keep using the tense frontier to pressure Israel . Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah also blasted the United States over the Israel-Hamas war , saying it is the only country that can stop Israel 's wide offensive on the Gaza Strip but does n't do so . He said attacks on U.S. troops in Iraq and Syria , that Washington says have reached more than 40 rockets and suicide drone attacks , will continue until the war in Gaza comes to an end . Nasrallah 's comments came as the situation along Lebanon 's southern border continues to escalate . Hezbollah on Friday attacked northern Israel with three suicide drones after an Israeli strike in central Syria killed seven Hezbollah fighters . Nasrallah did not claim responsibility for a suicide drone attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thursday but called it " a great achievement . " Hezbollah and Israeli troops have been exchanging fire along the Lebanon-Israel border since October 8 , a day after Hamas ' deadly assault in southern Israel that left at least 1,200 Israeli civilians and troops dead and more than 200 taken hostages . Hezbollah officials say that by attacking Israeli posts along the border , the Iran-backed group is keeping three Israeli army divisions busy at a time when Israeli troops are pushing into the Gaza Strip where more than 11,000 people have been killed over the past five weeks , according to the Hamas-run Health Ministry . " The side that can stop this aggression , is the side that is managing this aggression . It is America , " Nasrallah said , referring to the United States , a main supporter of Israel . Nasrallah said that the fighting along Lebanon 's southern border has witnessed changes in recent days , including the weapons used and the depth of the strikes inside Israel . He said that Hezbollah has been sending unmanned surveillance and reconnaissance drones into northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to base with information . On Saturday Hezbollah said its fighters attacked at least three Israeli posts as well as an infantry unit on the Israeli side of the border , claiming to have scored direct hits . An Israeli drone strike killed a fighter and wounded two others who are members of the Shiite Muslim Amal group of Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri , according to a statement released by the group that is allied with Hezbollah . Ali Daoud became the first Amal fighter to be killed in action since the fighting began , while Hezbollah has lost nearly 70 fighters during the past five weeks . Nasrallah said the group on Saturday used one Burkan rocket against an Israeli military post along the border . He said the rocket can carry a warhead the weights between 300 kilograms ( 661 pounds ) and 500 kilograms ( 1,100 pounds ) . " You can imagine ( what happens ) when half a ton of explosives fall on Israeli posts , " Nasrallah said . The Israeli military said its aircraft struck a series of Hezbollah targets in response to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infrastructure , military posts , weapons depots and intelligence infrastructure . On Friday , Israel 's air force attacked a truck in the coastal town of Zahrani , about 40 kilometers ( 25 miles ) north of the border , the deepest strike so far since the latest round of fighting began , according to Lebanese media outlets . Speaking about the Muslim and Arab summit hosted by Saudi Arabia with the aim of devising their own cohesive strategy on Gaza , Nasrallah said the leaders of 57 countries " should stand united and scream in the face of Americans and ask them to stop this aggression , war and crimes " in Gaza . ( AP ) NPKNPK <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
