<h> Deadly strike at Gaza 's largest hospital kills 13 <p> 11-Nov-2023 <p> <p> JERUSALEM , Nov 10 : Palestinians said Friday a deadly strike hit Gaza 's largest hospital compound as heavy fighting between Hamas and Israel has sent tens of thousands of civilians fleeing their homes.Gaza 's Hamas government , which reported a toll of 13 , and the director of the Al-Shifa hospital , blamed Israeli troops for the strike at the facility sheltering people trying to flee the fighting . Israel did not immediately comment.Al-Shifa hospital director Mohammad Abu Salmiya reported two people were killed and 10 wounded in a strike that he said hit the compound 's maternity ward.A Hamas government statement said : " Thirteen martyrs and dozens wounded in an Israeli strike on Al-Shifa compound today " in central Gaza City , giving a toll AFP was not immediately able to independently verify.On Thursday Israel had reported heavy fighting near the hospital , saying it had killed dozens of militants and destroyed tunnels that are key to Hamas 's capacity to fight.The Israeli army has repeatedly accused Hamas of using hospitals , particularly Al-Shifa , to coordinate their attacks against the army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deny the accusations.Israel launched an offensive in Gaza after Hamas fighters poured across the militarised border on October 7 , killing 1,400 people , mostly civilians , and taking around 240 hostages.Vowing to destroy the militants , Israel retaliated with bombardment and a ground campaign that the health ministry in the Hamas-run Gaza Strip says has killed more than 10,800 people , mostly civilians and many of them children.Abu Mohammad , 32 , had taken refuge in the hospital along with 15 relatives after the bombardments of his neighbourhood in the northeast part of Gaza City . ' No safe place ' " There is no safe place left . The army hit Al-Shifa . I do n't know what to do , " he said . " There is shooting ... at the hospital . We are afraid to go out . " Witnesses said tanks had surrounded some other hospitals in Gaza City as fierce fighting continued , forcing hundreds of thousands of people to flee to the south of the territory over the past few weeks.AFPTV footage showed a fireball and smoke rising over the city at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be heard.The heavy fighting in the densely populated coastal territory , which is effectively sealed off , has prompted repeated calls for a ceasefire to protect civilian lives.Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has repeatedly rejected halting the fighting , telling Fox News Thursday that a " ceasefire with Hamas means surrender to Hamas , surrender to terror . " He also looked ahead to the war 's end , saying Israel does not " seek to govern Gaza . " " We do n't seek to occupy it , but we seek to give it and us a better future , " he told Fox.Tens of thousands of civilians have streamed out of devastated northern Gaza in recent days , with men , women and children clutching meagre possessions as they emerge from the devastated warzone in a river of humanity.They have fled close-quarter fighting , with Hamas militants using rocket-propelled grenades against Israeli troops backed by armoured vehicles and heavy airstrikes.The UN agency responsible for Palestinian refugees , UNRWA , said 70,000 people had travelled south on the route since November 4 , most of them walking.Almost 1.6 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added , more than half the area 's population.But the UN estimates hundreds of thousands of civilians remain in the fiercest battle zones in the north.HostagesCharities in Gaza 's south , where Palestinians have fled from the heavy fighting to the north , are trying to help by preparing meals for as many people as possible . " As you can see large number of people come here and we ca n't feed all of them , children , elderly , women . They come here to have food , " said Ibrahim Shallouf , a Palestinian volunteer.Israel has accused Hamas of using hospitals including Al-Shifa to hide its military operations . The Israeli military did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the alleged bombardments.AFP
