<h> Allow humanitarian aid to Gaza <p> Judging by the shock and the clearly improvised response to the 7 October terror attack that Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu and his ministers manifested , it was evident that they were taken by surprise . The planning and sophistication of the attack were seen as beyond the bandwidth of the terror organisation , many of whose leaders are millionaires leading comfortable lives in permanent exile . The possibility of covert backing from a superpower never entered the minds of Netanyahu and his associates . Many leaders of Hamas live in Qatar and others in countries that include Turkey . It is obvious that President Erdogan is completely out of step with the other members of NATO . In the case of the Hamas-IDF conflict , he has made little secret of his preference for the former by incessantly demanding from 9 October an immediate and indefinite ceasefire , complying with which would have enabled the terror organisation that has controlled Gaza since 2007 to commit future acts of terror against Israel . The welcome introduction by Israel of daily pauses in the fighting would enable civilians to escape to the relative safety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was intact enough to prevent any such migration , given that taking shelter behind innocent people is among the most used techniques of Hamas . In times past , elements of the LTTE came over from Sri Lanka to train fighters in the strip , and the influence of that organisation is pervasive in the widespread use of human shields by Hamas while fighting the IDF . Now that the Israeli Air Force and ground units have degraded the capabilities of Hamas and lowered the morale of its fighters , more and more residents of the northern part of the strip are able to make the journey to the south . Initially , much of the composition of such a population shift were elements of Hamas seeking to establish viable fighting units in the northern part and subsequently in the Sinai . Many of them were intercepted en route by the IDF , while President Al Sisi has been clear that the Sinai would remain out of bounds for anyone from Gaza , given the worry that it may be terrorists who are seeking safety in Egyptian territory . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population needs to copiously flow into Gaza , starting immediately.Given the reality of innocent lives being lost on a regular basis as a consequence of the crossfire between Hamas and the IDF , it is understandable that more and more countries are calling for an immediate and indefinite cessation of all hostilities . Were that to take place , Hamas could revive and regroup , which would not be in the interests of even those countries in the region who have been calling for an immediate ceasefire almost since the 7 October war erupted . Pausing battle for four hours every day would enable civilians unconnected to the military wing of Hamas to escape to the south , while units of the terror organisation would during the remaining twenty hours of the day face the IDF in its campaign to eliminate them . There has been some talk that Qatar could play a mediatory role . Doha can play a keystone role , not as a mediator but as an intermediary between Jerusalem and Washington on the one hand and Hamas on the other . Even in a war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be avoided are steps that have the potential to widen the conflict , for while the present war is a tragedy , a regional war would be a catastrophe that would dwarf the impact that the Ukraine war and its accompanying sanctions have had on the global economy . Overreaction needs to be avoided in particular by Hezbollah and other groups supported by Iran . They need to avoid giving an excuse to those policymakers in Washington and Jerusalem who are eager to engage in a conflict with Iran that would be ruinous to all sides . As for post-Hamas Gaza , Netanyahu is in the same mould as Ariel Sharon , who damaged Israeli security in seeking to protect it by methods such as assisting during the 1980s Maronite armed groups to do battle with those in Lebanon who belong to a different faith . That error had the effect of multiplying the number of attacks on Israel by groups unhappy with the killing of innocents by the Maronite militias who were backed by Sharon . Security in Gaza needs to be principally looked after by an Arab force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect , have the IDF occupy the strip , it will be impossible to prevent other terror groups from springing up . What needs to be remembered is the disastrous aftermath of the fall of Saddam Hussein in Iraq in 2003 , when heavy handed US control of the country resulted in the development of a terror group in a way that had not been seen in Iraq before . Regional players have the most to lose from a revival of the terror machine in Gaza , for that would spread elsewhere . The Palestinian Authority and an Arab force need to be primary in establishing security in Gaza . Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu should not in 2023 go the way of President George W. Bush in 2003 after the IDF succeeds in eliminating the military wing of Hamas.MDN
