<p> By Edith M Lederer United Nations , Nov 16 ( AP ) The UN Security Council has adopted its first resolution since the outbreak of the Israel-Hamas war , calling for " urgent and extended humanitarian pauses " in Gaza to address the escalating crisis for Palestinian civilians during Israel 's aerial and ground attacks . Israel immediately rejected the resolution . The vote in the 15-member council was 12-0 with the United States , United Kingdom and Russia abstaining . The US and UK abstained because of the resolution 's failure to condemn Hamas ' surprise cross-border attacks into Israel on October 7 , and Russia because of its failure to demand a humanitarian cease-fire , which Israel and the United States oppose . The final draft watered down language from " demands " to " calls " for humanitarian pauses , and for " the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages held by Hamas and other groups . " Still , the resolution , which was sponsored by Malta , managed to overcome the serious differences that had prevented the council from adopting four previous resolutions . " What we have achieved today is an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frazier said . " We will remain steadfast in our commitment to the protection of civilians and the plight of children in armed conflict that continue to suffer in a disproportionate manner . " The resolution does n't mention the October 7 attacks in Israel , where Hamas militants killed around 1,200 people and took some 240 others hostage . Nor does it mention Israel 's response with airstrikes and a ground offensive in Hamas-ruled Gaza that the territory 's health ministry says have killed more than 11,000 Palestinians , two-thirds of them women and children . Russia 's UN Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia tried unsuccessfully to amend the resolution just before the vote with language from a resolution adopted October 27 by the 193-member General Assembly . It calls for an " immediate , durable , and sustained humanitarian truce leading to a cessation of hostilities . " The vote on the amendment was five countries in favour , the US opposed , and nine abstentions . It was not adopted because it failed to get the minimum nine " yes " votes . Nebenzia said he abstained on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the dire humanitarian situation . But he called it a disgrace that the council , which has " a uniquely powerful toolbox " including sanctions and even military action , " finally squeezed out such a weak call . " " As the old saying goes , the mountain has laboured and brought forth a mouse , " the Russian ambassador said . US Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield said she remains " horrified " that a few council members ca n't condemn Hamas ' " barbaric terrorist attack , " and criticised the resolution for not reaffirming every country 's right to self-defence . She did note that the resolution is the first ever adopted " that even mentions the word Hamas . " Nonetheless , Thomas-Greenfield called the resolution " a step forward " and said the US supports its calls for humanitarian pauses and the release of hostages . United Arab Emirates Ambassador Lana Nusseibeh , the Arab representative on the council , said its members supported the resolution , which is the first on the situation in the Palestinian territories since 2016 . " It is difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ council today to speak with one voice on the subject that has haunted all of us over the last month is , I think , momentous , " she said . The resolution " is a first , important and overdue step " and will change the world 's perception that the Security Council " is indifferent , " Nusseibeh said . But the world must not lose sight of the urgent goal of a lasting humanitarian ceasefire , she said . Israel 's UN Ambassador Gilad Erdan issued a statement saying the resolution " is disconnected from reality and is meaningless . " He criticised the council 's failure to condemn Hamas , claiming the militants were deliberately allowing the humanitarian situation to deteriorate so the United Nations would pressure Israel to back off of Gaza . " It will not happen , " Erdan said . " Israel will continue to act until Hamas is destroyed and the hostages are returned . " UN Security Council resolutions are legally binding , unlike General Assembly resolutions , but in practice , many parties choose to ignore the council 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the International Crisis Group , said the Security Council has called for ceasefires in wars from the Balkans to Syria " with little or no impact . " The General Assembly resolution was approved on October 27 by a vote of 120-14 with 45 abstentions . Since then , Israel agreed on November 9 to four-hour pauses . But only limited aid has been delivered to Gaza through the Rafah crossing from Egypt , and a humanitarian catastrophe has been brewing . Gowan said that the council was able to speak at all gives its member nations " some respite , " but would likely not have any significant impact . " The resolution is drafted in a way that puts no real political pressure on Israel , but the US will likely urge Israel to show more flexibility on aid issues to satisfy global opinion , " Gowan said . " The council will not move from this text to a call for a ceasefire unless facts change significantly on the ground . " The resolution calls for humanitarian pauses and corridors throughout the Gaza Strip for a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ UN , Red Cross , and other aid groups to get water , electricity , fuel , food , and medical supplies to all those in need . It says the pauses also should allow for the repair of essential infrastructure and enable urgent rescue and recovery efforts . It demands that " all parties comply with their obligations under international law , notably with regard to the protection of civilians , especially children . " It also asks UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres to report to the council at its next monthly Mideast meeting , on November 28 , on implementing the resolution . Asked afterward about Israel 's rejection of the resolution , Malta 's Frazier and the UAE 's Nusseibeh said it remains legally binding and pointed to Guterres ' upcoming report . Nusseibeh said the secretary-general has been asked to bring ideas on what the UN would need " for further monitoring and implementation on the ground . " Riyad Mansour , the Palestinian UN ambassador , said the Security Council should have called for a ceasefire a long time ago , stressing that " Gaza bleeds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a small , modest resolution , " he said . " Israel considers all of us terrorists , " he told the council after the vote . " Israel is not under threat of destruction . It is destroying Palestine . It considers the Palestinian state as a strategic threat . It is against Palestinian rule anywhere . " Mansour said the Palestinians will keep coming back to the Security Council and the General Assembly for action , first and foremost for a ceasefire . ( AP ) RHL <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
