<h> India donates USD 2.5 million to UN agency for Palestinian refugees <p> JERUSALEM , Nov 21 : India has donated USD 2.5 million to the UN agency for Palestinian refugees , prompting the UNRWA on Tuesday to welcome the generous contribution at a " difficult time " , particularly in Gaza . The United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees ( UNRWA ) , functional since 1950 , carries out direct relief and work programmes for registered Palestine refugees . It is funded almost entirely by voluntary contributions from UN Member States . India on Monday gave UNRWA USD 2.5 million as part of its annual contribution of USD 5 million for the year 2023-24 to support the agency 's core programmes and services , including education , healthcare , relief , and social services provided to Palestinian refugees , the Representative Office of India at Ramallah said . The contribution was handed over by the Representative of India ( ROI ) to Palestine , Renu Yadav , to the Director of Partnerships , Department of External Relations of UNRWA , Karim Amer . The ROI underlined India 's continued support for the agency 's activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refugees during the handover ceremony at UNRWA 's field office in Jerusalem , an official press release said . " Confirming that UNRWA received a very generous contribution from India yesterday ( Monday ) , which is most welcome during these difficult times and in the face of huge needs across the region , particularly in Gaza , " a spokesperson for UNRWA , Tamara Alrifai , told PTI . The UNRWA has been struggling to provide basic services to hundreds of thousands of Palestinians since the October 7 Israel-Hamas conflict which has prompted more than two-thirds of the Gaza population -- of approximately 2.3 million -- to flee their homes . Earlier on November 19 , India had delivered 32 tonnes of " humanitarian assistance to the people of Palestine " via the El-Arish Airport in Egypt . Since 2018 , India has given USD 27.5 million to UNRWA . During an Extraordinary Virtual Ministerial Pledging Conference for UNRWA held on June 23 , 2020 , India announced that it would contribute USD 10 million to UNRWA over the next two years . Prior to the war in Gaza @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resulting from a growth in the number of registered Palestine refugees , the extent of their vulnerability , and their deepening poverty . The agency is mandated to provide assistance and protection to some 5.6 million Palestine refugees registered with it across its five fields of operation . Its mission is to help Palestine refugees in Jordan , Lebanon , Syria , West Bank , including East Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip achieve their full human development potential , pending a just and lasting solution to their plight . UNRWA services encompass education , health care , relief and social services , camp infrastructure and improvement , protection , and microfinance among Palestinian refugees . During the first-ever Indian Prime Minister 's visit to Palestine in February 2018 , India increased its annual financial contribution fourfold to the UNRWA core budget , from USD 1.25 million to USD 5 million . India has also made a strong appeal to other traditional donors of UNRWA to consider enhancing their contributions as well as to non-donor member states to consider contributing to the agency in solidarity with the Palestine refugees . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israeli troops battle militants across north Gaza , which has been without power or water for weeks <p> DEIR-AL-BALAH ( Gaza Strip ) , Nov 21 : Israeli troops battled Palestinian militants in an urban refugee camp and outside the gates of a nearby hospital on Tuesday as the army expanded operations across northern Gaza , where residents have been without electricity , water or access to humanitarian aid for weeks . The front line of the war , now in its seventh week , has shifted to the Jabaliya camp , a dense warren of concrete buildings near Gaza City that houses refugees from the 1948 war surrounding Israel 's creation and their descendants . Israel has been bombarding the area for weeks , and the military said Hamas fighters have regrouped there and in other eastern districts after being pushed out of much of Gaza City . Fighting has also intensified outside the Indonesian Hospital on the outskirts of Jabaliya , where a strike killed 12 people on Monday . Health officials said on Tuesday that hundreds of patients and displaced people are trapped inside with dwindling supplies after some 200 were evacuated the day before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack into Israel has exacted a heavy toll on Palestinian civilians , particularly those who remain in the north after Israel repeatedly called on people to flee south . It 's unclear how many people remain in the north , but the UN agency for Palestinian refugees estimates that some 160,000 people are still in its shelters there , even though it is no longer able to provide services . Some 1.7 million Palestinians , about three fourths of Gaza 's population , have fled their homes . Hundreds of thousands of displaced people have packed into UN-run schools and other facilities across southern Gaza . As the shelters have overflowed , people have been forced to sleep on the streets outside , with little shelter from winter rains that have hit the region in recent days . Across Gaza , there are shortages of food , water and fuel for generators to power basic infrastructure . There has been a territory-wide blackout since Israel cut off fuel imports at the start of the war . Israel continues to strike what it says are militant targets across Gaza , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children , and officials have said it may soon expand its operations in the south . FIGHTING AROUND HOSPITALS Tens of thousands of Palestinians in the north had sheltered in hospitals , but those have steadily been emptied out as the fighting has reached their gates , and most are no longer operational . Marwan Abdallah , a medical worker at the Indonesian Hospital near Jabaliya , said heavy fighting prevented ambulances from bringing wounded people in . Munir al-Boursh , a senior Health Ministry official who said he was inside the hospital , told Al-Jazeera television by phone that Israeli forces had besieged it , forcing health workers to bury 50 bodies in the courtyard . " The situation is unimaginable , " he said . " We are trapped inside the hospital . " There was no immediate comment from the military . Palestinian officials said an Israeli shell struck the hospital on Monday , killing 12 people . Israel denied shelling the hospital , but said its troops returned fire on militants who targeted them from inside . Some 200 wounded patients and their companions were evacuated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to 600 wounded people and some 2,000 displaced Palestinians remain stranded there , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry . A similar standoff has played out in recent days at Shifa Hospital , Gaza 's largest , where over 250 patients and medical workers are stranded after the evacuation of 31 premature babies . Israel has provided some evidence in recent days of a militant presence at Shifa , where its troops have been operating since last week . But it has yet to substantiate its claims that Hamas had a major command centre beneath the facility , allegations denied by Hamas and hospital staff . Michael Ryan , a senior World Health Organisation official , said Monday that care for complex medical cases -- including most cancer and kidney dialysis patients -- is no longer available in Gaza and that remaining hospitals would likely be overwhelmed by some 5,500 births expected in the next month . " The hospital situation -- the primary health care system situation -- in Gaza is catastrophic , " he said . In the north , " it is the worst you can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been killed in Gaza , according to the Palestinian Health Ministry in the West Bank . Officials there say another 4,000 are missing . Their counts do not differentiate between civilians and combatants . Israel says it has killed thousands of militants . The Palestinian Health Ministry bases its count on information gathered by its counterpart in Hamas-ruled Gaza , which has been unable to fully update casualty figures for more than 10 days because of the breakdown in services and communications in the north . About 1,200 people have been killed on the Israeli side , mainly civilians during the October 7 attack , in which Hamas dragged some 240 captives back into Gaza . The military says 68 Israeli soldiers have been killed in Gaza ground operations . The military said forces are " preparing the battlefield " in the area of Jabaliya . It said they struck three tunnel shafts where fighters were hiding and destroyed rocket launchers . Footage released by the military shows Israeli soldiers patrolling on foot as gunfire echoes around them . Residents said there had been heavy fighting as Israeli forces tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Israeli ) occupation is trying to besiege the camp , " said Hamza Abu Mansour , a university student . " They are facing stiff resistance . " It was not possible to independently confirm details of the fighting . Military footage from other areas in the north in recent days has shown widespread destruction , with nearly every building appearing to be damaged or destroyed . TALKS ON HOSTAGES Israel , the United States and Qatar , which mediates with Hamas , have been negotiating for weeks over a hostage release that would be paired with a temporary cease-fire and the entry of more humanitarian aid . Izzat Rishq , a senior Hamas official , said Tuesday that an agreement could be reached " in the coming hours " , in which Hamas would release captives and Israel would release Palestinian prisoners . Hamas ' leader in exile Ismail Haniyeh also said they were close to a deal , but similar predictions in recent weeks have proven premature . Israel 's three-member war Cabinet met with representatives of the hostages ' families on Monday evening . Prime Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hostages and the defeat of Hamas to be equally important , according to a family member who attended . Udi Goren , whose cousin Tal Chaimi is in captivity in Gaza , said that was " incredibly disappointing " for the families , as Israel has said it could take months to dismantle the militant group . ( AP )
