<p> India and Australia on Tuesday vowed to deepen their economic and security partnership and stressed their shared commitment to a " free , open , inclusive and rules-based " Indo-Pacific , a region which has been witnessing China 's growing assertiveness . Addressing a press conference after participating in the India-Australia Foreign Ministers ' Framework Dialogue with his Australian counterpart Penny Wong , External Affairs Minister Jaishankar said India is preparing for a meeting of the Quad grouping -- comprising Australia , India , Japan and the US -- sometime next year . He said they discussed and highlighted the importance of moving forward on the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement ( CECA ) negotiations . " We spoke of the way forward for greater mobility of our students and professionals , " Jaishankar said . The External Affairs Minister said the two leaders also discussed the situation in West Asia in detail . Asked about the Israel-Hamas conflict at the presser , Jaishankar talked about India 's position and said there are different aspects of the " very complex and challenging situation " . " One , of course , is terrorism , what happened on October 7 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should never compromise on terrorism , we should be very clear about it . Therefore there is that basket and to it is also the hostages issue , " Jaishankar said . " There is a second set of issues -- the humanitarian crisis in Gaza today . The need for humanitarian assistance which is urgent and the observance of international humanitarian law there . The third set of issues relates to the rights and future of Palestinians . That too has to have a solution . That solution in our view and in the view of many countries of the world can only come in the two-state solution , " he said . " We have to find a way by which all these aspects are addressed , " Jaishnkar added . He asserted that there was " real momentum " in the India-Australia comprehensive strategic partnership . " Today , amongst other things , we also discussed , highlighted the importance of moving on the ' Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement ' ( CECA ) negotiations . We spoke of the way forward for greater mobility of our students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us are committed to build more trusted , reliable and resilient supply chains in the Indo-Pacific for broader and inclusive growth , " Jaishankar said . As part of the 2+2 dialogue and and as part of the dialogue today , an extensive discussion on security issues was held , he said . " We shared growing convergences with Australia . At the heart of it is really a shared commitment to a free , open , inclusive , prosperous and rules-based Indo-Pacific region based on United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea , " Jaishankar said . The two leaders also discussed terrorism , radicalism and extremism , he added . " As liberal democracies , as QUAD partners , we would continue to work towards rules-based international order . We will support freedom of navigation in international waters , promote connectivity , growth and security for all while respecting the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states , " Jaishankar said . India and Australia on Monday decided to further strengthen their strategic partnership to deal with " exceptional challenges " in the Indo-Pacific region and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooperation . At the second India and Australia 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue , the two nations also underscored the importance of further enhancing cooperation in information exchange and maritime domain awareness . Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar met Australian Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Richard Marles and Foreign Minister Penny Wong here as part of the 2+2 ministerial dialogue . ( PTI )
