<h> Deportations of Afghans by Pakistan <p> Harsha Kakkar On 03 Oct this year , the caretaker government of Pakistan , headed by Anwaar Kakar , considered close to the army , ordered all ' illegal ' Afghan refugees ( claimed to be approximately 1.7 million ) to leave the country within 30 days . The decision was criticized by the UN and global rights organizations on the premise that forced eviction could cause a potential humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan as also there could be retribution and abuse on those returning . Only the US raised its voice mildly , when its spokesperson stated ' We join all of our partners in urging all countries , including Pakistan , to uphold their respective obligations in the treatment of refugees and asylum seekers . ' Over 400,000 Afghans , many of whom were born in Pakistan , have crossed back into Afghanistan . The justification by Pakistan is that Afghan refugees are responsible for the surge in TTP ( Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan ) attacks on its soil . This is far from the truth . Had Pakistan decided to act , the TTP could have been eradicated in 2007 itself , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of whom have no link with the TTP , is exploiting innocents , solely because the Taliban led Afghan government refuses to adhere to demands of Pak on arresting members of anti-Pak terrorist groups . When the same Taliban gained control of Afghanistan in 2021 , there were celebrations across Pakistan . The photograph of the then ISI chief , General Faiz Hameed , sipping tea in a Kabul hotel lobby claiming all will be well , continues to haunt Pakistan . So do the words of Imran Khan who stated that Afghans have broken the ' shackles of slavery . ' Kabul responded in anger on Pakistan 's decision . The Taliban 's acting defence minister , Maulvi Mohammad Yaqoob Mujahid , called out Pakistan by stating , ' International refugee advocates and organizations stand firm for the rights of refugees , ' adding that Pakistan 's behaviour was ' cruel and barbaric . ' The Afghan government spokesperson , Bilal Karimi , mentioned , ' In the long term , there may be many negative effects on the relations and communications between the two countries . ' Relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it worse , Pakistan placed restrictions on what departing Afghans could carry . They were prohibited from moving their livestock or more than Rs 50,000 in cash . This resulted in them leaving the country in abject poverty , many being robbed of whatever little they possessedby Pak security forces at crossing points , further angering the Afghan government . Pak further claimed that the situation in Afghanistan had stabilized and hence it was time for ' voluntary repatriation of refugees . ' Its spokesperson mentioned , ' Pakistan believes that it is our sovereign right to implement our immigration laws under which individuals who are staying here illegally can be deported , as is the case in any country in the world . ' To prevent a global backlash , Anwaar Kakar stated that those awaiting resettlement in the US and UK will not be repatriated . Giving true reasons on his government 's decision on repatriation , Kakar added that since the Taliban takeover there has been ' a 60% increase in terrorist attacks and a 500% rise in suicide attacks in Pakistan , ' implying that Pak-Afghans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumed control , it has had over 2800 casualties to terrorism . Anwaar 's statement is evidently intended to enhance pressure on the Taliban to adhere to Pakistan 's demand . The Taliban rejected Pakistan 's accusations on supporting terrorism by claiming it to be an internal problem of Pakistan . They are aggravated at Pakistan refusing to negotiate with the TTP . Kabul has repeatedly stated that if the TTP was on Afghan soil , it would attack Pak outposts . Attacking deep within Pak implies they are located within the country . The reality is that Pakistan accepted refugees as long as global agencies paid for their care , in cash and food stocks , implying Pak exploited their stay . With global attention shifting to Ukraine and Gaza , Pak is no longer earning at the same level from keeping Afghan refugees on its soil . It has thus taken the decision to repatriate them . The refugees being pushed back are likely to face starvation as there is neither employment nor accommodation nor food stocks for them within Afghanistan . With winter around the corner their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be recruited by the collection of terrorist groups operating along the Durand line . This will enhance security issues for Pakistan . The deportation , riddled with theft of Afghans being forced to cross over , has angered Pashtuns on both sides of Durand line . Different factions with in Afghanistan 's ruling Taliban are uniting against Pakistan 's illegal actions . The TTP and the Taliban possess the same ideology and Pakistan 's actions will result in the TTP being provided with even more support . As it is most Afghans dislike Pak for its support to the Taliban in its battle against the US as also blackmailing the country by blocking movement of aid to it , especially wheat flows from India . Pakistan 's recent announcement to enhance additional levies on Afghan exports/imports has added to anger in Kabul . While Pak faces Afghan wrath , India gains in standing as it remains a nation willing to aid Afghanistan . The Pak army is already facing rising insurgency in both , Baluchistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa . It has deployed additional troops to control the situation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remain on its western borders . In case , Indo-Pak hostilities do take place , the situation is very likely to be exploited by the TTP backed by the Taliban . In recent years , no Arab state has expressed willingness to accept refugees from other Muslim nations , including those in the throes of civil wars such as Yemen , Syria and Libya . Gaza is an example where its neighbours , Egypt and Jordan have blocked inflow of Gazan even on a temporary basis . It is only the west which accepts refugees on humanitarian grounds from Muslim nations in Africa and Asia . India faced global criticism just on its decision to create a national register of citizens to identify illegal immigrants , while the world is silent on Pakistan pushing hapless Afghan refugees back . If Europe were to return refugees as Pakistan is doing , there would be a backlash . It is time the world stops its hypocrisy . The author is Major General ( Retd )
