<p> Nashik : State industry minister Uday Samant has written to defence minister Rajnath Singh and Union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal requesting to set up the central governments proposed defence park in Nashik . Nashik has all the facilities required to establish the defence park . The city houses the School of Artillery , Air Force Station , Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd ( HAL ) , Samant said.Recently , Nashik Member of Parliament Hemant Godse met Samant and requested him to pursue the issue with the Centre so that the project comes to Nashik.Godse said the state government has recommended the central government to set up the defence park in Nashik as it is favourable for the project.I have been pursing the issue for the past two years and state industries minister Uday Samant has taken cognizance of the same by sending letters to the defence minister Rajnath Singh and Union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal , Godse said.He added that the Centre has already announced a defence innovation centre for Nashik and the project is already in process . The Centre will provide a platform to the start-ups and innovators in the field of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our defence forces , Godse said.Manish Rawal , chairman of the aviation committee of Ambad Industries &amp; Manufacturers Association ( AIMA ) , said Nashik will definitely benefit if the Defence Park is set up here.The proposed Defence Park will attract large industries from the defence sector in Nashik and will also generate employment opportunities and vendor base . Moreover , it will also boost economic activities in Nashik , Rawal said.We also published the following articles recentlyNo free lunches , says Rajnath Singh in push for quality in defence manufacturingRajnath Singh emphasizes the importance of quality in manufacturing defence-related equipment , stating that one needs to pay the price for improving quality . He highlights the need to improve equipment , skills , workforce , and invest more capital to produce good-quality products . Quality products create global demand and contribute to Indias vision of becoming a global manufacturing hub . Rajnath emphasizes the significance of cost control without compromising quality . He stresses the need to manufacture high-quality military systems that are effective , reliable , and safe for successful mission accomplishment by the Armed Forces.Jarange says minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blocking reservation for Maratha-Kunbi community under OBC category . Bhujbal mobilizing OBC community against Marathas . Leader of opposition , Vijay Wadettiwar , distances himself from concerned OBC leaders . State government must issue Maratha reservation order by December 24 . Trimbakeshwar teerthpurohits maintain records of people coming for rituals , including Kunbis . Youth in Latur commits suicide due to lack of Maratha community reservation.Gaza war to continue for at least two more months , says Israel defence ministerIsrael and Hamas have agreed to a four-day ceasefire , but experts predict that fighting will resume with intensity for at least two more months . Israeli Defence Minister Yoav Gallant stated that the military campaign will continue after a short pause , with the release of hostages being the first step . The deal , mediated by the US and Qatar , will see the release of 50 Israeli women and children who were taken hostage during the offensive . In return , Israel will release 150 Palestinian prisoners . The temporary truce also allows for the provision of essential humanitarian aid . <h> If You Like This Story , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support to NYOOOZ will help us to continue create and publish news for and from smaller cities , which also need equal voice as much as citizens living in bigger cities have through mainstream media organizations . <p> Stay updated with all the Latest Nashik headlines here . For more exclusive &amp; live news updates from all around India , stay connected with NYOOOZ.
