<h> Egypt : President El-Sisi Meets United States Secretary of State Blinken <p> Today , President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi met with U.S. Secretary of State , Antony Blinken , and his accompanying delegation . The meeting was also attended by Foreign Minister , Dr. Badr Abdelatty , Director of the General Intelligence Service , Major General Abbas Kamel , as well as U.S. Ambassador to Egypt , Herro Mustafa Garg . <p> Spokesman for the Presidency , Ambassador Ahmed Fahmy , said the meeting underscored the robust strategic partnership between Egypt and the U.S. The discussions also confirmed the two countries ' commitment to advancing joint efforts to restore security and stability in the region . Within this context , the two sides reviewed the joint Egyptian-American-Qatari mediation efforts to reach a ceasefire in Gaza and exchange detainees . President El-Sisi and Mr. Blinken exchanged views on the results of the latest negotiations , which were held last week in the Qatari capital , Doha , and on ways to achieve progress in the ongoing negations in Cairo . Secretary Blinken briefed President El-Sisi on the outcome of his visit to Israel , stressing the U.S. ' commitment to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He expressed huge appreciation for Egypt 's role and constructive efforts in this regard . <p> President El-Sisi emphasized that the time has come to end the ongoing war , resort to the voice of reason and wisdom , and uphold the language of peace and diplomacy . The President warned against the grave danger of the conflict expanding regionally , with potentially catastrophic consequences . He confirmed that sparing the blood of the peoples should be the major driving force for all parties and that a ceasefire in Gaza must be the beginning of broader international recognition of an independent Palestinian State and the enforcement of the two-state solution , given the fact that this is the fundamental guarantor for stability in the region . <p> Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Presidency of the Arab Republic of Egypt .
