<h> Hezbollah fires at Israeli-held border zone its first strike since ceasefire began <p> PTI Updated : December 03 , 2024 00:04 IST <p> Jerusalem , Dec 2 ( AP ) Hezbollah fired into a disputed border zone held by Israel on Monday in the first attack by the Lebanese militant group since its ceasefire with Israel took hold last week , saying the volley was a warning shot after what it called repeated Israeli violations of the truce . Israeli leaders threatened to retaliate , further straining the fragile US- and French-brokered ceasefire . The truce called for a 60-day halt in fighting , aiming to end more than a year of war between Hezbollah and Israel that 's part of a wider regional conflict sparked by the devastating Israel-Hamas war in Gaza . The Hezbollah volley came after multiple Israeli strikes in Lebanon in recent days that have killed at least four people and wounded others . Lebanon 's parliament speaker , Nabih Berri , accused Israel of violating the truce more than 50 times in recent days , with strikes , demolition of homes near the border and overflight of drones . Israel has said its strikes were in response to unspecified Hezbollah violations . There was no immediate comment from the United States and France , which lead a commission meant to monitor adherence to the ceasefire 's terms . The Israeli military said Hezbollah launched two projectiles toward Mount Dov , a disputed Israeli-held territory known as Shebaa Farms in Lebanon , where the borders of Lebanon , Syria , and Israel meet . Israel said the projectiles fell in open areas and no injuries were reported . Hezbollah said in a statement that it fired on an Israeli military position in the area as a " defensive and warning response " after what it called " repeated violations " of the ceasefire deal by Israel . It said complaints to mediators tasked with monitoring the ceasefire " were futile in stopping these violations " . <p> Israel threatens retaliation <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the Hezbollah fire was " a serious violation " and vowed , " Israel will respond forcefully . " Defence Minister Israel Katz said the volley " will be met with a harsh response " . Under the ceasefire deal , Iran-backed Hezbollah has 60 days to withdraw its fighters and infrastructure from southern Lebanon , pulling back north of the Litani River , which is about 30 km from the Israeli-Lebanese border . During that time , Israeli troops are also to withdraw to their side of the border . On Monday before the Hezbollah fire , Israeli carried out at least four airstrikes and an artillery barrage on different parts of southern Lebanon , including a drone strike that killed a person on a motorcycle , according to Lebanese state media . Another strike killed a corporal in the Lebanese security services , state media said . The Israeli military said it carried out operations in the south against Hezbollah militants , " thwarting threats to Israeli civilians , " without elaborating . Another drone strike Monday hit a Lebanese army bulldozer , wounding a soldier , in the northeastern town of Hermel -- far north of the Litani River . The Israeli military said it hit military vehicles operating " in the area of a Hezbollah missile manufacturing site " . The Lebanese army , which stayed on the sidelines of the Israel-Hezbollah fighting , is supposed to deploy additional troops in the south alongside UN peacekeepers to ensure Hezbollah 's withdrawal from the area . An Israeli strike on Saturday in the southern Marjayoun area killed two people , according to state media . In a video statement , Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar said Israel was striking Hezbollah fighters in the south when they are identified or seen attempting to move weapons . " Their presence south of the Litani River is the most basic violation of the understandings ... They must move north immediately , " he said , despite the 60-day period the deal gives for a pullback . <p> Fears of hunger mount in Gaza <p> In Gaza , meanwhile , alarm over increasing hunger was growing -- with the amount of food allowed in by Israel plunging over the past two months , compounded by a decision Sunday by the UN to halt aid deliveries from the main crossing into the territory because of the threat of armed gangs looting convoys . Experts already warned of famine in the northernmost part of Gaza , which Israeli forces have almost completely isolated since early October . Muhannad Hadi , the UN humanitarian coordinator for the occupied Palestinian Territories , warned on Monday of " severe hunger surging " in central and southern Gaza as well . Speaking at a conference in Cairo aimed at increasing aid , he said more than 1 million people have not received their monthly food rations since July . Israel 's campaign in Gaza , triggered by Hamas ' Oct 7 , 2023 attack on southern Israel , has driven almost the entire population of the territory from their homes . Hundreds of thousands of Palestinians now live in squalid tent camps and reliant on international aid . In a tent camp in the central Gaza town of Deir al-Balah , Palestinians lined up at makeshift mud ovens trying to buy a few loaves of flatbread for their families . With the price of flour mounting because of scarcity , the bakers -- women displaced from further north -- said they could bake less bread , and families could afford far less . " They divide them to their children , one loaf every day , " said Wafaa al-Attar , who was selling bread she made in a clay oven . A distant relative also selling bread , Enayat al-Attar , said some people cut up a single piece of flatbread among themselves . " Flour is running out for everyone , " she said . The Israeli military said it allowed 40 trucks carrying 600 tons of flour for the World Food Programme to enter the southern Gaza Strip on Sunday night , as well as 16 other food trucks . Israel has said it is working to increase the flow of aid . November saw an increase in the average number of humanitarian trucks it let into Gaza , up to 77 daily from 57 the month before , according to official Israeli figures . But the levels are still nearly the lowest of the entire 15-month war . And the UN says less than half of that actually reaches Palestinians because Israeli military restrictions , fighting and robberies make it too dangerous to deliver the aid . On Sunday , the UN agency for Palestinian refugees , known as UNRWA , said it is halting aid deliveries through Kerem Shalom , the main artery for aid , because of repeated robberies . It blamed the breakdown of law and order in large part on Israeli policies . ( AP ) SCYSCY <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
