<h> UN halts aid shipments through Gaza 's main crossing after looting <p> Deir Al-Balah , Dec 1 : ( AP ) The UN agency for Palestinian refugees said Sunday it is halting aid deliveries through the main cargo crossing into the war-ravaged Gaza Strip because of the threat of armed gangs who have looted recent convoys . It blamed the breakdown of law and order in large part on Israeli policies . The decision could worsen the humanitarian crisis in Gaza as the cold , rainy winter sets in , with hundreds of thousands of Palestinians living in squalid tent camps and reliant on international food aid . Experts were already warning of famine in the territory 's north , which Israeli forces have almost completely isolated since early October . Philippe Lazzarini , the head of UNRWA , the main aid provider in Gaza , said the route leading to the Kerem Shalom crossing is too dangerous on the Gaza side . Armed men looted nearly 100 trucks travelling on the route in mid-November , and he said gangs stole a smaller shipment on Saturday . Kerem Shalom is the only crossing between Israel and Gaza that is designed for cargo shipments and has been the main artery for aid deliveries since the Rafah crossing with Egypt was shut down in May . Last month , nearly two-thirds of all aid entering Gaza came through Kerem Shalom , and in previous months it accounted for an even larger amount , according to Israeli figures . In a post on X , Lazzarini largely blamed Israel for the breakdown of humanitarian operations in Gaza , citing " political decisions to restrict the amounts of aid , " lack of safety on aid routes and Israel 's targeting of the Hamas-run police force , which had previously provided public security . ( AP ) <h> Follow us <h> About Us <p> The Shillong Times first appeared as a tabloid weekly on 10th August 1945 under the editorship of Late Sudhindra Bhusan Chaudhuri . In 1958 it was converted to a Daily . Owing to financial constraints , within six months it reverted back to a weekly .
