<p> After forging close partnership in the defence domain , India and France are now looking at ramping up economic and trade ties as it is crucial to rely on " trusted " partners in these " turbulent times " , French foreign trade minister Sophie Primas has said . <p> In an interview to PTI , Primas said French companies are looking at expanding engagement with India in sectors like aeronautics , transport , energy infrastructures , sustainable development and emerging technologies . <p> " India and France have always maintained a relationship of deep trust over the years , which becomes even more significant in the context of geopolitical turmoil and disruptions in supply chains , " she said . <p> " In these turbulent times , it is crucial to rely on trusted partners to advance together and develop joint cooperation . The stability and strength of our bilateral ties ensure resilience and strategic advantage as we navigate these challenges together , " the minister added . <p> Her comments came amid rising concerns in Europe over the escalating tensions between Russia and Ukraine , the conflict in Gaza and uncertainty on implications of the economic policy of the incoming Donald Trump administration . <p> At the same time , Primas highlighted the upward trajectory of India-France bilateral partnership affirming that both sides are now focusing on boosting economic and trade relations . <p> " Strategic alignment , especially in defence , has been a cornerstone of our relations over the years . Recently , there has been a significant boost in our economic and commercial exchanges , " the minister said in her written response . <p> The defence and strategic ties between the two countries have witnessed major upswing in the last few years with India procuring a number of mega military platforms including fighter jets and missiles from France . <p> Primas said France is also looking forward to further negotiations between New Delhi and the European Union for finalisation of a " mutually beneficial " free trade deal that could expand two-way economic engagement . <p> " The EU remains committed to negotiating a mutually beneficial deal that incorporates ambitious sustainable development goals . Continued dialogue at the EU level is anticipated to further this objective , " she said . <p> India and the EU relaunched negotiations for the ambitious trade deal in June 2022 after a gap of over eight years but the talks have dragged on for a variety of reasons including the 27-nation bloc 's position on carbon tax . <p> On bilateral trade , the French foreign trade minister , who visited India from November 27-29 , said there is potential for more growth in the trade sector . <p> " Despite France being the top European destination for foreign investments continuously since 2020 , it ranks only sixth for Indian investments in Europe , " she said . <p> " I encourage Indian firms to seize the opportunities offered by the France-India 2047 partnership and leverage France 's advanced technological and industrial ecosystem to significantly boost their growth and invest in a country that is a hub for foreign investment in Europe , " she added . <p> The 2047 ' Horizon Partnership ' was unveiled following wide-ranging talks between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris in July last year . Its aim was to shore up bilateral ties including in trade and investment . <p> The French foreign trade minister noted that the volume of India-France trade increased by 20 per cent in 2022 , 13 per cent in 2023 , and early data for the first half of 2024 is highly encouraging as it showed a 26 per cent increase to Euro 9.4 billion . <p> At the same time she said there is room to expand and enhance the trade ties further . <p> " French companies are committed to supporting India 's development in transport , digital , and energy infrastructures , recognising significant potential in sectors like aeronautics , sustainable development , and emerging technologies , " she said . <p> " France and India already have a strong partnership in aeronautics , where French firms hold a substantial market share . " <p> " There is also a focus on enhancing French presence in transport infrastructure , and clean energy sectors due to India 's growing needs , " Primas said . <p> The minister also highlighted " significant opportunities " for deeper engagement between the two sides in digital technologies like Artificial Intelligence , and space . <p> Asked about the fast-track mechanism mentioned in the 2047 Horizon document for addressing issues pertaining to investments , Primas said it has proven to be a valuable forum . <p> " Yes , the Fast-Track mechanism , established in 2020 , has proven to be a valuable bilateral forum for addressing investment issues faced by French and Indian investors , " she said . <p> " It convenes biannually at a high level and has been very effective in maintaining momentum and fostering open dialogue . Regular meetings are crucial as they help ensure continuous progress and keep the channels of communication open , " she added . <p> Asked about the India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor ( IMEEC ) project , Primas said it will strengthen strategic supply chains and that Paris views it as a source of regional integration , peace and stability . <p> Billed as a pathbreaking initiative , the IMEEC envisages a vast road , railroad and shipping networks among Saudi Arabia , India , the United States and Europe with an aim to ensure integration among Asia , Middle East and West . <p> The IMEEC also envisages to include an electricity cable network , a hydrogen pipeline , high-speed data cable network to facilitate overall economic growth in the partner countries . <p> The project is also seen as an initiative by like-minded nations to gain strategic influence in the face of China 's Belt and Road Initiative ( BRI ) that has faced increasing criticism over lack of transparency and disregard for sovereignty of the nations . <p> The BRI is a mega connectivity project that connects China with Southeast Asia , Central Asia , Russia and Europe . <p> Nominations for ET MSME Awards are now open . The last day to apply is November 30 , 2024 . Click here to submit your entry for any one or more of the 22 categories and stand a chance to win a prestigious award .
