<h> The Islamist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham launched an offensive in Syria 's Aleppo , the biggest flare-up in the civil war since 2020 . <p> Vehicles burn after an airstrike against opposition fighters in Syria 's Aleppo . ( AP ) <p> After a major attack led by the Islamist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham in the Syrian city of Aleppo , Russia 's Defence Ministry said its air force carried out strikes in support of President Bashar al-Assad and the Syrian Army , according to Russian news agencies . <p> The attack was the fiercest rebel attack in Syria in years after a civil war forced the front lines to remain frozen since 2020 , becoming the biggest challenge for the Army as well as President Assad . However , the Army has prepared a counterstrike , with airstrikes targeting rebel gatherings and convoys patrolling the city . <h> related stories <p> The Russian Center for Reconciliation of the Opposing Parties in Syria said the Army supported by the Russian air force launched missile strikes on gathering areas , controls and positions of the insurgents , killing more than 300 rebel soldiers , TASS News Agency reported . <p> The rebels also took control of Aleppo airport , according to a statement by their operations room and a security source . Two rebel sources also told Reuters that the insurgents had captured the city of Maraat al Numan in Idlib province , bringing all of that area under their control . <p> Notably , Assad is a close ally of Russia , while the rebelling Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , once known as the Nusra front , is designated a terrorist group by the United States , Russia , Turkey and other states . The Islamist group penetrated the heart of the Aleppo city earlier this week in a surprise attack , causing the ongoing chaos . <h> Aleppo Offensive : When It All Began ? <p> The rebel offensive began on Wednesday , becoming the first major attack in years between the Syrian opposition and the regime of President Bashar al-Assad , who has ruled the war-torn country since 2000 . Assad is currently in Russia , where he is visiting his ailing wife . <p> The insurgents seized several towns and villages along the way , blew up vehicles and clashed with government forces . Some people were killed after projectiles from insurgents struck several facilities , including Aleppo 's university . <p> Aleppo had been a critical battleground in the Syrian civil war and is located about 350 km north . Once Syria 's largest city , Aleppo had been firmly held by the government since a 2016 victory , when Russia-backed Syrian forces entered and laid waste to rebel-held eastern areas there . <p> Acknowledging the rebel advance , the Syrian army command said insurgents had entered much of Aleppo . The Syrian military command said militants had attacked in large numbers and from multiple directions , prompting " our armed forces to carry out a redeployment operation aimed at strengthening the defence lines in order to absorb the attack , preserve the lives of civilians and soldiers " . <h> Why Is This Attack Significant ? <p> The fighting has raised the prospect of another violent front reopening in West Asia , at a time when US-backed Israel is fighting Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon , both Iranian-allied groups . It is the most intense fighting in northwestern Syria since 2020 , when government forces seized areas previously controlled by opposition fighters . <p> With Assad backed by Russia and Iran , and Turkey supporting some of the rebels in the northwest where it maintains troops , the offensive has brought focus to the geopolitical ramifications of these decades-old conflict . Fighting in northwest Syria had largely ceased following a de-escalation agreement between Russia and Turkey in 2020 . <p> The United States has about 900 troops in northeast Syria , far from Aleppo , to guard against a resurgence by the Islamic State . Both the US and Israel have conducted occasional strikes against government forces and Iran-allies militias . However , Washington has denied involvement in the ongoing rebel offensive in Aleppo . <p> Sean Savett , the spokesperson of the US National Security Council , said Syria 's refusal to engage in a political process and its reliance on Russia and Iran had created the current conditions , " including the collapse of Assad regime lines in northwest Syria . " He said the US had nothing to do with the offensive led by " a designated terrorist organisation " and urged de-escalation. <h> top videos <p> Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi told Lavrov in a phone call that the rebel attacks were part of an Israeli-US plan to destabilise the region , Iranian state media said . The opposition fighters have said the campaign was in response to stepped-up strikes in recent weeks against civilians by the Russian and Syrian air forces in areas of Idlib province .
