<p> Massad Boulos , a Lebanese-American millionaire and the father-in-law of Tiffany Trump , has been named Senior Adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern Affairs by Donald Trump . In the wake of rising Middle East tensions , Boulos , who has been hailed for his commercial savvy and contribution to Trump 's campaign outreach to Muslim and Arab American supporters , must manage a challenging geopolitical portfolio . Charles Kushner 's recent nomination as U.S. Ambassador to France is one of the high-profile family-related positions in Trump 's cabinet . <p> President-elect Donald Trump announced the appointment of Massad Boulos as Senior Adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern Affairs . The most recent member of Trump 's family to land a high-profile position in his administration is the father-in-law of Trump 's daughter Tiffany , a Lebanese-American billionaire . Truth Social made the news on Sunday . <p> " I am proud to announce that Massad Boulos will serve as Senior Adviser to the President on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs , " Trump said . He cited Boulos 's commercial savvy , leadership abilities , and broad global experience as essential requirements for the role . <p> Navigating a Challenging Portfolio <p> As tensions in the Middle East rise , Boulos takes on his new position . A tenuous truce with Hezbollah in Lebanon is being repeatedly violated , while Israel 's battle in Gaza is further intensifying . Rebel troops in Syria have made progress against the regime of Bashar al-Assad . Boulos will need to use tactful diplomacy and smart navigation to navigate the region 's complicated political and military realities . <p> Role in the Trump Campaign <p> Trump 's presidential campaign relied heavily on Boulos . He concentrated on enlisting Muslim and Arab American voters , many of whom voiced discontent with the current U.S. strategy in Gaza . Trump praised Boulos for creating " tremendous new coalitions " in local neighborhoods and called him a " dealmaker . " <p> Family Connections in the White House <p> Boulos 's hiring comes after Trump made another high-profile choice . Charles Kushner , the father of Jared Kushner , the son-in-law , was appointed U.S. Ambassador to France by Trump on Saturday . Important White House positions are further entwined with family ties through the marriage of Michael , Boulos 's own son , to Tiffany Trump . <p> Business and Legal Expertise <p> Boulos is a renowned leader in international business and a skilled attorney . His vast background in international business is in line with his new duties . Trump spoke to Boulos as a " asset to my campaign , " highlighting his dedication to conservative and Republican principles . <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from US News , World and around the world .
