<h> Russian President Vladimir Putin is expected to visit New Delhi next year for the 23rd India-Russia Annual Summit . <h> Advertisement <p> Russian President Vladimir Putin is expected to visit New Delhi next year for the 23rd India-Russia Annual Summit . On similar lines , Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Moscow on July 8-9 , 2024 , for the 22nd India-Russia Annual Summit . Kremlin aide Yury Ushakov said , " Our leaders have an agreement to hold meetings once a year . This time , it 's our turn . We received Mr. Modi 's invitation and we will certainly consider it positively . " <p> The visit comes at a critical juncture in global geopolitics . The " special operation " of Russia in Ukraine has crossed the 1000-day mark , with over 45,000 killed in the conflict between Hamas and Israel in Gaza , the rebel offensive against the Assad regime in Syria gaining ground , and the soon-to-be U.S. President ready to break the global supply chain and wage trade wars with states not to his liking . <p> India 's foreign policy stands firm on the pillars of strategic autonomy , and Moscow appreciates that . Despite pressure from India 's Western partners over Moscow 's war in Kyiv , New Delhi has remained independent in its approach towards the West and Russia . During his visit to Moscow last year , India 's Minister of External Affairs , Dr S. Jaishankar , hailed Russia as a " valued and time-tested " partner . His Russian counterpart , Sergey Lavrov , applauded India 's " responsible approach " to world affairs , particularly the war in Ukraine . <h> The Tightrope of Diplomacy : <p> India came under intense heat over its non-condemnation of the war in Ukraine . However , New Delhi 's play of cards ensured closeness to Russia while increasing its cooperation with the West . In 2023 , Modi was honoured with a state visit at the White House in June and an invitation from the Kremlin . <p> The G20 Summit , hosted by India in 2023 , was a " Triumph for Indian foreign policy " , as per Sergey Lavrov . Not only did n't India successfully pass the New Delhi Declaration , but it also navigated the political battlefield between the West , Russia , and the Global South . <p> In a statement , Lavrov , while batting for India 's permanent seat at the UNSC , said , " The G20 Summit in New Delhi that took place last year was truly a triumph for Indian foreign policy , the triumph for multilateral diplomacy , and it was possible primarily due to the chairmanship of G20 . It did n't allow the final communique to be one-sided ; it reflects the perfect balance of interest . " <h> Cheap Oil : Bring It In , Sell It Out <p> India overtook China as the largest importer of cheap Russian oil in July . Crude comprised 44% of India 's imports , crossing a record 2.07 million barrels daily ( bpd ) . According to data from the Ministry of Commerce and Trade , this is 4.2% higher than in June and 12% higher than a year ago . This is comparatively higher than China 's July imports of 1.76 million bpd per Chinese customs data . <p> However , India is not the only nation benefiting from Russian crude . Indian refiners are surfing on cheap oil , processing it for domestic needs and selling the excess to Europe . India 's crude oil exports to Europe between 2018-2019 and 2023-2024 have risen by 253788% . <p> In May of last year , German Ambassador to India Philipp Ackermann stated that receiving refined oil from India is " no problem " for Berlin . Months after India 's actions helped " stabilise " the world 's oil and gas markets , External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said he was " waiting for a thank you " from Europe . <h> Why Modi Is Important For Russia <p> Putin , during a press conference on the sidelines of the 22nd India-Russia Annual Summit , called Modi " a big friend " of Russia . Modi was further bestowed with Russia 's highest civilian honour , the " Order of Saint Andrew the Apostle , " in recognition of his efforts to enhance the Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership between the two nations . <p> The warm welcome in Russia underscored the importance of India , its support , its people , and its market for Moscow -- a relationship so " unique " that Washington believes can end the three-year-long war . Noting the growth in commerce , Putin and Modi agreed to a $100 billion bilateral trade goal by 2030 . In fiscal year 2023 -- 2024 , the total value of bilateral goods trade was $65.7 billion . In the most recent fiscal year , India 's imports from Russia totalled $61.4 billion , or 93% of its overall commerce , while its exports to Russia totalled $4.3 billion . <p> Similarly , India skilfully crafted a crucial agreement that had something for everyone during the G-20 meeting it held last year , allowing it to pass with ease . India successfully brought together the member countries ' disparate and competing interests , resulting in agreement and collaboration . <p> However , India has not been a one-sided supporter of Russia . Russia remains an essential partner for India , even as its relations with the U.S. are growing . It is doubtful that India-Russian ties will lose their strategic and economic importance . Russia does not criticise India 's strategy like Washington , which promotes a symbiotic relationship between the two .
