<h> Asks party leaders to gear up for Urban Local Bodies , Panchayat elections <p> Srinagar , Dec 02 : Jammu and Kashmir National Conference president Dr Farooq Abdullah on Monday expressed concern over what he termed as growing insecurity among Muslims in India . He called for equal treatment for the country 's largest minority as guaranteed by the Constitution . Speaking to reporters here , Abdullah said Muslims in India feel unsafe , and this sentiment can not be ignored . " Where will you throw 24 crore Muslims ? Into the ocean ? Treat us equally ; that is what our Constitution stands for , " he said , urging the government to ensure inclusiveness and harmony . The former chief minister said the government should stop the survey of Sambhal and avoid actions that spread fear and division . " Hatred is growing in our country , and this must end , " he added , calling for measures to restore trust and brotherhood . He said international conflicts , like those in Gaza and Lebanon , also require immediate attention . " Ceasefires are necessary , and human aid should be allowed in affected areas , " he said . The NC chief said the government must ensure that reservation policies remain intact . " Reservation is essential for equality and upliftment . It was introduced to provide fairness , and that purpose should not be forgotten , " he said . He said that dismissals of government employees based on adverse reports need clarity . " No one should be fired without proper justification . The administration must provide transparent reasons , " he said . Dr Abdullah said Kashmiri Pandits are welcome to return to the valley . " Who is stopping them ? All groups here have extended their invitation . It is their decision when to return , and we respect that , " he said . The former CM said the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir 's statehood is long overdue . " What about statehood ? Ask the government where it stands . It 's time to fulfill this promise , " he said . Meanwhile , according to a party statement issued here , Dr Farooq addressed senior party leaders and stressed the importance of rigorous preparation for the upcoming Urban Local Bodies and Panchayat elections . He underscored the need to field young and educated candidates to ensure effective governance at all levels . " A government is strong only when the foundation of the party at the grassroots level is robust , " he said . The NC chief called for strengthening party cadres and working tirelessly for the welfare of the people of Jammu and Kashmir .
