<p> Hello Readers ! Through this rundown , we bring you the top stories of the day . Today 's list includes developments on Cyclone Fengal and Sambhal mosque row along with West Asia updates and more . <p> Here we have the top stories of the day . <p> Cyclone Fengal Weakens , Puducherry Deals With Aftermath Of Landfall <p> According to the latest update from the India Meteorological Department ( IMD ) , Cyclone Fengal has weakened into a deep depression . The cyclonic weakened on Sunday but torrential downpours under its influence paralysed the union territory of Puducherry . The Army stepped in to evacuate stranded persons in inundated streets . Villupuram in neighbouring Tamil Nadu also suffered following heavy rains and inundation , with Chief Minister M K Stalin terming the rainfall in the district as ' unprecedented . ' READ FULL STORY <p> A three-member judicial commission visited the Shahi Jama Masjid and other violence-affected areas in Sambhal on Sunday . The visit is part of its ongoing investigation into the deadly clashes that broke out on November 24 during a court-ordered survey of the Mughal-era mosque . The violence , which left four people dead and several others injured , has sparked intense controversy and concerns over communal tensions in the region . READ FULL STORY <p> West Asia : 40 Killed In Gaza , Syrian Troops Withdraw From Aleppo City <p> Tensions continue to escalate in West Asia as Israeli airstrikes killed at least 40 Palestinians in northern Gaza . A Hamas delegation is currently in Cairo for renewed efforts to secure a ceasefire agreement in Gaza , while Tuesday 's ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah remains in effect despite reported violations by the Israeli military , as per the news reports . <p> Meanwhile , Syria 's 13-year civil war has resurfaced with a sudden rebel offensive on Aleppo , one of the country 's largest cities . The surge in fighting has raised the prospect of another violent front emerging in the already war-torn region . READ FULL STORY <p> Trump Threatens BRICS Nations With 100% Tariff -- Here 's Why <p> United States President-elect Donald Trump on Saturday threatened tariffs of 100 per cent against BRICS countries unless their governments agree not to create a new currency as an alternative to the US dollar . <p> " The idea that the BRICS Countries are trying to move away from the Dollar while we stand by and watch is OVER . We require a commitment from these Countries that they will neither create a new BRICS Currency , nor back any other Currency to replace the mighty U.S. Dollar or , they will face 100% Tariffs , and should expect to say goodbye to selling into the wonderful U.S. Economy , " Trump posted on Truth Social on Saturday . READ FULL STORY
