<h> The UN agency for Palestinian refugees said it was halting the aid deliveries through the main cargo crossing into the war-torn Gaza Strip . <h> Advertisement <p> Deir al-Balah ( Gaza Strip ) : The UN agency for Gaza 's Main Crossing , on Sunday , said it was halting the aid deliveries through the main cargo crossing into the war-torn Gaza Strip due to the threat of armed gangs who had looted convoys . It blamed the breakdown of law and order in large part on Israeli policies . <p> Decision Likely To Worsen Gaza 's Humanitarian Crisis <p> The decision could worsen Gaza 's humanitarian crisis as a second cold , rainy winter sets in , with hundreds of thousands of Palestinians in squalid tent camps and reliant on international aid . Experts already warned of famine in the north , which Israeli forces have almost completely isolated since early October . <p> Armed Men Loot Nearly 100 Trucks <p> Philippe Lazzarini , the head of UNRWA , the main aid provider in Gaza , said the route leading to the Kerem Shalom crossing is too dangerous on the Gaza side . Armed men looted nearly 100 trucks on the route in mid-November . <p> Kerem Shalom is the only crossing between Israel and Gaza that is designed for cargo shipments and has been the main artery for aid since the Rafah crossing with Egypt was shut in May . Last month , nearly two-thirds of aid entering Gaza came through Kerem Shalom , and in previous months it accounted for even more , according to Israeli figures . <p> In an X post , Lazzarini largely blamed Israel for the breakdown of humanitarian operations in Gaza , citing " political decisions to restrict the amounts of aid , " lack of safety on routes and Israel 's targeting of the Hamas-run police force , which previously provided public security . <p> " Yesterday we had assurances aid would be fine . We tried to move five trucks and they were all taken , " Scott Anderson , director of UNRWA affairs in Gaza , told The Associated Press . " So we 've kind of reached a point where it makes no sense to continue to try to move aid if it 's just gon na be looted . " He emphasised that there is no systemic diversion of aid in Gaza . <p> A spokesman for UNICEF , Ammar Ammar , confirmed the security situation was " unacceptable " and said it was evaluating its operations at the crossing , adding that other entry points are needed . <p> The Israeli military body in charge of humanitarian aid to Gaza said in an X post that it will " continue to work with the international community to increase the amount of aid making its way into Gaza " through Kerem Shalom and other crossings , and said UNRWA coordinated less than 10% of the aid that entered Gaza in November . <p> The Israeli military accuses UNRWA of having allowed Hamas to infiltrate its ranks -- allegations denied by the UN agency -- and passed legislation to sever ties with it last month . <p> Israeli strikes kill at least six people , including children Israeli strikes in Gaza killed at least six people overnight , including two children , ages 6 and 8 , in their family 's tent , medical officials said Sunday . <p> The strike in the Muwasi area , a sprawling coastal camp housing hundreds of thousands of displaced people , also wounded their mother and 8-month-old sister , according to nearby Nasser Hospital . An Associated Press reporter saw the bodies , which were buried in the sand . <p> A separate strike in the southern city of Rafah , on the border with Egypt , killed four men , according to hospital records . <p> The Israeli military said it was not aware of strikes in either location . Israel says it only targets militants and tries to avoid harming civilians , but its daily strikes across Gaza often kill women and children . <p> In a separate development , a projectile fired by Iran-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen set off air raid sirens in central Israel . The Israeli military said it intercepted the projectile before it entered Israeli territory . <p> Former defence minister accuses Israel of war crimes A former top Israeli general and defence minister has accused the government of ethnic cleansing in northern Gaza , where Israeli forces have been waging their latest offensive against Hamas . <p> The army has sealed off the towns of Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahiya and the Jabaliya refugee camp and allowed almost no humanitarian aid to enter . Tens of thousands of people have fled . The United Nations estimates up to 75,000 remain . <p> Moshe Yaalon , who served as defence minister under Benjamin Netanyahu before quitting in 2016 and becoming a critic of the prime minister , said the current far-right government is determined to " occupy , to annexe , to ethnically cleanse " . <p> Pressed by a local news outlet on Saturday , Yaalon said : " ( They ) are actually cleaning the territory of Arabs . " He added Sunday in an interview with Israeli radio : " War crimes are being committed here . " Netanyahu 's Likud party criticised his earlier remarks , accusing him of making " false statements " that are " a prize for the International Criminal Court and the camp of Israel haters " . <p> The ICC has issued arrest warrants against Netanyahu , another former defence minister , Yoav Gallant , and a Hamas commander , accusing them of crimes against humanity . The International Court of Justice is investigating allegations of genocide against Israel . <p> Israel rejects the allegations and says both courts are biased against it . <p> Israel says Gaza ceasefire talks resume ' behind the scenes ' The war in Gaza began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel on Oct 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking around 250 hostages . Some 100 captives are still held inside Gaza , and around two-thirds are believed to be alive . <p> Israel 's retaliatory offensive has killed at least 44,429 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , which does not say how many of the dead were combatants . Israel says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> The war has destroyed vast areas of the coastal enclave and displaced 90% of the population of 2.3 million , often multiple times . <p> Israel reached a ceasefire with Lebanon 's Hezbollah militants last week that has largely held , but that agreement did not address the war in Gaza . <p> The United States , Qatar and Egypt have tried to broker a ceasefire in Gaza and the release of remaining hostages , but those efforts stalled as Israel rejected Hamas ' demand for a complete withdrawal from the territory . The Biden administration has said it will make another push for a deal . <p> " There are negotiations taking place behind the scenes , and it can be done , " Israel 's mostly ceremonial president , Isaac Herzog , said Sunday . He spoke after meeting with the mother of Israeli-American hostage Edan Alexander , who appeared in a video released Saturday by Hamas.
