<h> Massad Boulos Family : What We Know About Wife And Son Michael <p> Massad Boulos , Tiffany Trump 's father-in-law and a Lebanese American businessman , was named a senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern matters by President-elect Donald Trump . Boulos helped Trump succeed in places with sizable Arab populations by playing a crucial part in his outreach to the Arab American community , particularly in Michigan . Boulos , who has political links to Lebanon , contributes significant expertise to the development of U.S. Middle East strategy . <p> President-elect Donald Trump announced on Sunday that Massad Boulos , a Lebanese American businessman , would serve as a senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . In addition to being Trump 's daughter Tiffany Trump 's father-in-law , Boulos was essential in the Trump campaign 's efforts to engage the Arab American community , especially in Michigan . Democratic President Joe Biden 's position on Israel 's military operations in Gaza and Lebanon has infuriated this group . Trump was able to win in Dearborn Heights and other Michigan cities with a majority of Arab Americans as a consequence of these initiatives . <p> Tiffany Trump and the Boulos Family <p> Following Tiffany Trump 's marriage to Michael Boulos , the Boulos family has gained increased fame . Tiffany , the daughter of Donald Trump and his second wife , Marla Maples , has mostly avoided the spotlight . She did , however , make noteworthy appearances at the Republican National Conventions in 2016 and 2020 . Announced in January 2021 , Tiffany 's engagement to Boulos garnered a lot of interest , particularly because it brought the Boulos family into the public eye . <p> Although not much is known about Boulos ' private life , his son Michael Boulos has made a name for himself in business and politics . An important link between the Trump family and the Lebanese-American community is Tiffany Trump 's marriage to Michael , according to Today.com . <p> Massad Boulos ' Political Background <p> Boulos has a history of involvement in Lebanese politics . He previously sought office in Lebanon and has maintained strong ties with political figures in the country . He is uniquely positioned to impact U.S. Middle East policy , especially those pertaining to Arab-American relations , because of this experience . His enduring ties to the area might be helpful in determining Trump 's foreign policy , according to a US News report . <p> Trump 's Peace Commitment <p> Regarding bringing peace to the Middle East , Trump and Boulos have made audacious statements , according to Firstpost . Neither of them , though , has given precise instructions on how this would be accomplished . Trump 's foreign policy in the area is being closely examined at the time of the appointment . His relationship with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is well known , and he has shown significant support for Netanyahu 's administration in a number of his national security appointments . <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from US News , World and around the world .
