<p> " There is a need to stop ( incidents like Sambhal ) . I will tell the government of India to stop ( such acts ) because they can not throw the Muslims ( of India ) into the sea . Where will they throw 24 crore Muslims ? Treat Muslims as equals , that is what our Constitution stands for . If they fiddle with the Constitution , how will India survive , " Abdullah asked while speaking to reporters here . The National Conference ( NC ) president , who recently performed Umrah ( minor Hajj pilgrimage ) along with his son and chief minister Omar Abdullah and several of his colleagues , said no one was against the return of Kashmiri Pandits to the Valley . " Who is stopping Kashmiri Pandits from coming back ? Every political party has said they should return . It is their decision when they want to return . Our hearts are open for them . Even when I was the chief minister , when the situation was bad , we tried to bring them back , " he said . On demands seeking review of the reservation policy in Jammu and Kashmir , Abdullah said the government should review the same . " We will tell the government to review it . Reservation is for the underprivileged sections so that they can come up as equals , " he said . The NC government has formed a Cabinet sub-committee to look into the demands for rationalisation of reservations , which have gone up to 70 per cent in the Union Territory . On Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha last week firing two government employees for their alleged terror links , Abdullah said the government " will keep an eye on everything and go into why the two employees were terminated " . The veteran politician also welcomed the Israel-Lebanon ' ceasefire ' , but called for an end to attacks on Gaza , Syria and Iran as well . " It ( ceasefire ) is a very good step , but it is necessary to stop attacks jointly being carried out by Israel and America -- in Gaza , Syria and Iran , which are continuing even today . This is dangerous . They should immediately resort to ceasefire . " You must have watched the debates in the ( UN ) Security Council . If there is a purpose for ( the existence of ) Security Council , it should work on the directions given to Israel . They should enforce a ceasefire and allow humanitarian aid , " Abdullah said . On his recent religious pilgrimage , Abdullah said he not only prayed for Kashmir , but for the entire Muslim world . " The problems we are facing today , may Allah deliver us from these . May Allah guide us to the right path . I prayed that we stay away from evil and for the end of religious hatred that has spread in our country . I prayed for unity and harmony , " he said . ( Agencies )
