<p> According to Bar and Bench , the two week bail has been granted on medical grounds for the treatment of a retinal detachment . <p> In December 2019 , Sengar was sentenced to life for raping a woman in 2017 . She was a minor when assaulted . Kuldeep Singh Sengar and his brother Jaideep Singh Sengar , were also sentenced to 10 years of imprisonment for the killing of the woman 's father in judicial custody in MArch 2020 . READ FULL STORY <p> A case has been registered against Sandhya Theatre in Hyderabad after a 35-year-old woman was killed in a stampede . The stampede occurred on Wednesday night during the premiere of Allu Arjun 's starrer Pushpa 2 . <p> As per reports , Hyderabad Police have filed a case against the theatre and its management for negligence and failure to ensure crowd safety . Along with this , a case has also been registered against Allu Arjun 's team for failure to notify the police about the actor 's arrival in advance . READ FULL STORY <p> Calling the comments linking Gandhi to a US-based billionaire ' ' highly inappropriate and disrespectful ' ' , Tagore in his letter condemned the ' ' slanderous language ' ' used by Patra during a media interaction on December 5 , 2024 . He urged the Speaker to take immediate action . READ FULL STORY <p> Supreme Court Orders Relaxation Of GRAP IV Regulations <p> Supreme Court has called on the Commission for Air Quality Management to relax GRAP IV restrictions across Delhi-NCR as the air quality improves . <p> With this decision , the top court has further ordered CAQM to not go below the second stage of the Graded Response Action Plan . READ FULL STORY <p> As political tensions continue to escalate in West Asia , Israel 's deadly airstrikes killed at least 21 people who were residing in a tent camp for displaced Palestinians in southern Gaza on Wednesday . The strike on the Muwasi tent camp is considered one of the deadliest assaults across the Gaza Strip . <p> Taking cognisance of the devastating developments in West Asia , Amnesty International accused Israel of committing genocide in the Gaza Strip during its war with Hamas . READ FULL STORY
