<p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar reiterated India 's support for a two-state solution to the Israel-Palestine conflict , stating the need for a " sovereign , independent , and viable Palestinian state " . Jaishankar made the comment while speaking in the Rajya Sabha during Question Hour . Addressing claims about India abstaining from all United Nations resolutions on Gaza , Jaishankar said , " Since the beginning of the Israel-Hamas conflict , 13 resolutions concerning Palestine were brought in UNGA out of which India voted in favour of 10 resolutions and abstained from three resolutions . " <h> India 's Continuing Aid To Gaza <p> Jaishankar also highlighted India 's significant humanitarian contributions to Palestine amid the ongoing crisis . He stated that approximately 70 metric tonnes of aid , including 16.5 metric tonnes of medicines and medical supplies , were delivered in two batches . Further , India disbursed $5 million to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees ( UNRWA ) in 2024 , matching the contribution made the previous year . <p> " India 's policy towards Palestine has been long-standing and we have always supported a negotiated two-State solution , towards the establishment of a sovereign , independent and viable State of Palestine within secure and recognised borders , living side by side in peace with Israel , " Jaishankar said . <p> Recent assistance in October and November 2024 included 65 tonnes of medical supplies sent to Palestinian health authorities and UNRWA . <h> Diplomacy For Peace <p> The Ministry of External Affairs noted that India has been actively engaging in diplomacy to promote peace in the region . Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Jaishankar have held discussions with leaders from Israel , Palestine , and other nations to push for a ceasefire . During the Summit of the Future in New York on September 22 , PM Modi met with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and reiterated calls for peace . <p> India has continued to voice its position on the Israel-Palestine conflict across key international platforms , including the United Nations , BRICS , the Non-Aligned Movement ( NAM ) , and the Voice of Global South . <p> ( With inputs from PTI ) <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from India and around the world .
