<p> December 3 News Wrap : Today 's top developments include row over new government in Maharashtra , latest developments in West Asia and EAM S Jaishankar 's comment on India-China border row amongst many others . <p> Hello readers ! Through this news wrap , we present the most important updates of the day . Today 's rundown includes EAM S Jaishankar 's latest remarks on India-China border dispute alongside latest updates on West Asia tensions . <p> The suspense on who will be the next chief minister of Maharashtra is expected to end tomorrow . Amid speculation about the much-awaited CM post , BJP functionary told the media that the consensus has been reached and the Mahayuti alliance will announce the name on December 4 . <p> The suspense on who will be the next chief minister of Maharashtra is expected to end tomorrow . Amid speculation about the much-awaited CM post , BJP functionary told the media that the consensus has been reached and the Mahayuti alliance will announce the name on December 4 , a day before the swearing-in ceremony . Despite Shinde publicly announcing his support for the BJP 's decision , the leadership issue remains a source of tension within the alliance , As the final decision is yet to be made . <p> Nearly two months after India and China announced the major border breakthrough to resume patrolling along the LAC following military disengagement , External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday said that bilateral ties between the two neighbours were on the course of ' some improvement ' <p> " Our ( India-China ) ties have been abnormal since 2020 when peace and tranquillity in the border areas were disturbed as a result of Chinese actions . Recent developments that reflect our continuous diplomatic engagement since then have set our ties in the direction of some improvement , " he said while briefing the Lok Sabha on India-China ties . <p> After making landfall between Puducherry and neighbouring Tamil Nadu on November 30 , Cyclone Fengal weakened by Sunday . However , torrential downpours under its influence continued , resulting in extremely heavy rainfall in the coastal regions of north Tamil Nadu and Puducherry . <p> According to the Weather Channel , Cyclone Fengal has claimed 19 lives in India and Sri Lanka so far , with widespread flooding , road blockages , and power outages disrupting daily life . In Chennai , three people died from electrocution due to rain-related incidents . <p> Tensions continue to escalate in West Asia as ceasefire violations in Lebanon , escalating fighting in Syria , and the ongoing war on Gaza intensify . The Israeli military has issued new forced displacement orders for Palestinians in parts of southern Khan Younis , following strikes that killed at least nine people in central and northern Gaza . <p> In another latest development , US President-elect Donald Trump , in a stern message on social media , sought immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza.He added if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be ' Hell To Pay . ' <p> As India and Australia gear up for the second Test of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy 2024-25 , the hype around the pink ball is getting high . The second Test in Adelaide is set to be a Day-Night affair for which pink balls are used . ( Full Coverage More Cricket News ) <p> Australian middle order batters Steve Smith and Travis Head admitted that facing the pink ball is challenging , especially if the pitch is difficult to bat .
