<h> Second coming of Donald Trump <p> December 4 , 2024 <p> He Promises to Make America Great Again . <p> Will Narendra Modi Make India Great Again ? <p> Today no country in the world matters much other than America ( US ) in international trade , commerce , war and peace . Donald Trump , its President , is like an elephant in US politics that knows its strength . Which is why , he seems unpredictable to some . <p> He could become a war-monger or a peace-maker . We have seen that there was no war when he was the President of America between 20 January 2017 and 20 January 2021 and he even met that belligerent North Korean President Kim Jong Un across the Korean border 's no-man 's land . <p> Yes , Trump could boast during the 2024 Presidential election campaign that he would Make America Great Again . He could also claim that there was no war anywhere in the world during his first Presidency -- 2017-2021 . But soon after , when Joe Biden took over , two wars broke out -- Ukraine and Gaza . Now even as he is biding his time to take Office on 20 January 2025 , he has already warned Hamas to release the Israeli hostages before he took office saying there will be " hell to pay . " Ukraine war may also see an end considering his cordial relation with Putin . <p> America is unlike any other country in the world . Those who have visited that country , studied its politics , economics and social milieu would know . No wonder even today America is the first choice for anyone to emigrate . <p> It is the world 's only superpower . With the disintegration of Soviet Russia in 1991 , the bipolar world became unipolar world with America as the only superpower . It is the land of affluence and opportunities that keeps beckoning to its shores thousands of persons ( ' tired and poor ' ) from all over the globe who seek an opportunity to make it good in life . No wonder , my Indian friend in America tells me that he left India for his own good and also for his country 's good ! Did you get me Steve ? <p> For India , Trump 's return to power should augur well . The world knows that Trump claims our Prime Minister Narendra Modi as his friend . History records the advantages of having a strong , powerful country 's King or President as a friend of a not-so-strong a country . We have seen this during our disastrous 1962 war with China that ended sooner than expected when America sent its Sixth Fleet Navy to Indian waters . <p> Modi has four more years in Office , so also Trump . So in the circumstances , our neighbours like Bangladesh , Pakistan and Maldives are sure to mend their inimical ways towards India and Hindu minorities in their respective countries . Trump would put that sinister America 's Deep State ( a clandestine network to destabilise foreign governments ) under check and who knows this might enable Sheikh Hasina to return to Dhaka like Julius Caesar 's triumphal return to Rome from Egypt or like Indira Gandhi 's return to power in 1980 . <p> Soon as Trump takes Office as President of America , we can expect the present anarchy in Bangladesh to end and the puppet President Muhammad Yunus replaced by Sheikh Hasina -- like it happened in India in 1980 . Who knows how the politics of a fanatical Islamic State will play out ? <p> As for India , Prime Minister Modi should remember 1971 Bangladesh war , where India under a strong leader like Indira Gandhi saved Bengali Muslims from invading Pakistan army . Likewise , Modi must now go to save Bangladesh Hindus who are persecuted under puppet President Muhammad Yunus . <p> As for India , Donald Trump becoming the President of America opens up opportunities to settle issues with its hostile neighbouring countries . Prime Minister Modi with four more years in Office , while Trump too will be there for that period , must finish the unfinished job with our neighbours once and for all -- Bangladesh and Kashmir . With Bangladesh , the issues are of illegal immigration and endemic persecution of Hindus . With Pakistan the issues are terrorism and PoK . <p> Consider this possible solution for the Bangladesh problem . Chittagong has 14% Hindu population and geographically contiguous to West Bengal and connected to Assam by rail . Many ask why did n't India annex the Chittagong and Cox 's Bazar territories during 1971 war . This is one more failure of Indira Gandhi , after Kashmir , in the Peace Treaty known as Shimla Agreement signed in 1972 between India and Pakistan . <p> Looking at the perpetual persecution of Hindus in Bangladesh , some political Pandits opine India should immediately rush to rescue Hindus in that country either by negotiation or by other means and settle all the Hindus and other persecuted minorities in Chittagong under Sovereign Exchange of population . So that there will be no Hindus in Bangladesh to suffer persecution . <p> It is also a good prognosis that Trump has inducted a few Indian-Americans to top jobs in his Cabinet . This shows some Indian immigrants are great achievers in their own given profession and enterprise . It is propitious for India that Trump in his wisdom picked them for such high offices in his government . All said and done , blood is thicker than water and these Trump honchos with Hindu blood coursing through their veins will have a soft-corner while dealing with India and tough while dealing with India 's enemies . <p> One of Trump 's important pick was Kashyap Patel ( Kash Patel ) born in America to Indian Gujarati parents as FBI Chief . Another is Vivek Ramaswamy , Department of Government Efficiency and an American Hindu Tulsi Gabbard , Director of National Intelligence . <p> In retrospect , one can say providence has now offset Narendra Modi 's diminished power in the Parliament by his success in the State elections in Haryana and in Maharashtra . Added to this is the success of his friend Trump as President of America which will empower Modi with Indradhanush . <p> As Osho Rajneesh says , sun is rising with all its glory and God has given you eyes . Modi must open his eyes , see the opportunity and seize it . <h> ABOUT <p> Mysuru 's favorite and largest circulated English evening daily has kept the citizens of Mysuru informed and entertained since 1978 . Over the past 45 years , Star of Mysore has been the newspaper that Mysureans reach for every evening to know about the happenings in Mysuru city . The newspaper has feature rich articles and dedicated pages targeted at readers across the demographic spectrum of Mysuru city . With a readership of over 2,50,000 Star of Mysore has been the best connection between it 's readers and their leaders ; between advertisers and customers ; between Mysuru and Mysureans.
