<h> The Catch Up : 5 December <p> The Catch Up : 5 December The headlines of the day from The Indian Express . <p> This is the Catchup on 3 Things by The Indian Express and I 'm Niharika Nanda . <p> Today is the 5th of December and here are the headlines . <p> BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis took oath as the chief minister of Maharashtra along with two deputy chief ministers , Shiv Sena 's Eknath Shinde and Nationalist Congress Party 's ( NCP 's ) Ajit Pawar , at a grand event held at Azad Maidan in Mumbai . The formation of the new government comes after two weeks of intense negotiations among the Mahayuti allies following the 23rd November poll results . The swearing-in ceremony took place in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi , Union Home Minister Amit Shah , Union ministers , and several chief ministers . <p> The Border Security Force has found two pistols and seven cartridges near the Indo-Pakistan border at Sri Ganganagar in Rajasthan , sparking suspicion of cross-border arms smuggling , security officials have said . According to BSF sources , the arms were found in an unclaimed packet near 11 FA village on 30th november . Authorities initially suspected it to be narcotics , smuggled in using drones . This comes at a time when cross-border narcotics smuggling using low-cost drones is already a cause for worry . <p> Chief Justice of India Sanjiv Khanna administered the oath of office to former Delhi High Court Chief Justice Manmohan as a judge of the Supreme Court . CJI Khanna administered the oath to Justice Manmohan at an event held in the Supreme Court . On November 28 , the Supreme Court Collegium recommended the elevation of Justice Manmohan as a judge of the apex court . Subsequently , the Centre cleared the elevation and notified his appointment on December 3 . <p> Amnesty International accused Israel of committing genocide in the Gaza Strip during its war with Hamas , saying it has sought to deliberately destroy Palestinians by mounting deadly attacks , demolishing vital infrastructure and preventing the delivery of food , medicine and other aid . Israel has adamantly rejected genocide allegations and is challenging such allegations at the International Court of Justice , and it has rejected the International Criminal Court 's accusations that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his former defense minister committed war crimes in Gaza . <p> France Prime Minister Michel Barnier 's government has collapsed amid a no-confidence vote in the National Assembly and he has been forced to resign after three months into his term , sending the country into a political crisis . Like the former Prime Minister Gabriel Attal was asked to continue as the caretaker government , when President Macron dissolved the National Assembly following his party 's crushing defeat in the EU elections , PM Michel Barnier will also remain in power as a caretaker administrator .
