<p> During the winter session of the Parliament , External Affairs Minister Dr. S Jaishankar reaffirmed India 's support for a two-state solution between Israel and Palestine . India 's support for the establishment of an independent Palestinian state comes as the situation in West Asia continues to escalate . <p> Addressing the ninth day of the Parliament winter session , the union minister reaffirms India 's support for the creation of " a sovereign , independent , and viable Palestinian state " alongside Israel . <p> " Since the beginning of the Israel- Hamas conflict , 13 resolutions concerning Palestine were brought in UNGA out of which India voted in favour of 10 resolutions and abstained from three resolutions , " said the EAM . <p> The external affairs minister further added that India 's policy towards Palestine has been one of " support for the two-state solution " . <p> Since the start of Israel 's war on Gaza , India has provided humanitarian assistance to Palestine and the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) . <h> Decoding India 's Stance On The Israel-Palestine Conflict <p> " India 's policy towards Palestine has been long-standing and we have always supported a negotiated two-State solution , towards the establishment of a sovereign , independent and viable State of Palestine within secure and recognised borders , living side by side in peace with Israel , " EAM Jaishankar told the Parliament . <p> Since the start of the Israel-Palestine conflict , India has expressed support for the creation of an independent Palestinian state . <p> As per the Ministry of External Affairs , India became the first Non-Arab nation in 1974 , to recognise the Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) as the sole and legitimate representative of the Palestinian people . <p> Furthermore , in 1988 , India became one of the first countries to recognise the Palestinian State . New Delhi also proceeded to establish diplomatic ties with Israel in 1992 after consulting with PLO leader Yasser Arafat . <p> With the outbreak of the war in Gaza in October 2023 , India was one of the first countries to condemn the terrorist attack but also call for a two-state solution between Israel and Palestine . <p> " India has strongly condemned the terror attacks on Israel on 7 October 2023 and also the loss of civilian lives in the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict . We remain concerned at the security situation and have called for a ceasefire , the release of all hostages and peaceful resolution of conflict through dialogue and diplomacy , " EAM Jaishankar added further . <p> Despite widespread calls for a two-state solution and a halt to the decades long conflict , Israel has stated it will not accept the creation of an independent Palestinian state due to various security concerns . <p> Following a strong stance of neutrality and maintaining a balancing act , India has established itself as a key partner for both Israel and Palestine and is also seen as a key player in the implementation of the two-state solution due to its close ties with Tel Aviv .
