<h> What would Trump 2.0 mean for foreign students in American universities ? <p> Donald Trump has repeatedly said that former president Biden 's approach to pro-Palestine protesters in university campuses had been " weak " and vowed to deport them and make the " college campuses safe and patriotic again . " <p> ( L ) A student being detained during pro-Palestine protests at the University of Texas at Austin . ( R ) Donald Trump during an election campaign . ( Photo AP ) <p> Less than three weeks after Donald Trump was named the 47th president of the United States , several top American universities issued travel advisories for their students from foreign countries to return to the US ahead of the new president-elect 's swearing-in on January 20 . <p> Several international media outlets have reviewed and quoted communications sent by leading US universities to their students currently abroad . <p> " The safest way to avoid difficulty re-entering the country is to be physically present in the US on January 19th and the days thereafter of the spring semester , " read an email from the Wesleyan University 's Office of International Student Affairs . <p> " We are not able to speculate on what a travel ban will look like if enacted , nor can we speculate on what particular countries or regions of the world may or may not be affected , " the University of Massachusetts wrote in a post on Instagram advising its international students , scholars , faculty and staff under UMass immigration sponsorship to return to US ahead of Trump 's swearing-in . <p> " ... the Office of Global Affairs is making this advisory out of an abundance of caution to hopefully prevent any possible travel disruption to members of our international community , " the varsity said . <p> Meanwhile , the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ( MIT ) advised students not to make decisions based on rumours or speculation about what policies the new administration may pass -- but suggested that students should be aware that new immigration or travel policies could be enacted as early as January 20 . <p> The universities ' concerns stem out of widespread anticipation of travel bans and visa restrictions for international students and faculties like that were enacted during Trump 's first term . A week into his presidency in 2017 , Trump signed an executive order restricting the entry of citizens of seven Muslim-majority nations into the US for 90 days . Several green card holders ( permanent residents in the US ) were also prevented from entering the US . Following this was a series of restrictions and travel bans for several foreign nationals , especially from Muslim-dominated countries and others like Venezuela and North Korea . <p> Visa restrictions and bans were also imposed on Chinese nationals , while China remained the second top-sending country of international students to the US with 2,77,398 students in 2023-2024 , according to data from ' Open Doors 2024 Report on International Educational Exchange ' . India leads the list with 3,31,602 students . <p> Trump , in August 2018 , remarked that every Chinese student coming over to study in American universities is a " spy . " He later vowed to crack down on the " many thousands of SPIES working in the academia , media and even government . " <p> Pro-Palestine movement <p> The past year has shown American universities in a different light . Several top universities in America , starting with the prestigious Columbia University witnessed widespread protests demanding a divestment from Israel in the wake of its " genocidal " war on Gaza . Students , faculties and staff across the universities participated in the demonstrations including setting up encampments in the campuses , making clear demands and shifting the narrative surrounding Israel 's war on Gaza . <p> The protesters were met with violent crackdown by the police under Biden administration apart from threats from politicians , intimidation from university administration and being labelled as anti-semitics by the media . <p> However , Trump has repeatedly said that Biden 's approach to the protesters had been " weak " . He labelled the protesters as " pro-Hamas radicals " and vowed to deport them and make the " college campuses safe and patriotic again . " <p> " If any of us want to do the things that we want to do for our country , and for the people who live in it , we have to honestly and aggressively attack the universities in this country , " US vice-president elect JD Vance said before the elections . <p> " The universities have never been a threat to the US administration except for during the Vietnam war and other rare instances . Now the genocide on Palestine has woken up the university spaces once again ... But I think the universities are going to be under increasing regulation in the coming years , " said Muhammed Shan , a teaching fellow at Virginia Tech . <p> Some of these regulations are detailed in ' Agenda 47 ' , Trump 's manifesto for the recently concluded elections . <p> In a video dated November 1 , Trump announced a new alternative to American universities which is to be named the ' American Academy . ' Trump stated that the institute would be established using the " billions and billions of dollars that we will collect by taxing , fining , and suing excessively large private university endowments . " <p> He said that the aim of the institute is to provide " truly world-class education available to every American , free of charge , " and " without adding a single dime to the federal debt . " <p> " It will be strictly non-political , and there will be no wokeness or jihadism allowed -- none of that 's going to be allowed , " he stressed . <p> In an earlier video released in July last year , Trump vowed to reclaim America 's " once great educational institutions from the radical Left " by using the college accreditation system which he dubbed as his " secret weapon . " <p> " When I return to the White House , I will fire the radical Left accreditors that have allowed our colleges to become dominated by Marxist Maniacs and lunatics . We will then accept applications for new accreditors who will impose real standards on colleges once again and once and for all , " he said . <p> " These standards will include defending the American tradition and Western civilization , protecting free speech , eliminating wasteful administrative positions that drive up costs incredibly , removing all Marxist diversity , equity , and inclusion bureaucrats , " he explained . <p> The Guardian has in October reported that House majority leader Steve Scalise in a meeting with pro-Israel lobby group the American Israel Public Affairs Committee ( AIPAC ) , detailed plans to pull billions of dollars of federal funding and strip off accreditation from some of the top American universities " to punish them for allowing pro-Palestinian protests on their campuses . " <p> Trump has also vowed to dismantle the Department of Education and send " all education BACK TO THE STATES . " <p> " We are going to end education coming out of Washington DC , close it up , all the buildings and people that hate our children in many cases ... " he said . <p> " We want states to run the education of our children because they 'll do a much better job of it . You ca n't do worse , " he said claiming that despite spending three times more money on education than any other nation , " and yet we are absolutely at the bottom , we 're one of the worst . " <p> According to a Forbes report , closing down the Department of Education will cut crucial funding for schools and colleges , cripple special education efforts and hamper civil rights enforcement . <p> The plan has also been mentioned in the infamous ' Project 2025 , ' a series of policy proposals put together by right wing think tank Heritage Foundation . Though Trump has distanced himself from the initiative , most of the top officials inducted into his administration are hard core conservatives who have worked with the project . <p> However , Shan from Virginia Tech thinks it wont be a cakewalk for Trump and his allies . <p> ? " I do n't think he will be able to pass that bill abolishing Dept of Education as it requires democrats ' votes for congressional approval . It probably remains as a threat . But if he does it , it would affect the American students more than international students and therefore a strong domestic pushback is expected , " Shan said . <p> According to Shan , a looming threat over foreign students would be another project form the Heritage Foundation , which is more likely to be implemented by Trump . <p> " I think Trump will implement what 's called Project Esther created by Heritage Foundation . This project is designed to drive people deemed threatening to American values out of the country ; including university spaces . Palestinian movements in the US universities may face a potential threat in the form of this project in the coming days , " he said . <p> Shan however thinks that even though Trump 's approach towards immigrant students in disciplines like humanity , sociology etc .. could be potentially harmful , he might welcome a more " diverse student population to technical educational fields such as computer science , just as Biden did . " <p> Pointing to the violent crackdown and intimidation of pro-Palestine movements in universities during Biden administration , Shan remarked , " Trump 's return to power may not do worse to the foreign students compared to Biden in general . "
