<h> At 38 , Kaur was the youngest nominee for this year 's award that includes a cash prize of ? 25,000 . This year marks the 40th anniversary of the prize . The other shortlisted artists included Pio Abad , Claudette Johnson and Delaine Le Bas . <p> Indian-origin Scottish artist Jasleen Kaur has won the prestigious Turner Prize 2024 for her exhibition , " Alter Altar " , that reflects on plurality , personal and political themes . <p> The jury -- chaired by Alex Farquharson , Director , Tate Britain -- praised " the considered way in which Kaur weaves together the personal , political and spiritual ... choreographing a visual and aural experience that suggests both solidarity and joy " . It also highlighted Kaur 's " ability to gather different voices through unexpected and playful combinations of material " . <p> At 38 , Kaur was the youngest nominee for this year 's award that includes a cash prize of ? 25,000 . This year marks the 40th anniversary of the prize . The other shortlisted artists included Pio Abad , Claudette Johnson and Delaine Le Bas . <p> Advertisement <p> Born in Glasgow , Kaur 's great-grandfather reportedly moved from Punjab in 1950 , three years after Partition ; her father owns a hardware store in Scotland . Her prize-winning exhibition " Alter Altar " , first shown in Glasgow last year , also reflects on her own family history as migrants to Scotland and her upbringing . <p> It featured , among others , a vintage red Ford Escort covered with a huge crocheted doily , a reference to her father 's migrant aspirations , worship bells , Irn-Bru orange resin , an Axminster carpet , and family photographs . Also playing were soundtracks that were part of Kaur 's growing up years , from Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan to Bob Marley . <p> In several interviews , Kaur has often discussed her multicultural upbringing and influences . If her 2021 series , " Gut Feelings Meri Jaan " , explored ideas around inheritance and belonging , history and archive , in the 2018 " I Keep Telling Them These Stories " , she used archival footage and recordings gathered from India and Scotland to explore culture as praxis , family , identity and origins . Her 2019 publication , " Be Like Teflon " , commissioned by Panel for Glasgow Women 's Library , comprises conversations between Kaur and women of Indian heritage living in the UK . <p> Explained <h> The Turner Prize <p> since it was established in 1984 , the Turner Prize has emerged as one of the most prestigious art awards . Recognising the work of a British artist , it endeavours to highlight recent developments in contemporary British art . Indian-origin British artist Anish Kapoor won the prize in 1991 . <p> Her website describes her as : " An artist making with the slurry of life . Raised amidst betrayal , secrecy and banished outsiders , her work is to make sense of what is out of view or withheld . She is called towards plurality , declassifications , polyphony , the blur . She is practising singing in the sediment till she is intoxicated . " <p> Advertisement <p> In an interview on the Tate website , Kaur states : " There 's this particular theory that I grew up with from the Sikh tradition which talks about Miri Piri , which is this balance of the political and the spiritual . I 'm really interested in that duality and I 've become quite obsessed with this particular point in my lineage where devotional practices were done across religious lines . That was happening for hundreds of years . But through the violence of borders , the violence of colonialism , the violence of empire , so much of this stuff , it has been impacted . And I 'm obsessed with it because it tells me that there 's a different way to live together . " <p> In her acceptance speech for the award on Tuesday , the Royal College of Art alumnus called for a ceasefire in Gaza , an end to institutional complicity in Israel 's genocide , and an arms embargo . She is also one of the signatories to a letter demanding that Tate sever ties with organisations that are deeply complicit with the Israeli regime . " It 's not a radical demand ... This should not risk an artist 's career or safety , " she said in her speech .
