<p> Tensions continue to escalate in West Asia as ceasefire violations in Lebanon , escalating fighting in Syria , and the ongoing war on Gaza intensify . The Israeli military has issued new forced displacement orders for Palestinians in parts of southern Khan Younis , following strikes that killed at least nine people in central and northern Gaza . <p> In another latest development , US President-elect Donald Trump , in a stern message on social media , sought immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza.He added if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be ' Hell To Pay . ' <p> In Lebanon , the ceasefire that took effect last week is under threat , with Israel 's military and Hezbollah exchanging fire . Both sides have accused each other of violations . Heavy Israeli attacks in southern Lebanon have killed at least 11 people . <p> Meanwhile , in Syria , Syrian and Russian forces have intensified air attacks on Idlib city and positions in Aleppo as President Bashar al-Assad 's government tries to slow the advance of opposition fighters . The Syrian government under Assad is politically and militarily supported by Iran and Russia . This surge in fighting has raised the prospect of another violent front emerging in the already war-torn West Asia . <p> Here are the latest updates from West Asia : <p> Israel Kills 11 People In Lebanon <p> Since the ceasefire with Hezbollah came into effect last week , Israel has continued its assaults on Lebanon , killing 11 people in separate attacks . <p> The truce was pushed to the brink on Monday when Israeli airstrikes killed two people . In retaliation , Hezbollah launched an attack on an Israeli military position . Israel then responded with a series of air raids , which killed at least nine people , according to the Lebanese Health Ministry . <p> The ceasefire had brought an end to a devastating war that killed nearly 4,000 people in Lebanon , where Hezbollah launched daily rocket attacks on Israel . <p> Hamas Says 33 Captives Killed In Gaza <p> Hamas has reported the deaths of 33 Israeli captives held in Gaza since the start of Israel 's nearly 14-month-old war in the besieged enclave . <p> In a video released on Monday , the group blamed the deaths on " the stubbornness of the war criminal " Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and " his ongoing aggression . " <p> The video listed incidents and dates of the killings , with Israeli airstrikes cited as the primary cause . This comes as Egypt , Qatar , and the United States lead renewed mediation efforts for a ceasefire that would include the release of captives . <p> Trump Warns Of ' Hell To Pay ' If Hostages Not Released <p> United States President-elect Donald Trump has issued a stern warning , saying " there will be hell to pay " if captives in Gaza are not released by the time he assumes office on January 20 , 2025 . <p> In a post on Truth Social , Trump decried " all talk , and no action " about the captives , in an apparent jibe at US President Joe Biden and his administration 's inability to broker a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas during more than a year of war . <p> " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " he said . <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " he wrote . <p> Syrian and Russian forces have intensified air attacks on Idlib city and positions in Aleppo as President Bashar al-Assad 's government tries to slow the advance of opposition fighters . This follows days after insurgents launched a lightning offensive and nearly captured all of Syria 's largest city , Aleppo . <p> The big gains by the opposition over the past few days have greatly shifted the front line in Syria 's long-running war between Assad 's forces and the opposition fighters . The Syrian government under Assad is politically and militarily supported by Iran and Russia . <p> To counter the rebels ' momentum , dozens of Iran-backed militias from Iraq also crossed into Syria overnight to beef up the Syrian military 's defences , according to Associated Press Report . <p> Turkey Calls For Reconciliation <p> The Turkish foreign minister , Hakan Fidan , said on Monday that the rapid advance of opposition fighters in Syria indicates that President Bashar al-Assad must reconcile with his own people and initiate dialogue with the opposition . Turkey , which has supported many opposition factions , and Iran , which backs Assad , have agreed to resume diplomatic efforts along with Russia to restore calm . <p> Turkey has been seeking to normalise ties with Syria , partly to address security threats from Kurdish militant groups along its southern border and ensure the safe return of more than 3 million Syrian refugees . However , Assad has demanded that Turkey withdraw its forces from northern Syria as a precondition for any normalisation between the two countries . <p> Death Toll Across The Region <p> In Gaza , since October 7 , 2023 , Israel has killed at least 44,466 Palestinians and wounded 105,358 . On the same day , Hamas-led attacks killed at least 1,139 people in Israel , and more than 200 were taken captive . <p> In Lebanon , Israeli attacks have killed at least 3,961 people and wounded 16,520 since the war on Gaza began . <p> In Syria , from November 26 to December 1 , at least 44 civilians , including 12 children and seven women , were killed in northwest Syria , according to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( OCHA ) .
