<h> ICC 's arrest warrants against Israeli leaders <h> Published on Dec 04 , 2024 <p> Although the ICC 's arrest warrants for Israeli leaders are unlikely to end in arrests , their issuance confirms that the noose of international law on Israel is tightening <p> Image Source : Getty <p> Ending the impunity for perpetrating war crimes and crimes against humanity has always been a high priority for the international community . It is with this objective that the Nuremberg and the Tokyo trials were held to book those who had committed mass crimes during the Second World War . The International Criminal Tribunal for the erstwhile Yugoslavia and Rwanda was similarly created in the 1990s to prosecute criminals who committed war crimes during the armed conflicts . However , these judicial bodies were not permanent courts . They had a localised impact due to the restrictions of time and place . <p> The international community 's desire to establish a permanent international court to hold actors accountable for egregious crimes was accomplished in 1998 when 120 countries adopted the Rome Statute that created the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) . Although the ICC has a global remit , in the last two decades or so of its existence , it has acquired a reputation for only going after third-world leaders and citizens ( predominantly from Africa ) , or those who are antagonistic to the West . A few countries like Burundi have withdrawn from the Rome Statute and South Africa threatened to quit . <p> The International Criminal Tribunal for the erstwhile Yugoslavia and Rwanda was similarly created in the 1990s to prosecute criminals who committed war crimes during the armed conflicts . <p> This background is critical to appreciate the arrest warrants issued by the ICC 's Pre-Trial Chamber ( PTC ) against Benjamin Netanyahu , Israel 's Prime Minister , and Yoav Gallant , Israel 's former Defence minister for allegedly committing war crimes in Gaza . Rejecting Israel 's challenge to the arrest warrants , the PTC found that there are " reasonable grounds to believe " that Netanyahu and Gallant each bear criminal responsibility for the war crime of starvation as a means of warfare in Gaza , and the crimes against humanity of murder , persecution , and other inhumane acts committed from 8 October 2023 until 20 May 2024 . These arrest warrants were requested by ICC 's Prosecutor , Karim Khan , in May 2024 . <p> This is the first time in the ICC 's history that arrest warrants have been issued against leaders of a regime close to the West . Unsurprisingly , the United States ( US ) has rejected the ICC 's warrants . <h> Immunity and jurisdiction <p> Two preliminary questions need to be answered . First , how can the ICC prosecute heads of state who , under international law , enjoy immunity from criminal proceedings at foreign or international courts ? The answer lies in Article 27(1) of the Rome Statute , which provides that the " Statute shall apply equally to all persons without any distinction based on official capacity . " It further clarifies that " official capacity as a Head of State or Government , a member of a government or parliament , an elected representative or a government official shall in no case exempt a person from criminal responsibility . " Article 27(2) of the Rome Statute further asserts that immunities attached to a person due to official capacity , whether under international or municipal law , will not bar the ICC from having jurisdiction over such a person . This principle has been upheld by the ICC in the Jordal Referral re Al-Bashir Appealcase , which was decided in 2019 . <p> If a crime is committed on an ICC member country 's territory , the court can exercise jurisdiction on that crime , even though the perpetrator belongs to a non-ICC member country . <p> The next preliminary question is how can the ICC act against Israeli leaders when Israel is not a member of the ICC . The answer is given in Article 12(2) ( a ) of the Rome Statute , which accounts for territorial jurisdiction . According to this principle , if a crime is committed on an ICC member country 's territory , the court can exercise jurisdiction on that crime , even though the perpetrator belongs to a non-ICC member country . Since Palestine is an ICC member , the crimes committed by Israeli soldiers in Gaza fall under the court 's jurisdiction . Likewise , Hamas ' conduct in Israel falls within the court 's jurisdiction as well , which led the ICC to issue an arrest warrant against Hamas leader , Mohammed Diab Ibrahim Al-Masri for the war crimes committed on Israeli territory . <h> What happens now ? <p> Going by past precedent , it is highly unlikely that the Israeli leaders will be arrested and handed over to the ICC to face trial . For instance , the ICC issued an arrest warrant against Russian President Vladimir Putin in March 2023 . However , President Putin has still not been arrested , though his international travels in the last 18 months or so have been severely restricted . This is because once the ICC issues an arrest warrant against any individual , all the 123 ICC member countries ( which does not include India ) are under a legal obligation to arrest the person concerned whenever s/he is in their jurisdiction and have to hand them over to the ICC . Critical to note that President Putin did travel to Mongolia , which is an ICC member , in September 2024 , but was not arrested for political reasons . <p> The ICC issued an arrest warrant against Bashir for allegedly committing war crimes , crimes against humanity and genocide in Sudan since 2009 . <p> The same has been the fate of Sudan 's former President , Omar al-Bashir . The ICC issued an arrest warrant against Bashir for allegedly committing war crimes , crimes against humanity and genocide in Sudan since 2009 . After the issuance of arrest warrants , Bashir visited several ICC member countries like Chad , South Africa , and Jordan , but none of these countries arrested him . This reveals two things . First , the execution of ICC arrest warrants is at the mercy of the member states . The ICC does not have its own police force that it can deploy to arrest individuals . If states do not cooperate , there 's very little that the ICC can do . Second , states that fail to comply with the legal obligation of executing an arrest warrant often get away without having to pay a significant legal price . <p> Thus , the practical impact of the arrest warrant issued against the two Israeli leaders will be that it would severely cripple their international travel , at least to countries that are ICC members . Even if it is unfathomable that Netanyahu and Gallant would get arrested and handed over to the ICC to face trial , the issuance of arrest warrants is a remarkable development in international law . It is a major legal and diplomatic blow to Israel , especially in the backdrop of two major International Court of Justice rulings involving Israel in the last year . First , the ICJ , in July 2024 , in the Legal Consequences arising from the Policies and Practices of Israel in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , including the East Jerusalem case , held that Israel 's continued occupation of the Occupied Palestinian Territory ( OTP ) is a violation of international law and that Israel must withdraw from the OPT as rapidly as possible . Second , the ICJ , in a case brought forth by South Africa in January 2024 , ruled that it was plausiblethat Israel was committing genocide in Gaza . Whether that is , indeed , the case or not is yet to be judicially determined . In short , the issuance of arrest warrants against the two Israeli leaders confirms that the noose of international law on Israel is tightening .
