<h> ICC : Member States Should Act to Protect Justice <h> Share : <p> Member countries of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) should support the court against efforts to undermine its global mandate . <p> The court has been under extreme pressure since ICC judges issued arrest warrants for senior Israeli leaders as well as a Hamas official in the Palestine investigation . <p> Member countries should make a commitment during their annual meeting to fulfill their obligation to execute the court 's arrest warrants , regardless of whom they target . <p> ( The Hague ) -- Member countries of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) should support the court against efforts to undermine its global mandate , Human Rights Watch said today . The annual session of the ICC 's Assembly of States Parties will take place in The Hague , Netherlands , from December 2 to 7 , 2024 . <p> Human Rights Watch issued a 24-page report providing recommendations to member countries aimed at ensuring the court has the political backing , resources , and cooperation it needs to advance investigations and cases across its docket . The court has been under extreme pressure since ICC judges in the Palestine investigation issued arrest warrants on November 21 , for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , as well as Mohammed Diab Ibrahim al-Masri ( Mohammed Deif ) , commander-in-chief of Hamas ' military wing , the Qassam Brigades . US lawmakers renewedtheirthreats to impose sanctions on ICC officials and those cooperating with the court . <p> " ICC warrants , whether against Vladimir Putin or Benjamin Netanyahu , send a critical message that no one is above the law , " said Liz Evenson , international justice director at Human Rights Watch . " ICC member countries should make a commitment during their annual meeting to take all necessary steps to ensure that the ICC 's crucial work for justice can continue without obstruction . " <p> Following the November 21 warrant decisions , US Senator Lindsey Graham called for the US Senate and President Joe Biden to enact a bill passed by the House of Representatives on June 4 , aimed at imposing sanctions against the court , its officials , and those supporting its work . The bill is modeled on a sanctions program put in place by then-US President Donald Trump in 2020 . <p> Any US sanctions would have wide-reaching consequences for global justice that go beyond the individuals targeted , Human Rights Watch said . Sanctions may create apprehension and legal uncertainty for service providers , nongovernmental organizations , consultants , and lawyers who work with the ICC . Sanctions are a tool to be used against those responsible for the most serious crimes , not against those promoting justice , Human Rights Watch said . <p> In a principled show of support , ICC member countries from every region affirmed their backing for the court 's independence and their commitment to abide by the court 's decisions , and called on others to do the same . However , some member countries appeared to avoid explicitly committing to enforcing the warrants flowing from the Palestine investigation , while a few openlycriticized the judges ' decision to issue them . Hungarian President Victor Orban said he would invite Netanyahu to visit Hungary , though all ICC members , including Hungary , have an obligation to arrest anyone wanted by the court . <p> At the Assembly session , ICC member countries should publicly make a commitment to enforce the ICC warrants , regardless of whom they target , and condemn threats and attacks against the court , its officials , and its supporters including civil society organizations and human rights defenders . <p> Member countries should also commit during the session to take concrete steps to protect the court from all coercive measures . This includes adopting and implementing national and regional laws to minimize or eliminate the effects of sanctions . The European Union should be ready to swiftly activate its " blocking statute " if the US puts sanctions in place , Human Rights Watch said . This law aims to shield European operators from the effects of extraterritorial sanctions and ensure that the court can continue its work unaffected . <p> ICC member countries will also set the court 's budget for 2025 . The court is currently operating in 16 countries across the globe . An ongoing mismatch between the court 's workload and the resources available to it has severely hampered its ability to effectively deliver on its mandate . Member countries should be mindful of how the court 's chronic underfunding affects victims ' access to justice , and adopt an annual budget that will allow the ICC to do its job consistently and effectively across all situations on its docket , Human Rights Watch said . <p> At the Assembly session , member countries will also determine the future of the review of the court 's performance by independent experts , which produced nearly 400 recommendations for change , in 2020 . As they decide on next steps , member countries should ensure continued monitoring of how the experts ' recommendations are being implemented and reflect on the role of member countries in providing the court with the support it needs , Human Rights Watch said . <p> The expert report included troubling findings about workplace culture at the court . Among other issues , the experts identified gaps in the current system to address allegations of misconduct by elected court officials and made a number of recommendations to strengthen internal grievance procedures , but most of these have not been implemented . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> On November 11 , the Assembly President P ? ivi Kaukoranta of Finland , announced that she is seeking an external investigation into allegations of sexual harassment against the ICC prosecutor , after an initial inquiry by the court 's Independent Oversight Mechanism was closed . The external investigation should have the authority to put in place necessary safeguards to protect its integrity , including considering whether the prosecutor should temporarily step away from his duties while the investigation is ongoing , Human Rights Watch said . <p> " The ICC needs the support of its member countries to fulfill its ambitious global mandate of delivering justice for the most serious crimes , " Evenson said . " Member country support needs to be consistent over time and across situations to avoid double standards and uphold the court 's legitimacy for victims and affected communities . " <p> Palestinian Territory - Nearly 70,000 Palestinians have been trapped for two months without access to food or medicine , as Israeli occupation forces continue to pursue them throughout the northern Gaza ...
