<h> Expert Explains : The new phase of war in Syria <h> For all practical purposes , the Syrian civil war had never ended . But an unusual confluence of global conflicts has helped create room for the armed insurgency to mount a renewed offensive against Bashar al-Assad . <p> On November 27 , Syria 's " Military Opposition Command " launched a fresh offensive against the forces of President Bashar al-Assad . Following fighting in the Idlib , Aleppo , and Hama governorates , the rebels seized the country 's second largest city of Aleppo by Monday . As Middle Eastern leaders engaged in a flurry of diplomacy , Assad 's allies Iran and Russia pledged support to his regime , and Syrian and Russian war jets have begun striking targets in rebel-held territory in northwestern Syria . <p> For all practical purposes though , the Syrian civil war had never ended . <p> Advertisement <p> In 2020 , almost five years ago , following the last major counter-offensive of the Russian- and Iranian-backed Syrian Arab Army ( SAA ) , the rebel groups were pushed to the far north of the country , and a negotiated ceasefire came into force . An acceptable stalemate had prevailed ever since -- even though frequent clashes continued among the actors in the war . <h> So , who are the rebels who have now taken Aleppo and are advancing beyond ? <p> The mix of actors in Syria is so diverse that the term " rebels " is often used for analytical convenience . Among the actors leading the current offensive , three are most important . <p> * First is the Hayat Tahrir al-Shaam ( HTS ) , a group that occupies the liminal space between jihadist terrorism and separatist militancy . The HTS , which is led by Abu Mohammad al-Jolani , was founded as Jabhat al-Nusra , the al-Qaeda 's branch in Syria , but which broke from the parent organisation in 2016 to form the Jabhat Fateh al-Shaam ( JFS ) . The change in name was both symbolic and substantial , as it now stood for liberation of Shaam , or the Levant . Jolani at the time sought to reduce the distance from the separatist Syrian opposition groups . <p> By 2017 , after merging with a number of other groups , the JFS became the HTS , which had a localized operational focus distinct from al-Qaeda 's global jihadist outlook . Illustrative of the evolving position of the HTS is the fact that while the United States State Department designated it as a terror group in 2018 , the US stopped targeting Jolani himself by August that year , as the former American Ambassador to Iraq , James Jeffrey , noted in 2021 . <p> Advertisement <p> * Second are the Kurdish militias organised as the Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) , the most powerful armed force in Syria after the SAA . <p> The SDF is the military arm of the Kurdish coalition that has autonomously governed a large part of northeastern Syria ( across the Euphrates river ) in Deir ez-Zor , Raqqa , and Aleppo since 2012 when the SAA withdrew . The SDF 's uneasy coexistence with Assad 's forces has often resulted in armed skirmishes , but its principal enemy over the last decade has been ISIS and its affiliated jihadist groups . <p> In the ongoing war , the Kurds , while fending off the Syrian Army , are also having to guard against the Turkey-backed militias and the HTS , despite the latter 's assurances on not attacking the Kurdish forces . The SDF enjoyed significant US backing during the civil war , until Washington abruptly withdrew most of its material and personnel support under the first Trump administration . <p> * Third is the Syrian National Army ( SNA ) , which grew out of the Free Syrian Army formed by defecting Syrian soldiers in 2011 , a Turkish-backed force that is fiercely opposed to both Assadist Syria as well as the Kurdish SDF . <p> Advertisement <p> The SNA has long been Ankara 's preferred ally for its own operations in Syria . The HTS and SNA are jointly carrying out the current offensive against the Syrian Army through their semi-unified " Military Operations Command " that was formed in 2019 . <h> And who are the external actors backing the rebels ? <p> The external actors in Syria are hardly ' external ' . For instance , Turkey is not merely a third state fighting in Syria through its proxies -- over the last five years , the Turkish occupation of northern Syria has been quasi-normalised , which makes Turkey a uniquely resident power that governs territory in Damascus 's stead . <p> Turkey 's encouragement of the rebels is a function in equal parts of its interests against the ( US backed ) Kurds , and the regime in Damascus . In 2016 ( and then in 2018 , 2019 ) , as Assad 's forces pushed back against ISIS with help from Russia and the Lebanese Hezbollah , Turkey exploited the opportunity to militarily force a buffer between itself and Kurdish controlled northern Syria . Ankara perceives a powerful threat from Kurdish militias , and considers most of them terror groups . <p> Turkey 's enabling of the resurgence of the civil war has been helped by the fact that the US has ( largely ) stood by . Washington has limited incentive to check a Turkish-backed offensive against Assad , who is backed by Moscow and Tehran . The common anti-ISIS objective that had resulted in peculiar instances of American , Russian , Syrian , and Iranian forces fighting the same enemy in the past , has now withered away . <p> Advertisement <h> But why has the civil war restarted at this moment ? <p> The renewed war in Syria amidst the raging conflict in the Middle East is more than just a broken windows effect . An unusual confluence of global conflicts has helped create room for the armed insurgency to mount its offensive against Assad . Two new wars in Europe and Lebanon/ Gaza have helped resurrect the older one in Syria . <p> Over the last three years , the invasion of Ukraine has strained Russia 's military positions and resources in Syria . As it was Moscow 's entry in 2016 that helped Assad turn the tables in the war , so a strain on Russia has come as an opportunity for the Syrian armed opposition . <p> On the other hand , the Iran-backed ground proxies that have fought alongside Assad 's forces in Syria -- especially Hezbollah -- have been significantly weakened due to Israel 's air and ground campaign in Lebanon , and the decimation of Hezbollah 's senior leadership . Hezbollah is perhaps the most conspicuous absence in the renewed war in Syria , vindicating , at least for now , the rebels ' timing of the offensive . <p> Note that Hezbollah 's involvement in the earlier phase of Syria 's civil war helped Damascus substantially against both ISIS as well as the rebels , especially in Aleppo ( which they have now re-seized ) . <p> Advertisement <h> And what does this new phase of the war mean for Assad himself ? <p> By mid-2012 , with 100,000 killed in the war and the armed opposition closing in on Damascus , the former UN observer mission chief in Syria had declared that Assad 's days were numbered . Eleven years later , Assad was welcomed back with some pomp into the Arab League as the decisive winner of the war . <p> But while this spotlights the risks of writing Assad 's political obituary , it is to be noted that his victory was never complete -- northern Syria remained under Turkish control , and the SNA/HTS continued to be a threat to him . This is one of the major reasons why Assad himself has remained restrained in his anti-Israel commitment during the wars in Gaza and Lebanon . <p> Despite Assad 's inextricable relationship with Tehran , Syria 's Arab neighbours Saudi Arabia and the UAE have an interest in checking renewed instability in Syria . This is not least due to their unease with Recep Tayyip Erdogan 's Turkey . While capitals like Riyadh and Abu Dhabi look for regional stability as they seek to diversify economically , Ankara -- which has been kept out of cross-regional grand projects like the India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor ( IMEC ) -- has enough reason to assert its regional heft as a geopolitical maverick . <p> India has long stood by Assad in Syria , and has historically supported Russia 's military involvement . The 6th Round of India-Syria Foreign Office Consultations took place in New Delhi on November 29 , two days after the civil war resurged . While several factors influence India 's position , it principally stems from New Delhi 's preference for stable political actors in the region . <p> Advertisement <p> ( The author is a Research Associate at the Council for Strategic and Defense Research , New Delhi )
