<h> The projectiles were apparently the first time that Hezbollah took aim at Israeli forces after the 60-day ceasefire went into effect last Wednesday . The increasingly fragile truce aimed to end more than a year of war between Hezbollah and Israel - part of a wider regional conflict sparked by the devastating Israel-Hamas war in Gaza . <p> AgenciesAn Israeli soldier atop a tank near Lebanon border <p> JERUSALEM : Israel unleashed its largest wave of airstrikes across Lebanon since agreeing to a ceasefire with Hezbollah last week , killing at least 11 people on Monday after the Lebanese militant group fired a volley of projectiles as a warning over what it said were Israeli truce violations . <p> The projectiles were apparently the first time that Hezbollah took aim at Israeli forces after the 60-day ceasefire went into effect last Wednesday . The increasingly fragile truce aimed to end more than a year of war between Hezbollah and Israel - part of a wider regional conflict sparked by the devastating Israel-Hamas war in Gaza . <p> Lebanon 's Health Ministry said an Israeli airstrike on the southern village of Haris killed five people and wounded two while another airstrike on the village of Tallousa killed four and also wounded two . <p> Israel 's military carried out a string of airstrikes late Monday against what it said were Hezbollah fighters , infrastructure and rocket launchers across Lebanon , in response to Hezbollah firing two projectiles toward Mount Dov - a disputed Israeli-held territory known as Shebaa Farms in Lebanon where the borders of Lebanon , Syria , and Israel meet . Israel said the projectiles fell in open areas and no injuries were reported . <p> Hezbollah said in a statement that it fired on an Israeli military position in the area as a " defensive and warning response " after what it called " repeated violations " of the ceasefire deal by Israel . It said complaints to mediators tasked with monitoring the ceasefire " were futile in stopping these violations . "
