<h> Opinion The Jaishankar-Modi doctrine : Can India balance its foreign relations in a Cold War 2.0 ? <h> The key test for India 's ' mult-alignment ' approach is whether it is using its newfound elbow room to pursue naked interest , or whether there is what the doctrine says there should be -- a moral stance as well as a rational one . When pressed , can Indian diplomats and other spokespersons present a narrative that reflects India 's values as much as it reflects India 's interests ? <p> It has now been a decade of Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's dispensation in New Delhi , and during this time almost no observers of international politics can have failed to notice a gradual , though accelerating shift in not only India 's international stature , but also in its posture . In foreign policy analysis , one must consider both what a nation does and what it 's diplomats say . It is always the great powers of the time that define the frameworks and narratives within which all actions and decisions end up being seen . Sometimes great powers explicitly publish their doctrines : The United States had a Monroe Doctrine in the 19th century , and a Wilson Doctrine during and after World War I. In many ways , Henry Kissinger and Ronald Reagan each brought their own doctrines to US foreign policy . On the other hand , we can recall Soviet Union 's Brezhnev Doctrine at the height of the Cold War , and our own " non-alignment " doctrine of the Nehruvian era . <p> India 's non-alignment was the product , post-Independence , of both our capacities as a nation , and our ideological idealism . We were an impoverished nation with little ability to actively pursue outcomes in geopolitical terms , and did n't have the sort of ideological clarity during the Cold War to commit to an alliance system . The result , labelled non-alignment , was designed more than anything else to minimise adverse effects of geopolitical events on our ability to go through the painstaking process of domestic socio-economic and political development . We wanted to keep out of trouble rather than achieve anything in particular . <p> Advertisement <p> Non-alignmenthas in many ways remained an implicit feature of Indian foreign policy even in the decades since the end of the Cold War . However , with our legacy of security cooperation with the Soviet Union being transferred to the new Russian Federation , while our diaspora and economic linkages with the West continued to strengthen , the logic of India 's relationships on two ends of the geopolitical spectrum has continued to be questioned . Never more so than since the invasion of Ukraine in 2022 . <p> While many have seen more continuity than change in this stance under PM Modi , some of India 's recent geopolitical engagements have displayed perhaps the creation of a new " Jaishankar-Modi Doctrine " . To quote our external affairs minister , " A multi-polar world requires a multi-vector strategy and multi-alignment by India ... " , " non-alignment " is being replaced by " multi-alignment " . Especially during his most recent visit to the US , Jaishankar seemed to explicitly lay out a new vision for our engagement with the world . When pressed during a long format interaction on how India could hope to be all things to all people , Jaishankar quipped that we intended to be ourselves to all people . What he meant was , we do n't merely have interests , we also have values , and both will matter in how we deal with countries and situations . <p> Perhaps the key distinction between non-alignment then and multi-alignment now is not about whether India is absolutely closer to or less close to any particular nation or group of nations , but instead about how India now interacts with all nations . As opposed to wanting to keep our heads down , hoping that no geopolitical event batters us , India now actively formulates a forward-looking view on global engagement , and pursues outcomes in the national interest . It is signalling a new intensity of effort and the availability of capacity to be leveraged to generate such outcomes . It is saying , we are here to play . <p> Advertisement <p> Take , for example , the case of the **31;1021;TOOLONG States-Canada equation . India has in the last few years simultaneously taken an anti-war stance in general , while condemning outright neither Russia nor Israel ; it has bought Russian crude at beneficial prices while also acquiring advanced US defence equipment ; it has been accused of an assassination programme in both Canada and and the US and deals with each entirely differently ; it has continued discussions on an Indian port in Iran , while supporting Israel 's right to respond in Gaza . Somehow , India is in a sufficiently favourable geopolitical position in terms of today 's calculus , that all sides seem to tacitly be accepting the practical expression of India 's approach . <p> The key test here is whether India is using its newfound elbow room to pursue naked interest , or whether there is what the doctrine says there should be -- a moral stance as well as a rational one . When pressed , can Indian diplomats and other spokespersons present a narrative that reflects India 's values as much as it reflects India 's interests ? <p> This test might end up being applied when push comes to shove , and the emergent multi-polarity collapses into a new form of bi-polarity , or a Cold War 2.0 . Given that the Jaishankar-Modi Doctrine seems to allow for deep partnerships with nations along either common interests , or common values , or both , yet seems to eschew explicit alliances , there may come a time when India 's hand is forced . The current approach may serve India well if Jaishankar 's key assumption of a multi-polar future proves correct . If not , then we have to remember that one can not have one 's cake and eat it too . <p> Shah is an alumnus of London School of Economics , Cambridge and Harvard , and lives and works in Mumbai
