<h> Treat Muslims equally : Farooq <p> Excelsior Correspondent SRINAGAR , Dec 2 : National Conference president Dr Farooq Abdullah today said the Centre should stop actions that could create communal tension and treat Muslims equally . Abdullah said while speaking to reporters here that the Government should stop actions against Muslims . " I would like to tell the Government to stop such actions . You ca n't throw Muslims into the sea ; where would you throw 24 crore Muslims ? They should treat Muslims equally-that is what our Constitution stands for . There is no difference on the basis of religion or language ; everyone is equal . If the Government breaks the law , how will India survive ? " , he asked . The NC president said that the Government should review the reservation policy . " We will tell the Government to review it . Reservation is for the underprivileged sections so that they can come up as equals , " he said . <p> Follow the Daily Excelsior channel on WhatsApp The Government has formed a Cabinet sub-committee to look into the demands for rationalisation of reservations , which have gone up to 70 per cent in the Union Territory . On termination of two Government employees , Abdullah said , " I have heard about it ; the Government will investigate . Why was the person removed ? What was the reason ? No one can be removed arbitrarily . God willing , this will be addressed . " The NC president said that no one was against the return of Kashmiri Pandits to the Valley . " Who is stopping Kashmiri Pandits from coming back ? Every political party has said they should return . It is their decision when they want to return . Our hearts are open for them . Even when I was the Chief Minister , when the situation was bad , we tried to bring them back , " he added . Abdullah also welcomed the Israel-Lebanon ' ceasefire ' , but called for an end to attacks on Gaza , Syria and Iran as well . " It ( ceasefire ) is a very good step , but it is necessary to stop attacks jointly being carried out by Israel and America -- in Gaza , Syria and Iran , which are continuing even today . This is dangerous . They should immediately resort to ceasefire . You must have watched the debates in the ( UN ) Security Council . If there is a purpose for ( the existence of ) Security Council , it should work on the directions given to Israel . They should enforce a ceasefire and allow humanitarian aid , " he added . On his recent religious pilgrimage , Abdullah said he not only prayed for Kashmir , but for the entire Muslim world . " The problems we are facing today , may Allah deliver us from these . May Allah guide us to the right path . I prayed that we stay away from evil and for the end of religious hatred that has spread in our country . I prayed for unity and harmony , " he said . On regional political parties criticizing NC over the dominance of LG , Farooq said that criticising for self-promotion is wrong . " I have prayed for them too , that God guides them to the right path . Our problems are shared , and they should help address them . Criticism alone wo n't solve anything . Criticizing for the sake of self-promotion is wrong " .
