<p> In a grand ceremony at Mumbai 's Azad Maidan , Devendra Fadnavis took oath as Maharashtra 's Chief Minister . Alongside him , Eknath Shinde and Ajit Pawar were sworn in as Deputy CMs . The event was star-studded -- PM Modi , top cabinet ministers , business leaders , and Bollywood celebrities all made their presence felt . <p> In stock markets , the Sensex and Nifty ended higher for the fifth straight session today , even though there were some wild swings in late trade . However , midcaps could n't keep up and underperformed . In the currency market , the Indian rupee remains near its record low against the dollar . Meanwhile , the Reserve Bank 's Monetary Policy Committee ( MPC ) will announce its rate decision tomorrow . A CNBC-TV18 poll suggests most economists do n't expect a repo rate cut , despite the recent weaker-than-expected GDP growth . Interestingly , only 50% of those polled expect a cash reserve ratio cut . <p> From the global markets , its official -- Bitcoin has crossed the $100,000 mark , up a whopping 140% in 2024 . The rally picked up serious steam after Donald Trump 's victory and his announcement to appoint crypto-friendly Paul Atkins as the next SEC Chair . <p> Weak employee compensation is back in the spotlight . There are growing calls for India Inc to rethink hiring practices , ramp up capital spending , and embrace deregulation -- set to be a key theme in the upcoming Economic Survey . World Economic Forum President Borje Brende has dubbed India the " Startup Nation " of the world . In an exclusive chat , he highlighted that the Indian economy is expected to remain among the fastest-growing globally . <p> CDSL , BSE shares hit record highs -- Here is how other market-linked stocks are faring <p> Shares of Central Depository Services Ltd . ( CDSL ) surged as much as 10% on Thursday , December 5 . The stock hit a record high of ? 1,865.4 in today 's trading session . The stock has risen 19% so far over the last month . Shares are also the latest entrant in the Futures &amp; Options segment . <p> With today 's move , shares of CDSL have doubled in value in 2024 . In line with the move in CDSL , shares of the Bombay Stock Exchange ( BSE ) have also surged as much as 12% on Thursday to hit a record high of ? 5,168.9 . BSE has also entered the F&amp;O segment from the December series . <p> BSE shares have risen 9% so far in the last one month and have extended their gains for 2024 to 128% . <p> The sharp slowdown in growth has put the Reserve Bank of India ( RBI ) in a very uncomfortable position . There is a growing chorus for a rate cut , including from government officials at a time when high inflation , which has now breached RBI tolerance threshold , continues to be a spot of bother . <p> A CNBC-TV18 poll shows that seven out of ten economists believe the recent weaker-than-expected GDP growth is unlikely to prompt an early rate cut , with inflation concerns expected to take priority . <p> Jerome Powell , the Federal Reserve chair , while speaking at the Ney York Times DealBook Summit , said that Bitcoin is not comparable to currency . Rather it is a speculative asset like gold but in a virtual form . <p> Powell further explained that Bitcoin is n't by people as a form of payment . Moreover it is very volatile as well . <p> V Anantha Nageswaran , India 's Chief Economic Advisor ( CEA ) to the Finance Ministry , has elaborated on some of the priorities for India Inc. , states , and probably even the union government to push India 's growth levers . <p> The first among the priorities is for the private sector to increase employee compensation and arrest the shift in hiring from regular to contractual labour . The CEA says employee compensation has become " weaker and weaker , " with earnings growth vastly outpacing wages in the last four years . <p> BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis was sworn in as Maharashtra 's Chief Minister for the third time at a grand ceremony at Azad Maidan on Thursday , December 5 . NCP chief Ajit Pawar and Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde took oath as Deputy Chief Ministers . <p> Israel 's War In Gaza Amounts To Genocide : Amnesty International Israel-Gaza War <p> International human rights group Amnesty has accused Israel of committing genocide against Palestinians In Gaza . In a report , Amnesty has said Israel 's war on Gaza meets the legal threshold for genocide . <p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has reiterated India 's stance on the Israel-Hamas war . Answering a question in Rajya Sabha , minister Jaishankar said that India calls for a ceasefire in Gaza , however will not accept a peace resolution if it 's not a balanced one . <p> Hooded assailant who murdered UnitedHealthcare CEO with silenced gun still on the run <p> New York police were searching on Thursday for the man who shot dead UnitedHealth executive Brian Thompson in a brazen attack outside a Midtown Manhattan hotel and was last seen fleeing into Central Park . <p> Thompson , the CEO of UnitedHealth 's insurance unit , was shot from behind on Wednesday morning in what police described as a targeted attack by a masked assailant lying in wait . It came just before the company 's annual investor conference at the Hilton on Sixth Avenue . <p> Foreign airlines ramp up India operations as international traffic soars <p> India 's aviation market is booming , with daily passenger traffic reaching a record high of five lakh . A significant portion of these passengers are heading to international destinations , signalling strong growth in outbound travel . <p> India 's aviation market is booming , with daily passenger traffic reaching a record high of five lakh . A significant portion of these passengers are heading to international destinations , signalling strong growth in outbound travel . <p> Shares of food delivery and quick commerce aggregators Zomato Ltd. and Swiggy Ltd. hit new highs on Thursday , December 5 . <p> Zomato shares surged as much as 6.5% on Thursday to cross the mark of ? 300 , making a new high of ? 304.65 . The stock has now gained in seven out of the last nine trading sessions . The stock has gained 24% in the last one month . <p> Shares of Swiggy too are up for the fourth day running , extending their gains despite reporting a net loss during the quarter . The management gave timelines towards profitability , which the street appears to be appreciating . <p> The ISRO on Thursday successfully launched the PSLVC59 rocket with the European Space Agency 's Proba3 satellites from here , in a first of its kind initiative involving precision formation flying of two satellites . <p> In a social media post after the lift off , the Bengaluru-based space agency said , " Lift off achieved . PSLV-C59 has successfully soared into the skies , marking the commencement of a global mission led by NSIL , with ISRO 's technical expertise , to deploy ESA 's groundbreaking PROBA-3 satellites . A proud moment celebrating the synergy of international collaboration and India 's space achievements . " Proba-3 ( Project for Onboard Anatomy ) consists of two satellites in which two spacecraft would fly together as one , maintaining precise formation down to a single millimetre to study the Corona , the Sun 's outer atmosphere .
