<p> Palestinian territory -- The Israeli occupation army burned displaced people alive in Mawasi Khan Yunis in the southern Gaza Strip after directly targeting their displacement tents , killing 22 Palestinians , half of whom were women and children . An additional 18 people suffered burn wounds during the attack . <p> At approximately 6:07 p.m. on Wednesday , Israeli aircraft and helicopters fired multiple missiles at the tents of displaced people in Mawasi Khan Yunis , an area Israel claims to be a safe humanitarian zone . The displaced people were burned alive in their ramshackle tents , resulting in the death of 22 Palestinians -- including eight children and three women , one of whom was a mother and her two daughters from the Shurab family -- while 18 others suffered burns and various other wounds . <p> Based on details collected by Euro-Med Monitor 's field team regarding the bombing operation , the Israeli army deliberately targeted civilians . The operation began with a request to evacuate part of the targeted area , during which an Israeli helicopter fired a missile at the displaced people as they were evacuating . The raids were subsequently repeated across a 700-meter area , directly striking the displaced people 's tents and setting them ablaze . <p> Later , the Israeli army declared that it had targeted a Hamas Movement leader who was actually a local Internal Security Service official . This suggests that Israel is still working to destroy the entire police and internal security apparatus to sow chaos and anarchy throughout the Gaza Strip . <p> The assassination of an internal security officer is a crime in and of itself , and it does not justify the use of excessive force or a lack of concern for civilian casualties . <p> In an area home to hundreds of thousands of displaced people , the Euro-Med field team reviewed harrowing accounts and evidence of children 's charred and dismembered remains being retrieved , reflecting an unprecedented level of Israeli brutality through the use of incendiary bombs and shells . <p> This was not an isolated incident ; rather , it was a manifestation of Israel 's systematic genocide against all Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , targeting and killing them wherever they may be , including in the " humanitarian zone " that Israel maintains is safe . <p> Israel used direct destructive firepower there , burning and killing a large number of people who had been forcibly displaced from their homes throughout the Gaza Strip , and then pushed them to this area so Israel could bomb them nonstop . <p> On 10 September , after midnight , Israeli aircraft dropped three American-made MK-84 bombs on a group of sleeping displaced people in the Mawasi neighbourhood of Khan Yunis . The bombs created three craters several meters deep and wide , burying roughly twenty tents with the families inside . Since there were no evacuation warnings prior to the bombing , the Israeli army 's intent to kill as many civilians as possible is evidenced by the use of American bombs , which have a wide destructive effect in an area crowded with tents and displaced people , leading to an initial death toll of over 60 , including the dead and wounded . <p> As part of the crime of genocide , Israeli planes carried out numerous raids on the tents of the displaced in the Al-Mawasi area , burning and killing scores of Palestinians while burying many more in the sand . <p> By stating that members of Palestinian factions are present in the region , Israel is attempting to justify its massacres , though these claims are typically unverified . According to field investigations , Israel deliberately carries out raids during Palestinian civilian gathering times , which are visible to surveillance cameras and footage recorded by its aircraft . This allows Israel to target individuals it claims are of interest in locations and situations that are far from civilians , or by using precise or at least proportionate weapons , yet it also intentionally kills civilians and causes the greatest number of casualties and injuries possible . <p> Israel is still required to uphold the principles of international law , including international humanitarian law , and to ensure that all of its rules pertaining to humanity , distinction , military necessity , proportionality , and appropriate precautions are applied . This is an unavoidable duty that Israel must uphold and guarantee throughout the preparation and execution of all its military operations , without exception , including the selection of techniques and weaponry designed to minimise civilian casualties and injuries . <p> Israel also has an obligation to refrain from military action if the number of civilian casualties and injuries exceeds the military benefit ; otherwise , it would be committing a serious crime , which in the case of the Gaza Strip would be considered genocide . <p> Such massacres , which systematically target civilians in a purely and repeatedly cruel manner , are met with a shameful state of silence and disregard , effectively giving Israel the green light to continue these atrocities in a blatant attempt to kill and exterminate Palestinians on a large scale . <p> The United States is complicit in this crime because it provides the Israeli army with weapons and incendiary and destructive bombs , even though it knows these weapons are used to kill hundreds of civilians each time . The decision-makers responsible must be held accountable for their complicity in these crimes . <p> The Israeli killing strategy reveals a clear policy to exterminate Palestinian civilians throughout the Gaza Strip , instill fear in them , deny them shelter or stability -- even for a brief period , force them to flee repeatedly , destroy them , and subject them to life-threatening conditions . <p> Bombing is also being carried out throughout the Strip , targeting areas designated as humanitarian zones , with a particular focus on shelters , including those set up in UNRWA-run schools . <p> All nations must fulfill their international obligations by preventing Israel from committing the crime of genocide and other serious crimes in the Gaza Strip , protecting civilians there , ensuring Israel abides by international law and the rulings of the International Court of Justice , enforcing effective sanctions against it , and halting all forms of military , financial , and political support and cooperation , including the immediate suspension of the sale , export , and transfer of weapons to Israel , including export licenses and military aid , and ensuring it is held accountable for its crimes against the Palestinian people . It is necessary to implement the arrest warrants issued by the International Criminal Court against the Israeli Prime Minister and Defence Minister . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The United States and other nations that provide Israel with any kind of support or assistance in connection with the commission of these crimes -- including aid and contractual relationships in military , intelligence , political , legal , financial , media , and other areas that contribute to the continuation of these crimes -- must be held accountable for their complicity and partnership with Israel in committing these crimes . <p> Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor is a Geneva-based independent organization with regional offices across the MENA region and Europe <p> Amnesty International 's research has found sufficient basis to conclude that Israel has committed and is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip , the organization said in ... <p> The Biden administration 's failure to act decisively on international humanitarian crises has drawn sharp criticism from analysts and advocates alike . Despite its stated commitment to upholding humanitarian principles , the administration ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
