<p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday , reiterated India 's support for a two-state solution in the long-standing Israel-Palestine conflict , while also asserting that issues of terrorism and hostage-taking can not be underplayed or ignored . <p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday , reiterated India 's support for a two-state solution in the long-standing Israel-Palestine conflict , while also asserting that issues of terrorism and hostage-taking can not be underplayed or ignored . <p> Speaking in the Rajya Sabha today , Jaishankar explained India 's decision to abstain from voting in some of the resolutions regarding the Gaza conflict in the United Nations General Assembly . <p> In response to TMC MP Saket Gokhale 's question on India 's stance on a two-state solution to Palestine , Jaishankar said , " We support the two-state solution and we have been public and unambiguous about that . So , there should be no cause for confusion regarding the two-state solution . " <p> Jaishankar was asked about the International Criminal Court 's arrest warrant against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , former defence chief Yoav Gallant and Hamas leader Mohammad Deif , to which the Foreign Minister pointed out that India is a not a member of ICC . <p> In response to the query , he said , " The honourable member would be aware that India is not a member of International Criminal Court . When the International Criminal Court was constituted , the question of our membership was considered . For very good reason after great deal of deliberation , India considered to not become a member . So , with regard to any decision passed by the ICC , it is not binding on us . So , it is not a matter on which we have taken formal position . " <p> Elaborating on the details regarding India 's assistance for Palestine , Jaishankar said that India gives an annual contribution of USD 5 million to The United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) , which he called the " main assistance-providing agency . " <p> " India has given assistance to the people of Palestine at this particular time . I would like sir through you to bring to the notice of the house that we make an annual contribution of five million dollars to UNRWA , which is a main assistance-providing agency , " he said . <p> " This amount traditionally used to be a million dollar . So , during the time under the decision taken by this government , it was raised from one million dollars to five million dollars . In recent times , in terms of conflict , we have provided 70 metric tons of aid , of which 16.5 was of medicine in 2023 . We have 65 metric tons of medicine to the Palestinian authority and UNRWA in 2024 . We have provided 33 metric tons of medicine to Lebanon , " the Foreign Minister added . <p> Being asked how India will be able to support Palestine after Israel banned UNRWA , he said , " Regarding our support and contribution to UNRWA , this is a decision which we took as a government , we continue to stand by that decision . We have just infact released the latest tranche of support to UNRWA . " <p> Regarding India 's abstentions from some UN resolutions regarding Gaza , Jaishankar said the resolutions which " do not reflect the entire reality " of the situation by downplaying the October 7 terror attack by Hamas , ca n't be supported by India , which is itself a ' victim of terrorism . ' <p> In response to a query raised by DMK MP Tiruchi Siva on India abstaining from voting in a resolution on Gaza in UNGA , Jaishankar said , " With regard to the particular resolution , which the honourable member referred to , we abstained , in fact , during this period , there have been in the General Assembly a number of resolutions , we have voted in favour of many , we have abstained on some . " <p> " Generally , when we abstained . the reasons are the resolution is not very balanced , the resolution is more divisive , the resolution can set a precedence which has consequences for us . The resolution has larger implications . In this particular case , we felt that the resolution was not well-drafted , it was not well-considered . We had reservations on the language . Our concerns were not accommodated and that is why abstained , " he added . <p> He noted that the wordings of the resolution is important and India chose not to support those resolutions , as they had no mentions of hostage-taking or terrorism , adding that India takes a very mature view of the resolution . <p> Jaishankar said , " Resolutions have implications as you noted , their wording is important . For example , the resolution which the previous member had referred to , there was no reference to terrorism , there was no reference to hostage taking . So , in our mind , a resolution which does not reflect the entirity of the situation is not a balanced resolution and a country like India , which is itself a victim of terrorism , if we countenance the fact that terrorism is underplayed and ignored , it is not in our interests that we do so . " <p> " So , when we look at any resolution , we look at the wording and we take a very very mature view about it and I want to say as a matter of principle , we condemn terrorism , we condemn hostage-taking . We do believe that countries have a right to respond to these situations but countries should be mindful of civilian casualties . They must observe humanitarian law and we would like a ceasefire and an early end to the violence . Our position has been very very clear but we would like this duly reflected in well-worded resolution which are balanced , " he added . <p> The conflict in Gaza reignited after Hamas attacked Israel on October 7 , 2023 . Following the October 7 attack , Israel launched a counter-offensive against Hamas , vowing to eliminate the entire terror group.Notably , Prime Minister Narendra Modi was one of the first world leaders to condemn Hamas ' attack on Israel on October 7 last year . <p> However , India has also called for a ceasefire and the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages . India has also put its weight behind the ' two-state solution ' to the long-running Israel-Palestine conflict . <p> Except for the headline , the story has not been edited by DNA staff and is published from ANI .
