<p> The Amnesty International report adds to a March report by the UN special rapporteur for Palestine that concluded " there are reasonable grounds to believe " Israel was committing genocide against Palestinians . <p> A column of Israeli army military armoured vehicles moves near the Gaza border in southern Israel in this file photo . ( AFP ) <p> " Amnesty International 's report demonstrates that Israel has carried out acts prohibited under the Genocide Convention , with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza , " said Agnes Callamard , Secretary General of Amnesty International . <p> " These acts include killings , causing serious bodily or mental harm and deliberately inflicting on Palestinians in Gaza conditions of life calculated to bring about their physical destruction , " she said . <p> Callamard stated that as Israel 's genocide progressed in Gaza , it has continuously treated Palestinians as a " subhuman group unworthy of human rights and dignity , demonstrating its intent to physically destroy them . " <p> " It continued to do so in defiance of countless warnings about the catastrophic humanitarian situation and of legally binding decisions from the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) ordering Israel to take immediate measures to enable the provision of humanitarian assistance to civilians in Gaza , " she noted . <p> " Our damning findings must serve as a wake-up call to the international community : this is genocide . It must stop now , " Callamard stressed . <p> She pointed out that countries like US , which continue to supply arms to Israel are " risking " being complicit in the genocide . <p> " States that continue to transfer arms to Israel at this time must know they are violating their obligation to prevent genocide and are at risk of becoming complicit in genocide . All states with influence over Israel , particularly key arms suppliers like the USA and Germany , but also other EU member states , the UK and others , must act now to bring Israel 's atrocities against Palestinians in Gaza to an immediate end , " she said . <p> The 296-page report , released on Thursday noted that Israel can not justify or legalise its genocide in Gaza using its military goal to eradicate Hamas . It noted that genocidal intent can " co-exist alongside military goals and does not need to be the sole intent . " <p> It further added that Hamas attack on Israel and hostage-taking " can never justify " its genocide against Palestinians in Gaza . <p> " Taking into account ? the pre-existing context of dispossession , apartheid and unlawful military occupation in which these acts have been committed , we could find only one reasonable conclusion : Israel 's intent is the physical destruction of Palestinians in Gaza , whether in parallel with , or as a means to achieve , its military goal of destroying Hamas , " said Agnes Callamard . <p> The Amnesty International report adds to a March report by the UN special rapporteur for Palestine that concluded " there are reasonable grounds to believe " Israel was committing genocide against Palestinians . <p> Important findings <p> 1 . Unprecedented scale and magnitude <p> The report noted that Israel 's genocidal attacks on Gaza have " caused unprecedented destruction , which experts say occurred at a level and speed not seen in any other conflict in the 21st century , levelling entire cities and destroying critical infrastructure , agricultural land and cultural and religious sites , " thereby making " large swaths of Gaza uninhabitable . " <p> Throwing light on Israel 's blockade of humanitarian aid and essential services into Gaza , the report noted that it created a " deadly mixture of malnutrition , hunger and diseases , and exposed Palestinians to a slow , calculated death . " <p> The report also mentioned the illegal detentions and torture of Palestinians in Israeli custody . <p> Amnesty International observed that when viewed in isolation Israel 's actions in Gaza amount to serious violations of international laws and human rights laws but when the " cumulative impact " of its policies and acts are considered " genocidal intent is the only reasonable conclusion . " <p> 2 . Intent to destroy <p> The report noted that the genocidal intent of Israel can be observed in the statements made by its government and military officials and others between 7 October 2023 and 30 June 2024 which " dehumanized Palestinians , called for or justified genocidal acts or other crimes against them . " <p> " Of these , Amnesty International identified 22 statements made by senior officials in charge of managing the offensive that appeared to call for , or justify , genocidal acts , providing direct evidence of genocidal intent , " the report noted adding that it has found evidence which show the language being replicated by Israeli soldiers on ground . <p> The report further stated that Israel 's justifications for the overwhelming number of civilian casualties and the denial of humanitarian aid to Gaza by accusing Hamas of using civilians as " human shields " and diverting aid are not credible . <p> " The presence of Hamas fighters near or within a densely populated area does not absolve Israel from its obligations to take all feasible precautions to spare civilians and avoid indiscriminate or disproportionate attacks , " the report said . <p> 3 . Killing and causing serious bodily or mental harm <p> The report investigated 15 Israeli airstrikes on Gaza 's civilian populated areas which killed hundreds of Palestinian civilians , mostly women and children . It found no evidence that any of these strikes were directed at a military objective . <p> Acknowledging that the case study represents just a fraction of " Israel 's aerial attacks , " Amnesty International noted that " they are indicative of a broader pattern of repeated direct attacks on civilians and civilian objects or deliberately indiscriminate attacks . " <p> " The attacks were also conducted in ways designed to cause a very high number of fatalities and injuries among the civilian population , " the report said . <p> 4 . Inflicting conditions of life calculated to bring about physical destruction <p> Amnesty International observed that Israel has , since the beginning of its war on Gaza , made life difficult for Palestinians by attacking hospitals , preventing the supply of humanitarian aid and life-saving essentials and the mass " evacuation " orders that forcibly displaced almost all of Gaza 's population . <p> " In the nine months reviewed for this report , Israel maintained a suffocating , unlawful blockade , tightly controlled access to energy sources , failed to facilitate meaningful humanitarian access within Gaza , and obstructed the import and delivery of life-saving goods and humanitarian aid , particularly to areas north of Wadi Gaza , " the report said . <p> The report noted that these conditions , along with the widespread attacks on hospitals , homes , agricultural land , water and sanitation facilities caused " catastrophic levels of hunger and led to the spread of diseases at alarming rates . " <p> It observed that the impact of this was " especially harsh " on young children and pregnant or breastfeeding women , with " anticipated long-term consequences for their health . " <p> The report further said that despite having the chance to improve these conditions , Israel " deliberately " refused to take steps that would have protected the civilian population in Gaza . <p> " They refused to allow those displaced to return to their homes in northern Gaza or relocate temporarily to other parts of the Occupied Palestinian Territory or Israel , continuing to deny many Palestinians their right to return under international law to areas they were displaced from in 1948 . They did so knowing that there was nowhere safe for Palestinians in Gaza to flee to , " the report said . <p> The report slammed the international community 's failure to stop the genocide and stated that it will remain a " stain on our collective conscience . ' <p> " Governments must stop pretending they are powerless to end this genocide , which was enabled by decades of impunity for Israel 's violations of international law . States need to move beyond mere expressions of regret or dismay and take strong and sustained international action , however uncomfortable a finding of genocide may be for some of Israel 's allies , " the report stressed calling on the Office of the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) to " urgently consider adding genocide to the list of crimes it is investigating and for all states to use every legal avenue to bring perpetrators to justice . "
