<p> " The present-day rulers are using horrific distractions so that the common masses do n't cry out for food and employment , which is afflicting a huge population in India " <p> Humra Quraishi <p> Human Rights Day , 10 December , is almost here but is there any relevance left to this day ? Humans and their basic rights have been reduced to a nothingness of sorts . There is genocide on , in , and around Gaza , where the Israeli forces so very brutally and blatantly kill the hapless Palestinians . There 's no stopping the human killings and the disasters spreading out , yet we , the alive , sit like deadened mute spectators . <p> Focusing on the havoc taking place in our country , there are hate speeches of the political rulers of the day and with that , there seems no stopping to the communal build-ups ! Much hue and cry about the environmental pollution but what about the ongoing political pollution ? Dangerous , destructive , and severe . Killing forms and souls and affecting the very survival of hundreds . <p> Horrific distractions are being used so the masses do n't cry out for rotis and rozgaars ! No bread and bread-earners , only diggers equipped with hammers and all possible digging material . Tell me , where are we heading in an atmosphere burdened with human cries ? <p> Restrictions on visit to Sambhal <p> Sambhal in Uttar Pradesh stands out as last week five of its citizens were killed and many more injured and arrested . There rages a huge controversy about whether those arrested are the actual culprits or victims of the communally charged atmosphere , dripping with obnoxious comments ... lows reaching such lows that a particular police officer even terming a certain section of the aggrieved minority citizens of Sambhal as " jaahils " ( uneducated and uncouth ) ! He should be aware of the basic fact that he is a civil servant and can not treat the minority community with such gaudy arrogance and use of third-class terms ! <p> Why is it that nobody can visit Sambhal till December 10 ? If the administration and the political rulers have nothing to conceal then let us visit the town and see for ourselves the ground realities . Needless to add by then the victims and their entire clans and families could be threatened and made to keep shut and not to speak out . They would have little choice but to agree to all the Sarkari commands otherwise the aftermath could ruin their lives for times to come . <p> It is getting much too dangerous to see how the agenda appears unfolding . Mosques and dargahs and age-old historical structures are being brought into focus to be targeted by the Hindutva brigades under the various alibis . And then utter chaos and communal atmosphere is bound to spread out , overtaking all possible strains of governance . <p> Communal virus and the connected onslaughts unleashed right from 6 December 1992 , when the Babri Masjid was targeted , are spreading out as never before . The right-wing brigades and their men have connectivity with the political rulers , so one can well imagine the havoc that could unfold . <p> Questions over Dargah Ajmer Sherif <p> With news of the Hindutva men also questioning the basis of the dargah of Ajmer Sharif , I have been thinking of the numerous occasions when I visited this dargah of Khwaja Moinuddin Hasan Chisti -- also known as Gharib Nawaz . I had met hundreds of non-Muslims , who had travelled to this dargah from the various States of the country , praying for the fulfillment of their mannats ( wishes ) ... Complete bonding between the Muslims and the non-Muslim devotees ... such a touching sight . <p> It is relevant to know the details of this Sufi mystic , Khwaja Moinuddin Hasan Chisti -- also known as Gharib Nawaz . He had travelled from the Middle East and settled in Ajmer . He reached there when he was in his middle age but stayed on till his last years . It 's said that he was born in East Persia around 533 Hijri ( 1138-39 AD ) and lost his parents at an early stage . Though he had inherited an orchard and a windmill , no sooner he had come in contact with a dervesh Sufi , Ebrahim Qandoosi , than he gave up all worldly belongings and travelled towards Samarkand and Bukhara which were centres of great learning . From there he travelled further , towards Mecca and Medina and it was whilst there that he decided to travel down towards India . <p> At that time Ajmer was ruled by the Rajput ruler Prithvi Raj Chauhan . Khwaja Saheb settled down at a hillock , close to the Ana Sagar lake . Soon the local people started visiting him , who were taken in by his simplicity and piety . As the power of his blessings made way , even the mighty rulers and rajas made their way toward the humble dwelling of this Sufi . It 's amazing how this practice continues to this day . Though Khwaja Saheb passed away in 1236 AH , at the age of 97 to date thousands visit his dargah daily . <p> To date a large number of visitors and devotees to the dargah are non-Muslims . This could be because Sufis believed that there should be no compulsion in religion and that there should never be any demarcations and biases along religious lines . <p> Sufi Traditions attracted people <p> Traditions state that this mystic sufi would state : " The closest to Allah is one , who possesses the following three qualities : magnanimity of the river , kindness of the sun , and humility of the earth . He had also said " noblest of character is possessed by one , who is bountiful in poverty , content in hunger , cheerful in grief and friendly in hostility " and the " surest way to keep off punishment in hell is to feed the hungry , to redress the aggrieved and to help the distressed . " Khwaja never brought up any issue related to religion . He is known as Gharib Nawaz because he reached out to anybody in need and distress , irrespective of caste or creed . <p> Legend states that the Mughal Emperor Akbar was blessed with a son after he offered prayers at this dargah . And thereafter his son , Jehangir , was a regular visitor to this dargah . Mughal emperors have left very obvious traces of their visits in the form of buildings , compound walls , mosques , darwazas , and gates . <p> Together with this the concept of free distribution of food to those assembled in the dargah . An ongoing tradition is that of food cooked daily in two huge degs ( huge cooking vessels ) for free distribution . It 's said that that Mughal emperor Akbar had presented a huge ' deg ' in which enough rice could be cooked to feed 5000 people . Emperor Jehangir also presented another deg . And till date , food cooked in them is distributed to those assembled . Mughal Emperor Shahjahan 's daughter , Princess Jahan Ara , was not just a regular visitor but is said to have written a book on the Khwaja . <p> And Queen Mary , Empress of England , at the time of her coronation in India in 1911 A.D. had visited this dargah at Ajmer and left a trace of her visit by having a roof constructed over a tank .
