<h> War on Humanity : Gaza Tells Horrors of Crimes Against Humanity and Genocide <h> Share : <p> Is PM Netanyahu an egomaniac leader to Israelis ? Most would question his delusional hold on power and demand his resignation but agree , he made Gaza inhabitable and delivered impunity from foreign dictates to the naked eyes of the conscientious world . To a rational observer , human understanding can not be tempered with impunity for crimes against the civilian population . His arrest warrant by the ICC is often a puzzle as nobody would enforce its implementation . The latest report by Amnesty International confirms the ' crime against humanity ' and Genocide ' were committed by the Israeli forces on Gaza . " Hell on Earth " -- The UN Secretary General warns the conscientious global community of appaling and catastrophic conditions in Gaza from all spectrum of reason with more than 44,000 civilian massacred , more than 100,355 injured , more than 16,000 children and women massacred and 16,000 or more women and children still buried under rubble and unaccounted for , and the rest of humanity under continuous bombardment by the Israeli warmachines supported and aided by the US supplied weapons of mass destruction . Even the hospitals , places of worship , schools , graveyards and safe zones are not spared by the Israeli war machines . Israeli leaders reportedly have dropped more than four equal to Hiroshima nuclear bombs on Gaza . International observers spell out the tragic events : words can not describe the humanitarian calamities and sufferings of the besieged people of Gaza and the West Bank . <p> The Gaza genocide is happening alive on screen in daily media coverage because there are no Arab or Muslim leaders to challenge the Israeli myth of being a Middle East superpower . The Arab -Muslim leaders do not exist on this planet except being after dinner jokes across the Western world . The Western institutions of peace , security and conflict management feel no obligation to protect the civilian population of Gaza because their ethnicity does not correspond to the Anglo-Saxon origin . If the original population of Gaza and West Bank-Palestine happened to be Jews or Christians , the bombing and destruction was unthinkable . " It is only wrong doers stand as Protectors- one to another ; But God is the Protector of Righteous " clarifies the Divine message . ( The Quran : 45 ; 19 ) . Another clarification points out the truth : " We have not created the Heavens and the earth and whatever is between them in sport : We have not created them but for a serious end . But the greater part of them do not understand it . " ( The Quran : Chapter 44 : 38 ) . The professed animosity is against Islam and Palestinians and Israel spearheads the killing of civilians to end the freedom movement for an independent State of Palestine . <p> The US and European Leaders Ignored the Israeli Crimes Against Humanity and Genocide <p> Evil happens when conscientious men do nothing.To this author , a cataclysmic nature of human intellect is unleashing a highly irrational and unthinkable world of complexity to come to our consciousness destroying all progress and achievements of any human civilization on this Earth . Is it not a conspiracy against humanity , Nature and our sustainable future on this planet ? <p> They claim to be peacemakers but horrors of war , pains and morally corrupt leadership practices show deception and inconsistency in policies and behaviors . Both the US President , Secretary Blinken deceived and misled the world with talks of a ceasefire plan since May 2024 , and a ' two-state solution ' -- all simply to buy time for Israel to put an end to life in Gaza and the freedom of Palestine . They found equally inept , corrupt and despotic Arab-Muslim leaders to engage them in the fallacy of peacemaking and allow Israel to commit catastrophic crimes against Palestinian people . The US and Israeli leaders have unbridled ambitions and power , unleashing violent assumptions of hatred , secret intrigues , and animosities that overwhelm the daily thought processes of a society -- a nation , no matter how " normal " it claims to be , can not function as a normal entity when it mocks the originality of Palestinians and calls for " death to Arabs . " The Arab-Muslim leadership was complicit in making the genocide happen in Gaza . <p> Israeli leaders had planned long before the Gaza onslaught to populate the region with settlers and rob it of its natural resources . Felicity Arbhutant and Michel Chossudovsky ( Video : Global Research:12/03/24 : https : **39;777;TOOLONG ... explains : An official " secret " memorandum authored by Israel 's Ministry of Intelligence recommended the forcible and permanent transfer of Gaza 's 2.2 million Palestinian residents to Egypt 's Sinai Peninsula , specifically to a refugee camp in Egyptian territory . " Felicity Arbhutant clarifies : Netanyahu 's October 2023 declaration of war against 2.3 million people of the Gaza Strip is a continuation of its 2008-2009 invasion of Gaza under " Operation Cast Lead . " The underlying objective is the outright military occupation of Gaza by Israel 's IDF forces andthe expulsion of Palestinians from their homeland . I should however mention that there are powerful financial interests which stand to benefit from Israel 's criminal undertaking ( Genocide ) directed against Gaza ..... " Israel is set to become a major exporter of gas and some oil , " IfAll Goes to Plan " . In the current context , Israel 's " All Goes to Plan " option consists in bypassing Palestine and " Wiping Gaza off the Map " , as well confiscating ALL Gaza 's maritime offshore gas reserves , worth billions of dollars . <p> We , the People , We , the Humanity are equipped with incomparable knowledge and wisdom , and if we bomb and destroy the earth and its sustainability for life , then we negate our very existence as the intelligent beings responsible to protect life and sanctity of the Earth . We are capable of resolving problems through dialogue and peaceful means.But our professed ignorance and arrogance toward Divine Knowledge have pushed us toward evil and futility in a global cataclysm -- the treacherous conflict at the epicenter of man-made destruction , driven by lingering suspicion toward others within this magnificent Universe . The Earth and the Universe are meant to support human beings and meet all their needs across time and space . Are we living in a disconnected world of our own making ? The Message of the Quran ( 64:40 , 67:40 ) clarifies the truth of universal brotherhood and wisdom for all the times to come : <p> It is God Who has made for you the Earth as a resting place and the sky as a canopy ; and has given you shape and made your shapes beautiful , and has provided for your sustenance of things pure and good ; such is God , your Lord . So Glory be to God , the Lord of the Worlds . He it is Who created you from dust , then from a sperm-drop , then from a leech-like clot , then He brings you out as a child . Then lets you grow and reach your full strength , and lets you become old -- though some of you die before -- and lets you reach an appointed term , so that you may learn wisdom . <p> We can not abandon the search for a better and more rational world of systematic mechanisms to protect peace and security of mankind on this planet . We , the People , We the Humanity and conscientious thinkers and scholars must wake-up to the immense sophisticated and technologically advanced challenges to disconnect us from the Nature of Things and to dehumanize us by global scenarios of ethnicities , nationalism , state borders and cultural superiorities and ruling class distinctions . William Godwin ( Enquiry Concerning Political Justice and Its Influence on Modern Moral and Happiness , 1793 ) , said it right : <p> Men of genius must rise up ... . to analyse the machine of society to demonstrate how the parts are connected together ... and point out the defects and remedy . It is thus only that important reforms can be produced ... He who is a friend to general happiness will neglect no chance of producing in his pupil or his child , one of the long-looked for saviours of the human race . <p> Dr. Mahboob A. Khawaja specializes in international affairs-global security , peace and conflict resolution and has spent several academic years across the Russian-Ukrainian and Central Asian regions knowing the people , diverse cultures of thinking and political governance and a keen interest in Islamic-Western comparative cultures and civilizations , and author of several publications including : One Humanity and the Remaking of Global Peace , Security and Conflict Resolution , and a forthcoming book : Global Humanity and the Remaking of Peace , Security and Conflict Resolution beyond the Lens of Human Consciousness . <h> Related Posts <p> Palestinian territory - Israel is systematically closing hospitals in northern Gaza through direct military targeting , a suffocating siege , and the killing , injuring , and arresting of patients , wounded individuals , and medical personnel .... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
