<h> My final moments with Refaat Alareer <h> Share : <p> The author ( right ) with Refaat Alareer at the Gaza Municipality offices during a temporary ceasefire on 23 November 2023 . <p> At 3:15 pm precisely one year ago , on 6 December 2023 , I received a call from Refaat . It was during the most intensive strikes of the war and the ground invasion of Gaza City . On the other end of the line was Refaat 's voice , full of energy as usual . <p> " Where are you ? I 'm here at the garage , " he said , referring to the emergency operations center of the Gaza Municipality , where I work , located at the heavy machinery depot . Although our meeting had become a daily routine , it was always a delight . <p> After nearly 25 years , I had grown accustomed to Refaat 's sudden calls , spontaneous plans and impromptu adventures . That was his nature -- calling early in the morning to suggest breakfast at Al-Khazendar , a local hummus and falafel restaurant , picking figs and grapes in the orchards of Sheikh Ijleen south of Gaza City , or planning an afternoon outing to the borderlands . But this call was different . It would be our last one . <p> A sadness lingers in my heart knowing that I was the last known living person to see Refaat alive and to share his final hours that day . We parted moments before he was targeted and killed alongside six other members of his family . <p> Long walk to the internet <p> Our journey that day began in the garage , where we searched for an internet connection . At that time , with Israel having imposed a communications blackout in Gaza , the only way to connect was to find a suitable location to catch an eSIM signal , ideally at elevation in a high rise , though those were and remain utterly dangerous due to Israeli targeting . Refaat jokingly called it the " long walk to the internet , " alluding to Nelson Mandela 's autobiography Long Walk to Freedom . <p> We started from al-Wihda Street , near the public library , and walked west towards al-Amal Institute for Orphans to check on some of his family members sheltering there . Along the way , Refaat climbed a tree to try to catch an internet signal , jotted down an idea , took a photo , played with a child , fed a cat and assisted an elderly man with some cash . <p> In fleeting moments and brief encounters like these , Refaat made an impression wherever he went . <p> We could n't reach al-Amal Institute because an Israeli sniper was stationed on a building near Palestine Mosque Square overlooking al-Wihda Street , Omar al-Mukhtar Street and the surrounding areas . <p> With the sniper targeting anything that moved , we were forced to turn back . <p> We took a detour east amidst the sound of gunfire and walked through al-Shuhada Street near al-Saraya -- a landmark in Gaza that was once a prison and then became a park that everyone used to pass by or visit every day . Eventually , we reached Mustafa Hafez school in al-Rimal neighborhood , where the rest of Refaat 's family had sought refuge . Refaat checked on his wife and children at the school , ensuring they were safe . <p> We then worked through a maze of alleys and reached Yarmouk Stadium in the city center by sunset . Tanks were only about two kilometers away . We sat for a while at the stadium . Families newly displaced from their homes were sitting there , unsure of where to go , while their oblivious children played soccer -- their game accompanied by the roar of fighter jets and intermittent explosions rather than cheering crowds . <p> Unbeknownst to us at the time , the stadium would in a few days be converted into a mass detention facility . Refaat took photos while repeating , " Such resilient people ... such resilient people . Wallahi , those are such resilient people . " <p> Refaat spent the final weeks of his life displaced from his home , which was bombed in October , moving from one shelter to another after occupation forces invaded the Tal al-Hawa neighborhood where he lived . He endured great hardship juggling his family responsibilities with his commitment to telling the world what was happening in Gaza . <p> He did n't even know where he would sleep that night on what would be his last day . Eventually , he decided to check on his sister , who was also displaced , and spend the night where she was staying . Little did he know that it would be his final night and this his final displacement . <p> Refaat 's ideas for the future <p> At Yarmouk Stadium , we sat on the grass , which was greyish-green from all the soot in the air . Refaat spoke about his dream of dedicating himself entirely to storytelling . <p> " If I survive this war , I will collaborate with my talented students to collect stories , turn them into books and novels and eventually produce short and feature-length films based on them , " Refaat said in what was more of a monologue than a conversation between us . <p> Ever practical , he had drafted some ideas for these films on his phone -- some of which he shared with me . They were remarkable . Refaat frequently spoke fondly of his students , and they appreciated that . Despite the shell of toughness that he assumed as a teacher , his students knew he loved and cared for them deeply , much like a father cares for his children . <p> " I have two talents in life : one is shutting out of the classroom those who are late ; and the other is bringing the best out of those inside , " he once bragged , jokingly -- albeit it really was n't a joke . <p> Refaat Alareer and the author on 30 March 2018 , the first day of Gaza 's Great March of Return protests , shortly after inhaling tear gas fired by Israeli troops . <p> A few days after the war began , Refaat contacted me and came to Gaza Municipality to volunteer in the media team . In the short time that he worked with us , he managed the municipality 's account on X ; translated multiple statements into English ; helped shed some light on the people 's suffering due to water shortages and a lack of essential services in the early days of the war ; documented the conditions at the Gaza Zoo -- where the majority of animals died from starvation ; and helped get an opinion piece by the mayor of Gaza City published by The New York Times . <p> During the war , I saw Refaat help countless people : students , friends , colleagues and even strangers . His generosity and selflessness led him to offer help without waiting for someone to ask . <p> On one occasion , a few days before his murder , he came across one of his students on the street . After a brief conversation , he gave her money , insisting that she take it despite her refusal . Watching from afar , it was clear he was trying to assist her . He later told me the money was for a previous task she had done -- though it seemed to me that the story was a modest cover to hide his generous gesture . <p> Vulnerability <p> We walked east as we left the stadium , turning onto a street lined with tall trees . <p> Refaat spoke words I had never heard him say before : " I 'm tired . I 'm exhausted from running , from displacement and from carrying heavy water . " <p> It was strange to see the vulnerable Refaat . He had always been strong , fearless and unwavering . His last day felt like an entire lifetime packed into a few hours . He began it by carrying water upstairs ; then he wrote an article and checked on his family . He ended it by spending time with a lucky friend . <p> I am proud and grateful to have crossed paths with Refaat , first as his student , then as his friend , partner in various projects , colleague , close collaborator and -- finally -- as intimate as family . That pride is now accompanied by a deep loneliness . <p> In spite of this loneliness , I hold a profound conviction that rare and deeply impactful connections like the one we shared only grow stronger and deeper in grief , continuing to flourish even after a person 's passing . My faith gives me solace , knowing Refaat 's sacrifice was not in vain . His death was neither meaningless nor forgotten . His passing has transformed that life into a belief in itself , a testament to the enduring power of his life and legacy . <p> In his passing , Refaat fulfilled his lifelong goal of raising awareness about Palestine . He became a story himself , a symbol of freedom and an icon cherished not only by his friends and those who knew him , but also by countless supporters of the Palestinian cause worldwide . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Perhaps I was not fortunate to be the last person to see Refaat before his death , as this fact alone leaves my heart with an eternal ache . But sorrow will not stop me or Refaat 's friends and students from moving forward with carrying on his legacy . Our grief is fuel for achieving our hopes and Refaat 's dream of justice for Palestine . <p> Refaat and I had planned to meet again the next day at the same time and place . As always , both before and during the war , our goodbye was marked by a warm , long hug and three kisses , two on the right cheek , and one on the left . <p> Though sweet at the time , that loving parting will forever live as a painful one in my memory , as it was our final embrace . <p> To my beloved brother Refaat , until we meet again . <p> Photos courtesy of the author . <p> Asem Alnabih is an engineer and PhD researcher currently based in north Gaza . He serves as the spokesperson for the Gaza Municipality and has written for many platforms in both Arabic and English . <p> Amnesty International 's research has found sufficient basis to conclude that Israel has committed and is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip , the organization said in ... <p> The Biden administration 's failure to act decisively on international humanitarian crises has drawn sharp criticism from analysts and advocates alike . Despite its stated commitment to upholding humanitarian principles , the administration ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
