<h> In his latest address , likely held in Pakistan 's Bahawalpur , the UN-designated terrorist promised renewed terrorist attacks against India and Israel . <p> New Delhi : India has demanded that Pakistan take strict action against Masood Azhar , after the UN-designated terrorist addressed the cadre of the Jaish-e-Mohammed after almost two decades last month . <p> " He is a UN-designated terrorist . We demand that strong action be taken against him , that he is brought to justice . There has been denial that he is not there in Pakistan . If the reports ( of his location ) are correct then it exposes the duplicity of Pakistan , " Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal said at a press briefing Friday . <p> " Masood Azhar is involved in cross-border terror attacks against India and we want that strong action be taken against him , " he added . <p> Azhar has promised renewed terrorist attacks against India and Israel with the aim of creating a new Islamic world order . As reported by ThePrint earlier , the speech was likely made last month and can be proven as new given its references to the ongoing conflict in Gaza . <p> In his latest address , Azhar called Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi a " weakling " and promised to send armed individuals to reclaim Kashmir , and even raised the issue of the Babri Masjid . The speech had a number of explicit calls to violence focused on India and Israel . <p> Azhar has been restricted from making public appearances since 2003 , following an attack on General Pervez Musharraf , the former military ruler of Pakistan , by a breakaway faction of the Jaish . <p> In 2022 , then Pakistani foreign minister Bilawal Bhutto announced that Azhar had escaped to Afghanistan just before Islamabad was set to declare him a proclaimed offender . <p> As reported by ThePrint , Azhar 's address came just days after a closed-door India-Pakistan meeting between representatives of the foreign ministries of both two countries in Muscat . Party representatives from the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) and the Congress were also present at the meeting , along with observers from the US Department of State and China . <p> Azhar , the founder of Jaish-e-Mohammed , was in Indian prisons for almost five years , before being released and handed over to the hijackers of Indian Airlines Flight IC-814 , which was hijacked during its trip from Kathmandu to New Delhi . He is said to have masterminded a series of terrorist attacks including the 2001 Parliament attack , and the 2016 Pathankot attack . <p> On 1 May 2019 , Azhar was designated an international terrorist by the United Nations Security Council for his association with al-Qaeda.
