<p> New Delhi : External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday , when asked a question , on whether the United States was trying to attract India into its sphere , gave a witty reply . During a panel discussion at the Doha Forum in Qatar , Jaishankar , responding to a question said , " We 've been trying to attract them into the Indian sphere , " reported ANI . <p> Jaishankar was addressing the 22nd edition of the Doha Forum panel on ' Conflict Resolution in a New Era ' . During the panel discussion , Qatar Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al Thani and Norway Foreign Minister , Espen Barth Eide were also present . <p> " Pleased to participate @DohaForumpanel today on the topic " Conflict Resolution in a New Era " in Doha today along with PM &amp; FM@MBAAl Thaniof Qatar and FM @EspenBarthEide of Norway . As the conflicts around us increase , the need of the hour is more diplomacy , not less , " Jaishankar posted on X. <p> On Donald Trump 's Threat To Impose 100 Per Cent Tariffs On BRICS : <p> While reacting to US President-Elect Donald Trump 's threat to impose 100 per cent tariffs on BRICS nations , the EAM said that India has " no interest " in weakening the US dollar . " We had a good relationship , a very solid relationship with the first Trump administration , yes there were some issues mostly trade-related issues , but there were a whole lot of issues on which Trump was very international , and I remind people that it was actually under Trump that the QUAD was restarted , " he said . <p> During the Doha Forum , Jaishankar reflected on the positive relationship India had with the first Trump administration , highlighting the restart of the QUAD under Trump 's presidency . <p> On Syria Situation : <p> While speaking on unrest in Syria , Jaishankar said that the conflict posed a danger to the Indian diaspora there and has also caused a surge in shipping costs . " We are some distance away . We still have about half a million Indians living in Mediterranean countries . We have a trade of about USD 80 billion with the Mediterranean . Looking at the gulf , we have 10 million Indians here and about USD 180 billion of trade , " he said as reported by ANI . <p> " What 's happening in Syria , region , Gaza , Lebanon , the combination of all of this , there is a larger regional instability which is actually growing month on month . It is impacting country in Asia . We are feeling it in shipping costs , trade destructions , in radicalization . So , today , instability anywhere actually is a source of concern . There is no region that is far away and does n't matter to us . Our interests are there , " the EAM added . <p> EAM Jaishankar is on an official visit to Qatar and Bahrain from December 6-9 . <p> ( With Inputs from ANI ) <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from India and around the world .
