<h> Just In <h> US rejects Amnesty report on Israel 's genocide in Gaza <h> Amnesty International found through its research and legal analysis " sufficient basis to conclude that Israel committed , during the nine-month period ... <p> Amnesty International found through its research and legal analysis " sufficient basis to conclude that Israel committed , during the nine-month period under review , prohibited acts under Articles II ( a ) , ( b ) , and ( c ) of the Genocide Convention , namely killing , causing serious bodily or mental harm , and deliberately inflicting on Palestinians in Gaza conditions of life calculated to bring about their physical destruction in whole or in part <p> A U.S. State Department spokesperson told reporters on Thursday that the United States disagrees with Amnesty International 's new report accusing Israel of carrying out genocide in the Gaza Strip . <p> " We disagree with the conclusions of such a report , " spokesperson Vedant Patel said a day after the human rights group released the document . " We have said previously and continue to find that the allegations of genocide are unfounded . " <p> The Israeli government has vehemently rejected the findings in the report . <p> " The deplorable and fanatical organization Amnesty International has once again produced a fabricated report that is entirely false and based on lies . The genocidal massacre on October 7 , 2023 , was carried out by the Hamas terrorist organization against Israeli citizens . Since then , Israeli citizens have been subjected to daily attacks from seven different fronts . Israel is defending itself against these attacks acting fully in accordance with international law , " wrote the Israel Foreign Ministry in a post on X. <p> In a statement , the Israeli branch of the organization -- which reportedly did not take part in the funding , research , or writing of the report -- said that " the scale of the killing and destruction carried out by Israel in Gaza has reached horrific proportions and must be stopped immediately , " per The Times of Israel . However , the groups does not believe the events " meet the definition of genocide as strictly laid out in the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide . " <p> In the 296-page report released Wednesday -- titled , " You Feel Like You Are Subhuman " : Israel 's Genocide Against Palestinians in Gaza -- Amnesty International found through its research and legal analysis " sufficient basis to conclude that Israel committed , during the nine-month period under review , prohibited acts under Articles II ( a ) , ( b ) , and ( c ) of the Genocide Convention , namely killing , causing serious bodily or mental harm , and deliberately inflicting on Palestinians in Gaza conditions of life calculated to bring about their physical destruction in whole or in part . " <p> In order for a conflict to be considered genocide under international law , there must be both evidence of specific criminal acts -- such as killing members of a given group -- as well as " intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group , as such . " <p> In its report , Amnesty International concluded that " these acts were committed with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza . " Intent also came up during the State Department press conference Thursday when journalist Said Arikat of the Palestinian paper Al-Quds asked Patel a follow-up question about the report . <p> " I know that genocide depends a great deal on intent ... And the report bases its conclusions on the statements , time and time and time again , by Israeli commanders , by Israeli officials , " he said . " What is it going to take for you , for the United States of America ... to say what is happening is genocide ? " Patel responded , " That 's an opinion , and you 're certainly welcome and you are entitled to it , as are all the organizations . " <p> Israel faces an ongoing genocide case , led by South Africa , at the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Court recently issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , former Israeli Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , and Hamas leader Mohammed Diab Ibrahim Al-Masri.
