<h> Gaza Cola , a new UK-based brand , pledges profits to rebuild Palestinian hospitals , capitalizing on anti-US sentiment during the Hamas-Israel conflict . This mirrors earlier cola-based protests , like Mecca Cola , targeting American brands . The author examines the interplay of religion , consumer behavior , and brand symbolism , questioning the long-term viability of such protest brands against established giants like Coca-Cola . <p> AgenciesCan cola brands that try to ride the anti-US sentiment in the wake of Hamas-Israel conflict play the long game ? <p> Gaza Cola is a new cola brand launched in the UK with the promise of sending all its profits for rebuilding Palestinian hospitals . The brand is trying to exploit an anti-US sentiment in the light of the Hamas-Israel conflict . Mecca Cola , launched in France in 2002 , was probably the first to take an anti-US stance by going after the big American cola boys . <p> Why do protests pick the sugary drink for their single-minded attention and do these strategies work ? Remember what Gita Mehta expounded in her book Karma Cola -- the packaging and mass marketing of unique Indian offerings ( yoga , meditation , etc ) can be equated with the marketing prowess of cola brands . <p> Are we seeing the opposite of this , with colas being equated to ' adharma ' in a sense ? Let us unpack this bit by bit , or sip by sip , starting with a look at religion and consumer behaviour . <p> Religion and consumer behaviour has been a topic of great interest to me . In fact my PhD thesis was on how religiosity can affect the way we choose and consume products and services . Surprisingly , religion has not been a hot topic among consumer researchers . While there are some pioneering work done by researchers like Elizabeth Hirschman of the University of Virginia , you will not find hundreds of researches on the topic . <p> Why , you may ask ? For one , religion is seen as a taboo topic , not to be asked , at least in a market research interview . Readers of this paper may be surprised to learn that the US census does not collect religious affiliation of the respondents . <p> In India we have been collecting religion information for the last 90+ years and this year there is a debate on more granular information to be collected about the respondents . What does the existing research done on religion and consumer behaviour point to ? Religiosity can be studied from two angles . One is the religious affiliation ( Hindus , Catholics , Protestants , Muslims etc ) . The other is the intensity of religious belief , or how actively religious is a person . The research one could access did say that across Catholics , Protestants , Muslims , Jews and Hindus , there were some differences in the way they decide on their purchases . For example , Muslims and Jews were seen to be more innovative and adventuresome in their purchase decisions . The research I did in India did not show any major difference across various religious consumers when it came to purchase of consumer durables . <p> But there was a significant difference between those who were highly religious and those less religious ; the more religious were more demanding from brands than the less religious . <p> When it comes to consumer products like drinks and soaps , you would imagine that religious affiliation and religiosity should have less of an influence ( barring food products that have been explicitly banned ) . There are food restrictions across religions . Muslims prefer food products labelled ' halal ' . We do n't know if Muslim consumers boycott products that are not labelled halal . Other categories also ride the halal wave . There are several cosmetic brands that are halal ; L'Oreal even has a factory in Indonesia that is halal-certified . <p> The use of financial products and services also have a religious flavour . Given that usury is averse to Islam , there has been a growth of what is called ' Islamic Banking ' and there are Shariah-compliant financial products in several countries with significant Muslim population . Some mutual funds , even in India , offer compliance with Shariah guidelines by not investing in specific types of companies like those involved in alcohol production . It may surprise readers that devout Muslims are often averse to insurance products . <p> Financial products are high-involvement purchases . At the other end of the spectrum are low-involvement products such as soft drinks , chewing gum and deodorants . Does religion have any role in the purchase of these products ? <p> While there is no published research on the topic of religion and consumption of specific brands of soft drinks and chewing gum , there is ample evidence to show that colas are targeted not because they are or are not halal , or are high-involvement . The targeting of colas is more a protest against what is seen as American imperialism . <p> I suppose brands like Coca-Cola and McDonald 's are seen as symbols of America that a common consumer can identify with . In this digital age the more ubiquitous symbols of America should be Google , Facebook , Instagram , WhatsApp , X , etc . But consumers who use these see the posts of their own family and friends -- America is invisible in these digital brands . <p> Then there is Coca-Cola , Pepsi and McDonald 's . There is even the " Golden Arches Theory of Conflict Prevention " . This theory was proposed by writer Thomas Friedman in his 1999 book The Lexus and the Olive Tree . That theory has been violated multiple times in the recent past . <p> The launch of Gaza Cola is also reminiscent of the cola brand Double Seven ( Satatar ) that was launched in 1977 by the Morarji Desai-led Janata government , after it booted out CocaCola . The brand was marketed by the government-owned Modern Food Industries , makers of Modern Bread . The brand fizzled out just like the coalition government that launched it . <p> My surmise is that these antiCoke brands may not be able to play the long game . Quite simply , when a consumer is sipping a can of Coke or Pepsi , he or she is not just sipping a highly carbonated , high-sugar drink , but they are sipping a little bit of America itself . And that bit of fantasy has stood the test of time and will endure . <p> The writer is an independent brand coach &amp; founder of Brand-Building.com
