<h> How the Gaza conflict influenced Trump 's victory <h> Published on Dec 07 , 2024 <p> While it is not the sole factor for Trump 's victory in the recent US elections , the Gaza crisis and the US 's role in the Middle East shaped US electoral dynamics <p> Image Source : Getty <p> The United States ( US ) concluded its presidential elections against the backdrop of a brutal war between Israel and Palestine and severe debates about the superpower 's role in this war . While early exit polls had predicted a narrow margin victory for the Democratic party , the results turned out to be in favour of the Republicans . While various factors have been attributed to Trump 's victory , this article seeks to understand the role of the Palestine issue in swinging votes away from the Democrats . <p> This election has been a landmark moment for both Trump and the Republicans . Not only has Trump been able to reverse the people 's mandate , which he lost to Joe Biden in 2020 , but the Republicans have also reclaimed the Senate and inched closer to a majority in the House . With over 77 million voting in his favour as opposed to nearly 75 million in favour of Harris , Trump is the first Republican candidate to win the popular vote since George W. Bush . <p> With over 77 million voting in his favour as opposed to nearly 75 million in favour of Harris , Trump is the first Republican candidate to win the popular vote since George W. Bush . <p> As the post-election analysis trickles in , a few key points have emerged . First , Trump has strengthened his performance across nearly all demographics , including the core Republican base , the working class , Latinos , African-Americans , college graduates , young male voters and even urban populations in cities like New York , Chicago , and Miami , which have traditionally been bastions for the Democrats . Second , despite Harris raising more campaign funds than her opponent , she could not retain both the victory margins and counties gained by her predecessor , Joe Biden . <p> In fact , for every 100 votes lost by Harris , Trump gained 78 votes . The missing 22 votes from this loss/gain equation suggest that , while the public lost trust in Harris and her policies , this trust did not proportionally transfer to Trump . Rather than just an alignment with Trump , this gap also suggests a disillusionment with the Democrats , especially within their core base and swing states . While socio-economic issues , such as migration , high inflation , and the tirade against " wokeness " played a critical role in the elections , a part of the discussion surrounding the Democrats ' loss has fixated on the role of the Gaza crisis , and Arab American1 and Muslim voters voting against the Democrats after feeling disenfranchised over policies supporting Israel . <h> Impact of Gaza <p> There are two main ways in which the impact of Gaza can be noted in the 2024 US elections . Firstly , in the swing state of Michigan , where Arab Americans form a strong part of the electorate , Democrats were not able to win as many seats as they wanted . Trump and third-party candidate Jill Stein together received almost 70 percent of the vote in the city of Dearborn ( an Arab-American stronghold ) , which helped give Trump his victory in the state . Voters from this city and other parts of Michigan were adamant about voting against Harris for what they believed to be her wilful negligence of their interests . Indeed , as pointed out by many voters and analysts , Donald Trump was quite intentional about meeting the Arab and Muslim American communities in the cities of Michigan , even bringing together a cohort of Imams to endorse him in one of his rallies . Harris , on the other hand , did not make any such concessions , further angering the community beyond her party 's uninhibited support of Israel . Secondly , it is also quite likely that liberal and progressive voters who felt dismayed at the Democrats ' unwillingness to confront Israel also voted for other candidates , further underscoring the impact of the conflict . <p> Trump and third-party candidate Jill Stein together received almost 70 percent of the vote in the city of Dearborn ( an Arab-American stronghold ) , which helped give Trump his victory in the state . <p> Thus , there seems to be some indirect evidence that the issue of Israel and Palestine has played a role in dictating voting sentiments . For instance , in three of the seven swing states , Pennsylvania , Arizona , and Georgia , polling conducted in August 2024 demonstrated that between 30 to 39 percent of voters were more likely to vote for the Democratic candidate ( Kamala Harris ) if the US were to withhold aid to Israel due to its genocide in Gaza . Given that these three states did not even include Michigan , the swing state with a significant Arab majority , it is clear that there has been some indirect impact of Gaza on the American vote . <p> Other trends that also indicate some level of impact are the various polls done among young voters ( 18-29 ) , many of whom are coming of age . According to polls conducted in June 2024 ( before Harris replaced Biden as the Democratic candidate ) , almost 53 percent of young voters wanted a ceasefire in Gaza . This has been linked to young generations of Americans following pro-Palestinian content on TikTok , thereby increasing their opposition to Israel 's activities in Palestine . <h> Contextualising Gaza in the US elections and the impact of Trump on the conflict <p> In general , no election is a single-issue election and the US , with a population of about 337 million , that includes several different ethnic and religious groups , deserves a far more complex breakdown of election trends . Even if Michigan was won decisively by Trump due to Arab American voters , it only contributed 15 electoral votes to Trump who won by a total margin of 86 electoral votes . In other words , even if Trump lost Michigan , he would have still won this election . <p> Other reasons can be attributed to the Democrat 's losses . For instance , as Francis Fukuyama has argued , rising rent and prices across the US were a problem for most young voters . Additionally , a disproportionate focus on what is termed as " woke liberalism " at the cost of providing opportunities to less privileged members of the working class was another reason Fukuyama cited , a point expressed by some other political pundits , too . Trump supporters also view the US 's open borders and immigration with immense hostility , especially as inner cities ' fortunes crumble and rural towns fear crime . <p> The war in Gaza has made foreign policy an important determining factor in US elections , reflecting past trends where the Vietnam War ( as one example ) played a key role in dictating election outcomes . <p> Throughout this interrogation of voting patterns above , a few issues become clear . First , the war in Gaza has made foreign policy an important determining factor in US elections , reflecting past trends where the Vietnam War ( as one example ) played a key role in dictating election outcomes . Second , the potency of this issue is nevertheless limited and not the main deciding factor since many other domestic issues also played a role . Third , voters were aware of the difficult choices they were faced with regarding the issue of Palestine , and while some voted for a third party to keep their conscience clean , others voted against the Democrats to punish them for their involvement in the war . <p> In conclusion , while it wo n't be fully possible to isolate the impact of the war on US electoral politics , it is plausible to state that the Arab and Muslim American diasporas will play a role in determining political competition in the US . With a population expected to hit 8 million over the next two decades , and with the concentration of Muslims in specific swing states that play a crucial role in elections , political parties in the US will ill afford to ignore their sentiments about conflicts playing out in the Middle East . Eventually , this gives the region and its conflicts ever-increasing importance in the future . <p> Mohammed Sinan Siyech is a Non-Resident Associate Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation . <p> Akanksha Narain is an independent researcher based in London . <p> 1The Arab American population consists of numerous religions and sects , including Muslims , Christians , Jews , Druze and Mandeans , and is majority Christian . https : **39;1401;TOOLONG ...
