<h> Sino-Indian D ? tente As A Game Of Duplicity <h> Share : <p> Following talks between Indian defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart Admiral Dong Jun in Laos recently ( on the sidelines of an ASEAN conference ) , the Chinese Defence Ministry spokesperson Sr. Col. Wu Qian came out with an interesting comment : " We look forward to harmonious dance between the Chinese dragon and Indian elephant with concerted steps . " ( re : THE HINDU , November 29 , 2024 ) . <p> Soon after , Indian foreign minister S. Jaishankar told the Lok Sabha that Sino-Indian ties were moving in the direction of " some improvement , " while referring to disengagement with China in eastern Ladakh. ( re : THE TIMES OF INDIA , December 4 , 2024 ) . <p> The announced rapprochement and proposed partnership between a dragon ( an imaginary animal which is the Chinese symbol ) and an elephant ( a real-life animal which is the Indian symbol ) presages uneasy prospects that stem from an unequal relationship between the two states . How can the Indian elephant rhyme its ponderous steps with the quick fast moving steps of its Chinese partner in a tango on the dancing floor of global politics ? Besides , Sino-Indian relationship continues to remain an elephant in the room ' of Delhi 's South Block -- a problem that is too unwieldy to be tackled . <p> To be frank and coming back to brass tacks , however uncomfortable and disconcerting it might be for both the Indian ruling BJP and the Opposition , the fact is that India can not compete with China , either in the field of economy or in the sphere of military might . To take just one instance , China had been developing its human resources by educating and training its youth to man its economy and face challenges in the competitive global arena . In 2023 , it spent $906 billion on education for a population of 1.409 billion ( while India spent just $ 13.67 billion for our population of 1.429 billion ) . As a result , it is this technology-savvy generation of Chinese youth who are exporting chips to India that sustain our software infrastructure . There are other areas where India has to depend on imports from China , as a result of which India had lost more than $1 trillion owing to the deficit in bilateral trade . China enjoys nearly $ 85 billion trade surplus over India . Further , Chinese export of manufactured goods like electric locomotives , signaling rakes and other engineering apparatus , and even the entry of Chinese techies , are helping the Indian Railways to modernize its system . This was brought about by a pact signed by India and China in November 2012 to develop the railways through mutual cooperation in high-tech , high-speed rail , heavy haulage and station development . Some critics however are now blaming this introduction of Chinese technology for the spurt of fatal rail accidents . But given our usual Indian habit of bungling such technology ( as revealed by investigations which exposed the failure of the railway staff ) , instead of accusing the Chinese of sabotaging our railway system ( as some hot-heads among the political circles do ) , we should engage in some honest self-introspection to find out what went wrong . <p> In contrast with China 's emphasis on educating the youth in modern sciences , India had neglected such training ( and cut down the budget allocation on education ) which has resulted in the growth of masses of unemployable youth , who can not find jobs . <p> Military imbalance <p> If we turn to the defence sector , we find again an imbalance between the military prowess of India and China . The Chinese mythological dragon has cast a spell on the modern Indian army , reducing it to an inferior rival . Although the Hindu god Ganesha wears an elephant head , and is worshipped by our brave jawans , the elephant has not been able to save them from the Chinese dragon 's deadly assaults on our borders at Galwan and other spots along the Sino-Indian boundary . By all yardsticks , acknowledged even by Indian army generals , the Chinese PLA ( People 's Liberation Army ) is head and shoulders superior to the Indian army , in terms of manpower and possession of sophisticated armaments . A recent survey carried out by Lt. Gen. Deependra Singh Hooda ( retired ) draws our attention to ( i ) the disparity between the budget allocation for defence , with China spending more than India ; ( ii ) China 's nearly self-sufficient production capabilities in contrast with India 's continuing dependence on imports ; and ( iii ) the Chinese PLA 's advancements in space , cyber and information warfare compared with India 's slow growth of domestic projects . ( Re : Delhi Policy Group 's report -- Competitive Forces : Evaluating the Military Capabilities of India and China . July 2 , 2024 ) . <p> De -- jure to de-facto -- making a virtue of necessity <p> Given this stark reality , let us look at the boundary dispute in a dispassionate way and search for a pragmatic way out . As it is , historically the McMahon Line and other similar official markings of borders in other sectors , had been causes of disputes between neighbouring states on either side of the borders , whose present rulers allege that such demarcation had been made in an arbitrary way by the colonial rulers without consulting the native authorities and inhabitants of these areas . <p> But now , how can we cope with these lines of border demarcation carved out by past rulers , which are regarded as inconvenient and branded as illegal by the present rulers ? There are two options . One -- China and India can engage in wars to reverse the old lines of demarcation in order to occupy and integrate some areas which they claim to be their own , into their respective territories . This has been the history of Sino-Indian relations for the last seven decades . It has not led to any permanent solution , and has instead dragged the two nations into a futile and military confrontation with China having an upper edge . It has made India prioritize budgetary expenditure on defence over that on health care and other social benefits that our citizens are entitled to . The other option is a give-and-take settlement of sorts that adheres to the status quo ante . The recent disengagement agreements in areas like the Depsang Plains and Charding La near Demchok are signs of such a settlement . <p> As predictable , politicians from the Opposition parties have found an opportunity to take a snipe at the Modi government for making concessions to Chinese claims through these agreements , and are accusing it of cowardice . But both they and Modi know deep down in their hearts that India ( ruled by whichever political party ) has no option but to retreat from its posture of braggadocio , since it does not have the guts to translate that rhetoric of sabre-rattling into an act of military confrontation with China in the battlefield . It is precisely because of this incapacity , that despite Chinese occupation of parts of Ladakh in 2020 , Narendra Modi had to brush it off with his false press statement saying " no outsider was inside Indian territory " on June 19 , 2020 . <p> Under these circumstances , where China enjoys a superior position vis-a-vis India in both economic and military terms , is it not pragmatic for India to concede and accept its position as a junior partner when negotiating with China on commercial and trade issues , as well as border disputes ? One agrees that it is humiliating for India . But at certain moments in history , real life needs become more important than political rhetoric . India today stands at that moment . <p> China 's domestic problems <p> At the same time , let us also look at the other side of the picture . Behind its aggressive posture in foreign policies , back home in China , its dictator Xi is facing an economic crisis . The massive capitalist expansion under his regime has led to enormous concentration of wealth in the hands of a few billionaires ( second highest number after the US ) , who are being accused of corruption . This has also coincided with the collapse of the real estate market which is making consumers cautious and business houses wary of investing . The bloated and uncompetitive state-owned enterprises are suffering from pressures of ballooning debt . High levels of unemployment among the youth are compelling them to come out on the streets in demonstrations of protest , as witnessed recently in Hong Kong . <p> When journalists report these events , they are immediately hounded by the police , some of them being put behind bars . The latest case is the sentencing of the veteran journalist Dong Yyu ( 62 ) to seven years of imprisonment for espionage , just because he was having lunch with a Japanese diplomat , in the course of his usual reporting assignment for news gathering . <p> In its defence sector , the Xi regime has to cope with cases of wide spread corruption among the top brass of its armed forces . Recently , Xi had to suspend a top military official , Admiral Miao Hua , who was also a member of the powerful Central Military Commission , on charges of corruption . Earlier , even ministers like the Defence Minister Li Shangfu and his predecessor Wei Feng Hei were ousted after being accused of corruption . It is evident that the Chinese administrative machinery and its military apparatus are thoroughly rotten to the core , being eaten up by worms of corruption . <p> It is in order to surmount these domestic problems which he can not solve , and to sideline popular grievances , Xi is trying to divert the attention of his people from their diurnal anxieties to the wider sphere of global politics . He is arousing a spirit of aggressive nationalism among them by raising the false bogey of foreign attacks ( over the controversial issue of Taiwan 's status ) and thus hoping to rally the disgruntled , unemployed Chinese people behind him by appealing to their nationalist instincts . <p> Having scored a point over India by retaining its influence over the territories it occupied by agreeing to their being buffer zones ' , Beijing is now turning its aggressive designs against Taiwan ( an independent Chinese state with a democratically elected government ) by claiming it to be a part of its territory . In a similar aggressive gesture it claims Arunachal of India as its part . But are the Chinese citizens of Taiwan and the Indians residing in Arunachal willing to be a part of the present People 's Republic of China , exchanging their present democratic rights for their inevitable suppression under an authoritarian regime ? Instead of threatening Taiwan and Arunachal with military occupation , why does n't Xi agree to a plebiscite under independent UN auspices to ascertain the preferences of these residents of Taiwan and Arunachal ? <p> Uncertain future <p> The future of Sino-Indian relations depends to a large extent on how Xi Jing Ping manages to tackle the increasing problems in his domestic sphere and the big tariff battle with the US in his economic policy . It is these twin issues that preoccupy him now which have probably led him to deescalate tensions on the Sino-Indian border -- so that he can turn his attention and concentrate on those immediate priorities . A crafty and cunning politician as he is , he is stretching out his hands covered in friendly gloves towards Modi to freeze the stalemate in the form of disengagement ' and creation of buffer zones . ' But these may be temporary compromises . Once Xi sorts out these problems in his home and abroad , he in all probability may return to the old anti-Indian policies that he has inherited from his predecessors . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> We should also remember that the Sino-Indian dispute is a part of the wider inter-imperial conflict between two rival gangs of rogue states -- the US-Israel axis on the one hand and the Sino-Russian axis on the other . Indian prime minister Narendra Modi is playing a duplicitous role by placating both the rivals . On the one hand , it is supplying Israel with military armaments to fight in Gaza , and sending Indian labourers to man its economy , and on the other hand , it is coming to the rescue of Russian economy by buying its oil . <p> We are yet to see how far the Modi government can walk this tightrope , once this inter-imperial rivalry intensifies on a global scale , moving beyond the borders of Gaza in the Middle East and Ukraine in Europe . <p> Sumanta Banerjee is a political commentator and writer , is the author of In The Wake of Naxalbari ' ( 1980 and 2008 ) ; The Parlour and the Streets : Elite and Popular Culture in Nineteenth Century Calcutta ( 1989 ) and ' Memoirs of Roads : Calcutta from Colonial Urbanization to Global Modernization . ' ( 2016 ) . <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
