<p> Hello readers ! Through this news wrap , we present the top developments of the day . Today 's rundown includes developments on Maharashtra ministry allocation , Samajwadi Party 's decision to quit MVA over their stance on Babri demolition , West Asia updates , and more . <p> Tensions are simmering within Maharashtra 's newly formed government . The swearing-in of Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis and Deputy Chief Ministers Eknath Shinde and Ajit Pawar has sparked a fierce battle over portfolio distribution . Shiv Sena ( Shinde faction ) has raised alarms over the allocation of key ministries , including a high-stakes demand for the Home Ministry . <p> Reportedly made by Shinde to the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) leadership , the demand echoes a similar arrangement from the previous government . It has fueled a bitter rift between allies and has left the Cabinet 's final structure hanging in the balance . <p> The situation in Syria is getting more volatile by the day , with the Syrian rebels entering the central towns of Rastan and Talbiseh and southern city of Daraa . <p> The fresh assault , just north of the central city of Homs. brings the rebels closer to Syria 's third largest city . On Friday , the opposition fighters captured the central city of Hama , Syria 's fourth largest and on Saturday the rebels seized control of the southern city of Daraa . <p> Meanwhile , an Israeli airstrike killed at least 29 people including four medical staff in one of the last remaining hospitals in northern Gaza . <p> Adding further tension to the strained bilateral ties with India , Bangladesh reportedly deployed the deadly Turkish-made Bayraktar TB2 drones along the Indo-Bangladesh border . <p> Bangladesh Army resorted to these high-tech drone for intelligence , surveillance , and reconnaissance purposes . However , the positioning of the drones at a sensitive region like Indo-Bangla border has garnered many questions . <p> Indian pacer Mohammed Shami is gearing up for a return in the final two Tests of the ongoing series against Australia . His playing gear has already been sent to Australia , and fitness clearance from the National Cricket Academy ( NCA ) is anticipated to be a mere formality . ( More Cricket News ) <p> According to a PTI report , while Shami 's participation in the Brisbane Test starting December 14 remains uncertain , his appearance in the Boxing Day Test in Melbourne ( December 26 ) is all but confirmed . <p> A source close to the cricketer said that the NCA " fitness certificate " will come very soon . <p> " Shami 's India kit has already been dispatched to Australia . He will complete Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 assignment and then leave , " the source told PTI.
