<h> French National Assembly brings down Barnier government <h> Share : <p> Yesterday , a 332-seat majority of the National Assembly 's 577 deputies voted to censure the Social Security budget ( PLFSS ) proposed by French Prime Minister Michel Barnier , bringing down his government . The vote was strictly along party lines : deputies of Marine Le Pen 's National Rally ( RN ) and the New Popular Front ( NFP ) coalition led by Jean-Luc M ? lenchon voted against Barnier . Macron announced last night that he would begin a rapid search for a new prime minister . <p> It is a shattering defeat for President Emmanuel Macron . He dissolved the Assembly and called the July 7 snap elections , but they produced a hung parliament . Refusing to form a government with the NFP , which had received the most votes , he nominated a minority government of his supporters , led by Barnier , and obtained a pledge from the RN to support its policies in the Assembly . But as Barnier 's budget came under criticism from financial markets and the press last week for not going far enough with austerity , the RN changed course . <p> The NFP had long threatened Barnier with censure motions , as he refused to include them in his government . However , the RN brought down Barnier by announcing last week that it would vote for the NFP 's censure motion yesterday . <p> Workers justifably despised the Barnier government , and the critical question facing workers is how to develop a political offensive after its collapse . It brought an unpopular budget imposing ? 60 billion in spending cuts , largely targeting social programs , while increasing military and police budgets as Paris threatens to send ground troops to Ukraine in defiance of popular opposition . Polls showed 52 percent of the French public want Barnier to fall , and 63 percent want Macron to resign . <p> A movement must be prepared and built in the working class to bring down Macron and halt his widely despised policies : plans for a NATO war escalation against Russia , austerity policies like his massive pension cuts , police violence and support for the Gaza genocide . This can not be left to the French capitalist establishment . The progressive way forward is building a movement from below , in the rank and file , basing itself on the class struggle . <p> As all the major NATO powers escalate war threats against Russia , and financial markets demand austerity not only in France but across Europe , it is clear workers face not a national but an international struggle . This takes the most naked expression in the election of the fascist Donald Trump as US president . Pledging a staggering $2 trillion in austerity measures , police round-ups of millions of immigrants , and escalation of war in the Middle East , he is set to massively expand class war on the workers . <p> Bourgeois politics internationally is being rapidly reshaped since Trump 's elections : First the German government and now the French government have fallen in Europe , and on Tuesday there was a failed attempt to impose martial law in South Korea . <p> After the fall of Barnier , the French bourgeoisie is more and more overtly bringing forward the neo-fascist RN . Indeed , the first politician to give a prime-time television interview was RN leader Marine Le Pen ; Macron and M ? lenchon are to appear tonight . Appearing on TF1 evening news , Le Pen postured as a defender of the French people , an opponent of pension cuts and increases in costs of medicine , and a friend of the little man . <p> The sharpest warnings must be made about the political posturing of Macron 's rivals in the ruling elite , including both the RN and the NFP . Le Pen 's politics are determined not by her populist demagogy but , like Trump , by the escalating global war and economic breakdown of the world capitalist system . Absent a struggle by the working class against austerity and war , the next government will divert funds to servicing France 's ? 3 trillion debt and escalating war against Russia in Ukraine and the Middle East , entailing massive austerity attacks on the workers . <p> Le Pen postured , however , as a friend of the people , stating : " I believe we had a choice to make , and the choice we made was to protect the French people . Mr. Barnier had made three promises : tax justice but he gave us a budget with ? 40 billion more in taxes ; controlling public spending , but his budget increased the deficit ; and building the budget with the opposition parties , but he ignored the opposition parties when he designed it . So this budget was toxic for the French people , and the only appropriate solution for those elected to protect them was to oppose this budget . " <p> Asked if she aimed to compel the president to present his resignation after Barnier 's collapse , she replied : " I do not demand Emmanuel Macron 's resignation . I say that if there arrives a time when he does not take the path of respect of political parties and elections , the pressure on the president will obviously be ever stronger . But it is his decision . " <p> In reality , it is clear that in ruling circles , there is mounting discussion of Macron 's removal , due to the economic crisis caused by the failure to adopt a budget . France 's borrowing costs have risen above those of Greece , as financial markets speculate on its sovereign debt . There are rising fears that , without a budget next year , financing of the healthcare system , of pensions , and of the public service may grind to a halt . <p> The budget negotiations will be explosive , as the Assembly is a hung parliament and legally can not be dissolved for a year after Macron dissolved it last June . The budget will have to be negotiated in the hung parliament , which may deadlock again on budget votes . <p> Asked by Le Monde about whether she would press Macron to resign in such a scenario , to break the deadlock , Le Pen replied : " We will follow the normal functioning of the institutions . But if there is one government that falls , then a second , and a third , we will have to ask the question . " <p> In the meantime , the RN is opening a press campaign calling for Macron 's head . Vice President S ? bastien Chenu said : " I think Emmanuel Macron would do his country a favor if he left his office and allowed for a reshaping of a political line to serve France . " <p> RN Europarliamentarian and Le Pen adviser Philippe Olivier commented , " Macron is a disgraced Republican monarch , advancing with his shirt open and a rope around his neck . ... We are not getting overexcited . We will discuss this once the demand for resignation , which is beginning to rise in our ranks and beyond , becomes massive . For the time being , Macron has to pick up the hot potato and deal with the problems . " <p> The working class must mobilize and take up its own fight against Macron . Opposition to Macron can not be left in the hands of the reactionaries in the RN or the NFP , whose program for the July 7 elections included reactionary calls to send ground troops to Ukraine and to increase funding for the police and intelligence services . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Neither NFP officials nor their affiliated union bureaucracies are calling to mobilize the working class in struggle against both Macron and the neofascists . Last night , the parliamentary fraction leader of M ? lenchon 's party , Mathilde Panot , briefly attacked Macron in vague populist terms after the NFP censure motion was adopted . " The only sovereign , in a Republic , is the people , " Panot said . Denouncing the government 's " dishonorable " attempt to cut deals with the RN , Panot said : " The government ultimately received both dishonor and censure . " <p> The working class can not however stop the policies of war , austerity and attacks on democratic rights that made Barnier and Macron so unpopular if its struggles are politically controlled by forces like Panot and M ? lenchon . The critical question is the construction , in the working class in France and internationally , of a socialist movement against imperialist war and far-right reaction . <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
