<h> Trump 's Mideast Utterings No More Than ' Hot Air ' <h> Share : <p> After the private dinner hosted by Donald Trump " in honor " of Mrs. Sara Netanyahu , the US President-elect immediately threatened to set the Middle East on fire if the Israeli prisoners in the Gaza Strip tunnels , guarded by the Qassam Brigades and the Al-Quds Brigades , were not released before his return to the White House on 20 January 2025 . <p> Trump went further when he threatened the Palestinian resistance factions with paying a heavy price if the hostages were not released , and directed his threats specifically at the leaders of the Hamas and Islamic Jihad movements . <p> In his first term as US President , he made many similar threats , such as destroying North Korea , subjugating China , forcing Mexico to pay the bill for the border wall to keep out immigrants , and turning Iran into another Hiroshima if it responded to the assassination of the martyrs , Qassem Soleimani and Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis . <p> Trump -- an " unruly " professional liar -- did not dare to carry out any of these threats , and perhaps the only threat he carried out was withdrawing from the nuclear agreement with Iran in 2017 , which backfired and came as a major gift to Iran it never dreamed of , which since developed , theoretically and practically , into an unofficially declared nuclear state . <p> We would like to tell Trump his threats will not move a hair on the head of the smallest hungry or injured Palestinian infant in the steadfast and heroic Gaza Strip . <p> If his partner Netanyahu in the extermination war and ethnic cleansing and who used all kinds of mass destruction weapons to bomb Gaza -- executed more than 45,000 martyrs , three-quarters of whom , children and women , and destroyed 95 percent of their homes -- did not succeed in releasing these Israeli prisoners , despite advanced US intelligence , what does Trump have that is stronger and more effective than that ? Hitting the Gaza Strip with a nuclear bomb , as his criminal friend Senator Lindsey Graham suggests ? ! <p> The heroic Al-Qassam Brigades and Al-Quds Brigades have not submitted to all this bloody Israeli pressure and did not release the prisoners throughout the past 14 months . All the pressure and rounds of negotiations sponsored by America failed , unfortunately with Arab collusion ; the USA wanted to trap Hamas and Jihad which firmly stuck to their conditions , and did not give up a single inch . <p> So what more can the reckless Trump do ? <p> We need to remind Trump and draw his attention to a set of points he must have forgotten about in the midst of his euphoria on his victory over his naive and foolish opponent Kamala Harris : <p> First , the resistance in Gaza is still strong , ongoing , and inflicting huge and humiliating losses on the Israeli enemy and its forces , and from zero-distance , which reflects the heroism and courage of its men . Not a single mujahid surrendered , all fought until martyrdom . <p> Second , there is not a single American aircraft carrier now in the Middle East and its seas , whether it is red , white or Arab , due to the blessed Yemeni missiles . It is enough to point out the attack with naval ballistic missiles that hit the carrier Abraham Lincoln a few days ago , which escaped with heavy casualties and damaged three destroyers and other ships . The day before yesterday , a Yemeni hypersonic missile struck a military base in the heart of occupied Jaffa . <p> Third , the brave and courageous Trump did not dare respond to the Iranian missile that shot down his largest drone in the Gulf , the " RQ-4 Global Hawk " in 2019 ( costing $300 million ) after it deviated from its course several meters inside Iranian territory . <p> Fourth , great America withdrew from Afghanistan , defeated and humiliated , a few months after Biden took power from you . We all witnessed , and the whole world at that , the great escape of American forces in a way that reflects the height of humiliation . <p> Trump no longer frightens anyone , and in his new version he did not dare utter a single word of criticism at Russian President Vladimir Putin , who defeated his country on the plains and coasts of Ukraine , and cut off and annexed more than 20 percent of its " territory " . <p> Trump did not dare utter the name of China , which was his number one enemy in his first term , and let us not forget in this haste to touch on North Korea and its leader Kim Jong-un , who humiliated and degraded him , and brought him to Hanoi and Singapore in two summit meetings , from which he returned to Washington with his head bowed . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Perhaps only some Arabs who were forced to accept the humiliating normalization and his " Deal of the Century " during his first term will be afraid of Trump and his threats . But times have changed , and there is now a major superpower called the " Axis of Resistance " with a mighty head and long , deadly arms . <p> Above all , there is the new , powerful BRICS organization , which will not end Trump 's second term in the White House ( four years ) until the US dollar exhales most of its last breath . The days lie ahead , Mr. Trump ! <p> This is a translated piece from Arabic by Mr Abdel Bari Atwan , chief editor of Al Raialyoum website and reprinted on www.crossfirearabia.com . <h> Related Posts <p> Amnesty International 's research has found sufficient basis to conclude that Israel has committed and is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip , the organization said in ... <p> The Biden administration 's failure to act decisively on international humanitarian crises has drawn sharp criticism from analysts and advocates alike . Despite its stated commitment to upholding humanitarian principles , the administration ... <p> Occupied Palestine ( Quds News Network ) - The Israeli Army admitted responsibility for the deaths of six Israeli prisoners in Gaza . The incident occurred in August during an airstrike targeting a tunnel ... <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has declared that Israel 's war on Gaza will continue until achieving what he terms " total victory . " Instead of critically examining Netanyahu 's vague and open-ended objectives , much of ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
