<p> Benjamin Netanyahu on Tuesday begun giving evidence in a court in Tel Aviv in his long-running corruption trial , becoming the first sitting Israeli Prime Minister to take the stand as a criminal defendant . <p> " I have waited eight years for this moment , to say the truth as I remember it , which is important for justice , " said Netanyahu , dressed in a blue suit and white shirt , with an Israeli flag on one lapel and the yellow ribbon symbol representing Israel 's hostages in Gaza on the other . <p> " But I am also a Prime Minister . I am leading the country through a seven-front war . And I think the two can be done in parallel . " <p> Advertisement <p> Describing the charges against him as " an ocean of absurdness " , Netanyahu , who also faces an international arrest warrant for alleged war crimes in Israel 's war in Gaza , promised his version of events would challenge the prosecution 's case , as his statements shifted between emphasising his international significance and portraying himself and his family as victims . <p> He swatted away the charges against him as a " drop in the sea " compared to the challenges he has faced protecting his country . <p> Netanyahu asserted that he could manage his responsibilities as Prime Minister while attending his trial , even as Israel continues its war in Gaza and faces challenges following Bashar Assad 's fall in Syria . <p> " I waited eight years for this moment , to be honest , " Netanyahu said at the podium , flanked by his son Avner and several members of his Likud party seated in the courtroom . He added that his testimony would " expose flaws in the baseless accusations . " <p> Advertisement <p> The 75-year-old is charged with fraud , breach of trust and accepting bribes across three separate cases . Initially , he is expected to be questioned by his defence lawyer for several days . <h> The Allegations <p> Netanyahu is accused of accepting tens of thousands of dollars ' worth of cigars and champagne from a Hollywood billionaire in exchange for helping with personal and business interests . Additionally , he is alleged to have promoted advantageous regulations for media moguls in return for favourable media coverage for himself and his family . <p> He denies all wrongdoing , claiming the charges are part of a witch-hunt orchestrated by a hostile media and a biased legal system seeking to undermine his government . <p> The court has heard evidence from 120 prosecution witnesses in cases popularly known as Cases 1,000 , 2,000 and 4,000 . Some of these witnesses were once close aides to Netanyahu who later became state witnesses and have testified in detail , portraying him as controlling and image-conscious . <p> During his initial court appearance , Netanyahu appeared serious and somewhat weary , shaking hands with ministers and MPs who had come to support him as he entered the courtroom . <p> The trial comes amid political turmoil , with Netanyahu 's legal troubles exposing deep divides in Israel . Under Israeli law , an indicted Prime Minister is not required to step down . Nevertheless , the charges have ignited a political crisis , with protests calling for his resignation and former political allies refusing to continue in his government . This instability has led to five elections in less than four years , starting in 2019 . <p> The right-wing populist leader has long avoided appearing in court , despite claiming in a taped video address on Monday that he welcomed the opportunity to testify . His appearance marks a significant moment as he attempts to maintain his image as a skilled and respected statesman while also facing attempts to limit the independence of Israel 's judiciary . <p> Dozens of protesters gathered outside the court in Tel Aviv , including family members of hostages held in Gaza and groups opposing Netanyahu , while other groups of his supporters stood in his defence . One banner draped in front of the court read : " Crime Minister . " <p> Advertisement <p> Demonstrators protest against Prime Minster Benjamin Netanyahu outside the court in Tel Aviv Tuesday Dec. 10 , 2024 . Netanyahu is set to take the stand on Tuesday in his long-running trial for alleged corruption . ( AP Photo/Ariel Schalit ) <p> While the war with Hamas that began on 7 October 2023 and the ongoing conflict in Gaza shifted much of the public 's attention away from Netanyahu 's trial , political divisions in Israel have only deepened as the war continues . <p> Ahead of the trial , Netanyahu 's allies in the Knesset tried to delay proceedings , citing voting conflicts and Israel 's ongoing security situation . His lawyer , Amit Hadad , strongly criticised the indictment against his client , comparing the investigation to processes seen in " Russia or North Korea " and accusing the police of targeting the man rather than investigating a specific crime .
