<h> Bashar al-Assad defeated : What has happened in Syria so far , what now <h> Assad was never meant to be Syria 's leader . He was an ophthalmologist practising in London when his brother and father 's heir-apparent died . How did his regime survive for 24 years ? What were his ties with India ? <p> A man waves a Syrian opposition flag as people celebrate at Masnaa Border Crossing , after Syrian rebels announced that they have ousted President Bashar al-Assad , Lebanon , December 8 , 2024 . REUTERS/Amr Abdallah Dalsh <p> Who is fighting whom in Syria , and why ? Why are so many foreign governments , from the US to Russia to Iran to Turkey involved ? How did Assad 's regime survive for so long , and what happens now that he is gone ? <p> And what is India 's attitude towards Assad ? We explain . <p> Advertisement <h> Why is Syria in the midst of a civil war ? <p> Since 1971 , Syria was in the control of Hafez al-Assad , the all-powerful President seen by many as a dictator . After Hafez died in 2000 , his son , Bashar , took over . In 2011 , when the Arab Spring saw dictators being toppled across West Asia , protests began against Assad too . <p> Assad belongs to the Alawite community , a sect of Shia Islam . Many in Syria believed that while Sunnis were the majority , power and resources were concentrated in the hands of the Alawaites . After coming to power , Assad had opened up the economy , but the gains had largely been limited to the elites . Thus , when protests began -- initially peacefully -- price rise and unemployment were among the major issues . <p> Assad 's regime cracked down on the protesters , and the agitation soon spiralled into armed civil war . Among the fighters were many factions -- with different external backers -- and many aims , but forcing Assad to step down was a largely common goal . <p> The rebels had taken control of areas to the northeast and northwest of the country . However , Assad was in control of a large section of Syria . This was made possible thanks to a major offensive in 2015 , when Russia provided air support and Assad 's forces , with the help of Iran , beat back the rebels . Since 2020 , the civil war had remained a frozen conflict , till the anti-government forces mounted a quick and surprisingly effective campaign from November 27 . <p> Who was fighting whom , and why ? <p> Advertisement <p> The leader of the group that just captured Damascus is Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , led by Abu Mohammad al-Jolani . The HTS was founded in 2011 as Jabhat al-Nusra , the al-Qaeda 's branch in Syria . In 2016 , it broke away to form the Jabhat Fateh al-Shaam ( JFS ) , standing for the liberation of al-Shaam , or the Levant ( the sub-region of the Middle East lying near the Mediterranean Sea , including Jordan , Syria , Lebanon , Israel and Palestine ) . The HTS wanted to overthrow Assad and establish a Sunni-Islamic rule . <p> The other significant player are the Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) , a collection of Kurdish militias that want more autonomy and rights for the Kurds . They are not a major enemy of Assad . <p> Then is the Turkey-backed Syrian National Army , opposing both Assad and the Kurds . <p> Among foreign players , Iran and Russia support Assad , and Lebanon 's Hezbollah have provided him with crucial fighting support . The US and Turkey have backed the anti-Assad forces , though Turkey 's beef is mainly with the Kurds , including those within its own borders . <p> With Iran , Hezbollah , and Russia all distracted with their own wars in Gaza and Lebanon , and Ukraine , respectively , Assad was missing critical support . As the rebels ran over the country , they met little effective resistance from the official Syrian Army . <p> However , it is too early to say if Assad 's fall is the end of the Syrian civil war , or just another chapter . <p> Advertisement <p> While Assad was undoubtedly unpopular , many believed him to be a bulwark against Sunni Islamic fundamentalism , and a champion of minority rights . <p> Assad was never meant to be Syria 's leader . He was an ophthalmologist practising in London when his elder brother and father 's heir apparent , Basil , died in a car crash in 1994 . After he came to power in 2000 , there were early , nascent indications that his rule would not be as authoritarian as his father 's . His marriage to London-born investment banker Asma Akhras further boosted his liberal image . But his response to the 2011 protests , and the increasing brutality of repression since , ended all hopes of a ' Damascus Spring ' . <p> However , the group that has toppled him has a violent al-Qaeda past . Though the HTS has struck a more liberal , conciliatory note towards minorities recently , many fear their win might turn Syria into an ' Afghanistan on the Mediterranean ' . <h> What were India 's ties with Bashar al-Assad ? <p> India has had friendly ties with Syria under Assad . In fact , The 6th Round of India-Syria Foreign Office Consultations took place in New Delhi on November 29 . <p> The Ministry of External Affairs said in a press release then , " India and Syria enjoy warm and friendly relations based on historic and civilisational ties . India has been a keen developmental partner for Syria and is also actively involved in capacity building of the Syrian youth . Both the countries also cooperate on various multilateral forums . The discussions held today will contribute in further strengthening of India-Syria bilateral partnership . " <p> Yashee is an Assistant Editor with the indianexpress.com , where she is a member of the Explained team . She is a journalist with over 10 years of experience , starting her career with the Mumbai edition of Hindustan Times . She has also worked with India Today , where she wrote opinion and analysis pieces for DailyO . Her articles break down complex issues for readers with context and insight . Yashee has a Bachelor 's Degree in English Literature from Presidency College , Kolkata , and a postgraduate diploma in journalism from Asian College of Journalism , Chennai , one of the premier media institutes in the countr ... Read More
