<h> Syria Pushes Gaza Genocide and Ukraine Defeat Off The Front Pages <h> How will Trump cope <p> " Assad has fled his country . His protector Russia was not interested in protecting him any longer . " This is President-elect Donald Trump 's observation on the events in Syria . How will these words echo with President Volodymyr Zelensky fighting with his back to the wall in Ukraine . If Russia can drop Assad , will Trump keep an albatross around his neck ? <p> Meanwhile , Benjamin Netanyahu , literally fighting with his back to the wall with Hezbollah and Hamas , has exulted : " Assad 's fall reverses the most important part of the " Shia " axis with Iran . " The Israeli premier 's exultation would ring true if Iran had not been polite in its goodbye to Assad . With usual subtlety , Iran has distinguished between Assad and Syria . <p> Quite in sync has been the statement by the leader of the rebels Abu Mohammad al Jolani , much the most important rebel leader . His refrain " Syria is for all Sunnis , Alawis , Christians , Druze " has found wide traction . <p> The earth shaking news that Assad 's fall has promoted is , quite ironically , the abrupt disappearance from the front page of two wars that have kept the world in their thrall . Why should a war inching towards a nuclear exchange be abruptly taken off the air waves ? Because the West was losing ? <p> Not only are the Syrian developments a welcome diversion for the West from wars that were not going well for the West . Assad 's fall also has the potential of being spun as a vindication of the Arab Spring . " Get out of the way , Assad " ordered Secretary of State Hillary Clinton . She can now claim to have been vindicated , even though the circumstances in 2011 were totally different . <p> The growing consensus among non mainstream media experts is this : the western effort in Ukraine is not to accept an obvious defeat . Moreover , everything has to avert a debacle . The new treasure trove in cash and weaponry to Kyiv , would , in Trump 's parlance , be tantamount to throwing good money after bad . He is quiet for a simple reason : he would like to negotiate honorably with Putin . He would not like to throw in the towel but have Zelensky on his feet walk towards Putin to strike a bargain however degrading which the pliant media will sell with favourable headlines . <p> Ofcourse , there is a pall of mist on the rapidity with which Assad fell . The almost cheerful appearance of Assad and his wife granted asylum in Moscow tells its own tale . Russian bases in Syria have been promised full protection by the incoming regime in Damascus . <p> Stories of vandalism of the Iranian embassy appear to be solo incidents without any organizational support . <p> There are so many fingers in the Syrian pie that it is difficult to spot the master choreographer . That Russia has vital interests in Syria as it does in Ukraine makes it the key author of the surprising turn . <p> Two other developments in the region have been marked by their masterly stealth : Riyadh-Tehran rapprochement and the coming together of all Palestinian groups ranging from Hamas to the Palestinian authority . Both these arrangements were painstakingly stitched together by China . Never in history have China and Russia been closer . <p> There have been plenty of agreements on issues stretching from Ukraine to the East Mediterranean . Take the Astana process for Syria , for instance , between Russia , Iran and Turkey . <p> In the deal a crucial player is also Turkey . So far , standing four squares behind Hamas as it faces history 's first live televised genocide , have been the following : Iran , Hezbollah , Hazb al Shaabi ( Iraq ) and the Houthis of Yemen -- all Shia variants . A prominent role being assigned to Turkey in Syrian affairs , brings a major Sunni country into focus . Recep Tayyip Erdogan 's profile receives a boost . Is Azerbaijan part of the deal with Turkey where Iranian interests are considerable ? <p> Russians along with Turkey and Iran appear to have played an amazing hand . Assad 's fall provides a face saver for Israel and the US in West Asia and for the West in Ukraine . <p> The chaotic situation in Georgia where the President Salome Zourabichvili refuses to accept the Pro Russia verdict of the national elections held in October . This is not the only flashpoint President Trump faces when he enters the White House . The US 's key interest in the Pacific Basis has been blown to Smithereens , by inept politics in South Korea . <p> Former State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland 's handiwork in Ukraine is tearing apart . Likewise Donald Lu Under Secretary of State for South Asia has egg on his face for the explosive situation developing in Bangladesh . Pakistan and Afghanistan are on edge as are Romania , Moldova . Having called snap elections President Emanuel Macron finds himself without a government in France because he will not have a leftist Prime Minister . Fascism stares Germany in the face . <p> This incomplete list of the world 's chaotic spots is simply to place in balance the dwindling G7 and the expanding BRICS . <p> The fall of the Soviet Union , for reasons of its own , brought the US into focus as the Sole Superpower . The collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008 signaled the flaws in the NeoCons mismanagement of globalization . <p> Trump would do well to remember his conversation with Jimmy Carter . " The Chinese are going ahead of us " , Trump lamented . " What should we do ? " Carter 's reply was succinct . " Except for one skirmish with Vietnam in 1979 , China has not fought a war ; we have never stopped being at war . " <p> The US 's 760 bases worldwide and wars without end were glibly explained : the Military Industrial Complex has to be kept busy . Defeats in Vietnam , Iraq , Afghanistan , Ukraine , Iraq , Afghanistan , Ukraine should cause military analysts to pause . <p> The recent relentless bombardment of the Gaza strip by one of the great military powers , without achieving any of its war aims and heaping upon itself the odium of an Apartheid state committing genocide for over a year on live television defies description . How will Trump cope ? <p> Saeed Naqvi is a senior journalist and writer . The views expressed here are the writer 's own .
