<h> The Bashar al-Assad government in Syria had supported India on the Kashmir issue . At the same time , India also refused to support sanctions against Syria and helped Damascus in development projects <p> Under the Narendra Modi government , India renewed bilateral ties with Syria after the country rejoined the Arab League in 2023 . ( AP Image ) <p> With rebel forces claiming the fall of Bashar al-Assad 's government in Syria , India is watching cautiously the power shift in the restive Middle-Eastern country , which could have an impact over the ties between the two countries . <p> " We are monitoring the situation in Syria in the light of on-going developments . We underline the need for all parties to work towards preserving the unity , sovereignty and territorial integrity of Syria . We advocate a peaceful and inclusive Syrian-led political process respecting the interests and aspirations of all sections of Syrian society . Our Embassy in Damascus is in contact with the Indian community , for their safety and security , " the Ministry of External Affairs ( MEA ) said in a statement on December 9. <h> related stories <p> Both India and Syria have enjoyed cordial and peaceful diplomatic relations under the Assad regime . But with the fall of Assad government , there could be shift in the dynamics between the two countries . <h> History Of India And Syria 's Relations <p> Assad has been ruling Syria since 2000 , with his father Hafez al-Assad being in power since 1971 . <p> During the civil war in 2011 , India adopted a position favouring conflict resolution through a non-military and a Syrian-led political process . India maintained relations with Syria even at the peak of the civil war when several nations isolated Damascus and it was expelled from the Arab League . <p> India helped Syria in key development projects , including providing a $240 million line of credit for a power plant , investment in IT infrastructure , steel plant modernization , oil sector and exports of rice , pharmaceuticals and textiles . <p> India also refused to support sanctions against Syria during the Covid-19 pandemic , citing humanitarian concerns . New Delhi also called for non-interference by foreign countries . <p> Under the Narendra Modi government , India renewed bilateral ties with Syria after the country rejoined the Arab League in 2023 . Then Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan was on a significant ministerial-level visit to Damascus in July 2023 . <h> When Syria Supported India On The Kashmir Issue <p> While India supported Syria on several international issues , including the Palestinian cause and Syria 's claim over Golan Heights , Damascus backed New Delhi 's position on Kashmir , maintaining that it is an internal issue of the country . <p> In 2016 , Syrian Ambassador to India Riad Abbas had said Kashmir was an internal issue of India . " Anyone who raises a weapon against the government , we call them terrorists , and the government must take action against them , " Abbas had told The Hindu . <p> He had also said that Syria is looking up to India for assistance in re-building the war-ravage country . <h> India Is Cautious <p> Experts believe that India 's close ties with Syria would have helped New Delhi to further leverage its relations with the Middle Eastern countries . But with the rebel group , Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham , backed by Turkey , claiming victory over Syria , New Delhi is closely watching how the situation unfolds in the troubled country . <p> Recently , Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan did not mention the Kashmir issue at the United Nations , which many viewed as a sign of improving the India-Turkey relations . <p> New Delhi has issued a travel advisory asking Indians to avoid travelling to Syria and urged those staying there to exercise " utmost precaution " and restrict their movements . " In view of the situation prevailing in Syria , Indian nationals are advised to avoid all travel to Syria until further notification ... Those who can , are advised to leave by the earliest available commercial flights and others are requested to observe utmost precaution about their safety and restrict their movements to the minimum , " the MEA said . <h> Is Islamic State Coming Back ? <p> The rebel groups led by HTS in Syria had its origins in al-Qaeda , which has been declared a terrorist organisation by the US and United Nations . Although HTS leader Abu Mohammad al-Jolani has said he has severed ties with al-Qaeda , and the aim of his outfit was to overthrow the Assad government and not launch attacks on the west , western countries and India are cautious . <p> The HTS is backed by Turkey , had claimed regions in northern Syria after the US withdrawal of forces from there . HTS started out as a branch of the Islamic State of Iraq , when it was founded in January 2012 as Jabhat al-Nusrah . Aaron Y. Zelin , a senior fellow at Washington Institute , said when Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi brought the organization from Iraq to Syria in April 2013 , Jolani " disavowed Baghdadi and pledged allegiance to Ayman al-Zawahiri , then the leader of al-Qaeda . " Later , Jolani left al-Qaeeda and focused on expanding HTS . <p> Since the US military 's withdrawal from Syria , many Americans have been worried that the move would give the Islamic State a chance to rise again . <p> Recently , the US military conducted a series of airstrikes against the Islamic State after Assad fled to Russia . The Pentagon said the attacks were precision airstrikes and it does not believe there were any civilian casualties . The US military is still conducting a battle damage assessment , according to US Central Command . <h> top videos <p> President Joe Biden has said the end of Assad 's presidency was in part due to US support for Israel 's war on Gaza and its fight against Hezbollah in Lebanon , as well as support for groups in Syria and Iraq that weakened Syria 's close ally , Iran . <p> He also said the US forces will remain in northeast Syria , where they support the Kurdish-led Syrian Defence Forces against Islamic State . About 900 US troops are currently in the northeast of the country .
