<h> How the untiring , dangerous work for human rights has given life to support for Palestine <h> Human rights discourse has indeed been weaponised and even used to justify wars . But human rights discourse has also been used to expose war crimes . <p> Student and left-wing organisations protest in support of Palestinians in Gaza , near Jantar Mantar in New Delhi in this October 2023 photograph . Reuters <p> Is it antisemitic to criticise Zionism ? This was the motion up for debate at the Munk Debate , held in honour of industrialist and free speech advocate Peter Munk . Journalist Douglas Murray supported the motion at the debate in Toronto on June 17 while news anchor-writer Mehdi Hasan opposed it . The motion was resolved with the conclusion that anti-Zionism is indeed antisemitism . <p> India has no history of antisemitism . So why have meetings about Palestine been banned and demonstrations by students protesting against the genocide being committed in Gaza been stopped ? <p> The unwritten reason is that for a Hindutva government , the Palestinian cause is identified with Islam , the religion of a majority of the Palestinians . <p> But debates about religion eclipse the central fact that the real issue is land : Israel 's illegal occupation of Palestinian territory . <p> This occupation was " founded on brute force , repression and fear , collaboration and treachery , beatings and torture chambers , and daily intimidation , humiliation and manipulation " , writes political scientist-activist Norman Finkelstein in his 2018 book , Gaza : An Inquest into its Martyrdom . <p> It is for this reason that India , in the first years after independence from British colonialism , forbade citizens from visiting Israel and South Africa as a gesture of solidarity with the people of Palestine and South Africa fighting against apartheid . <p> It is also the reason why many have refused to condemn the militant group Hamas 's attack on Israel on October 7 last year that killed at least 1,200 people . This is despite the fact that they neither support Hamas 's ideology nor do they condone the attack on civilians . <p> As scholar Edward Said wrote in Covering Islam , the Western media and experts have been guilty of " exaggerated stereotyping and belligerent hostility " towards Muslims in general and Arabs in particular . <p> This outlook is evident in the refusal of Western countries and the English media to use the term " genocide " to refer to the mass violation of human rights in Gaza . Increasingly , the human rights discourse has been used by the West to justify the Israeli occupation and freedom of speech has been weaponised to vilify Arabs . <p> Anyone who has seen the bombing of hospitals , the testimonies of doctors who have worked in hospitals there , the images of children buried under rubble and the relentless bombing of infrastructure would be hard put to deny that Israel is not committing war crimes that amount to genocide . <p> It is the human rights community that has played a vital role in documenting these crimes against humanity and even if many of these reports lie buried , they are a record of Israel 's violations . <p> Norman Finkelstein Visiting Student Encampment at Cambridge University . Most are women . It was deeply moving and inspiring . May the Force be with them . **26;720;TOOLONG <p> More recently , Amnesty International documented how Israeli forces have carried out acts prohibited under the Genocide Convention , with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza . <p> " Israeli forces have caused unprecedented destruction , at a level and speed not seen in any other conflict in the 21st century , leveling entire cities and destroying critical infrastructure , agricultural land and cultural and religious sites , rendering large swathes of Gaza uninhabitable , " says the report released on December 4 . <p> There is no telling what the impact of the Amnesty International report will be . There will certainly be an effort to undermine its influence . <p> Long before Hamas 's attack on October 7 , Israel had been condemned for crimes amounting to genocide in a 2009 United Nations Fact Finding report by Richard Goldstone , former judge of the Constitutional Court of South Africa and a Jew from a family that supported Zionism . <p> The United Nations appointed the committee after the three-week long " Operation Cast Lead " , as Israel called it , during which 1,400 Palestinians were killed between December 2008 and January 2009 . <p> Goldstone 's report found that the operation was anchored in a military doctrine aimed at disproportionate destruction and disruption in the lives of as many people " as a legitimate means to achieve military and political goals " . The goal was to clear : " dire consequences for the non-combatants in Gaza " . The report added that this policy was rooted in the humiliation and dehumanisation of the Palestinian population . <p> The report also commended the resilience and dignity of the residents of Gaza and recommended that the Security Council " refer the situation in Gaza to the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court " . <p> Israel 's reaction was predictable , dismissing the report and condemning Goldstone , who was accused of being an antisemite and a traitor to the Jewish people . The vilification and defamation of Goldstone even led to the US House of Representatives voting 344 to 36 in condemning the report as " irremediably biased and unworthy " . <p> Finkelstein wrote that Goldstone 's report was significant in heralding the dawn of the new era in which the " human rights dimension of the Israel-Palestine conflict moved centre stage -- and even temporarily -- displacing the fatuous ' peace process ' " . The report also coincided with a vicious campaign in Israel and the United States to discredit human rights organisations . <p> Under the mounting pressure Goldstone recanted . But he did not recant from the main charge that Israel deliberately deployed " disproportionate and indiscriminate force in order to punish , humiliate and terrorise a civilian population " . How could he when Israeli soldiers and writers had boasted that the Israeli Defense Forces had unleashed " insane " amounts of firepower . <p> An indiscriminate and disproportionate attack on civilian areas is itself a war crime . Two decades since Goldstone 's report , human rights activists and organisations have continued their work of documenting Israel 's war crimes , providing activists , students and journalists with material evidence with which to expose Israel 's genocidal acts . <p> It is also the human rights discourse that gives space to students to protest on campuses and the right to free speech to journalists such as Mehdi Hasan , comedian Bassem Youseff or intellectual-activist Finkelstein to publish his books on Israel 's war crimes . Youseff 's interview with English broadcaster Piers Morgan , in which the comedian highlighted the racism of the Western media , got millions of viewers from around the world . <p> Play <p> When we listen to debates , read books on genocide and war crimes or take part in protests on political issues , it is the efforts of human rights activists and organisations that keep us informed of events on the ground , often at risk to their own lives . <p> The human rights discourse has indeed been weaponised and even used to justify wars . But the human rights discourse has also been used to expose war crimes . That is why it is important to remember the human rights community of activists and to pay tribute to their work this Human Rights Day .
