<p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Sunday that Indiaexpects to double its $4 trillion economy as well as its $800 billiontrade this decade , adding the country is prepared to undertake manyresponsibilities , make greater contributions , and be more visible inthe Gulf . <p> SNS New Delhi December 8 , 2024 6:51 pm <p> External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar <p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Sunday that India expects to double its $4 trillion economy as well as its $800 billion trade this decade , adding the country is prepared to undertake many responsibilities , make greater contributions , and be more visible in the Gulf . <p> " India is today almost a $4 trillion economy , we expect to comfortably double that this decade . Our trade is today around $800 billion , that too should at least double this decade , " he said addressing the Manama Dialogue in Bahrain . <p> The minister said the stakes that India has in the Gulf are very high because this region is the most immediate for it in the world beyond its borders . " So whatever happens here , historically , culturally , civilisational wise , economically , connectivity wise matters a lot . And at one level I 'm sure that all of us would like to hope for at least a lowest common denominator on the basis of which countries cooperate . I think given the importance of this region , we should be more ambitious , we should aim for something very much higher , " he added . <p> Advertisement <p> Mr Jaishankar said the Gulf is a region with which India does trade worth $170-180 billion every year . It is a region where there is an Indian diaspora today of about ten million people and growing . It is also a region that is not just a key energy partner , but a broader economic partner , a very crucial source of investment , and increasingly an important technology collaborator . <p> Talking about the importance of connectivity in the world , the minister said the primary preoccupation of the world today is to de-risk the international economy , Emphasising the need for reliable supply chains , he noted that the global connectivity is very fragile , it is very limited . Many of the historic disruptions have not been addressed . <p> " So , we are today very heavily focused on trying to in a way find a kind of new hard wiring for the international economy . And one of the most ambitious initiatives here is the IMEC , the India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor , which was agreed upon by a set of countries during the G20 Summit in India in 2023 . And we hope that from India , across the seas through this region , across the Mediterranean into Europe we will see this connectivity corridor materialise , " he added . <p> He also spoke about the India-Myanmar-Thailand trilateral highway . <p> Talking about mobility , he said , " We are also entering an era of AI , of innovation , of Start-Ups . There is a global workplace in the making . Those ten million Indians who live here testify to that . This is only going to intensify . " he called for strategic conversations to deal with greater mobility and the compulsions of greater mobility . <p> As regards India 's abstentions from some UN resolutions regarding Gaza , Mr Jaishankar said the resolutions that " do not reflect the entire reality " of the situation by downplaying the October 7 terror attack by Hamas , ca n't be supported by India , which is itself a ' victim of terrorism ' .
