<h> Bhopinder Singh The collapse of Assad 's Syria to have sectarian consequences <p> An image of Syrian President Bashar Assad , riddled with bullets , is seen on the facade of the provincial government office in the aftermath of the opposition 's takeover of Hama , Syria , Friday , Dec. 6 , 2024 . AP/PTI <p> Way back in 2004 , King Abdullah of Jordan had coined a controversial and loaded term called the " Shia Crescent " , that indicated land and territory from Shia-dominated Iran running across the Iraqi-Syrian swathes up to the southern coast of Lebanon . The subsequent fall of Saddam Hussein 's Sunni-led Iraq to Shia forces , along with the successful negation of both Al Qaeda and the Islamic State , or ISIS , by Iran-led Shia militias and the assertive rise of the Yemeni Houthis , the Hezbollah of Lebanon and like-minded groups , almost confirmed a geographical crescent-like shift of power from Sunni sheikdoms to Shia forces . The steady presence of Alawite ( Shia offshoot ) Syrian President Bashar al-Assad further reiterated the portents of King Abdullah 's feared sectarian shift . <p> Civilisational tensions between the Sunni-Shia rift played out thereafter with Iran emerging as the rallying fount of the Shia uprising , to the consternation of the wary and predominantly Sunni-led sheikhdoms . Relations deteriorated to such an extent that despite paying homilies towards the beleaguered Palestinians in the face of disproportionate and brutal Israeli revenge , Jordan almost openly supported the Israeli forces as it shot down the Iranian drones targeting Israel . Since the time Israel launched the relentless bludgeoning of the Gaza Strip and southern Lebanon , the Sunni Arab leadership has played coy and mealy-mouthed , and it was left to Iran and its proxies like Hezbollah , the Houthis and the forces of Syria 's Bashar al-Assad to offer a modicum of defiance . <p> Cut to twenty years after Jordanian King Abdullah 's sectarian fear-mongering of the " Shia Crescent " in 2024 -- Iranian elements have been attacked , almost all of the top Hezbollah leadership assassinated , the Houthis routinely attacked , and perhaps most dramatically , the Syrian nation under Bashar al-Assad has collapsed . This dramatic ouster of Syria 's President comes approximately fifty-five years after his father , Hafez al-Assad , had taken over in 1971 . He was sensitive to the sectarian undercurrents and had knowingly ensured that the control of the Syrian military , intelligence , bureaucracy and key security posts were given to his fellow Shia-Alawite brethren only . <p> Naturally , the Syrian state under the Assad clan had a reflexive bonhomie with the fellow Shia Iran , and as the Arab sheikdoms were aligned to the United States , the Syrians forged a rebound relationship with the Soviet Union ( later Russia ) . All these contrarian positions and alignments militated with Syria 's neighbours like Jordan , Saudi Arabia , Turkey , as also with the other staunch US ally in the region , namely Israel . The Sunni-Arab side were out to avenge the Syrian defiance and strategic alliances by supporting dissent and sectarian tensions in Syria , to the extent of supporting Sunni extremist militias like Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or HTS , that is believed to be the principal group behind the capitulation of the Assad regime a few days back . Tellingly , the HTS has its origins in Al-Qaeda ( that was earlier in the forefront of facing Shia forces in the region ) and is backed in its recent endeavour by the support of Turkish-backed Syrian Sunni militias , collectively called the Syrian National Army . Expectedly , the rout of Bashar al-Assad 's citadel in Damascus has led to the retreat of the supporting Hezbollah fighters to their bases in the mountains and Lebanon , just as many from the Bashar al-Assad 's Army have fled and crossed over in droves to neighbouring Iraq ( led by Shia Iraqi Prime Minister Mohammed Shia ' Al Sudani ) . <p> The revised landscape in the region with the targeted diminishment of Iran and its regional proxies like Hezbollah in Lebanon or the Houthis in Yemen , and now with the Sunni-militia takeover in Syria , will have serious repercussions on the deeply polarised sectarian sentiments . The Shias are estimated to be around 15 per cent of the global Ummah ( Muslim community ) , with a majority only in Iran , Iraq , Azerbaijan and Bahrain , out of the 50-odd Muslim countries in the world . Even in India , the Shia numbers are around the same percentage and the unspoken and historical tensions with the Sunnis is unmistakable , if generally controlled . However , in neighbouring Pakistan and Afghanistan , they are violently , routinely , and systematically persecuted . Many Sunni supremacists go as far as declaring Shias apostates and non-Muslims . <p> The fall of Bashar al-Assad 's Syria is one more blow to Iran and its conflated Shia ambitions , and thus to the imminent danger to the minority Shias across the world . <p> The political leadership in the region has always been the key to check the sectarian " other " in the regional tinderbox . The Sunni House of Khalifa , which controls Bahrain , has managed to checkmate the Shia majority , just as Bashar al-Assad 's minority Shia Alawite sect had countenanced its Sunni majority till quite recently . In the complex and diverse Lebanese nation , the Shia Hezbollah had managed to carve out a space and relevance for itself in the south , in the face of rival groups from the Christian , Sunni or even Druze denominations . Now , all these levers and counter-levers will get undone and rearranged , to the detriment and disadvantage of the Shia populace . <p> At the end of the day , it was the combined vilification , the process of " enemising " and seemingly coordinated efforts of the United States , Israel , the Arab sheikhdoms and Turkey that led to Bashar al-Assad 's ouster . While he was hardly any benign or liberal leader himself , it is unlikely that Abu Mohammed al- Jolani ( an internationally declared terrorist with $10 million on his head ) , whose HTS was mainly behind the Syrian regime 's utter collapse , will be any better or more tolerant . But it is the grave risk to Shias across the world that is most disconcerting .
