<p> New Delhi : Bashar al-Assad , the leader of Syria , reportedly fled Damascus early Sunday , following a rapid assault by the insurgent group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham over the last two weeks , upending the regional order in West Asia in a major blow for Iran and Russia . <p> " Assad is gone . He has fled his country . His protector , Russia , Russia , Russia , led by Vladimir Putin , was not interested in protecting him any longer . There was no reason for Russia to be there in the first place . They lost all interest in Syria because of Ukraine , where close to 600,000 Russian soldiers lay wounded or dead , in a war that should never have started , and could go on forever ... " said Donald J. Trump , US President-elect , in a statement on social media platform Truth Social . <p> Tehran and Moscow have propped up the Assad regime since the beginning of the Syrian civil war in 2011 , with Iranian troops from the elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps first defending the government of Syria in 2012 . Hezbollah -- the Shiite militia from Lebanon -- which has been supported by Tehran , also sent its fighters to Syria in support of Assad . <p> Russia , which has a naval base in the port of Tartus , used its air power to hit rebel-held areas at the height of the civil war in 2016 , which further helped defend the Assad regime . Following the efforts of all these actors , Assad and his government were able to claw back lost territory across the country , defeat various terrorist and rebel groupings , and brought about a stalemate of sorts over the last half decade in the country . <p> The Indian Ministry of External Affairsput out an advisory Saturday , urging Indians to avoid all travel to the country . There are around 90 Indians left in the country , along with others who have been working with United Nations programmes in the country , explained MEA spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal Friday . <p> The Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , which was reduced to managing the Idlib province and parts around Aleppo , was formed following strategic disagreements between the al-Nusra Front and al-Qaeda in 2017 . The group was designated a terrorist organisation by the US in 2018 for its connection to the Sunni islamist al-Nusra Front and by extension , al-Qaeda . Its leader Abu Muhammad al-Jawlani has a $10 million bounty placed by the US government . <p> Al-Jawlani in recent years has rechristened himself as a pragmatist , who is opposing the Assad regime , rather than leading a terrorist organisation , and has worked alongside the Syrian National Army , which is backed by Turkey to topple Assad . <p> Starting from the capture of Aleppo , from the end of November till Sunday , al-Jawlani 's group has captured a number of Syrian cities , including Hama , Daraa and now Damascus . <p> According to Reuters , Assad left Damascus in a plane Sunday , which was headed westwards , before taking a U-turn and then going dark . His whereabouts are currently unknown . Syria 's Prime Minister Mohammad Ghazi al-Jalali , in a video message , has promised to remain in Damascus and to work out a transitional roadmap with al-Jawlani , and has expressed his opinion that there should be free elections in the country . <h> Who is Muhammad al-Jawlani ? <p> Born Ahmed Hussein al-Sharaa in 1982 , al-Jawlani spent the first seven years of his life in Saudi Arabia before returning to Damascus -- the city his grandfather had fled to following the capture of the Golan Heights by Israel in 1967 . <p> In a 2021 interview to PBS , al-Jawlani said , " But at that time , I was strongly influenced by the Palestinian intifada uprising , which was taking place in neighbouring Palestine in 2000 and 1999 . I was still a young man ; I was 18 or 19 years old . I started thinking at that time about how I can pursue my duty of defending the nation , which was being persecuted by the occupiers and invaders . " <p> He added in the interview that he was happy by the 9/11 attacks against the US for their continued support towards Israel , but regretted the death of innocents . <p> Before al-Jawlani attempted to change his image as a freedom fighter from Assad 's rule , he was the founder of the Al-Nusra Front after his release from the notorious Camp Bucca prison in Iraq , which is known for radicalising a number of individuals , including Muhammad Abu Bakhr al-Bagdadi , the former leader of the Islamic State in Levant ( ISIL ) . <p> Al-Jawlani was lodged in Camp Bucca due to his role in the defence of Iraq during its invasion by the US in 2003 . He landed in the country two weeks after the invasion , according to his interview to PBS . <p> During his time with the Al-Nusra Front , he refused to acknowledge ISIL , and instead swore loyalty to al-Qaeda . In July 2013 , he was designated a terrorist by the United Nations Security Council for his affiliation with al-Qaeda . <p> In 2017 , al-Jawlani split with the masterminds behind 9/11 and formed the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham . <h> Setback for Moscow &amp; Tehran <p> The rapid defeat of the Syrian army by the Islamist rebels comes in the wake of the multiple challenges faced by Assad 's two biggest backers over the past year . <p> Russia , which has been in a war with Ukraine since February 2022 , has had to use its military resources in Eastern Europe , which has seen its footprint decline in Syria . <p> As president-elect Trump pointed out in his post , the cost of the war with Ukraine has been huge for Moscow in terms of equipment and manpower , with reports of nearly 5,00,000 Russians losing their lives in the war , according tonumbers provided by the Ukrainian government . These numbers are unverifiable , but indicate the losses faced by Moscow . <p> Iran has been on the backfoot since its ally Hamas launched an attack against Israel on 7 October , 2023 , which left around 1,200 Israelis dead and saw another 250 taken hostage . The war in Gaza has seen Israel target Iranian assets in the region , including in Syria , which has degraded its military position . <p> Earlier this year , Israel launched a strike on an Iranian diplomatic compound in Damascus , which saw the death of a number of senior IRGC commanders , for which Iran retaliated with a direct rocket attack at Tel Aviv for the first time in its history . <p> Israel has continued to strike at various targets across Syria in an effort to weaken Iran 's position in the country . The war in Gaza has seen the senior leadership of Hamas killed , along with 44,000 Palestinians , and has been ongoing for 14 months . <p> In September , Tel Aviv also took aim at Hezbollah , expanding its operations to Southern Lebanon and killed the long-time leader of the organisation , Hassan Nasrallah . Israel 's efforts in Lebanon have severely weakened Hezbollah , another key backer of the Assad regime . <p> According to the New York Times , the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham reached out to Iran earlier last week and promised to protect the Shiite minority in the country , in exchange for Tehran 's non-aggression . By the end of the week , Iran began evacuating its assets and diplomats from the country . <p> With the fall of Assad , Iran 's " axis of resistance " from Iraq to Yemen , via Syria and Southern Lebanon , has been severely weakened , especially as Damascus was a key point for Tehran 's support to Hezbollah . <p> Israel has moved its troops to the Golan Heights to protect its communities there , while Jordan and Lebanon have closed the border with Syria .
