<p> It was there to defend itself as the three men discussed the threat AI poses and its potential to take over humankind . It was Dr Parikh , Director of Medical Research at Mumbai 's Jaslok Hospital , who decided to bring in Copilot , " just to see what the technology has to say in its defence . " <p> " Hey Copilot , " said Dr Parikh , as he opened the AI-powered platform . " Yuval raises a concern about you and tries to warn us to be careful . Does that change your perspective on Yuval ? , " Dr Parikh asked . <p> " He is not anti-technology , but he advocates for careful consideration of its implications . Keeping his warnings in mind is wise . But , it does n't fundamentally change my thoughts on him or his work . Do you agree with his stance ? " Copilot said , to a round of applause from the audience gathered at The Lalit in Mumbai on Saturday . <p> The three speakers , joined by Copilot toward the end , were discussing Harari 's latest book , Nexus , which talks about the history of information systems and the potential dangers of AI . <p> While all the speakers agreed that Copilot as of now was simply mirroring the information that 's already out there , and gathering some more by asking Dr Parikh his views , what the AI tool said summed up Harari 's stance on the issue . <p> " I do n't talk about the immense potential of AI because there are advocates for it . So , it is the job of historians , philosophers to issue some warning . The intention is not to stop research in AI . The issue is to identify the threats and work towards addressing them , " Harari said . <h> Problem with information networks <p> In his previous books , Sapiens and Homo Deus , Harari has dealt with what it is that makes humans smarter and better than other living beings . In Nexus , he raises the basic question : If humans are so smart , why are we so stupid ? <p> " We can make fireworks , we can split the atoms . We are so powerful but yet time and again as individuals and as an entire species we make such dumb decisions . We are creating an extremely powerful new technology , AI , which might escape our control and annihilate us , " the author said . <p> Harari listed out several reasons to support his theory . Instead of uniting to deal with the dangers , humans are in the process of destroying the global order . The world , he said , seems to be on the brink of a third world war , and all countries , even the most powerful ones , want to play the role of a victim . The problem , Harari explained , is not with the nature of human beings , it is with the quality of information we are getting . <p> Aamir Khan , after expressing his admiration for Harari , agreed with the author , saying , " Half the time we do n't know what is true and what is not . What is true has become more difficult to discern . " <p> The advent of the World Wide Web had promised to bring more freedom and democracy , with everything open and transparent , and people more connected with each other . <p> However , in 2024 , the world has become such that " each set of people are enclosed inside an information cocoon and they have no connection to reality , " Harari said . <p> In his previous books , the philosopherhas spoken about the reason humans control the world , and not chimpanzees or elephants . It is because we can operate with each other in thousands and millions and billions . <p> " All the networks were held together by information , " Harari added . <p> He said the first step toward addressing modern-day concerns about bad information networks and the threats of AI is to simply understand what 's happening , and then take responsibility . But , in today 's world , nobody wants to take responsibility . <p> " At one level , everyone wants to be a victim . Groups like to tell their story as a victim because it releases them of all responsibility . Country after country , even those who have all the power , are claiming to be powerless . " Harari said . <p> He elaborated how the fantasy self has become a fantasy to be completely independent , and that it can not work . " Because there is nothing in the universe that 's completely independent , " the author said , emphasising collaboration and global cooperation to ensure that AI does n't become a tool in the hands of just a few countries to dominate the world . <h> ' A misunderstood power ' <p> Harari cautioned how AI is taking over bureaucracy , but there is n't enough knowledge on how bureaucracy functions . <p> With Aamir Khan listening , Harari said the information on bureaucracy needs to come through mass infotainment platforms such as films . <p> " You get the same stories dominating popular information networks like films . For example , the theme of the love triangle . It talks to us because this is a story embedded in millions of years of evolution . But , we do n't have enough on how bureaucracy functions . I am talking about films that explain to us some part of reality . For example , if I want to understand the Indian budget , which film should I watch ? " Harari said . <p> He explained how AI is taking over bureaucratic functions such as deciding for a bank who is eligible for a loan , or in the military , where to shoot . <p> " In the Israel-Hamas war , AI was deciding which places to bomb in Gaza . The shooting is still done by human beings , but the decision on what to shoot is increasingly done by AI , " the philosophersaid . <p> In time , AI could replace human lawyers , accountants , and other bureaucratic professions . <p> " The power of bureaucracy is the most misunderstood power in the world . That 's why we need better stories about bureaucracy on how it functions , " Harari added . <p> Khan pointed to his 2010 film Peepli Live as an example . " It was a satire on how we are , but it handled bureaucracy to a large extent too , " he said .
