<h> What Elon Musk does n't get about military technology <h> Technology matters amongst military weapons only when they enjoy decisive edge over the existing weapons through a generational advantage . We , therefore , need to water down the enthusiasm over drones being a superior or transformative military technology to fighter jets . Drones , at best , will co-exist with other new generation weapons <h> We need to water down the enthusiasm over drones being a superior military technology to fighter jets . <p> Military weapons often become victims of ' technology trap ' . When technological innovations lead to new weapons , existing weapons are often ' declared ' as belonging to ' fossilised generation ' . <p> Elon Musk , Tesla Motors CEO and ' X ' owner , is the lead ' thinker-in-chief ' of this school . His assertion that ' drones offer more flexibility and safety in modern warfare compared to the American F-35 fighter jets ' is , however , debatable . Few military innovations from previous wars have succeeded in perpetuating their monopoly unopposed . The drones versus fighter jets tussle , instead , should be contextualised within the wider debate over competing weapon systems versus their co-existence in modern warfare . <p> Musk is probably right when he says that the F-35 fighter jets suffer from high costs . However , this is partly because the designs have undergone many changes . These are early decades of F-35 **28;1154;TOOLONG and the new jets are yet to reach ' economy of scale ' . Musk 's assertion that the F-35 jets also have a ' flawed design and do not meet modern day operational requirements ' is not backed by significant statistical evidence . On the contrary , Israel has amply demonstrated the effective use of F-35 in its ongoing war against Hamas in Gaza and the air strikes over Iran . Contrary to Musk 's claims of being obsolete and outdated , the F-35 jets are still one of the best in the fifth generation fighter series and buyer countries are eager to stock it up in their fighting squadrons . <p> Musk would like us to believe , as he has been propagating in last few years , that we have actually entered the ' age of drones ' . Apparently , they offer more flexibility and safety in modern warfare , unlike the F-35 jets that apparently ' kill pilots ' . They also come with different innovative variants . Future warfare , Musk believes , would be between competing ' swarms of drones ' . However , contemporary warfare practices amply show that drones are not ' genius weapons ' and do not provide battlefield edge in any way . <p> Within the air warfare domain , we have missiles of different range that are equally safe . Drones do not match the Mach speed of the fighter jets and can become floating ducks due to slow speed and absence of defensive capabilities . The computer-aided piloting have aerial limitations and drones are actually ' horseless carriages ' over long distances . Incidentally , the US , despite boasting of the largest drone force , could not use them effectively in any of its wars , be it Afghanistan or elsewhere . <p> From a political economy perspective , drones may be cheaper to produce . Probably , that also speaks why it has become increasingly available to many states and even non-state actors as well . In the process , the intrinsic value of drones as an effective military tool stands diluted . <p> Technology matters amongst military weapons only when they enjoy decisive edge over the existing weapons through a generational advantage . We did have certain instances of ' leapfrog technology ' that changed the warfare scenario in the twentieth century , such as innovation of submarines , tanks and fighter jets . These were effective war-machines since their innovation also led to global diffusion and proliferation amongst all militaries . Collectively , they changed the conduct of war by mid-twentieth century . <p> We are still not factoring the invention of nuclear weapons even though they singlehandedly stopped changed Japan 's position during World War II . Japan immediately surrendered since it had no alternate to the powerful military innovation . <p> Drones , on the other hand , made a very low-level , graduated entry into the world of military weapons in 1970s . Despite a long existential history , they are yet to significantly alter any war outcome on their own . We are yet to hear any eureka moment or phenomenal war achievements about drone usage . It only establishes that they do not have demonstrative military capabilities . <p> Drones are not the first challenger to the fighter jets ' domination . When the missile systems came into existence , they were similarly touted as ' future weapons ' , replacing the fighter jets . Like drones , they also had this benefit of saving the pilots from being killed or preventing large number of armed forces people from active soldering ( tail support ) . That did not happen since missiles did not offer any generational advantage over fighter jets , despite weaponisation in different variants and ranges . Additionally , fighter jets improved from one generation to another . Today , missiles compete and co-exist with fighter jets in all countries that boast of significant military power . <p> Defence strategies comprise a mix of weaponry <p> Contemporary national defence strategies are , therefore , not based on exclusivity of one set of weapons vis- ? -vis another set of weapons . Within the domain of air warfare , the defence or offence strategies are based on a mix of fighter jets , missiles of different range and anti-missile defence system . Interestingly , the US National Defence Strategy of October 2022 , while emphasising on integrated defence , does not talk of drones at all in its force planning whereas missiles of different ranges figures prominently . Drones do figure in Chinese national defence strategy and China remains one of the largest exporters of drones to many countries . But even Chinese accord a greater significance to missiles and fighter jets in their offensive strategy . Drones , in fact , figure quite low in all national security discourses and defence strategies . They are not ' silver bullets ' , but just another platform , making the war business cheaper . <p> Modern warfare is increasingly getting complex and uncertain . Only countries having technological wherewithal would compete . Military powers , would , therefore , need technological warhorses like fighter jets and other competing weapons as well . We , therefore , need to water down or dilute the enthusiasm over drones being a superior or transformative military technology to fighter jets and its consequential emergence as the sin qua non of future warfare . The hype and hoopla over drones are hyper-inflated . Drones , at best , will co-exist with other new generation weapons and are unlikely to emerge as the centerpiece of national defence strategies . Musk would soon realise this after actually getting into the business of governance and defence . <p> Invite your friends and family to sign up for MC Tech 3 , our daily newsletter that breaks down the biggest tech and startup stories of the day <p> Advisory Alert:It has come to our attention that certain individuals are representing themselves as affiliates of Moneycontrol and soliciting funds on the false promise of assured returns on their investments . We wish to reiterate that Moneycontrol does not solicit funds from investors and neither does it promise any assured returns . In case you are approached by anyone making such claims , please write to us at **25;1184;TOOLONG or call on 02268882347
