<h> As Trump 2.0 's presidency nears , India anticipates increased Indo-Pacific and West Asia cooperation with the US . Quad and Abraham Accords revitalisation are likely , alongside addressing South Asian challenges . India seeks US sensitivity to its regional concerns , mirroring its support for US interests during past crises . <p> Quoting Vivekamunand <h> Ashok Malik <p> The author is partner , The Asia Group , and chair of its India practice <p> With just over a month to go before Trump 2.0 takes office in Washington , the rest of the world is reorganising itself and moving pieces in anticipation . How is India responding ? An assessment of Trump 's nominations for various senior positions indicates relatively greater push and potential for domestic disruption than in foreign policy . This is said advisedly , and with due caveats . After all , unpredictability and volatility are essential advertisements for Trump . <p> Nevertheless , for both secretary of state and NSA , he has named seasoned politicians rather than social media ideologues . This is as close as Trump has got to working with establishment figures . It could suggest more strategic continuity than predicted , especially in the Indo-Pacific , and in the context of Great Power competition . <p> New Delhi will look to this with cautious , if initial satisfaction . As Trump 's priorities , and the geopolitical landscape , have unfolded in recent weeks , there is hope for accretion in India-US cooperation in two crucial regions - Indo-Pacific and West Asia . There is also the challenge of a reset and a greater harmonisation in India 's priority South Asian geographies . <p> Continued alignment in Indo-Pacific is the easiest to predict . If there is anything that unifies politicians and stakeholders across and within party divides in Washington , it 's the sense of a longer-term contest with China . Granular differences should not be discounted . For instance , there is ambiguity - even divergence - on specifics about the defence of Taiwan . Even so , the region 's salience in any foreign policy calculations is apparent . Such thinking could crystallise early in the Trump term , as the US hosts Quad foreign ministers , and then India hosts the summit . <p> Trump is not a Quad sceptic . He recognises its value as a signal to China and as an example to European allies . Indeed , Quad graduated to ministerial status in the earlier Trump presidency , with foreign minister-level meetings in New York in 2019 and Tokyo in 2020 , at the height of Chinese belligerence in Ladakh . <p> A Trump 1.0 theme was getting US allies to resource their security and acknowledge the feasible limits - fiscal and political - of US expeditionary commitments . In Europe , he urged countries to spend at least 2% of GDP on defence , a demand now certain to rise another percentage point or two . <p> Here , Quad countries offer a showpiece for Trump . India takes responsibility for its defence , and is staring down China on its own . Japan , on Trump 's nudging , has enhanced its military budget , though he will surely ask for more . With Australia , for all the noise , it is unlikely Trump will walk away from AUKUS . Again , he will demand a higher price . <p> Will Trump appreciate the wider argument that building capabilities and manufacturing capacities in trusted Indo-Pacific countries is a net gain because it ultimately provides alternatives to outsize demands on American soldiers and supply chains ? The Biden team understood this . Given the sophisticated individuals involved , there is no reason Trump 's foreign policy lieutenants ca n't be persuaded . <p> West Asia offers a second window for convergence . Oct 7 , 2023 , day of the Hamas terror attacks on Israel , has proven to be a ' Sarajevo moment ' with entirely unexpected twists , consequences and spin-offs . What began as a conflict in Gaza has metamorphosed beyond measure . It has prised precious strategic and geographical space from Iran , especially in Lebanon . A knock-on effect has now been felt in Syria , where Turkish influence is at its highest since WW1 . <p> Whether the debilitation of Iran will tempt Israel and the US to move still further against Teheran is an open question . This will be an early call for the Trump presidency . Either way , there is greater scope today for revisiting the Abraham Accords - a Trump 1.0 initiative - and re-energising their derivatives such as I2U2 and the India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor ( IMEC ) . <p> Both Trump and Narendra Modi are alive to the opportunities . In the near future , the US could find it useful to lean on Indian diplomacy in West Asia . <p> Finally , there are irritants in India 's immediate neighbourhood . That New Delhi and Washington have not seen eye to eye on Bangladesh is well known . Yet , this is not unique . At various stages , there has been awkwardness on Sri Lanka , the Maldives and , in Trump 's earlier presidency , Afghanistan . Rather than consider each episode separately , an aggregated appreciation is warranted . Close partners might not always agree , but they need to be sensitive to each other 's most deep-seated concerns , vulnerabilities , and surroundings . <p> Consider an example . At the height of the Covid-19 crisis , a specific South American nation faced a crippling vaccine shortage . China offered support , but only if the country cut off diplomatic relations with Taiwan . For logistical reasons , the US was not in position to help stave off such blackmail . It conveyed a request to India . <p> New Delhi sent Covaxin supplies to the country concerned . It understood Washington 's sensitivities about its backyard ( the Americas ) . It stood by a friend attempting to overcome a coercive and adversarial diplomatic situation . <p> That is what close partners expect from each other . That is the strategic conversation India expects from the US in Bangladesh , South Asia and Indian Ocean Region . A Trump presidency must cut to the chase . <p> ( Disclaimer : The opinions expressed in this column are that of the writer . The facts and opinions expressed here do not reflect the views of www.economictimes.com. )
