<p> The Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) group began its lightning offensive two weeks ago , capturing the key cities of Aleppo , Homs , Hama before proceeding to Damascus unopposed and seizing control of the Syrian capital on Sunday . Government forces loyal to Assad were forced to retreat as rebels captured control of key cities one by one , in a move that challenged the Assad family 's nearly six decades of autocratic rule . <h> LATEST UPDATES ON SYRIA 'S SITUATION <p> Rebels freed hundreds of prisoners who were locked up for decades during Assad 's rule . Inmates reunited with their families in emotional moments and held up their fingers to gesture how many years they had spent in prison . <p> Amid the celebratory moments , some men ransacked shops and walked away with essentials before rebels declared a curfew . Posters , banners and statues of Assad and his family were toppled and defaced in various parts of Syria , signifying the sudden end of their iron-fist rule . <p> Top rebel commander Abu Mohammed al-Golani , whose HTS was once Syria 's branch of al-Qaeda but has softened its image over the years , celebrated Assad 's fall and said a " new history was being written " after a " great victory " . <p> Speaking to thousands of people at the medieval Umayyad Mosque in central Damascus , al-Golani said , " How many people were displaced across the world ? How many people lived in tents ? How many drowned in the seas ? " He made the remarks in reference to thousands of Syrian refugees who died trying to reach Europe during the civil war . <p> Mohammad Ghazi al-Jalali , Syria 's Prime Minister under Assad , batted for free elections and said he was in contact with Golani to discuss the transfer of power to a transitional governing body . Syria had been ruled by the Assad family for over five decades , with Assad taking power in 2000 following the death of his father , Hafez Assad . <p> A Kremlin source said that Assad was in Moscow and Russia had granted and his family asylum on " humanitarian grounds " , according to Russian media . Earlier , there was speculation that Assad died in a plane crash after his flight took off from Damascus and disappeared from the radar soon after . Moscow had confirmed that Assad had left Syria but did not say where he was going . <p> advertisement <p> Since the civil war erupted in 2011 as an uprising against Assad , his forces and their Russian allies had bombed cities to rubble . Even after the rise of the Islamic State , which once controlled large swathes of Syria , Assad remained in control and his forces retook the cities and most territory from the terror group 's control . <p> But , with Russia bogged down in its war with Ukraine and Iran 's allies ' blows from Israel - Hamas and Hezbollah - in Gaza and Lebanon , there was little support for Assad . It was evident from the rebels ' lightning offensive , which captured cities easily without any resistance . <p> US President Joe Biden reacted to the Syria crisis and said the " brutal " Assad regime had fallen , but warned that Islamic State would try to take advantage of the political vacuum to re-establish its dominance in Syria . He said the US would play a role in ensuring stability and protecting its personnel against any threats . <p> The US Central Command said its forces conducted dozens of airstrikes on Islamic State targets in central Syria on Sunday . It said the strikes were aimed at preventing a resurgence of the Islamic State in the war-torn country .
