<h> The fall of Assad and the battle for Syria 's future : Regional and global ramifications <h> Published on Dec 09 , 2024 <p> The collapse of Assad 's Syrian government and the broader shift in the Middle East is going to have a rupturing effect if the regional problems do not find regional solutions <p> The Syrian civil war , in hibernation for many years , has come back with gusto as the long-standing government of Bashar al-Assad collapsed in an undramatic fashion . This ended the 60-year reign of the Assad family and the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party which took power following the 1963 military coup . A coalition of rebel militias , spearheaded by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) -- an offshoot of Al Qaeda , led by 42-year-old Abu Mohammed al-Jolani , remains at the forefront of governing the current juggernaut . The country 's armed forces have seemingly disintegrated , capitulated , or simply switched sides . <p> HTS has , ironically , conducted a shock-and-awe offensive of its own . The Syrian crisis has been rankled loose by regional instability over the past year , starting with the terror attack by Hamas against Israel in October 2023 and the subsequent geopolitical consequences in Gaza , Yemen , Lebanon , and Iran . The Syrian war never really went away , it was brushed under the carpet , managed , and even forgotten . Regionally , however , it has always been a potpourri of tussles between local groups and foreign powers , particularly between the Arab states , T ? rkiye , Iran , Israel , the United States ( US ) , and Russia . <p> In essence , the conflict from 2011 onwards can be contextualised through three main strategic views : domestic , regional , and international . <h> Domestic <p> HTS and its figurehead Jolani have been taking on Assad 's forces in a gambit of cities across Syria over the past few weeks . In the past years , HTS produced a quasi-state with its own governance structure , taxation and revenue system , and healthcare . HTS is , of course , not the first group to fine-tune this model . Al-Shabaab in Somalia has mobilised similar strategies for some time now . The Taliban in Afghanistan has continued to do so since 2021 as the only formal political power in the country . Furthermore , Jolani himself has also stated that he has no interest in furthering sectarian or ethnic fault lines while simultaneously hinting towards the establishment of an ' Islamic government ' . He has advised his followers not to damage surviving public institutions ( hospitals , healthcare , and police , among others ) . <p> The future of Syria 's political order is up in the air . The country 's dire economic situation has been pushed further into an abyss . If the HTS stakes claim , Jolani could be well on his way to becoming the next theocrat , opening a new chapter of uncertainty to a region that is already ablaze . <p> However , the HTS and various other rebel militias , including the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) lead euphoric scenes on the streets of Syrian cities , highlighting the mounting pressure against the former state 's regressive system . Reports of the army 's widespread abandonment of military positions sheds light on the tactical , strategic , and moral depletion of the security architecture which the Russians were supposed to help rebuild . On the other hand , the HTS was much better prepared , using military academies , hybrid weapons , and formalised command and control structures , built with the help of former generals and commanders who previously worked under Assad . <p> The future of Syria 's political order is up in the air . The country 's dire economic situation has been pushed further into an abyss . If the HTS stakes claim , Jolani could be well on his way to becoming the next theocrat , opening a new chapter of uncertainty to a region that is already ablaze . The Syrian Prime Minister Mohammad Ghazi al-Jalali 's call to have free and fair elections , while also facing the reality of having to hand over the city 's keys to Jolani could fracture internal views on how the country should proceed . While Jolani is unlikely to agree , if others such as the SDF give the idea of elections momentum , it could be seen as an opening by both regional and Western powers to influence impending outcomes . <h> Regional <p> Since the civil war started , Iran has played a critical role in making sure that Damascus remains close to Tehran . Over the years , Syria became ground zero for Iran-backed proxies while acting as a weapons trade route to arm Hezbollah in Lebanon . The former Iranian military general , Qasem Soleimani , who was assassinated in Baghdad by a US drone strike in 2020 , was widely known to be the chief architect of this setup . <p> Assad himself was unpopular amongst most of the neighbouring countries . While his subservience to Iran ( and Russia ) in return for a retention of power was seen as problematic , a slow return to the Arab fold had been underway since 2023 . In November 2011 , Syria was suspended from the Arab League for being unable and unwilling to stop violence against protesters . For Arab states , support for the anti-Assad movement in its initial years became unavoidable as the country 's Sunni Arab majority resisted the decades-long rule by the Assad family , which belonged to the Alawite minority -- an ethno-religious group practising a branch of Shia Islam . <p> Now , with Assad seemingly destined for the annals of history , Jolani presents a big challenge . In his speeches , the HTS leader has said that he wants to put an end to Iran and Russia 's interventions . <p> Now , with Assad seemingly destined for the annals of history , Jolani presents a big challenge . In his speeches , the HTS leader has said that he wants to put an end to Iran and Russia 's interventions . While all these overtures are strategically palatable to Arab capitals and Israel alike , his ideological opposition to what they have sided with remains a core challenge . Arab powers such as the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) and Saudi Arabia have actively undermined the Muslim Brotherhood and its ecosystems across the Middle East , while Israel continues its fight against Hamas , which emerged from the Sheikh Ahmed Yassin-led Mujama al-Islamiya , a charity affiliated with the Brotherhood working in the West Bank and Gaza . In the long term , Jolani 's candidature as the head of Syria will be an uncomfortable reality for almost everyone , albeit for diverse reasons . <p> Nevertheless , regional management via power rivalries is already underway . Russia , T ? rkiye , and Iran recently met in Qatar to discuss the developments in Syria where all three states have overlapping interests through various groups . Ankara , for example , has supported and honed the Syrian National Army , a coalition of anti-Assad organisations . Previously , Israel and Russia maintained a line of communication over the former 's airstrikes inside Syria targeting Iran-backed proxies . With a minefield of groups and interests at play , mistakes by anyone could have consequences for many . <h> Global <p> If Syria does come under HTS rule , it will be the second state after Afghanistan to have had a successful militant takeover , an indictment of the two-decade-long ' War on Terror ' . Jolani , much like Sirajuddin Haqqani , the Taliban interim government 's Interior Minister in Kabul , continues to have a US$10 million bounty on his head by the United States ( US ) . Both have appeared on Western media off late , giving interviews as individuals in positions of power . <p> If Syria does come under HTS rule , it will be the second state after Afghanistan to have had a successful militant takeover , an indictment of the two-decade-long ' War on Terror ' <p> The impact that the Taliban 's victory in Afghanistan has had on Islamist groups can not be understated . In 2021 , HTS-held territories such as Idlib congratulated the Taliban through prayers aired across the geography on loudspeakers from mosques . During the same period , HTS ideologue Abd al-Rahim ' Atun gave a lecture on " the Taliban as a model " . Their victory was seen as an aspirational blueprint for others . If the US can be defeated , then the likes of Assad can certainly be removed . The Taliban itself has congratulated the HTS and offered guidance on the path forward . <p> Russia and Iran 's role in Assad 's survivability , can not be understated . In 2015 , Damascus invited Moscow to intervene in the country 's battle with the so-called Islamic State ( also known as the Islamic State of Iraq and ash-Sham ( ISIS ) or Daesh in Arabic ) . Though Moscow 's support was existential , it arguably has changed since the war in Ukraine , where Russian military and economic capacities have been bogged down . While Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that Syria can not be allowed to fall into the hands of terror groups , he offered little to no practical support to Assad , much like Iran . That said , Russia 's intervention could still have a second play , as it would look to maintain its air and naval bases in the country 's Tartus and Latakia governorates -- Moscow 's only remaining tactical presence in both the Middle East and the Mediterranean . <p> Beyond the above-mentioned intricacies , a Jolani-led Syria would be one more blow to global counter-terrorist ambitions . With Somalia , Afghanistan , Yemen , and now potentially Syria as success stories , Islamist militant groups , specifically in the African Sahel , might feel emboldened to try and take over the slew of fragile states in West Africa . All these realities stand tall as the consequence of both global security failures and symptoms of American recidivism from actively playing the role of global policeman . The latter is further highlighted by incoming president Donald Trump 's statement saying that the US should not intervene . <h> Conclusion <p> Whether it is Syria , Yemen , or the crisis in Gaza and Lebanon , the envisioned ' new ' Middle East is at odds with the ' old ' . The current events are not sudden , but a symptom of the past decade , with an undercurrent of the Arab Spring era . Beyond the country 's own fate , a churn in both regional and international geopolitics is going to have a rupturing effect if the regional problems do not find regional solutions . The potential nuclearisation of the Middle East also remains an international worry . What happens in Syria going forward will have an impact much beyond the region , as its new political reality unfolds in the coming months . <p> Kabir Taneja is Deputy Director of the Strategic Studies programme at the Observer Research Foundation
