<p> Turkiye 's strongman Recep Tayyip Erdogan had backed the various factions of Sunni rebels ranged against the minority Alawite dynasty . Alawites are a sect of Shias and Erdogan sees himself as one of the most prominent leaders of Sunni Islam , challenging Saudi Arabia 's dominant position . <p> The collapse of the Bashar-al Assad regime in Syria was unexpected ; more so as Assad appeared to have Syria in control except for the area near the border with Turkiye , and was now acceptable to the Arab leaders who had once treated him like a pariah . Yet , the end came swiftly with the Syrian army offering no resistance . The end of the Assad dynasty 's rule has changed the power equation in West Asia . There has been a dramatic reshuffle on the chess board of the region . The Russia-Syria-Iran axis has been broken . Supporters of the Sunni rebels , Turkiye , Saudi Arabia , Qatar , UAE and other Gulf-Arab states will now be calling the shots . The US and its European allies are delighted because Bashar al Assad , with his close ties to Iran and Russia was the enemy on the ground . <p> The Assad regime , despite its many faults , was largely secular and did not discriminate on the basis of religion . On a visit to Syria just before the civil war began , a nun in a convent-seminary on the outskirts of Damascus was terrified at the prospect of the Sunni rebels taking over the country . There were widespread rumours that Idlib and other areas adjoining Turkiye were under the control of rebel forces . " It will be only a matter of time before they enter Damascus and take over the country , ' ' said Agastha , a Catholic nun . " We will probably all be shot dead as kafirs , ' ' she predicted . This was before 2011 , when the fighting really started and the civil war was in full force . She was also surprised that the " Christian nations like the US and Europeans do not understand our plight and the threat to our church . ' ' Sister Agastha was unaware of geo-politics and strategic interests of nations that made for strange bedfellows . <h> Peaceful takeover of Damascus <p> So far , the main rebel group led by Abu Mohammad al-Jolani , the leader of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , has acted responsibly . He has instructed his fighters not to shoot at civilians , ensure that public property is not damaged and assured minority Christians , Alawites , and Druze that they will not be harmed . However , considering that the rebel fighters are made up of diverse groups with different ideologies , the fear that radical elements will take control is always there . European leaders are aware of this . German foreign minister Annalena Baerbock warned that " the country must not now fall into the hands of other radicals " . France has also said as much . Meanwhile , the US has begun air strikes across Syria from late Sunday in an effort to get at " the ISIS leaders , operatives and camps ' ' , the US Central Command said in a statement . It also warned CENTCOM , together with allies and partners in the region , will continue to carry out operations to degrade " ISIS 's capabilities even during what CENTCOM called " this dynamic period in Syria . " The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria is a dreaded terror group that carried out the most brutal killings and terrorized European capitals . It was at its most powerful during 2015 when it held territory in both Iraq and Syria . By 2017 , it lost ground ; today it operates in certain pockets in Syria . <p> The US is hoping to neutralise the ISIS and ensure it does not emerge again as the transition process begins in Syria . Israel also bombarded certain areas in Syria to destroy remnants of the regime 's chemical factories . <p> The big winner here is Turkey 's strongman Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who had backed the various factions of Sunni rebels ranged against the minority Alawite dynasty . Alawites are a sect of Shias and Erdogan sees himself as one of the most prominent leaders of Sunni Islam , challenging Saudi Arabia 's dominant position . As the keepers of Mecca and Medina , the two holiest shrines of Sunni Islam , Saudi Arabia enjoys a special status among Sunni Muslims . However , despite their rivalry Turkiye , Saudi Arabia , the UAE as well as other Arab sheikdoms were together in their support for the rebel factions . <p> Erdogan has been fighting not just the Asad regime but the Kurds in both his own country and in Syria . He is now in a commanding position as his years of support for the Sunni rebels will give him considerable leverage with the new government , whenever it takes control in Damascus . Syrian Kurds are concentrated in the north-eastern part of the country that borders Turkiye and Iraq . Erdogan has been fighting Kurds in his own country and regards Syrian Kurds too with a great deal of suspicion . The US has backed Syrian Kurds , who , thanks to the civil war and the weakness of the Asad regime , were able to enjoy a certain degree of autonomy . This could be threatened by the next government in Damascus and lead to confrontation between the US and Turkiye . The US has military bases in the Kurdish area of Syria . <p> Erdogan has been fighting the Kurdistan Workers Party or the PKK , in his own country . The PKK has long waged an insurgency for greater political and cultural rights in Turkiye . <p> Besides Turkiye , other winners are the US and the West . Asad was backed to the hilt by Russia and his regime would have collapsed much earlier without Russian troops on the ground . President Vladimir Putin 's involvement in Syria gave him a foothold in West Asia and helped Russia to pull far above its weight in the region . Assad had allowed Moscow a naval base in Tartous and an air base in Latakia . Tartous is a large port city in Syria , second only to Latakia . The naval base gave Russia a strategic presence in the region while the airbase had made it easy for Russia to enhance its strike capability . The new government whenever the power transition is done is unlikely to allow Moscow these privileges . <p> With Russian troops busy in the Ukraine front , there was no help forthcoming from Putin . Washington will be delighted by the fact that Russia 's influence in Syria and the region is now vastly diluted . Many in the West are crediting Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's war in Gaza and Lebanon and its face-off-with Iran as the main reason for the collapse of the Asad government . Israeli has broken the back of Hezbollah , killed its leader and decimated its command structure . It is no longer in a position to bolster Asad 's army . The Syrian army collapsed like a house of cards without the help of Russia and Hezbollah to bolster its defences . Despite the bombings regularly carried out by Israel on Syrian targets , Israel had working relations with Asad . Even when the Iranian mission in Damascus was bombed by Israel , Syrian response was muted . <h> Iran is a major loser <p> The fall of Asad is a major blow to Iran and has further eroded its position in the region . The Shia crescent that stretched from Iran to pockets in Iraq , down to Syria and Lebanon has collapsed . Getting any of its earlier proxies reorganized and ready would not be easy . Iran is in all sorts of trouble with an emboldened Israeli Prime Minister ready to take further risks . Netanyahu could well aim at striking Iran 's nuclear facilities , considering it destroyed much of the country 's air defence in its retaliatory raid on Iran in October this year . <h> India <p> India has always had cordial relations with Syria and the Assad dynasty . It had consistently sided with India on Kashmir , at a time when most Arab countries solidly backed Pakistan . Again , during the government 's scrapping of article 370 in 2019 , Damascus said it was India 's internal matter . In 2008 , Bashar al-Assad 's visit to India led to signing of agreements in agriculture and IT , underscoring the strong economic ties between the two countries . Foreign Office Consultations between India and Syria were held in Delhi on November 29 . At the end of the talks , the MEA in its statement said : Both sides also discussed avenues to deepen the bilateral relationship with a special focus on areas like pharmaceuticals , developmental partnership and capacity building . The two sides also exchanged perspectives on important regional and global issues of mutual interest . ' ' All this will for the moment be in limbo . <p> Like other countries , New Delhi is watching developments there . However Indian investments in . " We are monitoring the situation in Syria in the light of on-going developments . We underline the need for all parties to work towards preserving the unity , sovereignty and territorial integrity of Syria . We advocate a peaceful and inclusive Syrian-led political process respecting the interests and aspirations of all sections of Syrian society . Our Embassy in Damascus is in contact with the Indian community , for their safety and security ' ' the MEA said in a statement on Sunday .
