<h> Challenges in Gaza , Lebanon , Syria : Jaishankar <h> Says India has to be realistic about competing interests in the region . <p> The minister also weighed in on the " relationship or absence of it between Israel and Iran " , which he said , has been a source of concern and some of India 's diplomatic efforts are focused on that aspect . <p> Pointing to the multiple ongoing conflicts in West Asia , the latest being the escalating situation in Syria where rebels are claiming to have overthrown the Bashar al-Assad regime , External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Sunday said there were " challenges from Gaza to Lebanon to Syria " , and that India has to be realistic about competing interests in the region . <p> Jaishankar was speaking at the Manama Dialogue in Bahrain . The theme of the 20th edition of the event was ' Middle East leadership in shaping regional prosperity and security ' . <p> " What we do in my business is essentially try to address the challenges of the day as collectively and as effectively as possible . And this today would extend from Gaza to Lebanon and now to Syria as well . But at the same time , we have to be realistic about competing interests in this region , " he said . " One of the interesting evolutions of the world today is actually on different issues , sometimes in the same region , you have a different combination of countries that are working together , " he added . <p> The minister also weighed in on the " relationship or absence of it between Israel and Iran " , which he said , has been a source of concern and some of India 's diplomatic efforts are focused on that aspect . <p> " We are one country that has the ability to speak to both Israel and Iran . That is one communication link , which is weak . We are not the only communication link . We are serving an important cause ; at the right moment , right people get what the intended message is , " he said . In October , Iran fired around 200 missiles into Israel in response to Israel 's killing of Hezbollah chief Hassan Nasrallah and other commanders of the militant outfit . Israel subsequently retaliated against the Iranian strikes . <p> On the attacks on commercial ships in the Red Sea ( by Houthi militants ) , Jaishankar said India has an interest in trying to mitigate the security situation . " So when we look at the diversion of maritime routes and the insurance costs , and the shipping costs and the container costs and the delay that it has imposed , obviously , you know , India , but not just India , we have an interest in trying to mitigate that situation , " he added . <p> He also highlighted India 's sustained economic growth and the West Asian region 's place in that matrix . " India is today almost a $4 trillion economy , ( and ) we expect to comfortably double that this decade . Our trade is today around $800 billion ; that too should at least double this decade , " he said . <p> Advertisement <p> " So I again can not overstate the stakes that we have because this region is the immediate for us the world beyond our borders that immediately awaits us , " he said . <p> Divya A reports on travel , tourism , culture and social issues - not necessarily in that order - for The Indian Express . She 's been a journalist for over a decade now , working with Khaleej Times and The Times of India , before settling down at Express . Besides writing/ editing news reports , she indulges her pen to write short stories . As Sanskriti Prabha Dutt Fellow for Excellence in Journalism , she is researching on the lives of the children of sex workers in India . ... Read More
