<h> As Syria falls to Turkish-backed rebels , and Moscow and Tehran take powerful blows to their interests in the region , the biggest winner of the war could be Recep Tayyip Erdogan . Here 's why <p> Rebel commander Abu Mohammad al-Jolani speaks at the Umayyad mosque in Damascus on December 8 . ( Reuters ) <p> After more than a half century , an Assad -- Hafez or Bashar -- is not ruling Syria . Rebel fighters spearheaded by Hayat Tahrir al Shaam ( HTS ) reached Damascus on Sunday , forcing President Bashar al-Assad to flee to Russia with his family . <p> Even in the Middle East 's great ongoing tumult , the shift in Syria is seismic . <p> Just over a year and a half ago , Assad was viewed globally as the predominant power in his fractured country . True , the HTS-led opposition lunged at the window of opportunity that opened as Assad 's allies Russia and Iran found themselves under pressure -- still , how did the regime that had survived for five decades collapse in less than two weeks ? <p> On December 5 , as Hama fell after Aleppo , Assad announced a 50% salary hike for serving soldiers to counter the HTS ' call for them ( including Assad 's own Alawite ethnoreligious group ) to defect . It was symbolic of the desperation that Assad felt , and revealed the structural and financial weaknesses of his Syrian Arab Army ( SAA ) . <p> The SAA has been infamous both for its brutality -- images and videos are emerging from the now-liberated Sednaya Prison in which the regime kept political dissidents , including children -- and for extracting informal taxes from Syrians to compensate for their low official pay . The financial dire straits of the army reflected the state of the Syrian economy itself -- before the fall of the Assad regime , 1 United States dollar was equivalent to about 13,000 Syrian pounds . <p> The stagnation of the conflict over the last five years , with a Russia-Turkey d ? tente towards the end of the earlier phase of the war preventing the SAA from attacking Idlib , was perceived and celebrated as a victory by Damascus -- which left the army underprepared for any eventual counteroffensive . <p> Advertisement <p> More importantly , the SAA in 2024 continued to rely as much on Russia and Iran as it did in 2015 -- even though Assad 's relationship with these countries has been under strain , and Moscow has been stretched in Europe and Iran put under pressure in Lebanon . <p> Where was Iran as the regime collapsed ? <p> There have long existed significant divisions in Iran over Assad , which contributed to stymieing potentially useful Iranian assistance . Presumptions of victory in the Syrian war gave Assad the confidence to resist overbearing Iranian influence over decision-making in Damascus ( as it happened in Iraq ) . <p> In 2020 , as Iran railed against the US-brokered Abraham Accords , Assad said in TV interviews that he would not be opposed to conditional normalisation of ties with Israel . Over the last year , he has remained indifferent to Israel 's campaign in Gaza and Lebanon , content to prevent the disputed Golan Heights from developing into a fresh theatre of war . The indifference continued as Iran 's so-called " axis of resistance " -- Hezbollah in Lebanon , the Houthis in Yemen , and Hamas in Gaza -- took debilitating hits from Israel . <p> Differences on the ground between Iran 's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ( IRGC ) and the SAA , and the schisms in Iran between the pro-Assad IRGC hardliners and the more pragmatic camp of President Masoud Pezeshkian , delayed any significant action long enough for the rebels to cut off the link city of Homs from Damascus -- which in any case made the movement of Iranian aid greatly more difficult . <p> Advertisement <p> Perhaps the best reflection of Assad 's modified position in the Iranian axis was seen in his last hours of desperation , when he reached out to Washington to secure a deal -- President-elect Donald Trump gruffly shot down the idea on X. <p> What about Russia -- and Turkey ? <p> The Russian air action on Aleppo and the highway to Homs ceased by December 3 , with Moscow focusing on mitigating any immediate threats to its bases in Latakia and Tartus . <p> While Russian constraints in Ukraine are obvious , note that Russia 's earlier d ? tente with Turkey now has the context of the dangling Damocles sword over the Bosphorus Strait , which is essential for Russian warships to link up with the Black Sea fleet . <p> Turkey , on the other hand , has little to lose by cooperating with both Russia and other Arab/ Gulf states to promote stability in Syria now that Assad has fallen and the Syrian National Army ( SNA ) , the Turkish-backed armed group , can attack the Kurds in northern and western Syria more freely in the future . <p> Advertisement <p> On December 7 , Turkey joined its Arab and Iranian partners from the Astana Process , the formal Syrian peace process hosted by Kazakhstan , in calling for a political solution in Syria that ends military operations , an increase in humanitarian aid , and the implementation of UNSC Resolution 2254 ( which laid out the process of democratic transition in Syria in 2015 ) . The statement neither condemned the rebels nor expressed concern over Assad 's precarious position . Tehran and Moscow too , signed the statement . <p> Turkey 's rivalry with Syria is old and deep , going back to Syrian nationalist opposition to the Ottoman Empire . The large presence of Kurdish groups in Syria are an additional irritant . In 2004 , Assad became the first Syrian leader to visit Ankara -- but it was merely a brief geopolitical alignment due to shared anxieties over the US invasion of Iraq in 2003 . <p> When the Syrian civil war began , Ankara rushed to bolster the armed opposition to Assad , established its own military presence in Northern Syria , negotiated a freeze in the conflict with Russia , and eventually propelled the HTS/ SNA to the new reality unfolding in Damascus today -- all over the span of a decade . <p> Following Assad 's fall , Turkey has been quick to switch to the language of " inclusive governance " in Syria -- positioning itself as an enabler of stability , and projecting the rebel takeover of Damascus as a natural and inevitable outcome after a years-long struggle . <p> What could the rule of the HTS look like ? <p> Advertisement <p> HTS emir Abu Mohammad al-Jolani has worked for long , with more than just the blessings of Turkey and the US , to unify the Syrian opposition just enough to coordinate their offensives and unseat Assad . <p> Jolani 's actions since then reflect a broader trend in Islamist Sunni political jihad . By appointing Mohammad al-Bashir to the head of the " transitional " government , the HTS has sought to follow the example of Abdul Hakim bil Hajj 's Libya Islamic Fighting Group , rebranding itself as a regional , pragmatist , almost nationalist force that presents itself as an ally of the West . <p> In behaviour mimicking the Taliban 's promises in Doha in 2020 , Jolani has personally reached out to neighbouring governments in Baghdad and Beirut , calling for good relations , even offering Syria 's services to the international community in identifying Assad 's chemical weapons remnants . ( The Taliban were quick to congratulate Syrians after Assad 's fall . ) <p> As thousands of Syrians return to their country , rejoicing in the demise of Assad 's tyranny , the jihadist shadow on HTS ' character lingers , notwithstanding Jolani 's personal overtures to the country 's minority groups , including Assad 's Alawite base . <p> Advertisement <p> And what of the myriad jihadist and separatist militias that united tactically to oppose a common opponent who is now gone ? Many of them have enduring intra-group differences -- the HTS , in its earlier avatar of the al-Qaeda affiliate Jabhat al-Nusra , fought some of the groups that are operating currently under the umbrella of the SNA . The principal question for the " transitional " administration is this : will it be able to force the disarmament , demobilisation , and reintegration ( DDR ) of the armed groups in Syria today ? <p> In the wider region , it is now evident that all actors in the Iranian " axis of resistance " , including Iran itself , are now prioritising their own security and stability . While the Houthis continue their attacks on Red Sea shipping , Tehran 's muscle in the Middle East has been weakened . However , with Turkey now emerging as a stronger pole , triggering both Arab and Persian anxieties , and Israel moving swiftly to re-militarise and occupy the Golan Heights after Assad 's fall , the geopolitical landscape in the Middle East has changed even more decisively than it did on October 7 , 2023 . <p> ( The author is a Research Associate at the Council for Strategic and Defense Research , New Delhi )
