<h> Analysis Collapse of Syria 's Assad is blow to Iran 's ' Axis of Resistance ' <p> PTI Updated : December 08 , 2024 22:34 IST <p> Manama , Dec 8 ( AP ) For Iran 's theocratic government , it keeps getting worse . Its decades-long strategy of building an " Axis of Resistance " supporting militant groups and proxies around the region is falling apart . First came the crushing Israeli campaign in Gaza triggered by the October 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel by Iranian-backed Hamas . That war spawned another in Lebanon , where Israel has mauled Iran 's most powerful ally , Hezbollah , even as Israel has launched successful airstrikes openly inside of Iran for the first time . And now Iran 's longtime stalwart ally and client in Syria , President Bashar Assad , is gone . As dawn broke Sunday , rebel forces completed a lightning offensive by seizing the ancient capital of Damascus and tearing down symbols of more than 50 years of Assad 's rule over the Mideast crossroads . Ali Akbar Velayati , a key adviser to Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , once called Assad and Syria " the golden ring of the resistance chain in the region . " " Without the Syrian government , this chain will break and the resistance against Israel and its supporters will be weakened . " That break in the chain is literal . Syria was an important geographical link that allowed Iran to move weapons and other supplies to Hezbollah in Lebanon . Its loss now further weakens Hezbollah , whose powerful arsenal in southern Lebanon had put Iranian influence directly on the border of its nemesis Israel . " Iran 's deterrence thinking is really shattered by events in Gaza , by events in Lebanon and definitely by developments in Syria , " a United Arab Emirates senior diplomat Anwar Gargash said at the International Institute for Strategic Studies ' Manama Dialogue in Bahrain . Iran still holds the card of its nuclear programme . Though it denies that intention , it can use the potential for building a weapons capability to cast a shadow of influence in the region . " Iran remains a critical regional player , " Gargash said . " We should use this moment to connect and speak about what 's next in my opinion . " <p> It 's a dramatic reversal in Iran 's regional might Only a few years ago , the Islamic Republic loomed ascendant across the wider Middle East . Its " Axis of Resistance " was at a zenith . Hezbollah in Lebanon stood up against Israel . Assad appeared to have weathered an Arab Spring uprising-turned-civil war . Iraqi insurgents killed US troops with Iranian-designed roadside bombs . Yemen 's Houthi rebels fought a Saudi-led coalition to a stalemate . Syria , at the crossroads , played a vital role . Early in Syria 's civil war , when it appeared Assad might be overthrown , Iran and its ally , Hezbollah , rushed fighters to support him -- in the name of defending Shiite shrines in Syria . Russia later joined with a scorched earth campaign of airstrikes . The campaign won back territory , even as Syria remained divided into zones of government and insurgent control . But the speed of Assad 's collapse the past week showed just how reliant he was on support from Iran and Russia -- which at the crucial moment did n't come . Russia remains mired years after launching a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022 . For Iran , international sanctions over its advancing nuclear programme have ground down its economy . For Israel , breaking Iran 's regional network has been a major goal , though it is wary over jihadi fighters among the insurgents who toppled Assad . Israel on Sunday moved troops into a demilitarised buffer zone with Syria by the Israel-held Golan Heights in what it called a temporary security measure . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called Assad 's fall a " historic day , " saying it was " the direct result of our forceful action against Hezbollah and Iran , Assad 's main supporters . " Iran 's theocratic rulers long touted their regional network to Iranians as a show of their country 's strength , and its crumbling could raise repercussions at home -- though there is no immediate sign of their hold weakening . Anger over the tens of billions of dollars Iran is believed to have spent propping up Assad was a rallying cry in rounds of nationwide anti-government protests that have broken out over recent years , most recently in 2022 . <p> Iran could respond by revving up its nuclear programme The loss of Syria does not mean the end of Iran 's ability to project power in the Mideast . The Houthi rebels continue to launch attacks on Israel and on ships moving through the Red Sea -- though the tempo of their attacks have again fallen without a clear explanation from their leadership . Iran also maintains its nuclear programme . While insisting it enriches uranium for peaceful purposes , Western intelligence agencies and the International Atomic Energy Agency say Iran had an organised nuclear weapons programme until 2003 . The head of the IAEA also warned Friday that Iran is poised to " quite dramatically " increase its stockpile of near weapons-grade uranium as it has started cascades of advanced centrifuges . " If Iran would develop nuclear weapons , that would be a great blow to the international nonproliferation regime , " said Thanos Dokos . Greece 's national security adviser , in Bahrain . There remains a risk of wider attacks in the region , particularly on oil infrastructure . An attack in 2019 initially claimed by the Houthis but later assessed by experts to have been carried out by Iran temporarily halved Saudi Arabia 's production of oil . " If , as a result of escalation , there are attacks against the energy infrastructure of Iran or Saudi Arabia , that would be bad news for the global oil supply , " Dokos warned . Whatever happens next , Iran will need to make the decision weighing the problems it faces at both home and abroad . " Whereas stability is a difficult commodity to export , instability can travel very fast , which is why stability in the Middle East is very important for all of us , " Dokos said . ( AP ) GSP <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
