<p> Manama , Dec 9 ( PTI ) External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday underlined new opportunities in space , education , FinTech and technology as he held talks with his Bahraini counterpart and exchanged views on recent developments in the region . Jaishankar , who arrived in Manama on Saturday on the final leg of his two-nation trip , co-chaired the 4th India-Bahrain High Joint Commission ( HJC ) with his Bahrain counterpart Abdullatif bin Rashid Al Zayani . " We see great potential in many new areas like space , education , FinTech , and science &amp; technology . I would like to take the opportunity to publicly affirm the priority that we attach to developing our cooperation with Bahrain , " Jaishankar said in his opening remarks . Noting " significant progress " in recent years in trade and investment , the minister said that New Delhi wants to develop a positive momentum and invited investors from Bahrain to come and explore opportunities in India . He said the two countries also cooperate closely in defence and security matters and reaffirmed India 's firm commitment to the safety and security of international maritime activities . Describing Bahrain as a " valuable partner " in the Gulf region , Jaishankar said India appreciates Manama 's support at various multilateral and international forums . Jaishankar said West Asia is a region of deep strategic interest to India , and in recent times , it 's a region where there is cause for deep concern , particularly over the conflict in Gaza . " We condemn acts of terrorism and loss of civilian lives into conflict . We believe in adherence to international humanitarian law . We have emphasized the importance of safe and timely supply of humanitarian aid to the people of Palestine , and we call for an early ceasefire and release of all hostages , " he said . He said India has consistently supported the resolution of the Palestinian issue through a two-state solution . " We have also contributed to the building of Palestinian institutions and capacities , and we certainly appreciate that Gulf countries are also working in the same direction , " he added . Jaishankar also thanked the Bahrain government for ensuring the welfare of the Indian community . Later , in a post on X , he said , " Took stock of our bilateral relationship focusing on trade , investments , healthcare , energy , security , tourism and people-to-people ties . Discussed new opportunities in space , education , FinTech and technology . Also exchanged views on recent developments in the region . " A joint statement issued after their meeting said both sides discussed key global developments , and regional and multilateral issues of mutual interest . The two countries view each other as key partners in the region , working together to foster a more peaceful and inclusive global community in West Asia , it said . The two ministers appreciated the progress made in the bilateral ties and agreed to continue the pace of high-level bilateral visits and meetings . The Indian side acknowledged that the bilateral security dialogue and the Joint Steering Committee ( JSC ) in the field of combating international terrorism , are important mechanisms in institutionalizing cooperation in the area of security cooperation , including Cybersecurity . The two ministers reiterated their condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and called on all states to reject and abandon the use of terrorism against other countries , the joint statement said . They also reaffirmed their commitment to exploring avenues of cooperation in diverse areas including Energy and Hydrocarbons , Renewable Energy , Infrastructure , Trade and Investments , Defence and Security , Health , Food and Agriculture , Hospitality , Pharmaceutical Industry , Electronic Industry , downstream Aluminium , IT and data centres , Space , Tourism , Environment , Youth and Sports . Both sides acknowledged the deepening of political and people-to-people ties since the historic state visits . The Indian side highlighted the increase in Indian investment in Bahrain since the state visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019 . The two sides also expressed satisfaction at the stability , sustainability , and diversity of bilateral trade . They agreed to work towards strengthening these trade and investment ties and work towards creating a bilateral Joint Working Group on Trade and Investment , the statement said . Bahrain renewed its desire to conclude a bilateral agreement to eliminate double taxation with India ( DTA ) , to strengthen cooperation in tax matters and develop economic , commercial and investment opportunities between the two friendly countries . The two ministers agreed to expedite negotiations for an early launch of acceptance of the Indian RuPay Card in Bahrain . They also agreed to work towards closer cooperation in the sectors of FinTech and Digital Payments . Both sides emphasized the importance of bilateral collaboration in the field of health and pharmaceuticals . The two sides recognized the significance of hydrocarbon trade as a vital component of this cooperation , contributing to mutual energy security and economic growth . Both committed to taking steps to enhance energy cooperation , especially in upstream and downstream sectors of Oil and Gas in Bahrain and exploring avenues for expanded trade , joint ventures , and mutual investments , the statement said . The two sides agreed to work towards developing and strengthening the defence cooperation between the two countries , which may include the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between the two countries ' Armed Forces . Later , the minister interacted with the Indian Community in Manama and appreciated their contribution in strengthening ties between India and Bahrain . <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
