<h> Russia , Iran Abandon Syria - Death Knell For Gaza <h> Extremists take over <p> Lebanon-based al-Mayadeen reports tonight , December 8 , 2024 that Russia , Iran , Turkey call for immediate end to hostilities in Syria . <p> My cynical interpretation of this - beyond pathetic - " call " is the following : <p> Turkey knew and did/does all it can - again - to destroy Syria . Russia and Iran were surprised or act surprised ; they can do nothing given their own malaise . Or their " intelligence " services failed miserably ? <p> Their common statement is devoid of constructive steps in this uniquely urgent situation . It does not even mention the Syrian government or its President . They " call for " terrorists who are approaching the outskirts of Damascus and have declared long ago that they want to get rid of the Baathist party , al-Assad etc. and create an Islamist state to " end hostilities " ! <p> They endorse , for all practical purposes , that Bashar al-Assad falls or he and his family are killed ? la Saddam Hussein and Muammar Gaddafi . <p> In this statement , they endorse that terrorists , supported over time by the CIA , NATO US , NATO Turkey and Israel , take over Syria - no matter the price to be paid by the innocent Syrian people . <p> They do not call upon the UN and its Security Council , do not mention regional organisations , do not address what they themselves could do - they only appeal to terrorists to behave nicely ... <p> OK , I call them terrorists - not moderate rebels , opposition forces , rebel groups , participants in a civil war , or whatever you 'll see in the Western press . HTS - see later - that now sweeps down toward Damascus is considered a terrorist group even by the United States , United Kingdom , Canada , European Union and some other countries . <p> The US and Europe now finally get the regime change they started in Darra in 2011 and continued at the Marrakesh Meeting of what was euphemistically called " The Friends of Syria " with some 100 countries . There in Marrakesh , they decided to depose President al-Assad and replace him with a new National Council ? la Libya consisting of 300 unknown and un-elected people . <p> That was December 12 , 2012 - 4 years on the day before Aleppo was liberated from their terrorist friends , then called al-Nushra , assisted by their ' humanitarian ' PR helpers , The White Helmets - and btw also some Uyghurs who were being educated in Aleppo , presumably to go back to ' liberate ' China 's Xinjiang Province with the help of the US ... <p> What happens in Syria is not predominantly - if at all - a civil war ; it never was . <p> It was - and still is - an international regime change attempt that ended with the liberation of Eastern Aleppo from 4,5 years of al-Nushra occupation . It happened on December 12 , 2016 . I was there , and I documented it in photo documentaries and numerous articles you can find on The Transnational and its archive sites . <p> It should not surprise you that none of the dozens of Western media I offered my writings to - based on being present where there were extremely few foreigners - wanted to publish any of them . <p> You , dear reader , had to be lied to : the Western-orchestrated and financed , full-scale support for terrorists did not happen ; it never happened . It was a ' civil war ' with ' mostly ' moderate ' rebels that the West could support . The US/West fully supports terrorism when it suits the West 's purposes . And toppling al-Assad was such a purpose . But with the fall of Aleppo in December , they gave up , and Syria disappeared from the media front pages . <p> In certain ways , it is as nasty and unethical as the support of Israel 's genocide on Palestinians . <p> It is this al-Nusra - now Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) - that is conquering Syria these very hours , and they will , according to most reports , take control of Syria 's capital , Damascus , within a few hours . They have the full support of the West . You have not heard any Western leader lament or condemn the supporting countries or HTS itself . <p> They are all fine with backing terrorism , even though they normally pretend they are fighting terrorism . <p> To understand a little bit better what HTS is , see here . You 'll read that HTS can be seen as " a new stage in the life of the blessed revolution " , Abu Jaber urged all factions of the Syrian opposition to unite under its Islamic leadership and wage a " popular Jihad " to achieve the objectives of the Syrian revolution , which he characterised as the ouster of the Ba'athist regime and Hezbollah militants from Syrian territories , and the formation of an Islamic government . <p> HTS ' leader , Abu Mohammad al-Julani , indeed a multi-faceted personality " had served as the emir of the now-defunct al-Nusra Front , the former Syrian branch of Al-Qaeda . The US State Department listed Al-Julani as a " Specially Designated Global Terrorist " in May 2013 , and four years later announced a $10 million reward for information leading to his capture ... " <p> At this moment , CNN , for instance , treats Mr al-Julani as a statesman and asks him only nice questions . Judge for yourself here . <p> If you wonder about the role of the CIA , read Wikipedia about the CIA 's Operation Timber Sycamore -- another of charming President Obama 's nasty tricks ( together with the regime change in Kiev three years later ) in cooperation with David You-Know-Who-Petraeus . <p> Tonight al-Mayadeen - in Lebanon - can also tell you that " ' Target is Damascus , ' Erdogan hopes ' smooth march ' on Syria 's capital . " I tend to assume that Mr Erdogan also hopes for a smooth killing of Bashar al-Assad , his family and people around him , members of parliament and others who had normal working relations and even positive views of the president . <p> I met a few such people . <p> Take a moment to browse my photo documentation mentioned above . You 'll also see that I happened to meet some of the victims - not of " dictator al-Assad 's regime " but of the invading and occupying terrorists ' activities . Actually , the most systematic destruction and heartbreaking human consequences I have ever experienced , and I have visited and worked in a few war zones . <p> Simply , NATO member Turkey 's role in mass-producing terrorists for Syria and stealing everything it could out of Aleppo and its industrial zone ( the 2nd largest in the Middle East with 40 000 workers that no leftwingers or labour unions in Europe bothers the slightest about ) from 2011-2016 are well-known facts - and why not try to repeat them now the chance looks much better ? <p> If there is some truth in all the above - and I write in the belief there is - now only God can save the innocent Syrian civilians from slow extermination - not a deliberate genocide but with similar effects over time as in Gaza . <p> Please be aware of the country 's tremendous diversity in terms of ethnicity and religion ; perhaps because of this diversity and marked elements of secularism , religion-based fundamentalism has not taken root in Syria . <p> No group of terrorists can accommodate that diversity and create stability , not to speak about peace . The Syrian people , including , for instance , the secular and the 10% Christians , will face unspeakable horrors caused by these Western- , CIA- ( and others ) and Israel-supported terrorist groups who will fight each other till the last Syrian for power over all of Syria . <p> In summary , you may now add yet another nail in the West 's coffin : Yugoslavia 's dissolution , The Global War On Terror ( GWOT ) that has failed and also supports terrorists ) , Afghanistan , Iraq , Libya , NATO 's expansion and the resulting destruction of Ukraine , Nord Stream 's destruction and USrael 's live-streamed Gaza Genocide : Syria 's complete destruction on the road to becoming an Islamist/Jihadist fundamentalist state . <p> Hoping I shall be proven wrong sooner rather than later , this victorious Islamic fundamentalism in Syria is unleashed by a very unusual , informal and tacit coalition of Russia , the US , EU , Turkey , Israel , Iran and others . <p> One day you support genocide on Palestinians . The next day , you support the terrorist occupation of Syria , a country with thousands of years of culture , the end of the old Silk Roads . What moral catastrophe next ? <p> Tonight , I think of the very decent and cultured people I met in Syria in 2016 and wonder just how much darker our dark times are going to be . <p> Jan Oberg is the co-founder and director of TFF-The Transnational . The views expressed here are the writer 's own .
