<h> After Assad 's fall , Palestine is sidelined again . Trump might bring it back -- for himself <h> Despite the clear , causal link between Gaza and Damascus , the resolution of the Israel-Palestine conflict has emerged as a casualty of Syria 's collapse . But Trump 's narcissistic tendencies might change that . <p> A pro-Trump hoarding in Israel after his election as US President in November Photo ( c ) Copyright Thomson Reuters 2024 <p> Follow Us : <p> Text Size : <p> Fourteen months after the Hamas-Israel war , the Palestinian issue is once again being sidelined . There 's just so much else going on . Hezbollah has called for a truce with Israel , dropping its earlier demand for a ceasefire in Gaza . Meanwhile in Syria , Bashar al-Assad 's regime has collapsed even faster than Ashraf Ghani 's artificial government in Afghanistan . <p> On the surface , the recent withdrawal of attention from the Palestinian issue seems to be a fallout of the multiple twists and turns that West Asia provides , with no method to it . But that is a mistake . <p> While the Israel-Palestine issue is chock-a-block with a complicated history and conflicting narratives , it is typically examined through the lens of the convergence or divergence in the positions of both sides on three issues -- territorial compromise , the fate of settlements , and military arrangements . <p> The perspective I wish to propose addresses the historical dynamics in how the conflict has been perceived -- at times as a bilateral issue that Palestine and Israel should resolve for the benefit of their respective citizens , and , at other times , as the key to peace and stability in the wider Middle East . <p> But as history has shown , the Palestinian issue rarely stays buried . And this time , Donald Trump could be the one to bring it back -- with peace as his prize . <h> Regional priority or bilateral problem ? <p> Until the Arab Spring of December 2010 , the resolution of the Israel-Palestine conflict was regarded as much more than merely settling a dispute between two opposing entities . This broader perspective gave rise to the Madrid Conference , the Oslo Accords , Shimon Peres ' vision of a " New Middle East " , and the establishment of the Palestinian Authority . <p> Even before it became apparent that the negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians were leading to a peace agreement -- rather than an escalation of the conflict -- the 1994 Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to Yitzhak Rabin , Shimon Peres , and Yasser Arafat in recognition of the Oslo Accords . The regional significance attributed to Israeli-Palestinian reconciliation during the 1990s provided a justification for the award , despite the eventual outcome still being uncertain . <p> Following the events of 2010-2011 and the collapse of the regional order in West Asia , the prevailing paradigm began to shift . A marked disregard for the significance of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict emerged , coupled with a growing indifference toward the consequences of lacking a viable political framework for its resolution . <p> The fall of regimes in Tunisia and Egypt and the rise of ISIS in Syria and Iraq were seen as unconnected to the stagnation of Israeli-Palestinian negotiations . Compounding this was the internal division within the Palestinian leadership , which struggled to reconcile the secularised regime in the West Bank with Hamas in Gaza . This fragmentation played a key role in the diminishing prominence of the Palestinian issue on the international stage . <p> The culmination of this neglect was seen in initiatives such as the I2U2 grouping -- comprising India , Israel , the UAE , and the US -- and the G20 's India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor ( IMEC ) initiative , where the Palestinian cause was barely acknowledged . <p> India 's shifting position on the conflict offers another lens through which to see this change , especially when comparing the two right-wing leaders who have led the country . It is often argued that Atal Bihari Vajpayee , during his tenure as Foreign Minister from 1977 to 1979 , maintained a pro-Palestinian stance , and continued to exercise caution toward the Palestinians when he became Prime Minister two decades later . <p> This stands in stark contrast to Narendra Modi , who became the first Indian Prime Minister to visit Israel in 2017 . While he travelled to Ramallah a few months later and reiterated support for an " independent Palestinian state , " the visit was relatively low-key compared to the high-profile Israel trip and avoided reaffirming India 's traditional stance on Jerusalem as the capital of a future Palestinian state . Modi has also abstained from key anti-Israel votes at international forums and forged warm ties with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> This difference between the two leaders is frequently attributed to their distinct affiliations with Hindutva ideology and their respective views on Israel 's success in surviving within a hostile Muslim environment . However , it seems to me that the simplest explanation lies in the timing of Modi 's rise to power . By the time he assumed office , a few years after the Arab Spring , an international consensus had already emerged -- one that increasingly viewed the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as a bilateral issue with minimal impact on the broader dynamics of the Middle East . <h> Footnote to frontline , and back again <p> After the 7 October Hamas attack on Israel last year , the trend shifted once again . The Israeli-Palestinian conflict drew global attention , with Palestinians gaining considerable sympathy , both within Islamic countries and among progressive circles worldwide . The idea that no peace process , nor any economic initiative , can be viable in the Middle East until Palestinians and Israelis return to the negotiating table once again became the prevailing orthodoxy . <p> Hezbollah and the Houthis in Yemen even linked the end of their war with Israel to a ceasefire in Gaza . Despite all the horrors , there was a global glimmer of hope that the events of October 2023 might serve as the catalyst for the West and Arab countries to renew the Palestinian-Israeli peace process , without which West Asia risks remaining mired in conflict . <p> Yet , the Palestinian issue is once again being pushed out of international focus -- paradoxically under conditions that are the complete opposite of those during the Arab Spring . <h> Trump , Palestine , and the Nobel Prize <p> In 2011 , the world was caught off guard by the realisation that the Palestinian question had little bearing on the seismic shifts in West Asia , where threats to regional stability were more closely linked to radical Islam and the Sunni-Shiite divide . <p> However , this time , no one can deny the link between Hamas ' decision to invade Israel in October 2023 and the fall of the Assad regime . The Iranian proxy network that had bolstered groups like Hamas and Hezbollah abruptly collapsed when it became apparent that , unlike in the past , Iran lacked the capacity to deploy troops to rescue the Ba ? ath regime . Despite the clear , causal connection between Gaza and Damascus , the resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict has emerged as the first casualty of Syria 's collapse . <p> The principal reason for this is that the fall of Syria to Hayat Tahrir al-Sham is seen as a mere footnote to a much bigger event : the outcome of the US elections . <p> During his previous term , Donald Trump had effectively buried the Palestinian cause with the Abraham Accords , a series of agreements signed by Israel with four Arab nations -- the UAE , Morocco , Bahrain , and Sudan . He had also moved the US embassy to Jerusalem , fully aware of the humiliation it inflicted upon the Palestinians . He appointed an ambassador to Israel who was an outspoken supporter of West Bank settlements . For Trump , the peace agreements between Israel and the Gulf states , along with Morocco , were definitive proof that regional stability could be advanced without Israeli-Palestinian reconciliation . <p> But the Palestinian issue has a curious , Sphinx-like way of resurfacing on the global stage just when it seems to have been relegated to the background . It is perhaps within this paradox that Donald Trump 's narcissistic tendencies could serve as the driving force behind a renewed push to resolve the Palestinian-Israeli conflict . Trump , feeling slighted for failing to win the Nobel Peace Prize despite overseeing peace agreements between Israel and four Arab nations , may seek to claim the mantle of peacemaker where others have faltered . After all , Barack Obama was awarded the coveted prize for far less . <p> Should Trump come to realise that no Israeli-Saudi peace deal , however momentous , will secure his longed-for recognition as a true leader of peace without resolving the Palestinian question , he may just convince himself that a miracle can be wrought . With the full weight of American pressure behind him , he might be the one to orchestrate the unprecedented : a deal where Israel 's maximum concession aligns precisely with the Palestinians ' minimum compromise . In that moment , the impossible could become , if only for a fleeting moment , inevitable . <p> Lev Aran is a former coordinator of the Israel-India Parliamentary Friendship League and an Israel-based freelance columnist and journalist . Views are personal .
