<h> Netanyahu testified calmly in his corruption trial , revealing he once lost sleep over media coverage but later realized it had no real significance . <p> Tel Aviv : Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu appeared calm as he testified in his ongoing corruption trial on Tuesday . He shared personal insights , including how he once lost sleep over media coverage but later recognized it had no real significance . This contrasted with the prosecution 's portrayal of him as obsessed with his image . <p> This marks the first time a sitting Israeli prime minister has testified as a criminal defendant , a significant and embarrassing moment for a leader who has sought to project an image of a sophisticated and respected statesman . <p> As Netanyahu began his testimony , he greeted the judges with a " hello . " One of the judges informed him that , like other witnesses , he had the option to sit or stand as he wished . <h> Netanyahu Denies Corruption Charges , Claims Media and Legal Bias <p> " I waited eight years for this moment , to say the truth , " Netanyahu said , standing at a podium in a packed Tel Aviv courtroom . He called the charges against him " an ocean of absurdness " and promised his version would cut through the prosecution 's case . <p> He said he smoked cigars but could hardly finish them because of his workload , but hated champagne . One case revolves around him receiving a " supply line " of cigars and champagne from billionaire associates . <p> His lawyer asked that he be allowed to receive notes while testifying to help ensure he can continue running the country . <p> Netanyahu will answer during his court appearances to charges of fraud , breach of trust and accepting bribes in three separate cases . <p> He is accused of accepting tens of thousands of dollars ' worth of cigars and champagne from a billionaire Hollywood producer in exchange for assisting him with personal and business interests . He is also accused of promoting advantageous regulation for media moguls in exchange for favourable coverage of himself and his family . <p> Netanyahu , 75 , denies wrongdoing , saying the charges are a witch hunt orchestrated by a hostile media and a biased legal system out to topple his lengthy rule . His testimony caps years of scandals that have swirled around him and his family . <p> The testimony , set to take place six hours a day , three days a week for several weeks , will take up a significant chunk of Netanyahu 's working hours , prompting critics to ask if he can capably manage a country embroiled in a war on one front , containing the fallout from a second , and keeping tabs on other potential regional threats , including from Iran or the recent fall of Bashar Assad in Syria . <p> Netanyahu , in his testimony , said he could " find a balance " between both commitments . <p> Dozens of people gathered outside of the court in Tel Aviv , some protesting against Netanyahu , including family members of hostages held in Gaza , and also a group of his supporters . A banner draped in front of the court read : " Crime Minister . " Under Israeli law , indicted prime ministers are not required to step down . But the charges against Netanyahu cleaved deep divisions in Israel , with protesters demanding he resign and former political allies refusing to serve in government with the Israeli leader , triggering a political crisis that led to five elections in less than four years beginning in 2019 . <p> Netanyahu 's supporters view the charges as the result of the justice system 's bias and overreach . <p> Despite the pressure , the polarising Netanyahu has rejected calls to step down and has used his position as prime minister to lash out at law enforcement , media and courts . <p> An Israeli court rejected a request by Netanyahu 's lawyers to reduce the expected testimony hours , as well as several other requests to delay the start of the testimony , which they said were necessary because of the prime minister 's busy schedule and the country 's significant challenges .
