<h> Opinion After six years at the helm of RBI , Shaktikanta Das passes the baton <h> He navigated a difficult domestic and global environment , while ensuring harmonious relations between North Block and Mint Street <p> Dec 11 , 2024 07:47 IST First published on : Dec 11 , 2024 at 07:47 IST <p> Share <p> Comments <p> Shaktikanta Das took over as RBI Governor in December 2018 after Urjit Patel had quit unexpectedly , citing personal reasons . Das has had a challenging tenure . In his six years as governor -- he was granted an extension in 2021 -- Das deftly navigated a difficult domestic and global environment . He led the central bank through a pandemic , the Russia-Ukraine war and the conflict in Gaza , while also leading it into newer areas such as digital currency . All the while , he ensured that relations between Mint Street and North Block were harmonious . <p> When he took over as governor , Das had to deal with the NBFC crisis , following the collapse of IL&amp;FS and Dewan Housing . However , the biggest challenge that the central bank had to face was the Covid pandemic . Under his leadership , the RBI acted quickly , loosening policy rates , and also announcing a series of measures to help cushion the economy from the consequences of the pandemic . <p> Advertisement <p> Das presided over a dramatic decline in bad loans of the banking system -- gross non-performing assets have fallen to 2.8 per cent of advances as of March 2024 , down from 10.8 per cent in September 2018 . On inflation management , the record of the central bank has been more mixed . It has been argued that the RBI had underestimated the price pressures in the economy following the recovery from the pandemic . As a consequence , it was slow to raise interest rates . <p> These fears proved to be justified when inflation breached the upper threshold of the central bank 's inflation targeting framework for three consecutive quarters . There are similar concerns now that the central bank is more worried about inflation , and less about growth , which is leading it to keep policy rates more restrictive than what is needed . On currency management as well , the central bank has been more interventionist , in 2022 and now . The pace at which its forex reserves have depleted indicates to some extent its interventions in the currency market . <p> Sanjay Malhotra , revenue secretary , will take over from Das as RBI Governor . Perhaps the government believes that a bureaucrat is better able to manage relations between the RBI and the finance ministry than an independent economist . Malhotra takes charge at a time when there is a growing clamour for the RBI to ease policy rates in order to support growth . His challenge will be to steer the central bank through a period of global and domestic uncertainty .
