<h> India shares its vision for west asia <h> Share <h> India shares its vision for west asia <p> Friday , 13 December 2024 Kumardeep Banarjee <p> The Manama Dialogue provided India with a platform to outline its vision for regional stability <p> Even as Syria was undergoing huge regime change , with a possibility of leaving a long-lasting impact on the geo-political mix of West Asia , India 's external affairs minister was delivering a lecture on the changing dynamics of international cooperation at the Manama Dialogue . The Manama dialogue is a platform to bring policy makers , and ministers to discuss and debate the strategic defence , security and foreign challenges of West Asia . The dialogue happening against the backdrop of the fast-changing narrative in Syria provided India with a unique opportunity to weigh on its most pressing concerns in and for the region . <p> Syria has been ruled by the Assad dynasty for nearly 50 years . However , this dynastic rule converted the country , on the border of Turkey and Jordan into a brutal police state . Russia and Iran had been supportive of the Assad dynasty , for strategic reasons . Iran supported the regime , to build its axis of resistance against Israel , while Russia , has air force and naval bases in Syria . Global leaders are watching the Syria theatre closely even as Israel continues its war in the neighbourhood . The storming of Israeli troops in Gaza and Ukraine , distracted Iran and Russia , which led to the exit of Bashar Al Assad last week . However , what is of concern to many would be , the rise of rebel leader Abu Mohammed al-Jawlani , an ex-Al Qaeda member . <p> Syria despite the dynastic rule managed to maintain a secular political outlook where minorities and diverse groups did not feel any discrimination . Many fear that the rebel leader with Al Qaeda credentials , may push the state to a hardline Islamist nation . Almost every nation in the neighbourhood including Israel is watching the unfolding situation carefully . Delhi has been agnostic to the regime change , even though the Assad dynasty has been supportive of India 's position on Kashmir , and its stance with Islamabad . Any unfriendly regime in the region would weaken India 's position and could be a security concern as well . <p> Against this backdrop , the Manama dialogue , with several leaders from the West Asia and the Indo-Pacific , provided an important platform for engagement . Mentioning the ongoing conflicts impacting the region S Jaishankar said , " And this today would extend from Gaza to Lebanon and now to Syria as well . But at the same time , we have to be realistic about competing interests in this region ... The second political-diplomatic cooperation that we can think of is really at a time when the world is polarised if not downright violent , how do you prevent an escalation of tensions , how do you prevent conflict from spreading further . In recent times , for all of us , the relationship or absence of it between Israel and Iran has been particularly a source of concern , so some of our diplomatic efforts has focused on that particular aspect . There has been the situation in the Red Sea as well . On a more positive note , the third aspect of the political-diplomatic , I would say , we are also looking at certain trend lines coming out of this region . We have been a supporter of the Abraham Accords and some years ago , we started a grouping called I2U2 , which involves India , Israel , the US and the UAE . It is still at a relatively early stage and we certainly hope that in the coming days that its a group that will grow . " <p> India in the past decade , has a trade-oriented foreign policy outlook , where , it knows that nothing binds countries more than an economic partnership . Mr Jaishankar mentioned that India has nearly $170- 180 billion with the ten-member Gulf Cooperation Council and significant economic relations with countries in the Mediterranean . A new US president from January would also be a key benchmark to watch out for days to come . The relationships are most likely to be economic and based on mutual interests .
