<p> Aqaba : Top US officials were in the Middle East on Thursday , pushing for stability in Syria and an end to Israel 's 14-month war in the Gaza Strip in a last-ditch diplomatic push by the outgoing Biden administration before President-elect Donald Trump takes office in a few weeks . <p> Secretary of State Antony Blinken was in Jordan and Turkey for talks on how to ensure a peaceful transition of power in Syria following the ouster of longtime President Bashar Assad , while White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan was in Israel in a bid to wrap up a ceasefire with Hamas militants . <p> A ceasefire would give President Joe Biden a final diplomatic victory after a turbulent term in which his administration has been unable to halt a brutal war that has claimed tens of thousands of lives in Gaza and plunged the territory into a humanitarian crisis . <p> Trump has demanded the immediate release of hostages , threatening on social media that otherwise there would be " HELL TO PAY , " and has urged the US not to get involved in Syria , where some 900 troops are based to combat the Islamic State militant group . <p> Speaking to reporters in Tel Aviv , Sullivan expressed cautious optimism that conditions were ripe for halting the long-running conflict before the Biden administration leaves office . <p> " I would n't be here now if I did n't think this thing was just waiting until after January 20 , " he said . That 's when Trump will be inaugurated . <p> The war erupted with Hamas ' Oct 7 , 2023 , cross-border attack , in which militants killed some 1,200 people in Israel and took 250 others hostage . Israel 's retaliatory offensive in Gaza has killed nearly 45,000 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza health officials , caused widespread displacement and led to severe hunger across the territory . <p> US-led ceasefire efforts have repeatedly faltered throughout the war , with the warring sides blaming each other for the failure . <p> Israel has said it is seeking the destruction of Hamas ' governing and military capabilities , and at times has pressed ahead with the offensive in the face of US calls for restraint . Hamas , meanwhile , has stuck to its demands that any ceasefire include a permanent end to the fighting and full withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza . <p> The US has backed Israel with key military and diplomatic support . But at times , it also has appeared helpless in urging Israel to minimise civilian casualties and to enable the delivery of more humanitarian aid into Gaza . <p> Sullivan said the rapid-fire changes across the region have improved the chances for success . <p> He said Israel 's ceasefire with Hezbollah last month , ending more than a year of fighting , the collapse of Syria 's government and the heavy blow Israel has inflicted on Hamas have all changed the negotiating climate . <p> He also said there has been good cooperation with the incoming Trump administration , with widespread agreement between them . <p> " The surround sound of these negotiations is different today than it has been in the past , " Sullivan told reporters after meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> " I got the sense from the prime minister that he 's ready to do the deal , " Sullivan added . " We see movement from Hamas . " Sullivan is now scheduled to head to Qatar and Egypt -- two Middle Eastern powers that have served as mediators throughout the war . <p> Any deal would include the release of hostages held by Hamas , an exchange of Palestinian prisoners held by Israel and a surge in badly needed humanitarian aid into Gaza . Israel says Hamas is holding about 100 hostages -- at least one-third of whom are believed to have died . <p> As Sullivan was in Israel , Blinken was meeting with Jordanian and Turkish leaders to push for a peaceful transition of power in post-Assad Syria . <p> " We 're back in the region at a time of both real promise but also peril for Syria and for its neighbours , " Blinken told reporters in Aqaba , Jordan , after meeting with King Abdullah II . <p> He said the US was working with its partners across the region to help Syria " transition away from Assad 's brutal dictatorship " and toward a new government that is n't dominated by any single religious or ethnic group or by an outside power or the Islamic State militant group . <p> " We 're determined to do everything we can , working in close coordination with partners , to help the Syrian people realise that aspiration , " Blinken said . <p> Syria is home to an array of armed groups with competing interests and allies . <p> In northern Syria , US-backed Kurdish separatists are battling to fend off fighters supported by Turkey . In the country 's centre and northeast , the extremist Islamic State group maintains a presence that generates concern for the US . And the rebels , hailing mainly from the Sunni Muslim majority in Syria , face the daunting task of creating a transitional government for the war-ravaged country . <p> The leader of Syria 's biggest rebel faction is a former al-Qaida commander whose Hayat Tahrir al-Sham group is poised to chart the country 's future . The US and the UN have designated the hard-line Sunni Islamist group a terrorist organisation . <p> The goal of creating a free and pluralistic Syria will be a challenge given the bad blood stretching across Syria 's sectarian lines after over half a century of Assad family rule and 14 years of civil war that claimed an estimated 500,000 lives . <p> Blinken started his trip in Jordan , a close US ally whose fragile economy has been strained over the years by an influx of hundreds of thousands of Syrian refugees . Next , he was headed to Turkey -- a backer of Sunni rebels but a foe of the Kurds . <p> Israel , meanwhile , has sent troops into Syria -- its northern neighbour -- and seized a former buffer zone that had been demilitarised since a 1974 truce . Israel has described the move as defensive , meant to protect its border and to prevent armed groups from seizing weapons left behind by Assad 's army . <p> Netanyahu said Thursday that the move was temporary . But he said Israel would remain inside Syria until another party can secure the border , raising the likelihood of a prolonged and open-ended presence . <p> Sullivan tried to play down the Israeli move , noting that Assad was toppled just days ago and it is too early to jump to any conclusions . <p> But Blinken was more cautious as he called for restraint by all regional players with interests in Syria . He said the US is " already talking to Israel " and others about the future of Syria . <p> " Across the board , when it comes to any actors who have real interests in Syria , it 's also really important at this time that we all try to make sure that we 're not sparking any additional conflicts , " he said .
