<h> Russia-Ukraine war : Possibility of ceasefire remote , report says <h> There are too many issues-- political , legal , security and economic-- to be resolved . <h> The report speaks about the failure of the United Nations Security Council to end the conflict in Ukraine and West Asia . ( Courtesy : Reuters photo ) <p> Over 2 lakh people have lost their lives across the globe in 2024 , reveals International Institute of Strategic Studies ' The Armed Conflict Survey 2024 . An established London-based think-tank , IISS highlights the Russia-Ukraine war , Middle-East crisis that involves Israel , Iran , the Hezbollah of Lebanon , the Houthis of Yemen and of course , the people who attacked Israel on October 7 , 2023 , the Hamas in Gaza . <p> The report mentions the increasingly aggressive role played by non-state actors like the Hamas , Houthis and the Hezbollah , and like them , there were about 450 other armed groups that were causing concern . " The wars in Sudan and Gaza have been marked by violations in international humanitarian law by all sides , " it said . <p> There has been a " blatant disregard for civilian lives " leading to the forced displacement of 90 per cent of the people living in Gaza and 7.7 million in Sudan , who are internally displaced . There has been " widespread destruction of civilian infrastructure in urban areas " and the blocking of humanitarian aid , leading to food insecurity . <p> The report also highlights the failure of the United Nations Security Council to end the conflict in not only Ukraine and West Asia , but also Sudan and other places , primarily because the five permanent members have differing views-- which the IISS refers to as " geopolitical fragmentation " . The international system and the Western powers have been unable to work towards conflict resolution or even ensure ceasefires , the report added . <p> About the possibility of an end to the fighting in Ukraine , the report says that despite the election of Donald Trump as president of the United States and the setbacks the West-supported Ukrainians have had in the battlefield , the possibility of a ceasefire was " remote " . There are too many issues-- political , legal , security and economic-- to be resolved . It speaks of difficult problems relating to war crimes , the freezing of Russian assets , reparations and of Ukrainians taken to Russia . Most importantly , neither Russia nor Ukraine appear to be ready for a ceasefire . <p> Then , adding to the already grim international security situation , there is the problem of narco-deforestation , says IISS . This would be about growing cocaine by cutting down forests and also , the pollution from illegal mining in different parts of the world . Naturally , conflict restricts a nation state 's efforts to adapt to climate change and undertake mitigation efforts . <p> Advisory Alert:It has come to our attention that certain individuals are representing themselves as affiliates of Moneycontrol and soliciting funds on the false promise of assured returns on their investments . We wish to reiterate that Moneycontrol does not solicit funds from investors and neither does it promise any assured returns . In case you are approached by anyone making such claims , please write to us at **25;2533;TOOLONG or call on 02268882347
