<h> Odyssey : Hopes and dreams <h> Share : <p> Societies around the globe face multiple crises . In this context , is marshaling hope and dreaming up beautiful futures -- imagining a world that could be -- a useful response , or is it escapism ? <p> Our hopes for a better world can be powerful springboards to action , but when does hope become hopium ? And if we , you and I , do depend on our hopes and dreams to keep us going , what happens if our aspirations become long shots or even hopeless ? This essay looks at these questions . <p> Two paths of change <p> For the longest time , I thought major policy change would be driven by concrete responses to the awful things happening to human and natural communities around the world . <p> Advocates for change would see new policies , for example , to curb corporate abuses and grab their wrists as they reached for ever more control over our politics . We would see strong action to address the vast social and economic inequalities . We would see measures to build on the hard-hitting clean air and water acts to eliminate the climate-ruining gases spewing from our runaway energy system . <p> The push for all these and other policy efforts would include what we saw as " non-reformist reforms . " They would look like reforms , but they would contain the seeds of deeper , transformational change -- like ditching gross domestic product in favor of new measures of societal well-being . <p> The victims of the many crises and their allies would find their voices , as would activists for the environment . Meanwhile , I and others would focus on the needed policy analysis , working to develop both reformist policies and the far-reaching prescriptions for the deeper changes that would address underlying causes . I for one have written several books full of policy prescriptions aimed at transformational change . <p> But a funny thing happened on the way to the revolution . <p> The efforts at policy-driven change remain ongoing and essential , and I am still involved in them . But you will have noticed that their progress has been terribly slow . Meanwhile , an ominous deepening of what is now called the polycrisis has occurred , most visibly in the climate crisis and in threats to democracy here and abroad . That has led many people to flee the fetters of the practical world , at least in their dreams , and find hope in imagining a world that could be . <p> Some of this is escapism , but often enough , these fetching worlds are rigorously grounded in biological and historical understandings . For example , one theme is that economic systems must learn from nature 's systems . Ecological economics , industrial ecology , the regenerative economy , and the circular economy all give some definition to this new thinking . Others are dreaming of flourishing worlds of democratic eco-socialism , while still others are looking to Asian religions and Indigenous teachings for modern guidance . <p> " New , dreamed-of worlds will not compete yet in today 's practical politics . But they are the first blueprints of the future , the playing fields of radical hope , the dreams that stuff is made of . " <p> One sees in all these envisionings a dramatic change in dominant cultural values : a new consciousness that transcends the old barriers that separate us from each other and humans from nature . The current order increasingly lacks legitimacy , and alternative worldviews that can gain our allegiance are being advocated . As a leading thinker in this field , Jeremy Lent , says , " Once we shift our worldview , another world becomes possible . " <p> Yes , the new , dreamed-of worlds will not compete yet in today 's practical politics . But they should not be dismissed as woolly , wild-eyed , or impractical . They are the first blueprints of the future , the playing fields of radical hope , the dreams that stuff is made of . <p> Indeed , one can see a new consciousness at work today across the country . It is bringing concrete change in countless local communities where something new and different is being built . See , for example , the websites for the New Economy Coalition and the Wellbeing Economy Alliance and check out their member organizations . <p> More and more people are searching for something beautiful , even if it is untethered from today 's " political realities . " If current trends continue and blossom , could we enter a world of consciousness-driven change -- not piecemeal , practical , and incremental , but fresh , bold , and sweeping ? What if enough people joined in John Lennon 's " you better free your mind instead " and the major force bringing a desirable future into the present is a sea change in the public mind ? The phrase " consciousness change " would have a whole new meaning . <p> " Dream on , " the skeptic says . " Yes , we will , " they reply . <p> Decades of discoursescientists , economists , lawyers , and here we are . Stuck.That discourse can not dowhat must be done:Reach to the human heart.The core problems aregreed , arrogance , and apathy , our dominant values astray.What we need now isnot more analysis buta spiritual awakeningto a new consciousness.So , bring on the preachers and prophets ! The poets and philosophers ! Bring on the story tellers , musicians , artists ! The teachers of ancient wisdoms ! Call them to strike the chordsof our shared humanity , of our close kin to wild things . <p> Of hopes and dreams and beyond <p> Victor Hugo wrote , " There is nothing like a dream to create the future . " If we can first envision a future that works for people and planet , we can begin to make it happen . In one of his excellent novels , Richard Flannagan asks , " What reality was ever created by realists ? ... What we can not dream we can never do . " <p> Such dreams are manifestations of hope ; the two are inseparable . The Rev. Jesse Jackson , a fellow South Carolinian of my generation , spoke about the importance of hope in 1988 at the Democratic National Convention : " Wherever you are tonight , you can make it . Hold your head high ; stick your chest out . You can make it . It gets dark sometimes , but the morning comes . ... Keep hope alive . Keep hope alive ! " Jackson knows that hope is like vision -- without it , the people perish . <p> But hope can be treacherous . We should cling to hope , but only hope that is linked to commitment and action , not mere escapism , not hopium . <p> It takes a lot of hopiumto get me through the day.There is always more hopium , and I will take it any way.I can grow my own hopium.My mind 's a fertile field.The less I know , the more I grow.You can not beat that deal.I got a bumper crop last yearwhen I turned off the news.Being hopeful was easy whenI took a long news snooze.There are far worse addictions ; hopium just affects the mind.Yet in terms of climate worries , it leaves them far behind.Dreamy hope , comforting hope , whenever needed it 's there.There 's always more hopiumwhen I 'm in my easy chair.Hope without costs , hope without consequence , this hope 's a dope 's dopein a cauldron of innocence . <p> Rebecca Solnit saw something else very important about hope . " The grounds for hope are in the shadows , " she writes , " in the people who are inventing the world while no one looks , who themselves do n't know yet whether they will have any effect . " Keep hope alive , Solnit says , but link it to action , to inventing a better world . And , importantly , keep hope alive even in the face of total uncertainty that the work it inspires will be fruitful . <p> But what if one knows for a practical certainty that that work will not be successful and save the day ? Here one enters the zone of despair . A lot of people today are despairing . <p> As I navigate among the various faces I have in this world -- the Happy Everyday Me , the Policy Wonk Me , the New Radical Me -- I sometimes fall into the zone of despair , and there I find the Despairing Me . I try not to go there , but I stumble . <p> In this windowless cellar of my mind , I have devastating thoughts , not phantasmagoric apparitions easily dismissed , but thoughts resulting from a calculus carefully tuned to empirical observation of the world spanning many years . <p> There , I encounter the thought that human enterprise on the planet -- ambitious , arrogant , heedless , at times inspiring -- has inadvertently created an insatiable contraption that is now devouring the planet at a phenomenal rate that human societies can no longer control . <p> If this contraption were bringing genuine human satisfaction and well-being while ruining the planet , well , that would be something . We would at least be going down happy . But for an apt description of our current human condition , I can not but think instead of the lyric Tom Lehrer made famous , " The whole world is festering with unhappy souls . " <p> Generally , people are unhappy for good reason . Some are unhappy because they are spoiled or misapprehending their circumstances , but for most there are genuine causes of human misery . Hard data support deprivations born in economic disparities , social inequities , environmental decay , climate change , political oppression , invidious discriminations , the failure of education and health systems , the loss of community solidarity and human companionship , and , perhaps most important , the widespread sense of powerlessness and hopelessness in the face of these challenges . <p> In this bottom chamber of despair , honesty can not assign a decent probability or even a fighting chance of finding a solution . <p> Faced with what seems a terrifying situation , human creativity can reach in several directions . First , there is Acceptance . One can accept this fate , hopelessness , with bitter nihilism or with hedonistic abandon or with a calm stoicism . I am told that Marcus Aurelius is all the rage today . Many will opt , as Thoreau noted , to live lives of quiet desperation and make the best of a bad situation . A different tack , waiting for the world beyond , is taken by some religious followers who put their faith in the afterlife , not this one . <p> Second , there is Denial . It too can take many directions . One can stick to living in the truthiness world free of fact and science and full of fake reality , like believing climate change a hoax . Or one might relax and assume these problems will be easily solved -- somehow , someday , soon enough , by someone . This is the hopium solution , life from the easy chair . <p> Then , there is the only response I and many others can live with : Resistance . In the end , one must act even in the face of hopelessness , warriors defending a sacred place , simply because it is the right thing to do , rebelling beyond hope because the human spirit says with insistence that what is unacceptable -- all the suffering , all the loss , all the tears -- must not be accepted . <p> Beyond all our fears , it is.Beyond grieving and crying , it is.Beyond even hope , it is.What then is left beyond ? A collapse of sentiment ? What do they feel:the Black man in solitary , the young girl buriedin the rubble of Gaza , the Amazon dwellerswatching the forest die ? What do we feel , you and I ? Can the mere knowledgeof the world 's desperationwhile still in a sheltered spacetake us to a place beyond ? I can only speak for myself.I hunger to strike a blowso shattering that enthrallmentbreaks into a million shardsand falls to the feet of the world . <p> Albert Camus ' The Myth of Sisyphus is an essay for our time . It is also my favorite . Camus says that Sisyphus was condemned by the gods to a dreadful and hopeless task , forever pushing a rock up to the top of the mountain only to see it roll back of its own weight . Sisyphus ' crime was " his hatred of death and his passion for life . " Camus continues , describing Sisyphus ' hopelessness : <p> " If this myth is tragic , that is because its hero is conscious . Where would his torture be , indeed , if at every step the hope of succeeding upheld him ? Sisyphus , proletarian of the gods , powerless and rebellious , knows the whole extent of his wretched condition : it is what he thinks of during his descent . The lucidity that was to constitute his torture at the same time crowns his victory . There is no fate that can not be surmounted by scorn . . . . <p> " I leave Sisyphus at the foot of the mountain ! One always finds one 's burden again . But Sisyphus teaches the higher fidelity that negates the gods and raises rocks . He concludes that all is well . This universe , henceforth without a master , seems to him neither sterile nor futile . The struggle itself toward the heights is enough to fill a man 's heart . One must imagine Sisyphus happy . " <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> There it is : the struggle toward the heights . I think we can be sustained and carried forward by the struggle , by being engaged in the fight , each as our capabilities and opportunities permit . <p> The snow lies lightly on the lilacsround by the kitchen door.The juncos peck in stone cracks , endless in their search for more.I think that is my way too , to keep the search going on.What else really could I dobut find new ways to scorn.As Camus said of Sisyphuswho toiled with his stone , there is no fate for usthat ca n't be beat by scorn.And so I scorn what passes here todayfor equality and justice before the law , for helping immigrants to find a way , for promises the troops will withdraw . <p> Oh , purple mountain majesty ! Oh , fruited plains of amber grain ! The machine crushes endlesslyeverything for investment 's gain.And so we search for ways to fight.We see the beauty of the snow , but we know to make it rightmay require our blood to flow.We 've seen the heads bandaged round , the men and women teared by gas.Each has earned a special crown.They know the system will not last.Scorn , rage , and many actions.protests coming round the world.Today we see but a fractionof banners yet to be unfurled ! <p> * * * <p> I thank Orion magazine for publishing pieces I have drawn upon in this essay . The poems are from books I have published over the last half-dozen years . <p> James Gustave Speth is author of America the Possible : Manifesto for a NewEconomy ( Yale Press ) and , most recently , They Knew : The U.S. FederalGovernment 's Role in Causing the Climate Crisis ( MIT Press ) . He has served as Dean of the Yale School of the Environment , as President of the World Resources Institute , and as Administrator of the UN Development Programme . He was Chair of the US Council on Environmental Quality during the Carter Administration . <p> Visiting several villages of Karauli district ( Rajasthan , India ) recently , it was generally not difficult to reach them . However the situation changed dramatically when going to Rawatpura village located in Sapotra ... <p> Efforts to increase food production generally emphasize intensively developed areas which already have high levels of production . On the one hand many areas recording much lower levels of food production ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
