<h> Brett Wilkins <p> Following yet another United States veto of a United Nations Security Council resolution calling for a cessation of hostilities in Gaza , members of the U.N . General Assembly voted overwhelmingly Wednesday in favor of ... <p> The heads of 15 humanitarian organizations operating under the United Nations umbrella on Friday accused Israel of creating " apocalyptic " conditions in northern Gaza and called on Israeli forces to stop attacking the Palestinian enclave ... <p> Israel -- which is already waging war on Gaza and Lebanon -- said its military struck targets in and near Iran 's capital Tehran early Saturday , while explosions believed to be Israeli attacks were also reported in ... <p> A devastating wave of Israeli airstrikes across the Gaza Strip on Wednesday and Thursday have killed or wounded hundreds of Palestinians , including many children , according to local and international media reports . Citing ... <p> Seasoned observers of Israeli disinformation campaigns on Wednesday responded with pointed skepticism to a claim by the country 's military that half a dozen Al Jazeera journalists are linked to militant Palestinian resistance ... <p> A Belgium-based advocacy group on Tuesday announced it " filed an unprecedented and historic complaint with the International Criminal Court against 1,000 Israeli occupation forces soldiers for war crimes , crimes against ... <p> As Israel followed up its remote bombings of communications devices in Lebanon with airstrikes on Beirut , the United Nations Security Council held an emergency session Friday during which officials urgently called for ... <p> Israeli officials are lobbying U.S. lawmakers to pressure South Africa into dropping its genocide case against Israel at the International Court of Justice , according to a report published Monday . Axios said it obtained ... <p> In an investigation focusing on a pair of Israeli massacres of forcibly displaced Palestinians in Gaza , Amnesty International on Monday urged the International Criminal Court -- whose chief prosecutor has already applied for warrants to ... <p> Following over a month of warnings , Gaza recorded its first case of polio since the highly contagious virus was eradicated there 25 years ago , prompting a Friday call by United Nations Secretary-General ... <p> Scientists on Monday underscored the urgent need to accelerate the transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy following the publication of data from the European Union 's climate change monitor showing ... <p> A doctor at an Israeli field hospital inside a notorious detention center where hundreds of Palestinian prisoners are temporarily held is sounding the alarm about torture and horrific conditions at what some ... <p> Human Rights Watch on Thursday said it has confirmed reports that Israeli military forces unleashed white phosphorus munitions during artillery attacks on targets in Lebanon and Gaza this week , including over a ... <p> Critics of a Japanese plan to release filtered radioactive wastewater from the Fukushima nuclear disaster into the Pacific Ocean intensified their opposition to the proposal on Wednesday after the United Nations agency ... <p> As the Pacific Northwest and southwestern Canada bake under what 's being described as a " once-in-a-millennium " heat dome , green groups on Monday reiterated the need for transformational change to address the climate emergency , while ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
