<h> This X user predicted Assad 's fall , Bangladesh turmoil and even Adani 's crisis a year in advance <p> Hyderabad : His bio on social media platform ' X ' says he talks ' about issues long before they happen ' . For those who took the bio as some sort of self praise or even troll , one look at his timeline should be an eye-opener . <p> Aravind , who has about 50,000 followers on X , has made predictions that have hit the bull 's eye with uncanny precision , be it the fall of Bashar Al-Assad in Syria , that of Sheik Hasina in Bangladesh , and closer home , the crisis that Gautam Adani is in . His posts have warned of a mostly US-run deep state , sometimes by China , being behind most of the above mentioned developments . <p> Soon after Assad 's fall , Aravind finally posted his multiple predictions from last year in a single post on December 8 . The same predictions are now going viral on social media , with some likening his predictions to that of 16th century seer Nostradamus . <p> " Please excuse me for this " I told you so " post but humbly request you to read it . I tweeted about the overthrow of the Assad regime and a blow to Russia in Syria 1-year before it happened , " he posted on December 8 . <p> The post on Assad 's fall was in response to a post by journalist Shiv Aroor in October 2023 , where Aravind said that Bashar Al-Assad and his government in Syria would be history by the end of next year ( 2024 ) , which would be another blow to Russia . So the US , West , and Israel will get that done as well in this war , he had said about the happenings in Gaza at that time . <p> Oh , I forgot to mention that Bashar Al-Assad and his government in Syria will be the history end of next year , which will be another blow to Russia . So the US , West , and Israel will get that done as well in this war . <p> " And it happened now at the end of 2024 exactly . Similarly predicted the Bangladesh coup , including persecution of Hindus and the creation of another Pakistan at India 's border a year ago , " he said in his recent post , attaching that tweet : <p> This news means that regime change operations are in place for Bangladesh . This has nothing to do with Bangladesh per se . It is about targeting India by creating another Pakistan at our border . Russia , China , and India are the foremost that need to be destabilized . The problem is ... https : //t.co/krzGkyV612 <p> " Also warned Adani about Bangladesh too a year ago and to be careful about large investments : <p> Soon , we can see protests &amp; riots in Bangladesh for #regimechange ops . It will take an Islamic turn . Hindus may get targeted . Hasina blamed . And anti India sentiment will be unleashed . Adani may become a casualty . Hope @PMOIndia@AdaniOnline are aware of the plans . @gautamadani <p> When I post , I always feel like this is quite obvious , countries and companies will know . In fact , I think everyone will see these just like me . As they seem simple enough to be seen . But when things happen , I get a feeling that even nation states seem caught by surprise , " he said . <p> " Countries like Syria , Russia , and India with all their experts and intelligence do not see these coming and seem to be taken off-guard . And I see large companies with huge investments unprepared . My hunch is they are all not able to correctly understand the , mostly US run , deep state ( sometimes China influenced ) and its goals . Their mental model about the DS , its influencers , and their ambitions may need a bit of fine-tuning . Actually , only this year the deep state has even been acknowledged by many at higher levels and is being openly talked about without fearing being called a conspiracy theorist . Even leaders are talking about it . That 's good . Recognizing the DS is the first step . I used to be called a lunatic for talking about the DS before . But understanding the DS is even more important . Its players , influencers , their goals , the strategies they use to achieve the goals , and the time frames are crucial to know , " he said .
