<p> UNITED NATIONS , Dec 12 : India voted in favour of a UN General Assembly resolution that demanded an immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire in Gaza and reiterated the demand for immediate and unconditional release of all hostages . <p> The UN General Assembly has overwhelmingly approved resolutions demanding an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and backing the UN agency for Palestinian refugees that Israel has moved to ban . <p> The 193-member General Assembly voted Wednesday at the 10th emergency special session to adopt the draft resolution ' Demand for ceasefire in Gaza ' , introduced by Indonesia . <p> India was among the 158 nations that voted in favour of the resolution while nine member states , including Israel and the US , voted against it . Among the 13 nations that abstained were Albania and Ukraine . <p> The resolution demanded an " immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire , to be respected by all parties , and further reiterates its demand for the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages . " <p> It demanded that the parties fully , unconditionally and without delay implement all the provisions of the Security Council resolution of June 2024 regarding an " immediate ceasefire , the release of hostages , the exchange of Palestinian prisoners , the return of the remains of hostages who have been killed , the return of Palestinian civilians to their homes and neighbourhoods in all areas of Gaza , including in the north , and the full withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza . " <p> The resolution demanded immediate access by the civilian population in the Gaza Strip to basic services and humanitarian assistance indispensable to its survival , while " rejecting any effort to starve Palestinians " . <p> It further demanded the facilitation of full , rapid , safe and unhindered entry of humanitarian assistance , at scale and under the coordination of the United Nations , to and throughout the Gaza Strip and its delivery to all Palestinian civilians who need it , including to civilians in besieged north Gaza , who are in urgent need of immediate humanitarian relief . <p> It also demanded that the parties fully comply with their obligations under international law in relation to persons they detain , including by releasing all those arbitrarily detained . <p> It called upon all parties to fully comply with international law , including international humanitarian law , notably with regard to the protection of civilians , especially women and children . <p> It reiterated its unwavering commitment to the vision of the two-state solution , with the Gaza Strip as part of the Palestinian State , and where two democratic States , Palestine and Israel , live side by side in peace within secure and recognized borders , consistent with international law and the relevant United Nations resolutions . <p> The resolution rejected any attempt at demographic or territorial change in the Gaza Strip , including any actions that reduce the territory of the Gaza Strip , and stresses the importance of unifying the Gaza Strip with the West Bank under the Palestinian Authority . <p> Last week , India voted in favour of a General Assembly resolution that called for the withdrawal of Israel from the Palestinian territory occupied since 1967 , including East Jerusalem , and reiterated the call for achieving a comprehensive , just and lasting peace in the Middle East . <p> The draft resolution ' Peaceful settlement of the question of Palestine ' tabled by Senegal was overwhelmingly adopted in the 193-member General Assembly Tuesday . <p> India was among the 157 nations that voted in favour , while eight Member States -- Argentina , Hungary , Israel , Micronesia , Nauru , Palau , Papua New Guinea and the United States voted against it . Cameroon , Czechia , Ecuador , Georgia , Paraguay , Ukraine and Uruguay abstained . ( PTI )
