<p> One of the most significant developments in recent years has been the formation of the so-called " alliance without limits " between Moscow and Beijing . Announced by Presidents Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping in February 2022 , just before Russia 's invasion of Ukraine , this alliance emphasises their commitment to strategic cooperation across security , economic , and political domains , without restrictions on their collaboration . <p> While strategic ties between Moscow and Beijing have strengthened since the early 2000s , the February 2022 declaration marked an unprecedented level of anti-American solidarity . A year later , Xi remarked on the historic changes he was setting in motion with Putin : " Right now there are changes -- the likes of which we have n't seen for 100 years -- and we are the ones driving these changes together . " The conviction that the US-dominated world order is crumbling has been a long-held belief for both leaders , particularly since the 2008 global financial crisis , fuelled by a surge of " declinist " literature in America and apparent political dysfunction during the Obama and Trump administrations . <p> Advertisement <p> The growing global interest in BRICS and the perceived rise of the Global South seemed to confirm the decline of the US-led international system . However , these assessments of American decline appear a lot less convincing today . The US economy has shown remarkable resilience , outpacing both the European Union and China in growth and technological innovation . The US continues to attract significant investment , maintaining a dynamic business environment , while Europe faces structural challenges such as declining population , high unemployment , and slower economic growth . China 's economy , though still growing , is decelerating due to demographic shifts , rising debt , and trade tensions . <p> The prospect of China overtaking the US in GDP terms now seems unlikely in the near term . Projections for 2024 estimate the US GDP at $29 trillion , compared to China 's $19 trillion and the Eurozone 's $16 trillion , with Russia lagging at around $2.5 trillion . <p> With America rebounding as an economic power , the return of Trump will impart vigorous new political will to Washington in challenging Sino-Russian ambitions for a post-Western order . Although the Sino-Russian alliance appears positioned to challenge the US across Europe , the Middle East and Asia , their coordinated efforts have not yielded the expected results . Instead , they have prompted a reassessment of US priorities in these regions . <p> What began as Russia 's brief " special military operation " in Ukraine is approaching its third year . Despite some recent territorial gains in eastern Ukraine , Russia has suffered significant losses in personnel and resources ; its political and economic position in Europe has taken a big dent . It seems increasingly unrealistic to believe Russia will emerge stronger from this conflict . As a hard-boiled realist , President Putin may have less inhibitions than his supporters in recognising the necessity of a reasonable settlement with the West . <p> In the Middle East , Iran , a key partner in the Sino-Russian alliance , is now on the defensive . Iranian proxies in Gaza and Lebanon have suffered setbacks , and Bashar al-Assad has fled to Moscow for refuge . Israel has battered Iran 's much-feared " axis of resistance " . The narrative has shifted from Iran 's ambition to overthrow US dominance to concerns about the survival of the Islamic Republic amid significant adversity . <p> In Asia , Beijing 's efforts to displace the US and assert dominance have suffered setbacks . The US has revitalised its alliances , formed new partnerships , and established institutions like the Quad and AUKUS . Trump is poised to intensify economic pressures on China , which , coupled with its slowing economy , will force Beijing to reconsider its strategies towards its neighbours and Washington . Engaging the US in bilateral negotiations has always been part of China 's strategy and may now acquire a new urgency . <p> Within the Republican foreign policy establishment , there are strong sentiments advocating an emphasis on countering China in Asia rather than expending valuable military resources in Ukraine . Some suggest a deal with Putin on Ukraine . During his presidential campaign , Trump frequently spoke of " un-uniting " Russia and China and referred to the natural contradictions between these neighbouring powers . His nominee for national security adviser , Mike Waltz , has proposed strategies to achieve this goal in an article published last month in The Economist . <p> A stronger America , led by Trump , wants to tempt both Russia and China into seeking separate agreements with Washington . This dynamic might allow Trump to exploit divisions between Moscow and Beijing . However , sceptics question the feasibility of this approach , pointing to the deepening economic ties and shared interests of Moscow and Beijing in countering the West . To be sure , there is continuing anti-American bravado in both Moscow and Beijing . Nonetheless , it is realistic to assume both Putin and Xi will prioritise their bilateral interests with the US over the building of a unified front against Washington . <p> It will be intriguing to see which of the two leaders -- Putin or Xi -- will be the first to betray the " alliance without limits . " Betrayal is inherent in statecraft , where self-interest often supersedes alliance commitments . The ancient text " Mitrabhedam " from the Panchatantra explores the complexities of friendship , trust and betrayal in the relations between sovereigns . Regardless of the outcome , Trump will undoubtedly attempt to fracture the Russia-China alliance . <p> Historically , Russia and China have oscillated between alignment and betrayal over the past eight decades . In the 1950s , they were ideological allies against American imperialism , but by the 1970s , both sought separate deals with the US , accusing each other of betrayal . By the late 1990s , they had rekindled their partnership to counter Washington . <p> The question remains : Does Trump possess the diplomatic acumen to divide the alliance between Russia and China ? Delhi is not in a position to influence the outcome of the new efforts by Trump to drive a wedge between Moscow and Beijing . Any deal that the US might want to make with Russia or China will involve the resolution of many complex issues . But does Delhi have a preference ? Yes , of course ! India would be pleased to see a reconciliation between Moscow and Washington on European security issues . That will make it easier to construct a " multipolar Asia " . But India has no reason to want a US-China deal that might produce a " bipolar Asia " . <p> The writer is contributing editor on international affairs for The Indian Express . Views are personal .
