<h> Why Liberals Will Give Two Cheers for Trump <h> Share : <p> Liberals hate Trump , no question about it . He 's the definition of illiberal : authoritarian , racist , sexist , and downright nasty . Not only that , he 's a living repudiation of the liberal delusion that America runs on meritocracy . <p> But you want to know a dirty , little secret ? In back alleys , encrypted group chats , and off-the-record conversations , liberals will still support Trump on a case-by-case basis . Of course , they 'd never vote for the guy , but they 'll give two cheers for some of his policies . <p> I discovered this ugly truth during Trump 's last term while writing an article on the shift in U.S. policy toward China from lukewarm engagement to hostile decoupling . The general consensus among the foreign policy elite was that , at least in terms of relations with Beijing , Trump was a useful idiot for slowing China 's roll with harsh rhetoric and tariffs . <p> " Trump is a madman , but I want to give him and his administration their due , " one prominent liberal intellectual told me . " We ca n't keep playing on an unlevel playing field and take promises that are never delivered on . It 's really China 's turn to respond , and it 's long overdue . " <p> It was n't just China . For years , liberals and conservatives alike were , for instance , pushing the concept of burden-sharing : getting U.S. allies to cover more of the bill for their security needs . But it was only Trump who really made it happen by blackmailing NATO members and other U.S. partners into doing so . <p> Sure , few warmed to the idea of the United States actually pulling out of NATO , but even many of our European allies , though they publicly grumbled , were secretly happy about The Donald 's gaiatsu . That 's the Japanese word for outside pressure that enables a leader to force through unpopular changes by blaming it all on foreigners . The self-described liberal leader of NATO , Dutch politician Mark Rutte , even came out in the open after Trump 's reelection to praise the American president for making European countries more militarily self-sufficient . <p> It was n't just liberals who thrilled to Trump 's unorthodox foreign policy during his first term either . Some of those further to the left also embraced Trump the engager ( with North Korea 's Kim Jong-un ) , Trump the isolationist ( and his threats to close U.S. military bases globally ) , and Trump the putative peacemaker ( for concluding a deal with the Taliban to end the U.S. military presence in Afghanistan ) . <p> Trump , in other words , was not just an unanticipated crisis ; he was also an opportunity . Deep in their hearts , anyone unhappy with the status quo will support a disrupter . Quite a few Democrats disgusted with this country 's border policies , inflation , and its coastal elites even crossed over to vote for Trump in November because they wanted change , regardless of the consequences . <p> Trump 2.0 is going to be the same but worse , like a strong cheese voted out of the refrigerator only to grow ever more pungent as it moldered in a dark corner of Florida . The latest version of Trump has promised more violence and destruction the second time around , from mass deportations to mass tariffs . And he 's planning to avoid appointing anyone to his administration who might have a contrary thought , a backbone to resist him , or the least qualification to enact sensible policy . <p> In the face of such a vengeful and truculent force returning to the White House , surely , you might think , it will be impossible to find any liberals embracing such anarchy the second time around . <p> Think again . This is how American politics works , if only for liberals . The modern Republican Party routinely boycotts Democratic administrations : blocking Merrick Garland 's Supreme Court nomination , working overtime to shut down the federal government , voting en masse against legislation it would have supported if introduced by a Republican administration . The MAGA crowd has , in fact , turned noncooperation into something of an art form . <p> Liberals , on the other hand , pride themselves on bipartisanship , on getting things done no matter who 's in power . So , inevitably , there will be cooperation with the Trump team as it sets about the " deconstruction of the administrative state " ( as Trump cheerleader Steve Bannon once put it ) . Worse , there will even be some silver-lining liberals ( and a few leftists ) who pull up a seat to applaud the wrecking ball -- not perhaps for its wholesale destruction of neighborhoods but at least for its demolition of a select number of buildings that they deem irreparable . <p> Each time such destruction takes place , the self-exculpatory comment from such silver-liners will be : " Well , somebody had to come along and do something ! " If Trump is the only tool in the governing toolbox , some liberals will indeed try to use him to pound in a few nails they think need hammering . <p> Burning Bridges with China <p> In his 2024 State of the Union address , Joe Biden argued that he did a better job than Donald Trump of standing up to China . He certainly devoted more Pentagon dollars to containing China . And not only did he not roll back Trump 's tariffs on Chinese products , but he added some of his own , including a 100% tax on Chinese electric vehicles . Biden also made concrete moves to decouple the U.S. economy from China 's , especially when it came to the supply chains for critical raw materials that Beijing has sought to control . " I 've made sure that the most advanced American technologies ca n't be used in China , " he insisted , adding , " Frankly for all his tough talk on China , it never occurred to my predecessor to do any of that . " <p> Biden 's moves on China , from export controls and subsidies for chip manufacturers to closer military relationships with Pacific partners like Australia and India , received the enthusiastic support of his party . No surprise there : It 's hard to find anyone in Washington these days who has a good word to say about engaging more with China . <p> So , when Trump takes office in January , he wo n't actually be reversing course . He 'll simply be taking the baton-like stick from Biden while leaving all the carrots in the ground . <p> That said , Trump 's proposed further spike in tariffs against China ( and Canada and Mexico and potentially the rest of the world ) does give many liberals pause , since it threatens to unleash an economically devastating global trade war while boosting prices radically at home . But trade unions backed by such liberals support such measures as a way to protect jobs , while the European Union only recently imposed stiff tariffs of their own on Chinese electrical vehicles . <p> So , yes , neoliberals who embrace free trade are going to push back against Trump 's economic policies , but more traditional liberals who backed protectionist measures in the past will secretly ( or not so secretly ) applaud Trump 's moves . <p> Back to the Wall <p> On taking office , Joe Biden rolled back his predecessor 's harsh immigration policies . The rate of border-crossings then spiked for a variety of reasons ( not just the repeal of those Trump-era laws ) from an average of half a million to about two million annually . However , in 2024 , those numbers plummeted , despite Trump 's campaign claims -- but no matter . By then , many Democrats had already been reborn as border hawks . <p> That new , tougher attitude was on display in executive actions President Biden took in 2024 as well as the border security bill that Democrats tried to push through Congress earlier this year . Forget about finding a path to citizenship for the millions of undocumented immigrants who keep the American economy humming , Biden 's immigration policy focused on limiting asylum petitions , increasing detention facilities , and even allocating more money to build Trump 's infamous wall . <p> As Elora Mukherjee , director of the Immigrants ' Rights Clinic at Columbia Law School , pointed out on the eve of the November election , " What we are seeing is that the center of the Democratic Party is now adopting the same policies , the same postures , that MAGA Republicans were fighting for about six years ago . " <p> And yet such punitive policies still were n't harsh enough for MAGA Republicans and their America First followers . The bottom line was that immigration-averse voters did n't want to support Democrats pretending to be MAGA Republicans . When it came to the White House , they wanted the real thing . <p> As politics change hands in Washington next January , it 's going to be difficult to find any Democrats who will support the mass detentions and deportations Trump is promising . Yet many liberals , like the unprecedented number of Latinos who pulled the lever for Trump in 2024 , do want major changes at the border with Mexico . In Arizona , Democrat Ruben Gallego won a squeaker of a Senate election by emphasizing border security and even backing a border wall ( in certain areas ) . Such liberal border hawks will be happy when the Republican president does the dirty work so that Democrats do n't suffer the political fallout that is sure to follow . <p> Remapping the Middle East <p> On the face of it , the Abrahamic Accords were a liberal nightmare . The brainchild of Trump 's son-in-law Jared Kushner , they promised to repair relations between Israel and the major authoritarian regimes in the region : Saudi Arabia , the Gulf States , Morocco , and Sudan . The deal was a reward for illiberal leaders , particularly Israel 's Benjamin Netanyahu . The primary losers would , of course , be the Palestinians , who would have to give up their hopes for a separate state in exchange for some Saudi handouts , and the Sahrawi people who lost their claim to the Western Sahara when the United States and Israel recognized Moroccan sovereignty over the entire region . <p> Instead of shelving the Accords , however , the Biden administration pushed ahead with them . After roundly criticizing Saudi autocrat Mohammed bin Salman for , among other things , ordering the murder of a U.S.-based Saudi journalist , Biden mended ties , fist-bumping that rogue leader , and continuing to discuss how and when the Kingdom would normalize relations with Israel . Nor did his administration restrict Washington 's staggering weapons deliveries to Israel after its invasion and utter devastation of Gaza . Yes , Biden and crew made some statements about Palestinian suffering and tried to push more humanitarian aid into the conflict zone , but they did next to nothing to pressure Israel to stop its killing machine ( nor would they reverse the Trump administration 's decision on the Western Sahara ) . <p> The liberals who support Israel ( come what may ) like Pennsylvania Senator John Fetterman , New York Congressman Ritchie Torres , and the New Democrat Coalition in the House of Representatives are , of course , going to be enthusiastic about Trump 's ever tighter embrace of Netanyahu next year . But there are also likely to be quiet cheers from other corners of the liberal-left about the harder line Trump is likely to take against Tehran . ( Remember Kamala Harris 's assertion during her presidential run that Iran was the main adversary of the United States ? ) The Arab Spring is long gone and a strong man in the White House needs to both schmooze with and go toe to toe with the strong men of the Middle East -- or so many liberals will believe , even as they rationalize away their relief over Trump 's handling of a thoroughly illiberal region . <p> Looking Ahead ( Or Do I Mean Behind ? ) <p> Anyone to the left of Tucker Carlson will certainly think twice about showing public enthusiasm for whatever Trump does . Indeed , most liberals will be appalled by the new administration 's likely suspension of aid to Ukraine and withdrawal from the Paris climate accord , not to mention other possible hare-brained maneuvers like sending U.S. troops to battle narcotraffickers in Mexico . <p> Trump will attract liberal support , however quietly or even secretively , not because of his bridge-building genius -- in reality , he could n't even get a bridge-building infrastructure bill through Congress in his first term -- but because all too many liberals have already moved inexorably rightward on issues ranging from China and the Middle East to immigration . The MAGA minority has seized the machinery of power by weaponizing mendacity and ruthlessly breaking rules , in the process transforming politics much the way the Bolshevik minority did in Russia more than a century ago . In the pot that those Republicans put on the stove , the water has been boiling for more than a decade and yet the left-of-center frogs barely seem to recognize just how altered our circumstances have become . <p> In normal times , finding overlapping interests with your political adversaries makes sense . Such bedrock bipartisanship stabilizes fractious countries that swing politically from center left to center right every few years . <p> These are , however , anything but normal times and the second-term Trump team anything but center-rightists . They are extremists bent on dismantling the federal government , unstitching the fabric of international law , and turning up the heat drastically on an already dangerously overcooking planet . <p> In 2020 , I raised the possibility of a boycott , divestment , and sanction ( BDS ) movement against the United States if Trump won the elections that year . " People of the world , you 'd better build your BDS box , paint ' Break Glass in Case of Emergency ' on the front , and stand next to it on November 3 , " I wrote then . " If Trump wins on Election Day , it will be mourning in America . But let 's hope that the world does n't mourn : it organizes . " <p> Four years later , Trump has won again . Do I hear the sound of breaking glass ? <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Here , in the United States , a stance of strict non-engagement with Trump 2.0 , even where interests overlap , would not only be a good moral policy but even make political sense . When things go disastrously south , laws are broken , and the government begins to truly come apart at the seams , it 's vitally important that no left-of-center fingerprints be found at the scene of the crime . <p> Let 's be clear : the Trump administration will not be playing by the rules of normal politics . So , forget about bipartisanship . Forget about preserving access to power by visiting Mar-a-Lago , hat in hand , like Facebook 's Mark Zuckerberg or the hosts of MSNBC 's Morning Joe . " Fascism can be defeated , " historian Timothy Snyder wrote immediately after the November elections , " but not when we are on its side . " <p> In the early 1990s , doctors in Hiroshima , Japan , discovered a stress-induced syndrome they called Takotsubo cardiomyopathy , or " broken heart syndrome " -- a condition in which the heart 's left ventricle , responsible for ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
