<p> Palestinians evacuate a body from a site hit by the Israeli bombardment AP <p> Salah Dahman , the head of Hamas 's paraglider unit , was eliminated by the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) in Jabalia , Jewish media reports said on Wednesday . Salah Dahman was active in resisting IDF advances in Gaza by cordinating Hamas 's aerial actions and was operating from the Jabalia neighbourhood , around four kilometres from Gaza City . <p> Meanwhile , in a separate operation , the Shin Bet and IDF confirmed the elimination of Fahmi Salami , commander of the elite Nukhba forces in Hamas 's Zeitoun Battalion . The Israeli Air Force launched an airstrike on the building that hosted Fahmi Salami . The building had previously served as the Al-Falah School , IDF told the media . <p> The eliminated Hamas commander led the October 7 attack on the Paga military post of the IDF . The ambush killed 14 IDF soldiers , Times Of Israel said quoting the army , adding that he continued to lead Hamas troops despite numerous setbacks to the outfit . <h> October 7 attacks : The fall of Paga outpost and Be'eri massacre <p> Around 6:30 AM on the dreadful day , Hamas fighters infiltrated southern Israel through the border barrier . They targeted civilian settlements and military bases alike and IDF 's Paga outpost came under fire . Situated " very close to the Be'eri kibbutz ( a communal settlement in Israel in which all wealth is held in common and profits are reinvested in the settlement ) , the Paga outpost came under heavy fire and the soldiers on duty were overrun . <p> According to reports , the soldiers posted at Paga are often referred to as protectors of Be'eri as the post is closer to the kibbutz located closer to the Gaza border . However , when the attack began , IDF units based near Paga post had to concentrate on protecting kibbutz Nahal Oz , leaving Paga post defenders with no backup . Once the defenders fell , Hamas attacked and murdered as many as 130 members of the settlement . <p> According to the IDF , Israel lost many young soldiers when they decided to come out of the safety of their vehicles to halt the charge of the infiltrators deep into Israel on October 7 . Many members of the IDF 's Golani Brigade were slain when the moved on foot after Hamas fighters entered Israel close to the Paga outpost . Staff Sgt. Tomer Barak , Sgt. Ido Binenstock , Staff Sgt. Itay Glisko and Staff Sgt. Itamar Ben Yehuda -- were named among the Israeli soldiers killed in the battle near Paga . <h> Paragliders of Hamas on October 7 attacks <p> Following the attack , video A showed Hamas militants sailing into Israeli territory on motorised paragliders , while partygoers were watching them without concern . Once Salah Dahman 's paragliders touched down inside Israeli territory , they secured the terrain for their comrades of the elite commando unit to operate . The latter soon stormed the fortified electronic and cement walls that were meant to stop infiltrations from Palestinian territories , Reuters said in a report . <p> Meanwhile , some paragliders landed near Kibbutz Re'im , where Jewish people were enjoying a party and musical . Once they landed , they opened fire at the unarmed crowd indiscriminately , who had , doubtlessly , watched them landing a few minutes ago . <p> ? ? ? ? #Palestine - ? ? ? ? #Israel : Hamas has released footage of fighters training to fly from Gaza into Israeli settlements on paragliders . A number of fighters entered southern Israel this morning by making use of this tactic . **26;1739;TOOLONG
