<p> Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz has now informed the U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin that there is a " chance " for a new deal that will bring remaining hostages , including some who hold American citizenship , held after the October 2023 Hamas attack to freedom . <p> Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz has signaled a renewed window of opportunity for negotiations seeking to rescue hostages taken during the October 2023 Hamas attack . On Wednesday , Katz let U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin know that " there 's a chance now " to have a new agreement return the remaining hostages , which include some people with American citizenship . <p> In his remarks during a telephone call with Austin , Katz expressed renewed optimism about the possibility of an end to the campaign for the release of those remaining hostages held by Hamas . " This opportunity " to bring all the hostages back home is what " these negotiations are all about , " said Katz 's statement on the issue . " There is now a chance for a new deal that will allow the return of all the hostages , including those with American citizenship , " the statement said , according to Reuters . <h> Key Talks And Developments In Syria <p> Apart from the hostage situation , Katz and Austin discussed several regional security matters , most of which focused on Syria . The two defense leaders addressed the fall of Bashar al-Assad 's regime and the recent actions of Israel in the Golan Heights , specifically the seizure of a buffer zone on the Syrian side . Both officials concurred on the ongoing threat of Iran , particularly weapons shipments , and pledged cooperation in preventing smuggling operations to transfer weapons from Iran into Lebanon via Syria . <p> On Tuesday , Israeli security officials-including Shin Bet Director Ronen Bar and IDF Chief of Staff Lt. Gen. Herzi Halevi-were scheduled to meet with senior Egyptian officials in Cairo to discuss efforts towards a hostage release deal , focused on the Gaza-Egypt border , and including the possibility of a broader agreement with Hamas . <p> An Israeli official remarked that , while Hamas has remained silent on the issue , there is a growing belief that the group may now be more open to negotiations . " Two weeks ago I thought Hamas did n't want a deal . Now I am inclined to think that it has changed its mind , " the official said , quoted by the Times of Israel . The official also added that it is possible to strike a deal sometime next month before Donald Trump 's inauguration as president . <h> New Hope Amid Regional Changes <p> This follows a November 2023 agreement that freed 105 hostages . While there is a breakthrough , Israel still believes that 96 hostages are left in Gaza from the 251 hostages taken during the October 7 attack . Recent regional developments and heightened pressure , including warnings from Trump regarding consequences for failure to free the hostages , have made people hopeful of a new deal .
