<h> No respect for zebra crossings <p> Editor , It is astonishing how many people , especially drivers in Shillong , turn a blind eye to zebra crossings . Is it due to ignorance or do they simply ignore pedestrians trying to cross the road ? Recently , while strolling the streets of Laitumkhrah , I saw an elderly lady standing next to a zebra crossing , trying to cross . No driver stopped to let her pass . She stood there waiting for a while until the traffic police intervened . Why is it that in Shillong , nobody seems to understand the bold white stripes on the road surface ? Each vehicle is in a rush with no time to spare . Those stripes are there for a reason , not just for show . It is important for all of us to make a mental note of the white and black stripes henceforth . We should know the traffic rules before we get a license to drive . Pedestrians in Shillong hesitate before crossing the road because even at the zebra crossing , we are n't sure whether the stripes are for us or just a decorative piece . If it were n't for the hardworking traffic police , our roads would probably turn into a chaotic symphony of horns , near-misses , and vehicles conducting their own survival of the fittest experiment . To conclude , zebra crossings are a vital aspect of road safety , providing pedestrians with a designated space to cross while encouraging drivers to be more mindful and cautious . Their simple yet effective design ensures visibility and accessibility , making roads safer for everyone . However , their true value lies in how responsibly both pedestrians and drivers adhere to the rules , ensuring mutual respect and safety on the streets . Yours etc. , Adrialli Mary Lyngdoh , Via email <p> Syria in turmoil <p> Editor Apropos of the editorial " Dictators as dynasts " ( ST December 9 2024 ) the fall of Bashar al-Assad marks a significant turning point for Syria . The capital , Damascus is captured by a coalition of Syrian rebels throwing the country into an uncertain future with the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) also known as the " Organisation for the Liberation of the Levant " originally formed in 2011 under the name Jabhat al -Nusra -- an affiliate of Al-Qaeda gaining ground . The group was one of the most effective factions fighting against Assad 's regime , with its partner , the Turkish-backed Syrian Nation Army ( SNA ) formerly known as the Free Syrian Army established in 2017 under the auspices of Turkey , having taken control . The immediate aftermath in this power-shift is a power vacuum , with various factions vying for control . The HTS remains a dominant force . Assad 's fall is a blow to Russia and Iran , who supported his regime . This opens the door for greater Turkish influence in the region . The ongoing conflict and power struggles could exacerbate the humanitarian crisis , with millions of Syrians already displaced and helpless . Both Russia and Iran have invested heavily in supporting Assad 's regime to maintain their strategic interests in the region . Syria was a crucial ally and a gateway for their influence in the Middle East . Both countries have provided substantial military support to Assad , including troops , equipment and financial aid . Assad 's collapse means the loss of these investments and a setback in their military presence in Syria that weakens the geopolitical influence of these two countries . It also disrupts their plans to use Syria to counterbalance Western and regional rivals . Russia , embroiled in a relentless war with Ukraine , also faces high stakes decisions as its biggest Middle East naval base is at Tartus on Syria 's Mediterranean coast . Both countries have economic interests in Syria , including reconstruction contracts and access to resources . The instability following Assad 's fall jeopardizes these economic opportunities . The future of other Iranian-supported groups , such as the Houthis in Yemen and militias in Iraq , are now uncertain . These groups , along with Hamas in Gaza , formed what Iran called the Axis of Resistance . This has now been significantly impacted . Israel welcomes these changes as Iran is considered a threat . The editorial rightly stated that , ' life for the ordinary citizens would only worsen and new trouble is in store for the world at large from fundamentalists there . " The fall of Assad 's regime has created a complex and uncertain situation for Syria . Assad used strong-arm tactics against protests in 2011 . This led to a civil war resulting in over half a million deaths with approximately six million people displaced . The rise of groups like the HTS and SNA brings both opportunities and challenges . While the end of Assad 's rule could portend new beginnings , the presence of fundamentalist groups poses problems of stability and security . The humanitarian situation may worsen , with potential increase in displacement and economic hardships . The international community will need to navigate this new landscape carefully to support peace and reconstruction efforts . Yours etc ; VK Lyngdoh , Via email <h> Follow us <h> About Us <p> The Shillong Times first appeared as a tabloid weekly on 10th August 1945 under the editorship of Late Sudhindra Bhusan Chaudhuri . In 1958 it was converted to a Daily . Owing to financial constraints , within six months it reverted back to a weekly .
