<h> Paraguay reopened its embassy in Jerusalem , recognizing it as Israel 's capital , a diplomatic win for Netanyahu amid growing international isolation over Gaza . <p> Jerusalem : The small South American nation of Paraguay reopened its embassy in Jerusalem on Thursday , becoming the latest of just a small handful of countries to recognise the bitterly contested city as Israel 's capital . <p> The move marks a welcome diplomatic victory for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , who has watched Israel 's international isolation deepen as the devastating war in Gaza drags on . <p> Paraguay first relocated its embassy to Jerusalem in 2018 under the pro-Israel government of then-President Horacio Cartes but reversed its decision months later when a new administration came to power . <p> The decision of President Santiago Pe ? a , a prot ? g ? of Cartes who has followed in his mentor 's footsteps , to reopen the Jerusalem embassy makes Paraguay the first country to make the move since Hamas ' Oct 7 attack last year triggered the war . <p> The fate of Jerusalem is one of the most intractable disputes in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> It 's also a controversial move . Israel views the entire city as its unified capital , while the Palestinians want east Jerusalem as the capital of their future state . Israel annexed east Jerusalem , home to the Old City , with holy sites sacred to Jews , Christians and Muslims , in 1967 in a move that was not recognized by the international community . Most countries run their embassies out of Tel Aviv . <p> Paraguay now joins the United States , Honduras , Guatemala , Kosovo and Papua New Guinea as countries that have stationed their embassy in Jerusalem . <p> Spirits were high at the ceremony marking the embassy 's inauguration Thursday , with Netanyahu and Israel 's new Foreign Minister , Gideon Saar , lavishing praise on President Pe ? a . <p> " My good friend Santiago , " said Netanyahu , addressing Pe ? a . " We 're a small nation . You 're a small nation . We suffered horrible things but we overcame the odds of history ... we can win and we are winning . " " Jerusalem is the capital of Israel . It will always be the capital of Israel , " Netanyahu said . " That will never change . " The ceremony came as the humanitarian crisis in Gaza has brought a wave of condemnation on Israel , undermining its international standing . <p> The world 's top war-crimes court issued arrest warrants last month for Netanyahu and his former defense minister , accusing them of crimes against humanity during the war in Gaza . The Israeli offensive has so far killed over 44,800 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry which does not say how many are combatants . The warrants turn Netanyahu and Gallant into internationally wanted suspects , putting them at risk of arrest when they travel abroad . <p> Nevertheless , Pe ? a invited Netanyahu to visit Paraguay . Netanyahu hung a Jewish mezuzah , a small scroll containing verses from the Torah , on the doorway of the new Paraguayan embassy . <p> Israel 's top diplomat , Saar , said Israel and Paraguay shared a " friendship based not only on interests but also values and principles . " He said he would soon visit Asunci ? n , Paraguay 's capital , with a delegation from the Israeli private sector . He and Paraguayan Foreign Minister Rub ? n Ram ? rez Lezcano signed a series of bilateral agreements at the ceremony . <p> Pe ? a thanked Netanyahu and said he looked forward to future collaboration with Israel . <p> " This is very important for you . We recognize that this is a very strong statement , " Pe ? a said . " Israel is going to win , and the countries ( that ) are standing next to Israel , we are going to win . " Despite a tiny Jewish community , far smaller than neighbours Argentina and Brazil , landlocked Paraguay has become one of Israel 's closest allies in Latin America . The other countries in the region to recognize Jerusalem as Israel 's capital , Guatemala and Honduras , have similarly strong evangelical churches . <p> Evangelicals , many of whom see Israel 's existence connected to biblical prophecy , are among the Israeli government 's most hawkish supporters . In the US , conservative evangelicals have long inspired the Republican Party 's pro-Israel advocacy . <p> Paraguay 's conservative leadership has sought to curry favour with former and future US President Donald Trump by strengthening its alliance with Israel as well as Taiwan -- two causes c ? l ? bres of Republicans . <p> Paraguayan Foreign Minister Ram ? rez Lezcano was among the first foreign dignitaries to meet with Trump following his November election victory . <p> Earlier this year , Pe ? a hosted Senator Marco Rubio -- Trump 's pick to become Secretary of State -- in what marked the first visit by a US senator to the landlocked country in four decades . <p> The ascension of Pe ? a to the presidency in 2023 helped revive Paraguay 's strong ties with Israel years after his predecessor , Mario Abdo Benitez , shuttered Paraguay 's Jerusalem embassy and prompted Israel to retaliate by temporarily closing its own in Asunci ? n . <p> Under former President Cartes , a powerful cigarette tycoon sanctioned by the Biden administration for corruption , Paraguay immediately followed Trump 's move to relocate the US embassy to Jerusalem and break with decades of policy that the city 's status should be decided in peace talks .
