<h> Share : <p> Israeli soldiers stand next to an armored vehicle at the line that separates the Golan Heights from Syria , on December 9 , 2024 . AP Photo/Matias Delacroix <p> After Syrian President Bashar al-Assad stepped down Sunday and ordered a peaceful transfer of power to " rebel " forces led by the Al Qaeda-linked Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) militia , US and Israeli warplanes started a massive bombing campaign against Syria . <p> Washington and its regional allies are launching the rape and carve-up of Syria . As the Israeli army attacks north towards Damascus , the Turkish-backed Syrian National Army ( SNA ) is attacking south , targeting Kurdish forces in northern Syria , and HTS is taking over government in areas previously controlled by Assad . Statements by Israeli officials make clear that the US-Israeli bombings aim to annihilate Syria 's capability to defend itself militarily . <p> Last night , Israeli military sources told the Jerusalem Post they had carried out 350 air strikes on " the majority of strategic weapons stockpiles within Syria . " US warplanes struck 75 more targets in Syria . Israeli targets included air defense systems , missile stockpiles , airfields , warplanes , tanks , and drone fleets and military production facilities in cities , including Damascus , Homs , Palmyra , Latakia and Tartus . Israel also reportedly sank Syria 's navy at anchor in Al-Bayda and Latakia . <p> US-Israeli strikes are meeting no opposition from Syrian air defenses . Israeli officials told the Post they had " extended operational freedom " in Syria . <p> Washington 's arming of Israel throughout its genocide in Gaza has proven to be part of a broader offensive to subjugate the entire region . This was most bluntly laid out in a press conference Monday by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . Hailing the collapse of the Assad regime as " a new and dramatic chapter " in history , Netanyahu proclaimed : " We are changing the face of the Middle East . " <p> Israeli units have crossed the border into Syria to seize parts of the Golan Heights and have launched an armored offensive north towards Damascus . Al Jazeera reported that Israeli tanks had reached only 25km from Damascus and were located close to the Damascus airport . While Israeli officials denied that their forces were 25km from Damascus , they are calling to set up a " sterile " buffer zone controlled by Israel between the Golan Heights and the Syrian capital . <p> Yesterday morning , during a visit to a naval base at Haifa , Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz announced : " Together with the prime minister , I have instructed the military to establish a sterile defense zone free of weapons and terrorist threats in southern Syria , without a permanent Israeli presence . " Whether or not there was a permanent Israeli military presence , such a zone would leave the city of Damascus permanently at the mercy of Israeli attack . <p> While US and European media claim that Assad 's handover of power to HTS is bringing Syria a new democratic dawn , reports on the ground paint a different picture . The Sunni Islamist militia backed by the NATO powers and Israel are terrorizing the population -- particularly among the Christian , Druze and Shia Alawite communities . <p> Cardinal Mario Zenari , the Catholic Church 's envoy to Syria , reported to Vatican News the situation in Aleppo after its capture by HTS : " In certain zones , it 's fairly calm , but that is suspect . There is a lot of fear , government offices have shut down , as has the army , which has disappeared . Armed groups are circulating and are promising not to attack the civilian population . Until now , it appears they have respected this promise , but still people are terrified and are shutting themselves in at home . ... Fear , terror and uncertainty rule . " <p> Videos are already circulating on social media showing HTS fighters executing Alawites in the street . HTS , like the broader Al Qaeda networks and their backers in the Sunni Muslim oil sheikdoms of the Persian Gulf , is violently hostile to Shia Islam , Shia-majority Iran , and Alawites , the community to which Assad belongs . One video shows HTS forces executing what they claim are Alawites in Lattakia : <p> US officials are hailing HTS 's victory as a devastating blow to Russia and Iran , which supported the Assad regime in a nearly 14-year war with NATO-backed Islamist militias initiated by Washington in 2011 . Assad invited Iranian and then Russian forces to fight Al Qaeda-linked or Islamic State militias which had NATO backing but little popular support . Now , US officials are exultant that their support for Israel against Gaza and Hezbollah , and for Ukraine 's war with Russia , weakened Russia and Iran , letting Washington crush Syria . <p> " Our approach has shifted the balance of power in the Middle East , " outgoing US President Joe Biden said on Sunday . " For the first time ever , neither Russia nor Iran nor Hezbollah could defend this abhorrent regime in Syria . This is a direct result of the blows that Ukraine and Israel have delivered in their own self-defense with unflagging support of the US . " <p> In reality , putting Al Qaeda forces in power in Syria is a monumentally reckless and criminal action that will inevitably have consequences unintended by Washington . It will not resolve the bloody proxy wars between Israel , Turkey , Iran and the major world powers for influence in Syria and the Middle East , but ultimately pave the way for their escalation . <p> In this context , Assad 's order to his regime to hand power over to the Islamist " rebels " and the collapse of the Syrian army are bitter experience in the bankruptcy and treachery of the Arab bourgeoisie . The speed of the Syrian regime 's collapse points not only to the deliberate stand-down by Assad but also the complicity of his backers in Moscow and Tehran . <p> The Kremlin , which has withdrawn its warships from its Syrian naval base at Tartus , has given no explanation for Assad 's collapse . Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov confirmed yesterday that Assad is in Moscow but refused to say why he had fled . Ryabkov said , " He is secured , and it shows that Russia acts as required in such an extraordinary situation . I have no idea what is going on with him right now . It would be very wrong for me to elaborate on what happened and how it was resolved . " <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> On Monday , however , Iran 's semi-official Mehr news agency posted an article detailing growing conflicts between Tehran and Assad before the HTS offensive . By its account , Iranian military commanders traveled to Syria amid signs HTS was preparing an offensive in Turkish- and US-controlled areas of northern Syria . According to Mehr , " Iranian officials , after hours of consultation on developments in Syria , concluded that this time the conditions for Iran 's military assistance to Bashar Assad were not laid . " <h> Related Posts <p> Occupied Palestine ( Quds News Network ) - Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has once again invoked biblical references to justify war crimes and violations of the international law . On Tuesday , Netanyahu revealed ... <p> The reports through Western presses read rather familiarly . Joyful residents taking selfies on abandoned , sullen tanks . Armed men ebullient and shooting into the sky with adventurist stupidity . The removal of ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
