<p> New Delhi : India and the United Arab Emirates(UAE) on Friday discussed implementation of the ambitious India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor ( IMEEC ) and resolved to shore up ties in areas of energy including long-term supplies and collaboration in upstream and downstream projects . Ways to further deepen bilateral relations in areas of energy , connectivity and trade figured prominently at the 15th India-UAE Joint Commission Meeting ( JCM ) that was co-chaired by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his UAE counterpart Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan . <p> The meeting was held in New Delhi . <p> The two foreign ministers also deliberated on expanding strategic partnership between the two countries in areas of defence , emerging technologies , nuclear energy , polar research , critical minerals and renewable energy at a meeting of the India- UAE Strategic Dialogue held last night . <p> At the JCM , Jaishankar and Al Nahyan welcomed the signing and entry into force of the India-UAE bilateral investment treaty , according to the Ministry of External Affairs ( MEA ) . <p> It is understood that the two foreign ministers also delved into the situation in Gaza as well as developments in Syria . <p> Following the landmark visit of Prime Minister Modi to the UAE in August 2015 , bilateral relations between the two countries were elevated to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership . <p> The bilateral trade and investment ties witnessed a major upswing after the sides inked the CEPA in 2022 . <p> The two foreign ministers commended the strong bilateral cooperation in the fintech sector , and the development of public digital infrastructure , including Central Bank Digital Currencies ( CBDC ) , instant payments , and card schemes , the MEA said . <p> " Both sides also discussed the India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor ( IMEEC ) , a major initiative aimed at improving maritime connectivity and trade between India , the UAE , and Europe , " it said in a statement . <p> Billed as a pathbreaking initiative , the IMEEC envisages a vast road , railroad and shipping networks among India , Saudi Arabia , the United States and Europe with an aim to ensure integration among Asia , Middle East and West . <p> The IMEEC was firmed up on the sidelines of the G20 Summit in September last year in Delhi . An agreement was signed by India , Saudi Arabia , the European Union , the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) , the US and some other G20 partners for the corridor . <p> Jaishankar and Al Nahyan also welcomed the recent launch of the work on the Virtual Trade Corridor ( VTC ) between the two countries and the MAITRI interface ( Master Application for International Trade and Regulatory Interface ) . <p> The MEA said the two sides acknowledged that VTC and MAITRI will streamline trade processes through a data exchange system that facilitates paperless transactions between the two countries . <p> " The two ministers appreciated the robust cooperation in the energy sector between the two countries , including the desire to deepen ongoing collaboration in areas such as long-term supply agreements , collaboration in upstream and downstream projects , mutual investment in strategic reserves etc , " it said . <p> The two sides also appreciated the expansion of cooperation in new areas of partnership such as nuclear energy , critical minerals and green hydrogen . <p> The MEA said Jaishankar and Al Nahyan expressed satisfaction over the active and growing exchanges between the two countries in the defence and security sector . <p> The two sides also commended the functioning of the IIT-Delhi Abu Dhabi campus , which was inaugurated by Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Sheikh Khaled Bin Mohamed on September 2 . <p> The MEA said the ongoing work to establish the overseas campus of Indian Institute of Management , Ahmedabad and Indian Institute of Foreign Trade in Dubai was reviewed . <p> Nominations for ET MSME Awards are now open . The last day to apply is December 15 , 2024 . Click here to submit your entry for any one or more of the 22 categories and stand a chance to win a prestigious award .
