<h> The Assads were an abomination , but the unidimensional world of Islamist ' rebels ' does not bode well for Syria either <p> Syrian Kurds , fleeing their homes in the outskirts of the northern city of Aleppo after they were seized by Islamist-led rebels , arrive with their belongings to Tabaqah , on the western outskirts of Raqa . ( IMAGE : AFP ) <p> The replacement of the much-reviled Bashar al-Assad regime in Syria by a so-called " rebel force " that is actually just an Islamist offshoot of al-Qaeda and ISIS -- which , remember , was headquartered in the Syrian city of Raqqa from 2014 to 2017 -- once again underlines how the turbulent history of that region is painted in countless shades of grey . As if the ongoing war between Israel and the equally Islamist Hamas left you in any doubt about that , of course . <p> The Assads had ruled Syria with a mix of fear and murderous brutality for over 50 years . But that family , their Ba'ath Party and that general cohort were not religious fanatics . In fact , they professed the sort of secular socialism which evolved into the crony **30;449;TOOLONG seen in many countries ruled by similarly inclined people and parties . Even India and the Congress Party of the mid-1970s were not unlike Syria during that same period . <h> related stories <p> The difference , of course , is that the Emergency in India marked the apogee and also the end of authoritarianism . India never degenerated into a single-party rule -- which appears to be the main cause of the rise of the Islamist factions all over West Asia today . Ironically , authoritarian secularism ( and in Syria 's case , also minority rule by the Shia Alawite tribe of the Assads ) has led to the ascent of doctrinaire Sunni Islam and power being captured by its adherents . <p> As the news channels broke the news of the fall of Assad 's government in Syria , I saw London 's Oxford Street become an impromptu victory procession of cars with young men honking , shouting and hanging out of windows brandishing their homeland 's distinctive opposition flag . It continued for well over an hour without any of London 's uniformed finest visible . Maybe the Metropolitan Police were just relieved it was not yet another fraught pro-Gaza demonstration . <p> But having lived in Syria during the regime of this just-ousted socialist dictator 's father , I had mixed feelings . How would those fashionably puffer-jacket-clad Syrians cheering in London fare under the country 's new rulers whose roots are in the Salafi-jihadist school although they profess to have " moved " to a more accommodating position ? Do Syrians not know what 's happening in Afghanistan , whose Taliban rulers mouthed similar lines and then recanted ? <p> When my father was India 's ambassador to Syria , the then President Hafez al-Assad ordered the Hama massacre in 1982 , triggered by a long-brewing uprising in that city 200km north of Damascus by the Muslim Brotherhood , an avowedly religious grouping . As the Ba'athists rammed through their One-Party agenda , the One-God-ists coalesced too . It was evident that the stage was being set for a cataclysmic clash , if not of civilisations but certainly of cultures . <p> In the middle , ordinary Syrians in Damascus and elsewhere tried to get on with their lives . The streets bustled with quotidian commerce , youngsters of both sexes noisily swarmed out of schools and colleges , foreign tourists soaked in the sun and the civilisational ethos of Syria . Even the smiling locals working in the Indian embassy all hailed from good families ; the moustachioed ( but beardless ) men wore suits and the women wore short dresses and makeup to work . <p> Now , 42 years later , a former IS affiliate Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham has stormed to power and is promising an egalitarian ( if Islamic ) future . Their leaders , including the charismatic Ahmed al-Sharaa , have spoken of amnesty for Syrian soldiers and fair play for religious and ethnic minorities including Christians and Alawites . There are already far more scarves and beards now in Syria than when I roamed , awestruck , through Umayyad Square and the old city in the 1980s . <p> The Indian ambassador 's residence in Damascus for the longest time had Hafez al-Assad 's official palace as an unwanted neighbour . My father ensured that India House finally shifted to a more salubrious area , but it was hard to ignore the presence of the Assads . Especially Bassel , the handsome but goonish elder son of President Assad , and his trigger-happy praetorian guard . The First Family was feared -- just like in those in communist Eastern Europe of that time . <p> But it was the weak-chinned , ophthalmologist second son Bashar who finally surpassed even his father 's record of brutal suppression : hundreds of thousands of Syrians were arrested , imprisoned , tortured , maimed and killed , particularly since 2011 , leading to huge numbers of their kith and kin fleeing the country to Europe and North America . However , what ISIS " fighters " were doing in their strongholds -- to Syrians too , among others -- was also precisely that . <p> So whether Assad or the Islamists , ordinary Syrians are stuck between a rock and a hard place . It 's rather unfair because they also have had to weather 400 years of Ottoman rule followed by a League of Nations ' mandated quasi-colonial period of French control under a series of inept ( figure ) heads of state and then musical chairs by Syrian politicians from elite families . Then events in the past century appear to have conspired to lead up to this arrival of the Islamists . <p> Dictators do n't get good press ; " rebels " invariably do . Unfortunately , this rule , when applied to the operating arenas of Islamist uprisings , does not always have pleasant outcomes . Right now the media ( and even sections of social media ) are showing that same willingness to believe the assurances of the HTS in Syria as they were of the " moderate " Taliban . Soon the " terrorist " status of HTS will also be withdrawn . What lessons will other jihadi groups learn from that ? <p> Meanwhile , does the world know or care about what has happened to other Arab countries whose " secular " dictators ( who kept a tight rein on religious life ) were ousted earlier -- Saddam Hussein in Iraq and Muammar Gaddafi in Libya ? Both countries have Islamist movements and are prone to permanent strife as various groups jostle for power . And the turmoil has led to the spread of jihadi ideology and networks to their neighbouring nations in Africa and Arab Asia . <h> top videos <p> That does not bode well for Syrians , although they are well rid of the Assads . Syria has always been a centre of culture and civilisation , capitalising on its prime location within the Fertile Crescent . If the Assads were an abomination , the unidimensional world of Islamist ' rebels ' , no matter how glibly spindoctored as egalitarian and " technocratic " , will not gel with Syria 's legacy either . I ca n't see the new dawn that Syrians are proclaiming right now -- just grey skies . <p> The author is a freelance writer . Views expressed in the above piece are personal and solely those of the author . They do not necessarily reflect News18 's views .
