<h> My thoughts on the world we live in <p> Newspaper reading is a reminder that man has learnt nothing from his past nor from his present situation . He seems to be repeating the same mistakes and as a consequence suffer . <p> Let me not go back to millennium past years . The World War I was devastating to mankind during the beginning of the 20th century -- 1914-1918 . At the end of the war , the map of the world was redrawn , new countries came into existence and mighty empires simply disappeared . Ottoman Empire mainly . And League of Nations formed to prevent another war . But wait till 1938 ... <p> Then the World War II ( 1939 -- 1945 ) . This was more destructive to mankind than the World War I and extended to South-East Asia , Japan , too . Again new nations were created and boundaries drawn . Countries were divided . The lesson learnt was that wars would not solve human problems . So was born the United Nations Organisation ( UNO ) with its Head Quarters in New York , America , to prevent future wars . A new Vatican of member countries was also born and it is called Security Council ( SC ) . A peaceful , war-free world in the future , one thought , was assured . <p> Soon this too began to lose credibility and became a private club of SC members working to safeguard their own individual country 's interest . Pride and prejudice pervaded the Security Council and India and Israel were the first two countries to suffer at the hands of this SC and the UN . No wonder today the UN and the SC have become irrelevant in solving the problems among nations : Look at the ongoing wars -- Ukraine and Gaza ; terrorist menace and collapse of Syria . <p> Therefore , each country should think on the lines of Donald Trump , who believes in making his country America Great and America First . Is India listening to Trump ? <p> If this is about man 's failure in external affairs , his failure in internal affairs is worse . For the good of man in a political society there are many laws , systems and institutions . Here let me touch upon only the Law Courts , Presiding Officers ( Judges , Magistrates ) and lawyers because last Tuesday the Supreme Court said that ' any complaint without specific allegation must be nipped in the bud and the law should not be allowed to be misused for arm-twisting tactics by a wife or her family . ' This was in reference to a dowry harassment case of one Atul Subhash that had led to a suicide . But this precept should apply to all Court cases . <p> The point I wish to comment upon here is about the observations made by the Supreme Court . One is ' any complaint without specific allegation must be nipped in the bud . ' The second observation is , ' The law should not be allowed to be misused , ' apparently to arm-twist or harass the defendant . <p> My personal experience with Law Courts since 1961 to this day has been rather toxic . I realised suffering injustice silently as my karma . If so , wisdom lies in avoiding going to the Court and suffer injustice with a Court stamp . But what do you do when the complainant files a case and drags you to the Court ? You must defend yourself . It is in this context the Supreme Court made its observations . It means that the Lower Courts should not take on record a case which is mischievous and untenable on the face of it . <p> However , to act according to the Supreme Court 's advice the Lower Court Judges and Magistrates should be of such learning and humanity that they should conduct themselves as human beings . As Leo Tolstoy said that is possible only if they feel others ' pain . The pain of the defendant facing a case filed only to harass him . <p> I am a victim of this kind of cases filed against me when I was the editor of Star of Mysore and Mysuru Mithra . Let me mention just one case . This is about a report published in Star of Mysore about Bonded Labour in Hunsur . <p> The Divisional Commissioner Jayakumar Anagol had got the bonded labourer freed and got a case filed . Next I get an arrest warrant from a Hunsur Court without a summons preceding it . The Police Officer was sympathetic and allowed me to go to Hunsur that same day . I engaged a lawyer M.B. Charmana , got a bail . Well , the case was not taken to its logical end . What happened ? My lawyer told me it was dismissed as the complainant did not pursue or for some reason . But the complainant had taught me a lesson ! <p> Now , justice is served in two ways -- acquittal or conviction . What happens if the defendant is acquitted ? To Atul Subhash , it may not be justice ! <p> And what was Atul 's last wish ? <p> " If my wife and harassers are not held guilty , pour my ashes in a gutter near the Court . " <p> Wah ! What a wonderful world is ours ! <p> It has been so all along and will be so in the future too . Which is why Marie Curie said : " You can not hope to build a better world without improving the individual . " Hence , our Supreme Court should put a system in place where all its subordinate Court Judges and Magistrates are enabled to " individually improve " themselves as Tolstoy 's " human beings . " <h> ABOUT <p> Mysuru 's favorite and largest circulated English evening daily has kept the citizens of Mysuru informed and entertained since 1978 . Over the past 45 years , Star of Mysore has been the newspaper that Mysureans reach for every evening to know about the happenings in Mysuru city . The newspaper has feature rich articles and dedicated pages targeted at readers across the demographic spectrum of Mysuru city . With a readership of over 2,50,000 Star of Mysore has been the best connection between it 's readers and their leaders ; between advertisers and customers ; between Mysuru and Mysureans.
