<h> Share : <p> On Friday 6 December 2024 in an utterly deplorable act the Adass Israel Synagogue in the significantly Jewish suburb of Ripponlea in southeastern Melbourne was rapidly set ablaze by 3 unknown criminals using accelerant . The Zionists , the pro-Zionist Mainstream media , and the fervently pro-Zionist , pro-Apartheid Israel and pro-Apartheid Coalition Opposition and Labor Government all immediately blamed terrorism and demanded human rights constraints and strong action under draconian anti-terrorism laws . <p> Fortunately the building survived albeit damaged , and nobody was killed or injured . The nature of the criminal assailants is not yet known . Indeed they could quite conceivably be fanatical Zionists hoping to garner support for International Law-violating , serial war criminal and grossly human rights-violating Apartheid Israel that is presently involved in invasion , devastation , occupation and killing in 3 countries , namely Palestine ( 340,000 killed by year 's end ) , Lebanon ( 8,000 killed ) and Syria ( goodness how many killed in the ongoing , and massive Apartheid Israeli and US bombing . Key aspects of the response to the synagogue arson are sketched below . <p> ( A ) . Weaponizing and politicizing of the synagogue arson by genocidally racist and mendacious Zionists . <p> Benjamin Netanyahu ( PM of Apartheid Israel , a genocidal racist , pathological liar , presently subject to arrest warrants from the International Criminal Court ICC ) and charged with corruption in Apartheid Israel ) made the following egregiously false statement on X : " The burning of the Adass Israel synagogue in Melbourne is an abhorrent act of antisemitism . I expect the state authorities to use their full weight to prevent such antisemitic acts in the future . Unfortunately , it is impossible to separate this reprehensible act from the extreme anti-Israeli position of the Labor government in Australia , including the scandalous decision to support the UN resolution calling on Israel " to bring an end to its unlawful presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , as rapidly as possible " , and preventing a former Israeli minister from entering the country . Anti-Israel sentiment is antisemitism " 1 . <p> Netanyahu 's lies are readily exposed : ( i ) in the absence of an identified perpetrator of the arson , it was not necessarily antisemitism ; ( ii ) the Labor Government is a fervent supporter of Apartheid Israel , is complicit in the Gaza Genocide in 20 ways 2 , and lies for Australia-violating Apartheid Israel in 35 ways 3 -- it is hardly " anti-Israel " ; ( iii ) the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) has ordered Apartheid Israel to cease the illegal Occupation 4 , 5 ; ( iv ) former Israeli Minister Ayelet Shaked was excluded from Australia because she said Palestinian children were " little snakes " and advocated the flattening of Gaza 6 , 7 ; and ( v ) there is a large body of anti-racist Jews critical of Apartheid Israel -- they can hardly be anti-Semitic , and indeed the assertion that they are is false , defamatory and antisemitic 8 , 9 . <p> Peter Dutton ( fervently pro-Zionist Australian Coalition Leader of the Opposition ) adopted the position of the Zionists and Netanyahu : " An act of terrorism , plain and simple ... Albanese 's response to antisemitism deplorable ... act a tragedy and national disgrace ... synagogue fire should never have happened , and nobody should be surprised by the fact that it has happened , which is part of the tragedy ... This is an act of terrorism , pure and simple , and I think the Prime Minister 's deliberate decision to seek political advantage over the course of last 12 months on this issue and play to a domestic audience of Green voters , I think , has been deplorable and one of the worst things I 've ever seen in public life " 10 . Peter Dutton ( commenting on the newly-released 2023-2024 Antisemitism Report of the Executive Council of Australian Jewry ( ECAJ ) 11 ) : " Antisemitism is not just a threat to the Jewish community -- it is a stain on the values we hold as a nation ... Under the Albanese government 's watch , antisemitism has spiralled out of control . Their failure to act decisively has allowed hatred to fester and spread , leaving the Jewish community exposed to this wave of hostility ... This is not just a Jewish issue -- it is a national crisis , and it demands urgent action . Enough is enough " 12 . <p> Chris Minns ( pro-Zionist New South Wales ( NSW ) Labor Premier ) in responding to the Melbourne synagogue arson and pro-Palestinian protests outside Sydney 's Great Synagogue , said he would tighten laws to prohibit disrupting activities near places of worship . Peter Dutton praised this move as evidence that Labor state premiers were attempting to " distance themselves " from the Federal Labor Government 12 . <p> Anthony Albanese ( Australia 's fear-mongerng Labor Prime Minister ) has rightly decried antisemitism but concluded that the Melbourne synagogue arson was " terrorism " : " Terrorism is something that is aimed at creating fear in the community and the atrocities that occurred in the synagogue in Melbourne clearly were designed to create fear in the community and therefore from my personal perspective certainly fulfil that definition of terrorism . The protocols are that the state jurisdictions , who have the lead on this through Victoria Police , will make an assessment and a recommendation " 12 . The Victoria Police and the Australian Federal Police ( AFP ) indeed finally concluded that the arson was terrorism , noting that this has big implications for the severity of police actions and of judicial punishments . <p> ( B ) . Australia 's pro-Zionist , pro-Apartheid Israel and hence pro-Apartheid and pro-genocide governments are exploiting anti-Israel graffiti and several instances of deplorable but injury-free arson to move rapidly to curb human rights in the interests of traitorous Zionists and an Australia-violating , genocidal , child-killing , Zionazi Apartheid Israel . <p> ( i ) . Australian moves to prohibit protests in the vicinity of places of worship will curb peaceful anti-genocide protests . <p> The Federal Labor Government backs moves by the NSW and Victorian State Labor Governments to prohibit protests in the vicinity of places of worship , ostensibly in the name of " religious freedom " 13 , 14 . This sounds " reasonable " in the " present circumstances " as hysterically reported by racist and mendacious Australian Mainstream journalist , editor , politician , academic and commentariat pressttitutes but will severely constrain those protesting the ongoing Gaza Massacre and Gaza Genocide . <p> To put the present car and building arson atrocities ( no deaths or significant injuries ) in context , based on published mortality data from the top medical journal The Lancet and from Professor Devi Sridhar ( global health , University of Edinburgh ) it is estimated that violent and non-violent deaths in Gaza in the first year of the Gaza Massacre total 194,499 ( children ) , 24,588 ( women ) and 53,861 ( men ) for a total of 273,000 Gaza deaths 15 . Despite the great eminence and humanity of Professor Devi Sridhar her estimates have been overwhelmingly ignored by silent and hence genocide-complicit , racist and mendacious Australian Mainstream journalist , editor , politician , academic and commentariat pressttitutes . Silence is complicity and the Labor , Government , the Coalition Opposition and Mainstream presstitutes have utterly trashed Australia 's reputation ( such as it was 16 , 17 ) by making it complicit in the Gaza Genocide ( 335,500 killed by genocidal Jewish Israeli Zionazis by year 's end 15 ) and the century-long Palestinian Genocide ( 2.5 million Palestinians killed by violence , 0.1 million , and imposed deprivation , 2.4 million ) that is of similar magnitude to the WW2 Jewish Holocaust ( 5-6 million Jews killed through violence and imposed deprivation by the German Nazis ) 18 . <p> For 14 months of the Gaza Massacre , of 227 Federal MPs ( Labor , Coalition , One Nation , Teals and some other Independents ) all but 19 have refused to back an immediate and permanent Ceasefire in Gaza . The 19 Federal MPs voting for an immediate and permanent Ceasefire included 15 Greens , ex-Green Senator Lidia Thorpe , ex-Labor Senator Fatima Payman , Dr Helen Haines and Andrew Wilkie 19 , 20 . However worried about losing the votes of anti-racist Jews , Palestinians , Arabs and Muslims , Labor recently changed its contemptible position on the illegal Occupation by Zionazi Apartheid Israel as reported by The Guardian : " Australia has split with the US and voted with 156 other countries at the UN to demand the end of Israel 's " unlawful presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory as rapidly as possible " . The vote marks Australia 's return to the position for the first time in more than two decades ... A total of 157 UN member countries , including Australia , the UK and Canada , voted to support the resolution . Eight , including Argentina , Israel and the US , voted against it . Seven others abstained ... In another major shift on Australia 's voting record on the issue in the UN , Australia abstained on a resolution relating to resources given to an office for Palestinian rights within the UN . Australia has voted against the resolution since 2003 " 21 . The fervently pro-Zionist Coalition and traitorous Zionists condemned Labor 's new opposition to the Occupation as " anti-Israel " and hence in their perverted minds as " antisemitic " . Further , Australia has just voted for a UNGA Resolutions demanding an immediate and permanent Ceasefire in Gaza ( something it has opposed for 14 months ) and life-saving UNRWA entry into Gaza 22 <p> The bipartisan moves to prohibit protests in the vicinity of places of worship will curb anti-genocide protests that upset the racist Zionists . Thus anti-genocide activists notably Free Palestine Melbourne ( FPM ) and the Australia Palestine Advocacy Network ( APAN ) and others have organized huge and peaceful weekly Sunday Rallies for Gaza ( 12 noon , Victorian State Library , Melbourne CBD , every Sunday since the Palestinian Breakout from the Gaza Concentration Camp on 7 October 2023 ) . The rallies ( 5,000-40,000 people ) have been peaceful , have often had anti-racist Jewish speakers , warmly applaud Jewish attendees , and strongly and repeatedly condemn hatred and violence ( this being most strongly articulated by Nasser Mashni , president of the Australia Palestine Advocacy Network ( APAN ) ) . <p> On a personal note , notwithstanding 5 hospital admissions , I have attended most of the Sunday Rallies as a decent human being ( DHB ) , founding member of FPM , and as an anti-racist Jewish Australian with a sole allegiance of Australia and a family history punctuated by imposed genocide and ethnic cleansing : the 18th -- 19th century Scottish Clearances ; the 18th -- 19th century Prussian persecution and expulsion of Polish Jews ; the WW2 Jewish Holocaust in Hungary ( 28.2% of the pre-war Hungarian Jewish population killed 18 ) ; the UK-imposed and Australia-complicit WW2 Bengali Holocaust ( that impacted my dear late wife 's Bengali and Bihari people and killed 6-7 million people 19-21 ) , and the substantial ethnic cleansing of my wife 's Indian people via the US- , Australia- and Apartheid Israel-complicit Fiji coups in 1987 and 2000 23-30 . <p> APAN : " The Australia Palestine Advocacy Network ( APAN ) condemns the recent harmful rhetoric from Australia 's antisemitism envoy Jillian Segal , Liberal Senator Dave Sharma , and former Treasurer Josh Frydenberg . Their inflammatory comments over recent days smear peaceful Palestine solidarity protests as hateful , distorting the truth and vilifying those calling for an end to Israeli apartheid and genocide . They deflect attention from Israel 's crimes , including genocide -- confirmed last week in a meticulously researched Amnesty International report -- while stoking division and emboldening hate . These leaders ' prioritisation of defending the genocidal apartheid state of Israel over tending to the delicate social fabric of the Australian community and modelling inclusion , justice , equality and care only deepens the fractures in our society . Palestine solidarity protests across Australia have been overwhelmingly peaceful and inclusive , grounded in justice and human rights . Segal and Frydenberg betray their roles as leaders by misrepresenting these protests and undermining the fight against racism " 31 . <p> However the Sunday Gaza Rallies in Melbourne are held opposite a Christian church and the Rally march routes all pass major Christian churches . This move by the pro-Zionist Victorian Labor Government may conceivably terminate this weekly bearing witness to genocide . The key moral messages of the WW2 Jewish Holocaust and indeed of all genocide and holocaust atrocities are " zero tolerance for racism " , " zero tolerance for lying " , " bear witness " and " never again to anyone " . <p> Thus the ABC ( the Australian equivalent of the UK BBC ) reports : " As Syrians expressed obvious relief at the end of 54 years of one of the most brutal dictatorships of modern times , their neighbour Israel reacted in a very different way : a campaign of saturation bombing , launching an estimated 480 strikes in 48 hours . At the same time , Israeli soldiers moved into Syria to seize a significant swathe of land , extending what had been a buffer zone between the two countries . The scale of Israel 's bombing raises the question of how , longer-term , Israel sees its place in its neighbourhood . It led to many in the Arab world condemning Israel , including Saudi Arabia , Iraq and Qatar . The Qatari Foreign Ministry described Israel 's sending of soldiers to take land inside Syria as " a dangerous development and a blatant attack on Syria 's sovereignty and unity as well as a flagrant violation of international law " 32 . Apartheid Israel and the US have been bombing Syria for over a decade with the Syrians unable to defend themselves for fear of massive reprisals . The current invasion and saturation bombing of Syria by US-backed Apartheid Israel was defended by the Zionazis on the basis that " terrorists " might attack Israel -- Orwellian lying and massive war criminality . However peaceful city protests against these latest atrocities are likely to be banned in Zionist-subverted Australia . <p> In response to the Melbourne synagogue arson , corrupt crook and ICC-sought genocidal war criminal Benjamin Netanyahu declared that " anti-Israel sentiment is antisemitism " and ( despite no knowledge of the perpetrator ) that the attack was " antisemitic " . The Zionist-subverted and Zionist-perverted Labor , Coalition , Teal , One Nation and other Independent Federal Australian MPs have blindly adopted war criminal Netanyahu 's false assertions . In addition to excluding Occupied Palestinians from all the human rights set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights ( UDHR ) 33-36 and subjecting Israeli Palestinians to 65 racist , Nazi-style , discriminatory laws 37 , 38 , the Zionazis and their Zionist and pro-Zionist Australian supporters want to violate the human rights of Australians . <p> Months before the synagogue arson famous former SBS News presenter , Mary Kostakidis , was subject of a complaint to the Human Rights Commission for saying certain things . However her defence was that she was only acting as a responsible journalist in quoting what particular people had said 39 . Prominent Australian journalist Paul Barry used his ABC " Media Watch " TV program to expose mal-reportage of the ongoing Gaza atrocity -- 2 weeks later he was sacked . Australia already has a nasty litigious environment in which free speech is heavily constrained . In my informed and humane perspective Zionism is genocidal racism and Nazism without gas chambers but with massive repeated ethnic cleansing , a world -leading high technology military and weapons technology industry , and 90 nuclear weapons . There is a long list of 52 Zionist- and Apartheid Israeli-Nazi Germany comparisons 40 . Just 1 example : it is estimated that many of the 1,139 Israelis killed in the Palestinian Breakout from the Gaza Concentration Camp on 7 October 2023 were killed by the huge high explosive tank shelling and missile firepower of the responding IDF under its " Hannibal Directive " ( prevent hostage taking even if it means killing Israeli hostages ) 41 , 42 . However , ignoring this , the Occupied/Occupier Reprisals Death Ratio after 1 year of killing was 273,000/1,139 = 240 or 24 times greater than the Reprisals Death Ratio of 10 ordered by Nazi leader Adolph Hitler and effected in the 1944 Ardeatine Massacre in Rome 43 . Neo-Nazi is as neo-Nazi does . Nazi is as Nazi does . It is notable that the Reprisals Death Ratio in Gaza from 2008 to 6 October 2023 was 7,077 Palestinian deaths/340 Israeli deaths = 21 44 only 2 times greater than the 10 advocated by Hitler and pointing to horrific genocidal Zionazi intent in the present Gaza Massacre . <p> According to Benita Kolovos of The Guardian : " The Victorian anti-vilification bill creates two new criminal offences . The first will be to " incite hatred , serious contempt , revulsion or severe ridicule against another person or group based on their protected attribute " , with a penalty of up to three years ' imprisonment . The second will be to " threaten physical harm or property damage against a person or a group based on their protected attribute " , which carries up to five years ' imprisonment . These offences will apply in any context -- private , public or online . The existing serious vilification offence requires proof that a person has incited hatred and threatened physical harm or property damage . According to the government , proving both elements made prosecutions difficult . The bill also removes the requirement for police to seek consent from the director of public prosecutions to pursue offences , except when the accused is under 18 " 45 . Will reporting Australian- and Zionist-backed genocidal atrocities such as the ongoing Gaza Genocide " incite hatred , serious contempt , revulsion or severe ridicule against another person or group based on their protected attribute " ? Such reportage is the moral obligation of all decent people . Indeed as a Jewish Holocaust-impacted , anti-racist , anti-Zionist , Jewish Australian scientist , scholar and writer I am inescapably obliged to follow the key moral messages of the WW2 Jewish Holocaust ( and indeed of all holocaust and genocide atrocities ) to whit , " zero tolerance for racism " , " zero tolerance for lying " , " bear witness " and " never again to anyone " . <p> ( iii ) . Zionist-perverted Australian governments officially denoting deplorable but injury-free arson and graffiti actions targetting Jewish Australians as " terrorism " and " hate speech " means draconian fines and imprisonment for graffiti and free speech as well as for criminal arson . <p> In recent years there has been a spate of over 105 dreadful arson attacks on Melbourne tobacco shops that has been dubbed the Tobacco Wars . Similar arson attacksoccurred elsewhere in Australia , including in Western Australia , South Australia and Queensland . Draconian penalties were applied to people selling illicit tobacco or vapes . These attacks no doubt caused fear , destroyed businesses and threatened lives and property , but they were not declared " terrorist acts " 46 , 47 . However after the fire-bombing of a Palestinian-owned Burgertory chain restaurant in the significantly Jewish Melbourne suburb of Caulfield the Victoria Police have continued to deny that it was religiously or politically motivated . However the Burgertory eatery chain is owned by Palestinian Hash Tayeh who thinks otherwise and is a strong critic of the crimes of Apartheid Israel . The accused arsonist said it was linked to Palestine and he was paid $20,000 for the job . When a spontaneous pro-Palestine protest was held in a Caulfield park it was attacked by Zionist thugs , and police arrived in response to fears of Jewish worshippers in a nearby synagogue ( the protest organizers were unaware of this and politely apologized ) 46-50 . <p> In contrast several instances of car burnings and anti-Israel graffiti in the wealthy and significantly Jewish eastern Sydney suburb of Woollahra were regarded as " antisemitic " , " hate crimes " and " terror " incidents , with the NSW premier promising a massive police response 51 . The Australian Federal Police ( AFP ) established an antisemitism taskforce after the Melbourne synagogue attack and similar state measures have been taken in Victoria and NSW 52 . However when the school bus of an Islamic school was set on fire in Adelaide , South Australia , there was negligible national media coverage and the SA police said that they had no evidence that it was racially or politically motivated 53 , 54 . Ex-Labor Independent Senator Fatima Payman : " Islamic school bus torched yet there is no outrage . Two acts of arson , two acts of hate , but two very different responses " 55 . Bernard Keane ( Crikey ) has commented on this double standard applied to Muslim Australians : " Dutton 's kowtow to Netanyahu splits Australians into two classes : ordinary people and Muslims " 56 . <p> As evidenced in ( iii ) above , Zionist -- subverted and Zionist-perverted Australian governments , Labor , Coalition , Teal and One Nation politicians , and Mainstream media apply a double standard to anti-Arab anti-Semitism ( Islamophobia ) and anti- Jewish anti-Semitism . Indeed the very term " anti-Arab anti-Semitism " is absent from public discussion and reportage which takes " antisemitism " to exclusively mean " anti- Jewish anti-Semitism " . Yet while Arabs are Semitic , the Ashkenazi Jews ( Central and Eastern European Jews ) that rule Apartheid Israel , all of Palestine and slabs of Lebanon and Syria and have subverted the US and the West , are not ethnically Semitic , deriving from non-Semitic Turkic Khazar converts to Judaism in the 9th century CE 57-64 . A personal note : I come from a very famous Jewish Hungarian family ( ask any mathematician or surgeon ) and have had my DNA analysed -- I am 57% Ashkenazi Jewish , 24% British Celtic and with zero Middle Eastern Semitic , this being in accord with several centuries of recorded family history and living proof of the sheer falsehood of genocidal Zionism . <p> Outstanding anti-racist Jewish American scholar Professor Bertell Ollman : " Politically , this anti-Zionism means avoiding any association with this " rogue state " whatsoever ( as we did with South Africa earlier ) , boycotting it economically and otherwise ( keeping it out of the Olympics , for example ) , bringing pressure on our politicians to stop all U.S. aid ( private as well as public ) to Israel , supporting various sanctions ( including trade sanctions ) against it , calling for the strongest possible resolutions at the U.N . and in all other available forums denouncing Zionist human rights abuses , and , of course , confronting head-on the Zionist lobby that would oppose all this . Similar steps should be taken in Europe and elsewhere , but , given America 's power in the world in general and in Israel in particular , it is in our country that the fate of the Palestinian people -- and ultimately that of Judaism and what 's left of the Jewish people -- will be decided ... An all out struggle against Zionism by Jews , therefore , is also the most effective way to fight against real anti-Semitism . Furthermore , if Zionism is indeed a particularly virulent form of nationalism and , increasingly , of racism and if Israel is acting toward its captive minority in ways that resemble more and more how the Nazis treated their Jews , then we must also say so . For obvious reasons , the Zionists are very sensitive about being compared to the Nazis ( not so sensitive that it has restrained them in their actions but enough to bellow " unfair " and to charge " anti-Semitism " when it happens ) . Yet , the facts on the ground , when not obscured by one or another Zionist rationalization , show that the Zionists are the worst anti-Semites in the world today , oppressing a Semitic people as no nation has done since the Nazis " 57 . <p> Similarly , Moshe Menuhin ( scholarly father of famed musician and anti-Zionist Jew Yehudi Menuhin ) : " Jews should be Jews -- not Nazis " 57 . Likewise , famed Jewish Canadian writer Naomi Klein : " There is a debate among Jews -- I 'm a Jew by the way . The debate boils down to the question : " Never again to everyone , or never again to us ? ... Some Jews even think we get one **27;1345;TOOLONG card ... There is another strain in the Jewish tradition that says , " Never again to anyone " " 57 . <p> The Australian Labor Government fervently and despicably supports Apartheid Israel and its past and present genocidal crimes by adopting ( together with the Coalition , several Australian state governments and several Australian universities ) the racist and fraudulent International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance ( IHRA ) Definition of anti-Semitism.The IHRA Definition of anti-Semitism is anti-Jewish anti-Semitic ( by falsely defaming anti-racist Jewish humanitarians opposed to genocidally racist Zionism as anti-Semitic ) , anti-Arab anti-Semitic ( by falsely defaming anti-racist Palestinians , Arabs and Muslims opposed to Israeli Apartheid and the ongoing Palestinian Genocide as anti-Semitic ) and near-comprehensively holocaust denying by ignoring all WW2 holocausts other than the WW2 Jewish Holocaust ( 5-6 million Jews killed by Nazi Germany and its allies through violence and deprivation ) namely ( people killed by violence and deprivation in brackets ) the WW2 European Holocaust ( 30 million Slavs , Jews and Roma killed ) , the WW2 Chinese Holocaust ( 35-40 million Chinese killed under the Japanese , 1937-1945 ) , the WW2 Bengali Holocaust ( WW2 Indian Holocaust , WW2 Bengal Famine ; 6-7 million Indians deliberately starved to death for strategic reasons by the British with food-denying Australian complicity ) , and the Polish Holocaust ( 6 million Poles killed by Nazi Germany ) . Indeed the IHRA Definition ignores about 70 other genocide and holocaust atrocities including 30 involving Australia ) , this making the IHRA the most egregious holocaust-ignoring organization in the world . Not surprisingly the IHRA has been condemned by scholars around the world and by over 40 anti-racist Jewish organizations 2 , 3 , 65-75 . <p> The Zionist-subverted , Zionist-perverted , anti-Arab anti-Semitic and Gaza Genocide-complicit Australian Labor Government is facing a Federal election in about May 2025 and is worried about losing the election ( over major cost of living , housing , poverty , and inflation concerns ) , about losing support from Jews , Palestinians Arabs , Muslims and from both racist and anti-racists Jews , and about seats to the decent , humane and pro-Palestinian human rights Australian Greens . It has repugnantly ignored the Gaza Massacre as a major issue and instead has hysterically claimed massive anti-Jewish anti-Semitism and danger to " social cohesion " in multicultural Australia . It appointed an Antisemitism Envoy who is a member of the fanatically Zionist Executive Council of Australian Jewry , an organization that has falsely and damagingly defamed me ( an anti-racist Jewish Australian ) for a dozen years ( for details see 57 ) and after a long delay appointed an Islamophobia Envoy ( who like the Australian Labor Government is fervently pro-Israel 76 , an Apartheid rogue state that is presently occupying and devastating 3 mainly Muslim countries , namely Palestine , Lebanon and Syria ) . Words are cheap , and faced with community anger over the Gaza Genocide , the Australian Labor Government has recently voted with most of the world at the UNGA for an immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire in Gaza after 14 months of refusing to do so , and for life-saving UNRWA protected entry into Gaza21 , 22 . <p> The fervently pro-Zionsit and pro-Israel Coalition has gone so far as to deny the existence of Islamophobia in Australia . Thus NSW Coalition Senator Dave Sharma , responding to Melbourne synagogue arson , stated : " Any time any senior minister mentioned antisemitism in the last 12 months , they also mentioned a fictitious Islamophobia which was not going on " , a claim that was rejected by Muslims 77 . Thus the Islamophobia Register reported a 6-fold increase in Islamophobic attacks since 7 October 2023 77 . Islamophobia has been entrenched in Australia since 2001 78 . Likewise Peter Dutton ( Coalition Leader of the Opposition ) offensively stated : " I think the Labor prime minister stands condemned ... it 's for votes . He sold the Jewish community out for ' green ' votes . They have been prepared to sacrifice the wellbeing of the Jewish community here in Australia to do so " 79 . <p> The Australia Palestine Advocacy Network ( APAN ) has commented forcefully : " The Australia Palestine Advocacy Network ( APAN ) condemns the recent harmful rhetoric from Australia 's antisemitism envoy Jillian Segal , Liberal Senator Dave Sharma , and former Treasurer Josh Frydenberg . Their inflammatory comments over recent days smear peaceful Palestine solidarity protests as hateful , distorting the truth and vilifying those calling for an end to Israeli apartheid and genocide . They deflect attention from Israel 's crimes , including genocide -- confirmed last week in a meticulously researched Amnesty International report -- while stoking division and emboldening hate . These leaders ' prioritisation of defending the genocidal apartheid state of Israel over tending to the delicate social fabric of the Australian community and modelling inclusion , justice , equality and care only deepens the fractures in our society . Palestine solidarity protests across Australia have been overwhelmingly peaceful and inclusive , grounded in justice and human rights . Segal and Frydenberg betray their roles as leaders by misrepresenting these protests and undermining the fight against racism . Meanwhile , the Australian government 's silence on rampant Islamophobia and anti-Palestinian racism is deafening , especially in response to Sharma 's denial of Islamophobia as " fictitious . " This erases the lived experiences of Muslims and Palestinians facing daily hostility , oppression and violence , including death threats , fire bombings , bomb scares . A weekend arson attack on an Islamic school bus in Adelaide is just one example of hate that has been met with disturbing media and political indifference . Where is the call for justice ? Where is the government 's protection for Muslim communities ? It is clear that the antisemitism envoy role is being used to divide communities , rather than confront the true scourge of racism . APAN calls for the scrapping of this role and its equivalent , and a shift towards genuine , holistic and evidence-based action against all forms of racism " 80 <p> The Antisemitism Envoy Jillian Segal stated : " The internationally accepted definition of anti-Semitism makes it clear that criticism of Israel in a form that you would normally criticise another country , like its policies , is fine . But criticism of Israel , which damns it as a country that should be abolished , that should no longer exist , that all the Jews should disappear -- that is anti-Semitic " 55 . However that is an incorrect and inflammatory " straw man " argument . Anti-racism , anti-Apartheid , and anti-genocide , Jewish and non-Jewish anti-Zionists do not want " that all the Jews should disappear " because that is genocide -- in fact in the words of APAN they are " calling for an end to Israeli apartheid and genocide " 80 . <p> I have published a huge book entitled " Free Palestine . End Apartheid Israel , Human Rights Denial , Gaza Massacre , Child Killing , Occupation and Palestinian Genocide " that advocates a unitary state in Palestine for Jews and Arabs involving all human rights for all , secular democracy , peace , justice , economic justice , compensation , return of all refugees , reconciliation , zero tolerance for racism , total security guaranteed internationally with initial retention of present armed forces , and all citizens free to go anywhere in Palestine . It could happen today with acceptance of all human rights for all 81 , 82 . Should this book be banned because some Zionists Jews might feel intimidated ? <p> According to SBS News : " Australia 's antisemitism envoy has called for pro-Palestinian protests to be banned from city centres , saying they have become " intimidatory " to the Jewish community " 81 . The envoy stated : " The cities should not be utilised for that . SBS News . There should be places designated away from where the Jewish community might venture , where people can demonstrate . That is not to in any way attack the right of people to express their views , but at some point , holding protest every single week becomes intimidatory in the city " 83 . As a pro-peace , anti-racist Jewish Australian scientist , scholar and humanitarian I have attended most of the Sunday Gaza Rallies that have been held every Sunday since the 7 October 2023 Palestinian Breakout from the Gaza Concentration Camp ( 12 noon , Victorian State Library , every Sunday ) and carry a highly visible , 20-sided placard that reads WORLD:END PALESTINIAN GENOCIDE , ZIONISM and on the other side BOYCOTT APARTHEID ISRAEL , LABOR , LIBS ( for a photo see 84 ) . I and other anti-racist Jews felt perfectly safe among 5,000-40,000 mostly Palestinian , Arab and Muslim protesters . The Rallies were impeccably peaceful , the speakers often included anti-Zionist Jews , anti-Zionist Jewish attendees felt perfectly safe in identifying themselves as Jews and were routinely warmly applauded by the speakers and the Rally attendees . Indeed violence , hate and antisemitism were routinely and specifically condemned . <p> ( v ) . Horrific disproportionality of Zionist concerns and in Zionist-subverted government actions . <p> There is extraordinary disproportionality in Zionist and Labor-Coalition Duopoly concerns over zero killed or injured in nevertheless deplorable Israel-linked arson and graffiti attacks ( denoted as " terrorism " by Zionists and Zionist-subverted Australian governments ) versus the ongoing Gaza Genocide involving 273,000 Gazan killed in year 1 of the Australia-complicit and Jewish Israeli-imposed Gaza Massacre including 194,499 children , 24,588 women and 53,861 men ( overwhelmingly ignored by Australian and Western Mainstream media ) 15 , 85-104 . For the latest assessment of Gaza deaths after 1 year of the Gaza Massacre see 95 . <p> While those responsible for the synagogue arson , and the torching of cars and anti-Israel graffiti in Sydney will be sought and punished under draconian terrorism laws , those responsible for torching the bus of an Islamic school in Adelaide and the arson of a Palestinian restaurant in Melbourne will not . The Coalition Opposition will not act on ICC arrest warrants for war criminals Benjamin Netanyahu and Yoav Gallant ( responsible for the killing in the last 14 months of about 340,000 Palestinians , 8000 Lebanese and an unknown number of Syrians ) and indeed is thinking of quitting the ICC . The Labor Government makes noises about International Law but has n't yet said what it will do 105 . <p> There is silence from the anti-Arab anti-Semitic Labor Government- Coalition Duopoly over the Apartheid Israeli invasion of Syria and the massive bombing of Syria that renders the now only lightly armed new Syrian authorities utterly incapable of defending themselves from the genocidally racist Zionazi invaders . For the Zionist-subverted , Zionist-perverted and US lackey Liberal-Labor Duopoly reality is what the traitorous Zionists and Zionist-subverted Americans say it is . Thus it has ignored a 2010 report to MPs and the AFP listing 50 ways racist Zionists violate Australia 106. 4 and possibly all of 5 detailed Submissions about massive corruption and war criminality sent to the National Anti-Corruption Commission ( NACC ) have been rejected ( the possibly 1 surviving Submission concerns the cowardly and traitorous Australian Labor Government lying for Australia-violating Apartheid Israel 107 . Will the Australian Establishment reactions to the deplorable Melbourne arson do to human rights in Australia what exploitation of the Reichstag fire did to human rights in Germany ? Zionazi-subverted Australia needs de-Nazification . <p> I sent the following Letters to major Australian Mainstream media ( so they ca n't say they did n't know ) : <p> 12 December 2024 . Labor , Coalition and Teal politicians have been subverted by Zionists to accept war criminal Netanyahu 's false assertions that " anti-Israel sentiment is antisemitism " and that saturation bombing of Gaza , Lebanon and now of recently liberated Syria is warranted because of " terrorism " . However this Orwellian perversion threatens human rights of Australians : ( i ) moves to prohibit protests in the vicinity of places of worship will curb peaceful anti-genocide protests like the weekly Sunday Gaza Rallies in Melbourne ; ( ii ) promised tougher laws against asserted " hate speech " and " antisemitism " threaten the free speech of pro-human rights and anti-genocide Australians ; ( iii ) officially denoting deplorable but injury-free actions as " terrorism " means draconian fines and imprisonment for graffiti and free speech as well as for criminal arson and conspiracy ; ( iv ) Zionist perverted Australian governments ignore deadly US , US Alliance , Australian and Apartheid Israeli anti-Arab anti-Semitism ( against Arabs and Muslims ) and false and damaging anti- Jewish anti-Semitism ( against anti-racist Jews falsely defamed as assertedly " antisemitic " ) ; and ( v ) horrific perceptional disproportionality e.g. zero killed or injured in Israel-linked arson and graffiti denoted as " terrorism " versus 273,000 Gazan killed in year 1 of the Australia-complicit and Jewish Israeli-imposed Gaza Massacre , this including 194,000 children , 25,000 women and 54,000 men . <p> 13 December 2024 . Australia 's Antisemitism Envoy advocates a ban on pro-Palestinian protests in Australian cities : " The cities should not be utilised for that . There should be places designated away from where the Jewish community might venture , where people can demonstrate . That is not to in any way attack the right of people to express their views , but at some point , holding protests every single week becomes intimidatory in the city " ( SBS ) . I strongly disagree with this proposed censorship . <p> As a pro-peace , anti-racist Jewish Australian scientist , scholar and humanitarian I have attended most of the Melbourne Sunday Gaza Rallies that have been held every Sunday since the 7 October 2023 Palestinian Breakout from the Gaza Concentration Camp ( 12 noon , Victorian State Library ) and carry a highly visible , 2-sided placard that reads WORLD:END PALESTINIAN GENOCIDE , ZIONISM and BOYCOTT APARTHEID ISRAEL , LABOR , LIBS ( see The Age 8/12 ) . I and other anti-Zionist Jews feel absolutely safe among 5,000-40,000 mostly indignant Palestinian , Arab and Muslim protesters . The Rallies are peaceful , speakers often include anti-Zionist Jews , Jewish attendees feel perfectly safe and are routinely warmly applauded by the speakers and the Rally attendees . Violence , hate and antisemitism are extremely strongly condemned by the organizers . <p> The following Submission re the Melbourne synagogue arson atrocity has been made in the public interest to the Victorian Police , the Australian Federal Police ( AFP ) , the National Anti-Corruption Commission ( NACC ) , Federal and Victorian State MPs and to others ( notably media ) . <p> SUBMISSION . Dear etc , <p> I have personally addressed a Letter re the Melbourne synagogue arson atrocity ( below ) to the editors of major Australian Mainstream media under the Subject heading " Zionists benefit enormously from the synagogue arson " ( cc Federal and Victorian State MPs , NACC , AFP , Victoria Police ) . <p> Mainstream media reports have revealed that Apartheid Israel has been involved in the following crimes against Australians : threatening , bullying , defaming , deceiving , censoring , subverting , perverting , kidnapping in international waters , illegal detention , robbing , tasering , shooting , large-scale bombing , large-scale larceny , large-scale forging of Australian passports , torturing , killing and perversion and subversion of Australian individuals , Australian institutions and Australian governments . Apartheid Israel grossly violates the human rights of both Palestinian Australians and their captive relatives in Palestine , robbing them of human rights , property , and indeed a homeland . A detailed report listing 50 ways racist Zionists violate Australia has been sent to MPs and the Australian Federal Police in 2010 ( Gideon Polya , " Racist Zionism and Israeli State Terrorism threats to Australia and Humanity " , Palestinian Genocide , 2010 : https : **39;1374;TOOLONG ... ) . <p> To put the present arson atrocity ( no deaths or significant injuries ) in context , based on published mortality data from the top medical journal The Lancet and from Professor Devi Sridhar ( global health , University of Edinburgh ) it is estimated that violent and non-violent deaths in Gaza total 194,499 ( children ) , 24,588 ( women ) and 53,861 ( men ) for a total of 273,000 Gaza deaths in the first year of the Australian Labor Government-complicit Gaza Genocide ( Gideon Polya , " Estimated 273,000 Gazans Killed In the First Year Of Oxford Union-Perceived Gaza Genocide By Apartheid Israel " , Countercurrents , 6 December 2024 : https : **39;1415;TOOLONG ... ) . Silence is complicity . <p> LETTER . Like all decent Australians the anti-racist , anti-Apartheid , anti-Zionist and pro-Palestinian human rights Jewish Council of Australia , Australian Palestinian Advocacy Network , Australian Greens and Australian Socialists have unequivocally condemned the deplorable arson attack on a Melbourne synagogue . However while the core ethos of Humanity is Kindness and Truth , ICC-sought war criminal and liar Netanyahu has falsely accused the Labor Government of being " extreme anti-Israel " , stating that " anti-Israel sentiment is antisemitism " . The Zionist-perverted Coalition Opposition and racist Zionists ( a ) likewise attribute the arson to Labor 's UNGA vote for an end to the Occupation , " terrorism " , " hate speech " , and pro-human rights protesters supposedly damaging " social cohesion " , and ( b ) together with Zionist-subverted Labor , propose further severe constraints on Australian freedom of speech in the interests of an Australia-violating , Australian-killing and International Law-violating Apartheid Israel . Ex-CIA Philip Agee in " Inside the Company . CIA Diary " describes how his CIA colleagues bombed Ecuador churches to excite anti-Communism while his unexciting job was to bribe Ecuador government , opposition and trade union " assets " ( this immediately indicating Australian CIA " assets " like the CIA-praised " two Bobs " ) . CIA-backed Gladio did likewise in Europe . Cui bono ? Traitorous Zionists benefit enormously from the synagogue arson ( cc MPs , NACC , AFP , Victoria Police ) . END LETTER . <h> Related Posts <p> by Asa Winstanley and Ali Abunimah Israeli tanks were reportedly on the outskirts of Damascus early on Tuesday , as Israel launched airstrikes across the country that are being called " the heaviest in the history of Syria . " ... <p> Following yet another United States veto of a United Nations Security Council resolution calling for a cessation of hostilities in Gaza , members of the U.N . General Assembly voted overwhelmingly Wednesday in favor of ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
