<h> The Roads to Damascus <h> Share : <p> None but a few corrupt cronies will be shedding tears at the tyrant 's departure . But there should be no doubt that what we are witnessing in Syria today is a huge defeat , a mini 1967 for the Arab world . As I write , Israeli land forces have entered this battered country . There is not yet a definitive settlement , but a few things are clear . Assad is a refugee in Moscow . His Baathist apparatus did a deal with the Eastern NATO leader , Recep Tayyip Erdogan ( whose brutalities in Idlib are legion ) , and offered up the country on a platter . The rebels have agreed that Assad 's Prime Minister , Mohammed Ghazi al-Jalali , should continue to oversee the state for the time being . Will this be a form of Assadism without Assad , even if the country is about to pivot geopolitically away from Russia and what remains of the ' Resistance Axis ' ? <p> Like Iraq and Libya , where the US has a lock on the oil , Syria will now become a shared American -- Turkish colony . US imperial policy , globally , is to break up countries that can not be swallowed whole and remove all meaningful sovereignty in order to assert economic and political hegemony . This may have started ' accidentally ' in the former Yugoslavia but it has since become a pattern . EU satellites use similar methods to ensure that smaller nations ( Georgia , Romania ) are kept under control . Democracy and human rights have little to do with any of this . It 's a global gamble . <p> In 2003 , after Baghdad fell to the US , the exultant Israeli Ambassador in Washington congratulated George W. Bush and advised him not to stop now , but to move on to Damascus and Tehran . Yet the US victory had an unintended but predictable side-effect : Iraq became a rump Shia state , enormously strengthening Iran 's position in the region . The debacle there , and subsequently in Libya , meant that Damascus had to wait for more than a decade before receiving proper imperial attention . Meanwhile , Iranian and Russian support for Assad upped the stakes of routine regime change . <p> Now , Assad 's ousting has created a different type of vacuum -- likely to be filled by NATO 's Turkey and the US via the ' ex-al-Qaida ' Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( the rebranding of its leader Abu Mohammad al-Jolani as a freedom fighter after his stint in a US prison in Iraq is par for the course ) , as well as Israel . The latter 's contribution was enormous , having disabled Hezbollah and wrecked Beirut with yet another round of massive bombing raids . In the wake of this victory , it is difficult to imagine that Iran will be left alone . Though the ultimate aim for both the US and Israel is regime change there , degrading and disarming the country is the first priority . This wider plan for reshaping the region helps to explain the unstinting support given by Washington and its European proxies to the continuing Israeli genocide in Palestine . After more than a year of slaughter , the Kantian principle that state actions must be such that they can become a universally respected law looks like a sick joke . <p> Who will replace Assad ? Before his flight , some reports suggested that if the dictator made a 180-degree turn -- breaking with Iran and Russia and restoring good relations with the US and Israel , as he and his father had done before -- then the Americans might be inclined to keep him on . Now it is too late , but the state apparatus that abandoned him has declared its readiness to collaborate with whomever . Will Erdogan do the same ? The Sultan of Donkeys will surely want his own people , nurtured in Idlib since they were child soldiers , in charge and under Ankara 's control . If he succeeds in imposing a Turkish puppet regime , it will be another version of what happened in Libya . But he is unlikely to have it all his own way . Erdogan is strong on demagogy but weak on actions , and the US and Israel might veto a cleansed al-Qaida government for their own reasons , despite having used the jihadis to fight Assad . Regardless , it is unlikely that the replacement regime will abolish the Mukhabarat ( secret police ) , illegalize torture or offer accountable government . <p> Prior to the Six Day War , one of the central components of Arab nationalism and unity was the Baath Party that ruled Syria and had a strong base in Iraq ; the other , more powerful one was Nasser 's government in Egypt . Syrian Baathism during the pre-Assad period was relatively enlightened and radical . When I met Prime Minister Yusuf Zuayyin in Damascus in 1967 , he explained that the only way forward was to outflank conservative nationalism by making Syria ' the Cuba of the Middle East ' . Yet Israel 's assault that year led to the speedy destruction of the Egyptian and Syrian armies , which paved the way for the death of Nasserite Arab nationalism . Zuayyin was toppled and Hafez-al Assad was propelled to power with tacit US support -- much like Saddam Hussein in Iraq , whom the CIA supplied with a list of the top cadres of the Iraqi Communist Party . The Baathist radicals in both countries were discarded , and the party 's founder Michel Aflaq resigned in disgust when he saw where it was headed . <p> These new Baathist dictatorships were supported by certain sections of the population , however , as long as they provided a basic safety net . Iraq under Saddam and Syria under the Assad p ? re et fils were brutal but social dictatorships . Assad Senior hailed from the middle-strata of the peasantry , and passed several progressive reforms to ensure that his class was kept happy , reducing the tax burden and abolishing usury . In 1970 , a vast majority of Syrian villages had only natural light ; peasants woke up and went to sleep with the sun . A couple decades later , the construction of the Euphrates dam enabled the electrification of 95% of them , with energy heavily subsidized by the state . <p> It was these policies , rather than repression alone , which guaranteed the stability of the regime . Most of the population turned a blind eye to the torture and imprisonment of citizens in the cities . Assad and his coterie firmly believed that man was little more than an economic creature , and that if needs of this type could be satisfied , then only a small minority would rebel ( ' one or two hundred at the most ' , Assad remarked , ' were the types for whom Mezzeh prison was originally intended ' ) . The eventual uprising against the younger Assad in 2011 was triggered by his turn to neoliberalism and the exclusion of the peasantry . When it calcified into a bitter civil war , one option would have been a compromise settlement and power-sharing deal -- but the apparatchiks who are currently negotiating with Erdogan advised against any such arrangement . <p> During one of my visits to Damascus , the Palestinian intellectual Faisal Darraj confided that the Mukhabarat agent who gave him permission to leave the country for conferences abroad always laid down a condition : ' Bring back the latest Baudrillard and Virilio . ' Always nice to have educated torturers , as the great Arab novelist Abdelrahman Munif -- a Saudi by birth and leading intellectual of the Baath Party -- might have said . Munif 's 1975 novel Sharq al-Mutawassit ( East of the Mediterranean ) is a devastating account of political torture and imprisonment , which the Egyptian literary critic Sabry Hafez described as a book of ' exceptional power and ambition , aspiring to write the ultimate political prison in all its variations ' . When I spoke with Munif in the nineties he said , with a sad look on his face , that these were the themes that dominated Arabic literature and poetry : a tragic commentary on the state of the Arab nation . Today , this shows little sign of changing . Even if the rebels have freed some of Assad 's prisoners , they will soon replace them with their own . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> The US and most of the EU have spent the past year successfully sustaining and defending a genocide in Gaza . All US client states in the region remain intact , while three non-clients -- Iraq , Libya and Syria -- have been beheaded . The fall of the latter removes a crucial supply line linking a number of anti-Zionist factions . Geostrategically , it is a triumph for Washington and Israel . This must be recognized , but despair is worthless . How an effective resistance will reconstitute itself depends on the coming clash between Israel and a besieged Iran , which is engaged in direct underground talks with the US and certain members of Trump 's entourage , while also speeding up the development of its nuclear plans . The situation is fraught with danger . <p> Tariq Ali is a Writer , journalist and film-maker Tariq Ali was born in Lahore in 1943 . He owned his own independent television production company , Bandung , which produced programmes for Channel 4 in the UK during the 1980s . He is a regular broadcaster on BBC Radio and contributes articles and journalism to magazines and newspapers including The Guardian and the London Review of Books . He is editorial director of London publishers Verso and is on the board of the New Left Review , for whom he is also an editor . He writes fiction and non-fiction and his non-fiction includes 1968 : Marching in the Streets ( 1998 ) , a social history of the 1960s ; Conversations with Edward Said ( 2005 ) ; Rough Music : Blair , Bombs , Baghdad , London , Terror ( 2005 ) ; and Speaking of Empire and Resistance ( 2005 ) , which takes the form of a series of conversations with the author . <h> Related Posts <p> The long-harboured aspirations of the US , Turkey and Israel to topple the Syrian government , mainly through their rebranded al-Qaeda allies , succeeded at lightning speed . Damascus fell days after Hay'at Tahrir ... <p> by Asa Winstanley and Ali Abunimah Israeli tanks were reportedly on the outskirts of Damascus early on Tuesday , as Israel launched airstrikes across the country that are being called " the heaviest in the history of Syria . " ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
