<h> Support peaceful Syrian political transition : Blinken urges nations <p> Jerusalem , Dec 13 : US Secretary of State Antony Blinken is pressing ahead with efforts to unify Middle East nations in support of a peaceful political transition in Syria . On Friday he met Turkiye 's foreign minister after talks with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to try to bring Turkiye into a consensus to prevent Syria from collapsing into wider turmoil . It 's Blinken 's 12th trip to the Mideast since the Israel-Hamas war erupted in Gaza last year but first since the ouster of Syrian President Bashar Assad . The outgoing Biden administration is particularly concerned that a power vacuum in Syria could exacerbate already heightened tensions in the region and create conditions for the Islamic State group to regain territory and influence.US and Turkiye on Syria 's future Blinken said Friday there was " broad agreement " between Turkiye and the United States on what they would like to see in Syria following the ouster of President Assad . " There 's broad agreement on what we would like to see going forward , starting with the interim government in Syria , one that is inclusive and non-sectarian and one that protects the rights of minorities and women " and does not " pose any kind of threat to any of Syria 's neighbours , " Blinken said in joint statements with Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan . The insurgent groups that toppled Assad in Syria have not made clear their policy or stance on Israel , whose military in recent days has bombed sites all over the country , saying it is trying to prevent weapons from falling into extremist hands . Blinken also said it was crucial to keep the Islamic State group under control . " We also discussed the imperative of continuing the efforts to keep ISIS down . Our countries worked very hard and gave a lot over many years to ensure the elimination of the territorial caliphate of ISIS to ensure that that threat does n't rear its head again , " Blinken said . The Turkish foreign minister said the two discussed ways of establishing prosperity in Syria and ending terrorism in the country . " Our priority is establishing stability in Syria as soon as possible , preventing terrorism from gaining ground , and ensuring that IS and the PKK are n't dominant , " Fidan said , in a reference to the banned Kurdistan Workers Party . Blinken said : " We 're very focused on Syria , very focused on the opportunity that now is before us and before the Syrian people to move from out from under the shackles of Bashar al-Assad to a different and better future for the Syrian people , one that the Syrian people decide for themselves . " Blinken and Fidan said they had also discussed a ceasefire for Gaza . " We 've seen in the last couple of weeks more encouraging signs that ( a ceasefire ) is possible , " Blinken said.Turkiye to reopen embassy in Syria Turkiye has appointed a temporary charge d'affaires to reopen its embassy in Syria , Turkiye 's state-run news agency reported . The Turkish Embassy in Damascus had suspended operations in 2012 due to the escalating security problems during the Syrian civil war and embassy staff and their families were recalled to Turkiye . The Anadolu Agency said late Thursday that Turkiye appointed Burhan Koroglu , its ambassador in Mauritania , to the post.UN aid convoys attacked in Gaza Two UN aid convoys were violently attacked in Gaza , making it virtually impossible for humanitarian agencies to operate without putting staff and civilians at risk , the UN food agency says . On Wednesday , a 70-truck convoy from Kerem Shalom was waiting for personnel to safeguard the food and other aid destined for central Gaza when there were reported attacks by Israeli forces in the nearby humanitarian zone , the UN World Food Programme said Thursday . More than 50 people are now estimated to have died in the attacks , including civilians and local security personnel who had been expected to ensure the convoy 's safety , WFP said . The Rome-based agency said the convoy was forced to proceed from Kerem Shalom to central Gaza without any security arrangements , using the Philadelphi corridor , an Israeli-controlled route that had been recently approved and successfully utilised twice . On the way , WFP said , conflict and insecurity led to a loss of communications with the convoy for more than 12 hours . " Eventually , the trucks were found but all food and aid supplies were looted , " the UN agency said . In a second incident , Israeli soldiers approached a WFP convoy moving out of the Kissufim crossing into central Gaza , fired warning shots , conducted extensive security checks , and temporarily detained drivers and staff , the agency said . " As the trucks were delayed , four out of the five trucks were lost to violent armed looting , " WFP said.UN chief urges Israel to stop attacks on Syria The United Nations chief has a message for Israel : Stop the attacks on Syria . Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres is particularly concerned about several hundred Israeli airstrikes on several Syrian locations and stresses " the urgent need to de-escalate violence on all fronts throughout the country , " UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric told reporters Thursday . The Israeli military said Tuesday it carried out more than 350 strikes in Syria over the previous 48 hours , hitting " most of the strategic weapons stockpiles " in the country to stop them from falling into the hands of extremists . Israel also acknowledged pushing into a buffer zone inside Syria following last week 's overthrow of President Assad . The buffer zone was established after Israel seized the Golan Heights from Syria in the 1973 war . Dujarric said Guterres condemns all actions violating the 1974 ceasefire agreement between the two countries that remains in force . And the UN chief calls on the parties to uphold the agreement and end " all unauthorised presence in the area of separation " and refrain from any action undermining the ceasefire and stability in the Golan Heights , the spokesman said . ( AP ) <h> Follow us <h> About Us <p> The Shillong Times first appeared as a tabloid weekly on 10th August 1945 under the editorship of Late Sudhindra Bhusan Chaudhuri . In 1958 it was converted to a Daily . Owing to financial constraints , within six months it reverted back to a weekly .
