<h> The framework that ended Lebanon 's war in 2006 could help end this one too , says Tarek Mitri <h> Lebanon 's former foreign minister says any Israeli plan to reshape the country is a recipe for more chaos <p> The Economist <p> Published14 Dec 2024 , 06:05 PM IST <p> This picture shows the destruction in the southern Lebanese village of Khiam on December 13 , 2024 , after Israel withdrew from the area as Lebanon 's army deployed under a ceasefire deal with Hezbollah . ( Photo by AFP ) <p> FOR ISRAEL , Lebanon is once again a killing field . Air strikes and now an ever-growing ground incursion have exacted an enormous price from Lebanese civilians . But to see Israel 's stated goal of the complete destruction of Hizbullah as a way toward peace is misguided , because it views Hizbullah through too narrow a lens . Instead there is hope , conditional on American pressure , for a durable ceasefire drawing on the plan that put an end to the war with Israel in 2006 and embodied in UN Security Council Resolution 1701 . <p> A conservative government estimate suggests that in the current conflict 1.2m Lebanese people -- nearly a quarter of the population -- have been displaced . As targeted air strikes decimated military and political leaders of Hizbullah , more than 2,000 have been killed and 10,000 injured . Never in any war in Lebanon have military operations killed so many rescue workers , firefighters and paramedics . In southern Lebanon several villages have been emptied and flattened . As in Gaza , the Israeli army has proved its disregard for international humanitarian law , specifically the notions of proportionality and distinction between combatants and civilians . <p> What , at this stage , remains of Hizbullah and its capabilities ? Its leadership is probably disorientated and facing debilitating communication and co-ordination problems . But it is not just a military organisation , and thus in any event it will not disappear . It has been a grave mistake for Israel and other enemies of Hizbullah to cast it as merely a part of Iran 's surrogate network . In addition to its military structure , it is a strong Lebanese party with a highly influential political representation . It runs a constellation of civil and community efforts , such as a large web of educational and health institutions . Its considerable popular following -- crucially , not only among the country 's Shia Muslims -- is undeniable . <p> Many Lebanese therefore do not think that the defeat of Hizbullah is necessarily a gain for them . To be clear , plenty of people , perhaps a majority , disputed the group 's decision to risk dragging Lebanon into all-out war . They now blame it for drawing Israel 's fury . Nevertheless , most Lebanese do not see the Israelis as their liberators . <p> The rhyming of history matters here . An Israeli invasion in 1982 aimed at Palestinian militants led to war and an 18-year occupation in the country 's south , and the creation of a buffer zone in the border area . This occupation was the crucible in which Hizbullah was formed : militants mostly from southern towns and villages fought relentlessly , achieving a total Israeli withdrawal in 2000 . <p> No less a rhyme is the war in 2006 . Israel 's objective , then as now , was to degrade Hizbullah 's capabilities . But the wider destruction was severe . Fierce resistance , Lebanese diplomatic efforts and the belated displeasure of America helped prevent even more devastation . What formally ended the war was Resolution 1701 , which called for a cessation of hostilities and Israeli withdrawal ; for respect of the " Blue Line " , a provisional border ; and for UN troops , alongside the Lebanese Armed Forces , to deploy south of the Litani river , about 30km north of the border . <p> For 17 years , the resolution was largely respected . Although Hizbullah did not pull out of the area south of the Litani , its presence was not visible , and the cessation of hostilities was not significantly violated . That changed in October last year , and I believe that today the implementation of Resolution 1701 by all parties is a necessary condition -- but perhaps not a sufficient one -- for a durable ceasefire . <p> Peace in southern Lebanon is inseparable from the restoration of Lebanon 's state sovereignty over its territory . It will require the establishment of an area between the Blue Line and the Litani river , free of any armed personnel , assets and weapons other than those of the Lebanese government . The UN force must be enhanced and affirm its authority to " take all necessary action " where it is deployed . Most importantly , the national army must play a more robust role in exerting the authority of the Lebanese government . That will require considerable international support to the Lebanese Armed Forces -- beyond limited American assistance , which is often vulnerable to American domestic politics and Israeli wishes . <p> Israel 's declared military objectives may , as they were in Gaza , be revised on the ground , foreshadowing an absolute war of annihilation . However , a total defeat of Hizbullah , like a total victory over Hamas , will remain elusive ; for now , there are no clear political objectives in sight . Even if many Lebanese have not supported Hizbullah and its military activity against Israel , they are almost unanimously appalled by the collective punishment imposed on them . They are united in their call for an end to this war . <p> The Israeli illusion of building a new Lebanon and reshaping the Middle East , exemplified by many declarations of officials and opposition figures , sparks memories . It evokes the deceit that became apparent after the war on Iraq in 2003 , and the talk , during the 2006 war in Lebanon , of the " birth pangs of a new Middle East " . But since that time , we have seen nothing but more violence , more desolation , more anarchy . It is time for a ceasefire and diplomacy , and ultimately for securing the strict implementation of the international resolution already on the table -- for the good of not just Lebanon . <p> Tarek Mitri was a foreign minister of Lebanon in 2006 and held several ministerial posts between 2005 and 2011 . He is the president of St George University of Beirut .
