<h> Global Dynamics in a Year of Domestic Contestation and Political Shifts <h> Global Dynamics in a Year of Domestic Contestation and Political Shifts <h> Foreword <p> In 2024 , two devastating conflicts intensified : the war in Ukraine , and the escalating crisis in Gaza . In Ukraine , the conflict reshaped global alliances , with NATO reclaiming a pivotal role as Europe reexamined and bolstered its defence and security strategies . In the Middle East , the crisis in Gaza expanded to involve Lebanon , exacerbating an already dire humanitarian situation as blockades and military operations worsened civilian suffering . Both conflicts underscored the fragility of international norms , the challenges to achieving lasting resolutions , and the interplay between local grievances and broader geopolitical rivalries . Together , they emphasise the urgent need for diplomatic engagement , humanitarian relief , and sustainable frameworks for peace . <p> The year also marked the largest election year in modern history , with millions of people across Africa , Asia , Europe , and the Americas going to the polls to elect their representatives and leaders . In Latin America , at least six countries have voted in 2024 , while in Africa , nearly 17 nations have already held or are about to hold elections at the time of writing . <p> In the African continent , these high-stakes elections have been accompanied by a troubling resurgence of military coups . While some nations achieved peaceful democratic transitions , others grappled with contested outcomes and coups d ' ? tat amid ongoing security crises , economic hardships , and climate challenges . <p> In India , home to the world 's largest electorate , the elections resulted in a broad continuity of leadership , albeit with a diminished mandate for the ruling party . In neighbouring Bangladesh , widespread post-poll protests overthrew Sheikh Hasina 's regime and upended the country 's stability . In the United Kingdom , elections ended 14 years of Conservative reign and brought the centre-left Labour Party to power . In France , the elections resulted in a closely contested outcome , leaving the ruling government with a fragile parliamentary majority and the daunting task of navigating a fragmented political landscape . <p> Meanwhile , Donald Trump 's decisive election victory in the United States threatens to undermine multilateral governance structures that are already under immense strain . Just as the US election results poured in , Germany 's coalition government collapsed , leaving a complex political situation that will likely take months to resolve . As the West looked on , the expanded BRICS grouping , fraught with internal divisions , held its 16th summit in October . Amid these shifts , regional actors are stepping in to reshape global governance by addressing critical gaps , both nationally and collectively . Morocco 's Atlantic initiatives and Africa 's broader cooperation schemes exemplify the rising impact of complementary frameworks in driving innovative solutions to global challenges . <p> Such domestic shifts will impact policymaking across the globe , in areas ranging from climate change to trade and security policy . With protectionist tendencies in vogue and the imposition of tariffs dominating the economic toolkits of nations , new leaderships are slated to recalibrate trade policies . At the same time , key global actors such as India , the US , and the EU are working to reduce their dependencies on the Chinese market . In Europe , far-right surges are impacting mainstream parties , which are tempted to adopt parts of the far-right agenda to appeal to voters , in the process potentially compromising sections of the ambitious European Green Deal . The advent of digital technologies , while increasing citizen engagement , has also exacerbated the threat of disinformation undermining elections . Meanwhile , migration remains a pivotal issue for many regions , including Europe and Africa , frequently used as a convenient scapegoat for deeper socio-economic and political challenges as countries navigate the complex implications . <p> Against this challenging global backdrop , the Italian Institute for International Political Studies ( ISPI , Italy ) , the Observer Research Foundation ( ORF , India ) , and the Policy Center for the New South ( PCNS , Morocco ) combined their efforts to produce the second edition of their Annual Trends Report . This report , framed in the overarching theme of ' Global Dynamics in a Year of Domestic Contestation and Political Shifts ' , aims to encapsulate the consequences of electoral outcomes and domestic contestations and what these might mean for the delivery of key global public goods -- whether combating trends of disinformation , bringing peace in Ukraine and Gaza , advancing global climate action , or pursuing economic growth . <p> This edition divides these global public goods into five areas : global governance ; security ; economy and development ; energy and climate change ; and new technologies and digital transition . Each of these policy areas is examined by scholars from the three institutes , offering their diverse perspectives from three different continents . As countries adapt to fresh domestic ( and global ) realities , it is our hope that this collaborative effort will shed light on how political shifts across continents are impacting key policy areas , and enable policymakers to better navigate and prepare for their impact . <p> On a broader note , the ISPI-ORF-PCNS tripartite initiative aims to propose solutions to pressing global challenges through joint research , strategic deliberations , and engagement , supported by the pooled expertise of over 400 experts across three continents . To this end , our partnership involves a range of initiatives , from cooperation during our Flagship Forums to annual inter-staff dialogues and Young Fellows Exchange Programs that aim to shape the leaders of tomorrow . <p> In a world beset by divisions and competition , we hope that our effort epitomises a revival of international collaboration and connection . <p> We extend our deepest gratitude to Dr. Harsh V. Pant , Vice President , Studies and Foreign Policy at ORF and to Antonio Villafranca , Vice President for Research at ISPI for their scientific leads on the first two editions of this report . We also thank Shairee Malhotra , Deputy Director , Strategic Studies Programme at ORF , for her critical contribution and Oussama Tayebi and Nassim Hajouji at PCNS and Matteo Villa at ISPI for their vital efforts in coordinating the 2024 edition . This report reflects the strength of our partnership and shared mission .
