<h> Finland : After racist scandals hit govt , it must take a stand against racial discrimination and xenophobia to ensure the respect of CERD <h> Share : <p> Protesters rallied against racism outside the Parliament building in Helsinki during a demonstration , July 2023 ( Image : Susanna Pesonen -- Yle ) <p> Geneva -- Following subtle and overt incidents of discrimination and recent racist scandals rocked the Finnish government , it must take urgent action against harmful policies , hate speech , and misleading narratives that fuel negative perceptions of migrants and refugees and risk the impairment of their rights . Since the Finns party took control of the government in 2023 and especially in the past few months , Finland has grappled with issues of racism and xenophobia , particularly concerning the reduction of refugee quotas from Muslim-majority countries . <p> Regarding UNHCR 's resettlement programme of 2025 , which will determine the numbers and nationality of refugees to admit to the territory , Interior Minister Mari Rantanen and Acting Interior Minister Lulu Ranne allegedly directed officials to exclude quota refugees from Muslim-majority countries and increase the quota for those from Christian-majority nations . This led to Finland 's Non-Discrimination Ombudsman issuing a warning that such a move would likely be discriminatory on religious grounds . <p> The final decision on the 2025 refugee quota is still under review , but it seems that Interior Minister Rantanen has proposed to accept refugees mainly from Afghanistan , the Democratic Republic of the Congo , Syria , and Venezuela , as well as refugees displaced from Libya to Rwanda . <p> Finnish Parliament will make the final decision in December , but the investigation by the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman into whether Minister Rantanen and Acting Minister Ranne sought to favor refugees from Christian-majority countries during the planning process is ongoing . <p> Because of her handling of the refugee quota process , the opposition ( Left Alliance and Green Party ) filed a motion of no confidence in Interior Minister Rantanen . <p> The proposal should be based on the estimate of global needs concerning refugee resettlement prepared by UNHCR each year , and on the scheme submitted to Finland by UNHCR , but it is ultimately the government that determines the quota for refugees allowed to be admitted . <p> Minister Rantanen has refused to comment on the matter , but she and her government are not new to this type of serious and unsettling scandal . According to Finnish media , in February the Interior Minister used a hashtag related to the far-right 's " replacement theory " when sharing a post concerning demographic changes in Espoo , Southern Finland . Moreover , her website was recently updated to remove the sentence : " We must n't be so blue-eyed that soon we wo n't be blue-eyed " , resting on the false idea that immigration and multiculturalism pose a fundamental threat to the Finnish white population . <p> Similarly , Minister of Justice Leena Meri stated in February that the National Coalition 's proposal to double the number of work permits granted to non-EU citizens indicates a readiness to replace the population . <p> After a series of similar scandals rocked the current administration , including racist comments made by different ministers , the response of the current government has consisted only of a campaign to tackle racist violence , harassment , and discrimination among civilians , titled " Me puhumme teoin " , which translates to " Action , not only words " . <p> " Declarations and intentions in the political arena , especially when tackling migration and encouraging threats , are like weapons , for the starkness and the strength with which they shape public opinion means they must therefore be handled with great care , especially considering that hate crimes have increased in Finland and most are racist crimes according to the Ministry of the Interior itself , " commented Michela Pugliese , researcher at Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor . <p> " It 's racial discrimination when we observe any exclusion , restriction , or preference based on colour , religion , or national or ethnic origin , " she continued , " whose purpose or effect is the impairment of the enjoyment or exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms . It 's illegal and must have not the slightest place at all in public discourses and policies , in Europe or elsewhere . " <p> Hand-in-hand with discriminatory intentions , inflammatory language in politics often forgoes the facts . <p> During the years 2001 -- 2019 , the refugee quota for Finland was 750 persons per year . The quota was 850 persons in 2020 ; 1,050 persons in 2021 ; 1,500 persons in 2022 ; and 1,050 persons in 2023 . Since 2023 there has been a significant reduction , as for 2024 and 2025 the number of individuals from refugee camps who will reach Finland 's airport in Vantaa each year is only 500 . <p> Moreover , the current government continues to propose stricter immigration laws , including extending the period of residence required for Finnish citizenship from five to eight years , reducing financial support for asylum seekers , and issuing shorter residence permits . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Euro-Med Monitor calls on the government of Finland to respect and fulfill the obligations outlined in international human rights instruments , notably the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination , ratified by Finland in 1970 ; to respond to occurrences of xenophobia , discrimination , and stigmatisation against migrants and refugees that drive negative public perceptions and fuel anti-immigration discourses ; to ensure inclusivity and consistency in regional approaches to the reception and protection of migrants and refugees , without discriminating against individuals based on nationality , ethnicity , or religion ; and to adopt all necessary measures for swiftly eliminating racial discrimination in all its forms and manifestations . <p> Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor is a Geneva-based independent organization with regional offices across the MENA region and Europe <h> Related Posts <p> Palestinian territory - Israel is systematically closing hospitals in northern Gaza through direct military targeting , a suffocating siege , and the killing , injuring , and arresting of patients , wounded individuals , and medical personnel .... <p> Palestinian Territory - More than 70 Palestinian civilians were killed in an Israeli massacre last November , the majority of whom were women , children , and elderly individuals who belonged to a single ... <p> Palestinian Territory -- Euro-Med Monitor strongly condemns the Israeli parliament 's two new laws banning UNRWA from operating in Israel and barring Israeli authorities from interacting with the organisation . These laws represent ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
