<h> CENTCOM head visits Israel , meets Chief of Staff Halevi <p> WASHINGTON , Dec 14 : The head of the US Central Command ( CENTCOM ) , Gen. Michael Erik Kurilla , has visited Israel to hold a meeting with Israeli Chief of General Staff Lt. Gen. Herzi Halevi and other defence officials , CENTCOM said on Saturday . " On Dec. 11-13 , Gen. Kurilla visited Israel at the invitation of LTG Herzi Halevi , Chief of Staff of the Israel Defence Forces ( IDF ) . In addition to meeting with LTG Halevi and his staff , Gen. Kurilla met with the Israeli Minister of Defence Israel Katz , Maj Gen Ori Gordin , the Commander of the IDF 's Northern Command , and Maj Gen Tomar Bar , the Israeli Air Force Commander , " the central command said on X. The discussions focused on the regional security issues , including the ongoing situation in Syria , and preparedness against other strategic and regional threats , the statement said . Kurilla visited Northern Command headquarters " to gain a deeper understanding " of the current situation in Lebanon and ongoing efforts toward a lasting cessation of hostilities between Israel and Lebanon , the statement added . Israel 's security cabinet approved a US-brokered ceasefire with Lebanese movement Hezbollah in late November . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu explained that the truce was needed to focus on the alleged Iranian threat and isolate Hamas in the Gaza Strip . He emphasised that Israel would resume hostilities if Hezbollah violated the deal . Syria 's armed opposition captured the Syrian capital of Damascus on December 8 . Russian officials have said that Syrian President Bashar Assad stepped down as president after holding negotiations with participants of the Syrian conflict and left Syria for Russia , where he was granted asylum . Mohammed al-Bashir , who ran an Idlib-based administration formed by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham and other opposition groups , was named interim prime minister on December 10 . He announced later that the interim government had been formed and would remain in place until March 2025 . ( UNI )
