<h> Story highlights <p> US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan further stated in his interview , " Israel negotiated hard to defend and justify its position in this negotiation . He added that the Palestinian militant group " has been deeply intransigent . <p> US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan on Friday ( Dec 13 ) said that " for many months , ( Palestinian militant group ) Hamas has not been prepared to even do the basic things of coming to the table with the names of hostages , " amid the talks of a ceasefire deal to end the war in Gaza . <p> Sullivan 's comments in the interview with Channel 13 came after Hamas gave a list of hostages to mediators that it has planned to release in the first phase of the agreement , according to a report by the Wall Street Journal . However , WSJ 's claim was later denied by an Arab diplomat , the Times of Israel reported . <p> Sullivan further stated in his interview , " Israel negotiated hard to defend and justify its position in this negotiation " . He added that the Palestinian militant group " has been deeply intransigent " . <p> " We have seen Hamas repeatedly , time and again , when the opportunity was there to do something , not be prepared to step up and do it , " he said . <p> " But we have also seen Israel and the Israeli government choose to drive a negotiation where it had its perspective on what was required to get the hostages home and ensure Israel 's security , " Sullivan further added . <p> " We judge that trying to proceed in phases and getting this thing ( hostage deal ) started so people start coming out -- that is the best way to get to the end of the process , " he said . <h> Did Hamas give the list of hostages ? <p> On Thursday ( Dec 12 ) , the Wall Street Journal reported that more than a year into the Israel-Hamas war , the Palestinian militant group agreed to the Israeli demand to let the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) remain in Gaza temporarily under a likely ceasefire deal . <p> This comes as Hamas has been maintaining that it wo n't accept the ceasefire deal unless it promises to end the war and includes a complete withdrawal of IDF troops from the Gaza Strip . But the report said that not only Hamas has agreed to let IDF troops to stay in the Palestinian enclave , but it has also given mediators a list of hostages it would release in the first phase of the ceasefire . <p> ( With inputs from agencies ) <p> Disclaimer : WION takes utmost care to accurately and responsibly report ongoing developments on the Israel-Palestine conflict after the Hamas attacks . However , we can not independently verify the authenticity of all statements , photos and videos .
