<h> Iran has been left alone after the weakening of Hezbollah and the fall of the Assad government in Syria . <p> New Delhi : The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) is in the process of attacking Iran 's nuclear bases . Israeli officials said on Thursday , November 12 that this is the right time to strike its nuclear bases after the weakening of Iran-backed rebel groups in West Asia . Military officials are looking for the right opportunity . <p> IDF officials believe that Iran has been left alone after the weakening of Hezbollah in Lebanon and the fall of the Assad government in Syria . In such a situation , it can pursue its nuclear programme and can also make nuclear bombs to increase its firepower . <p> On the other hand , the Israeli army is continuously targeting military bases in Syria by air strikes . <p> Israeli attacks have been going on in Syria since the overthrow of the Bashar al-Assad government . Israel is targeting Syrian military bases and weapons . So far , more than 85% of the air defense system has been destroyed in Israeli attacks . <p> In the attacks , 107 air defense components and 47 radars have been destroyed . Earlier on Sunday and Monday ( November 8 and 9 ) , Israel targeted Syrian airbases and weapons depots . Hundreds of missiles , 27 fighter jets , and 24 helicopters were destroyed in these attacks . <p> Apart from this , Israel also targeted naval bases in Syria 's Latakia area . At least 15 Syrian naval ships were destroyed in the attacks . Israel used more than 1,800 weapons to carry out the attacks . <p> Israel targeted several Hezbollah militants in an airstrike in southern Lebanon on Friday , 13 December 2024 . Israel alleged that the militants posed a threat to Israeli citizens . Apart from this , they were violating the ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon . <p> On the other hand , Israeli attacks continue in the Gaza Strip . Israel targeted several Hamas militants in airstrikes in southern Gaza on Thursday , November 12 . According to Israeli intelligence officials , they were looking to hijack trucks carrying humanitarian aid in Gaza . <p> In Syria , rebel fighters have burned the grave of Assad 's father and former President Hafez al-Assad in Qardaha , Latakia in northwestern Syria .
