<h> How the US and Israel Destroyed Syria and Called it Peace <h> Share : <p> A boy carries an unexploded Rocket Propelled Grenade ( RPG ) at the site of the previous evening 's Israeli airstrike that targeted shipments of weapons that belonged to Syrian government forces in Qamishli , in mainly Kurdish northeastern Syria , on December 10 , 2024 . The UN special envoy for Syria called on Israel on December 10 to halt its military movements and bombardments in Syria , after a war monitor reported 300 air strikes since the fall of president Bashar al-Assad . ( Photo by DELIL SOULEIMAN/ ( Photo by Delil Souleiman / AFP via Getty Images ) <p> In the famous lines of Tacitus , Roman historian , " To ravage , to slaughter , to usurp under false titles , they call empire ; and where they make a desert , they call it peace . " <p> In our age , it is Israel and the U.S. that make a desert and call it peace . <p> The story is simple . In stark violation of international law , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his ministers claim the right to rule over seven million Palestinian Arabs . When Israel 's occupation of Palestinian lands leads to militant resistance , Israel labels the resistance " terrorism " and calls on the U.S. to overthrow the Middle East governments that back the " terrorists . " The U.S. , under the sway of the Israel Lobby , goes to war on Israel 's behalf . <p> The fall of Syria this week is the culmination of the Israel-U.S. campaign against Syria that goes back to 1996 with Netanyahu 's arrival to office as Prime Minister . The Israel-U.S. war on Syria escalated in 2011 and 2012 , when Barack Obama covertly tasked the CIA with the overthrow of the Syrian Government in Operation Timber Sycamore . That effort finally came to " fruition " this week , after more than 300,000 deaths in the Syrian war since 2011 . <p> Syria 's fall came swiftly because of more than a decade of crushing economic sanctions , the burdens of war , the U.S. seizure of Syria 's oil , Russia 's priorities regarding the conflict in Ukraine , and most immediately , Israel 's attacks on Hezbollah , which was the key military backstop to the Syrian Government . No doubt Assad often misplayed his own hand and faced severe internal discontent , but his regime was targeted for collapse for decades by the U.S. and Israel . <p> Before the U.S.-Israel campaign to overthrow Assad began in earnest in 2011 , Syria was a functioning , growing middle-income country . In January 2009 , the IMF Executive Board had this to say : <p> Executive Directors welcomed Syria 's strong macroeconomic performance in recent years , as manifested in the rapid non-oil GDP growth , comfortable level of foreign reserves , and low and declining government debt . This performance reflected both robust regional demand and the authorities ' reform efforts to shift toward a more market- based economy . <p> Since 2011 , the Israel-U.S. perpetual war on Syria , including bombing , jihadists , economic sanctions , U.S. seizure of Syria 's oil fields , and more , has sunk the Syrian people into misery . <p> In the immediate two days following the collapse of the government , Israel conducted about 480 strikes across Syria , and completely destroyed the Syrian fleet in Latakia . Pursuing his expansionist agenda , Prime Minister Netanyahu illegally claimed control over the demilitarized buffer zone in the Golan Heights and declared that the Golan Heights will be a part of the State of Israel " for eternity . " <p> Netanyahu 's ambition to transform the region through war , which dates back almost three decades , is playing out in front of our eyes . In a press conference on December 9th , the Israeli prime minister boasted of an " absolute victory , " justifying the on-going genocide in Gaza and escalating violence throughout the region : <p> I ask you , just think , if we had acceded to those who told us time and again : ' " The war must be stopped " -- we would not have entered Rafah , we would not have seized the Philadelphia Corridor , we would not have eliminated Sinwar , we would not have surprised our enemies in Lebanon and the entire world in a daring operation-stratagem , we would not have eliminated Nasrallah , we would not have destroyed Hezbollah 's underground network , and we would not have exposed Iran 's weakness . The operations that we have carried out since the beginning of the war are dismantling the axis brick by brick . <p> The long history of Israel 's campaign to overthrow the Syrian Government is not widely understood , yet the documentary record is clear . Israel 's war on Syria began with U.S. and Israeli neoconservatives in 1996 , who fashioned a " Clean Break " strategy for the Middle East for Netanyahu as he came to office . The core of the " clean break " strategy called for the Israel ( and the US ) to reject " land for peace , " the idea that Israel would withdraw from the occupied Palestinian lands in return for peace . Instead , Israel would retain the occupied Palestinian lands , rule over the Palestinian people in an Apartheid state , step-by-step ethnically cleanse the state , and enforce so-called " peace for peace " by overthrowing neighboring governments that resisted Israel 's land claims . <p> The Clean Break strategy asserts , " Our claim to the land -- to which we have clung for hope for 2000 years -- is legitimate and noble , " and goes on to state , " Syria challenges Israel on Lebanese soil . An effective approach , and one with which American can sympathize , would be if Israel seized the strategic initiative along its northern borders by engaging Hizballah , Syria , and Iran , as the principal agents of aggression in Lebanon ... " <p> In his 1996 book Fighting Terrorism , Netanyahu set out the new strategy . Israel would not fight the terrorists ; it would fight the states that support the terrorists . More accurately , it would get the US to do Israel 's fighting for it . As he elaborated in 2001 : <p> The first and most crucial thing to understand is this : There is no international terrorism without the support of sovereign states .... Take away all this state support , and the entire scaffolding of international terrorism will collapse into dust . <p> Netanyahu 's strategy was integrated into U.S. foreign policy . Taking out Syria was always a key part of the plan . This was confirmed to General Wesley Clark after 9/11 . He was told , during a visit at the Pentagon , that " we 're going to attack and destroy the governments in seven countries in five years -- we 're going to start with Iraq , and then we 're going to move to Syria , Lebanon , Libya , Somalia , Sudan and Iran . " Iraq would be first , then Syria , and the rest . ( Netanyahu 's campaign for the Iraq War is spelled out in detail in Dennis Fritz 's new book , Deadly Betrayal . The role of the Israel Lobby is spelled out in Ilan Papp ? ' s new book , Lobbying for Zionism on Both Sides of the Atlantic ) . The insurgency that hit U.S. troops in Iraq set back the five-year timeline , but did not change the basic strategy . <p> The U.S. has by now led or sponsored wars against Iraq ( invasion in 2003 ) , Lebanon ( U.S. funding and arming Israel ) , Libya ( NATO bombing in 2011 ) , Syria ( CIA operation during 2010 's ) , Sudan ( supporting rebels to break Sudan apart in 2011 ) , and Somalia ( backing Ethiopia 's invasion in 2006 ) . A prospective U.S. war with Iran , ardently sought by Israel , is still pending . <p> Strange as it might seem , the CIA has repeatedly backed Islamist Jihadists to fight these wars , and jihadists have just toppled the Syrian regime . The CIA , after all , helped to create al-Qaeda in the first place by training , arming , and financing the Mujahideen in Afghanistan from the late 1970s onward . Yes , Osama bin Laden later turned on the U.S. , but his movement was a U.S. creation all the same . Ironically , as Seymour Hershconfirms , it was Assad 's intelligence that " tipped off the U.S. to an impending Al Qaeda bombing attack on the headquarters of the U.S. Navy 's Fifth Fleet . " <p> Operation Timber Sycamore was a billion-dollar CIA covert program launched by Obama to overthrow Bashar al-Assad . The CIA funded , trained , and provided intelligence to radical and extreme Islamist groups . The CIA effort also involved a " rat line " to run weapons from Libya ( attacked by NATO in 2011 ) to the jihadists in Syria . In 2014 , Seymour Hersh described the operation in his piece " The Red Line and the Rat Line " : <p> " A highly classified annex to the report , not made public , described a secret agreement reached in early 2012 between the Obama and Erdogan administrations . It pertained to the rat line . By the terms of the agreement , funding came from Turkey , as well as Saudi Arabia and Qatar ; the CIA , with the support of MI6 , was responsible for getting arms from Gaddafi 's arsenals into Syria . " <p> Soon after the launch of Timber Sycamore , in March 2013 , at a joint conference by President Obama and Prime Minister Netanyahu at the White House , Obama said : " With respect to Syria , the United States continues to work with allies and friends and the Syrian opposition to hasten the end of Assad 's rule . " <p> To the U.S.-Israeli Zionist mentality , a call for negotiation by an adversary is taken as a sign of weakness of the adversary . Those who call for negotiations on the other side typically end up dead -- murdered by Israel or U.S. assets . We 've seen this play out recently in Lebanon . The Lebanese Foreign Minister confirmed that Hassan Nasrallah , Former Secretary-General of Hezbollah had agreed to a ceasefire with Israel days before his assassination . Hezbollah 's willingness to accept a peace agreement according to the Arab-Islamic world 's wishes of a two-state solution is long-standing . Similarly , instead of negotiating to end the war in Gaza , Israel assassinated Hamas ' political chief , Ismail Haniyeh , in Tehran . <p> Similarly in Syria , instead of allowing for a political solution to emerge , the U.S. opposed the peace process multiple times . In 2012 , the UN had negotiated a peace agreement in Syria that was blocked by the Americans , who demanded that Assad must go on the first day of the peace agreement . The U.S. wanted regime change , not peace . In September 2024 , Netanyahu addressed the General Assembly with a map of the Middle East divided between " Blessing " and " Curse , " with Lebanon , Syria , Iraq , and Iran as part of Netanyahu 's curse . The real curse is Israel 's path of mayhem and war , which has now engulfed Lebanon and Syria , with Netayahu 's fervent hope to draw the U.S. into war with Iran as well . <p> The U.S. and Israel are high-fiving that they have successfully wrecked yet another adversary of Israel and defender of the Palestinian cause , with Netanyahu claiming " credit for starting the historic process . " Most likely Syria will now succumb to continued war among the many armed protagonists , as has happened in the previous U.S.-Israeli regime-change operations . <p> In short , American interference , at the behest of Netanyahu 's Israel , has left the Middle East in ruins , with over a million dead and open wars raging in Libya , Sudan , Somalia , Lebanon , Syria , and Palestine , and with Iran on the brink of a nuclear arsenal , being pushed against its own inclinations to this eventuality . <p> All this is in the service of a profoundly unjust cause : to deny Palestinians their political rights in the service of Zionist extremism based on the 7th century BCE Book of Joshua . Remarkably , according to that text -- one relied on by Israel 's own religious zealots -- the Israelites were not even the original inhabitants of the land . Rather , according the text , God instructs Joshua and his warriors to commit multiple genocides to conquer the land . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Against this backdrop , the Arab-Islamic nations and indeed almost all of the world have repeatedly united in the call for a two-state solution and peace between Israel and Palestine . <p> Instead of the two-state solution , Israel and the U.S. have made a desert and called it peace . <p> Jeffrey D Sachs is a University Professor and Director of the Center for Sustainable Development at Columbia University , where he directed The Earth Institute from 2002 until 2016 . He is also President of the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network and a commissioner of the UN Broadband Commission for Development . He has been advisor to three United Nations Secretaries-General , and currently serves as an SDG Advocate under Secretary-General Antonio Guterres . Sachs is the author , most recently , of " A New Foreign Policy : Beyond American Exceptionalism " ( 2020 ) . Other books include : " Building the New American Economy : Smart , Fair , and Sustainable " ( 2017 ) and " The Age of Sustainable Development , " ( 2015 ) with Ban Ki-moon . <h> Related Posts <p> The long-harboured aspirations of the US , Turkey and Israel to topple the Syrian government , mainly through their rebranded al-Qaeda allies , succeeded at lightning speed . Damascus fell days after Hay'at Tahrir ... <p> by Asa Winstanley and Ali Abunimah Israeli tanks were reportedly on the outskirts of Damascus early on Tuesday , as Israel launched airstrikes across the country that are being called " the heaviest in the history of Syria . " ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
