<h> The Turkish Role in Assad 's Downfall <h> Share : <p> After tenaciously holding on to power for more than a decade of war , the government of Bashar al-Assad crumbled in two weeks of limited fighting . Overwhelmed by a surprise blitzkrieg assault , the Syrian army seemed to melt away in the face of a surprisingly well-armed and well-organized coalition of disparate " rebel " forces that rapidly conquered Aleppo , Hama , and finally Damascus , sending Assad and his family into exile in Moscow . <p> Assad 's sudden downfall has drastically shifted the facts on the ground in the Middle East . It has compromised the interests of Russia , Iran , and Hezbollah ( Syria 's primary protectors over the past decade ) , while bolstering the positions of the three states that stand most to gain from Assad 's fall : the United States , Israel , and Turkey , whose leaderswere quick to celebrate -- and take some credit for -- Assad 's fall . <p> Although the interests of the United States and Israel in Assad 's ouster are apparent , the role of Turkey is more complex , and arguably more consequential . All evidence points to Turkey having played an integral role in the operation that overthrew Assad 's government , with the Turks likely providing training and material support to at least two of the main rebel forces : The Syrian National Army ( SNA ) and Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , a Sunni Islamist group that had previously been aligned with al-Qaeda . That the assault on Assad 's government began out of Idlib province , which has been under Turkish protection since the start of the Astana Process in 2017 , has given further credence to claims of significant Turkish involvement , with accusations proliferating online that many of the rebel forces crossed into Syria from the Turkish border . <p> In the initial days of the assault , Turkish officials initially denied , and then downplayed , their country 's involvement . Nevertheless , speculation immediately flooded both traditional and social media that this was a Turkish-backed regime change operation -- speculation that became difficult to discount after the fall of Aleppo , as Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan publicly called for the rebels to march on to Damascus and topple Assad . Though the full truth of Ankara 's involvement may never be known , the belief that Turkey -- with American and Israeli support -- was substantially involved appears to be widespread in the Middle East and beyond . <p> Longstanding Relationship <p> Under Erdogan , Turkey has had a complicated relationship with Assad 's Syria , training anti-Assad forces early in the civil war and later sending its military into Syria for multiple campaigns against Kurdish , Islamic State , and Syrian government forces . Having repeatedly called for Assad 's ouster in the 2010s , however , Erdogan had recently appeared to take a more conciliatory tone with Damascus , calling for new negotiations with Assad ( though these overtures were allegedly rebuffed ) and expressing " hope " for improved ties as recently as three weeks ago . <p> Apart from Erdogan 's public statements , there were other reasons to doubt that Turkey would actively push for regime change in Syria . Among these , a primary factor was the aforementioned Astana Process , which had set up a series of " de-escalation zones " in Syria , each of which would be under the protection of the Process ' three signatories : Iran , Russia , and Turkey . Under the terms of the agreement , there was to be " no military solution to the Syrian conflict " and Syrian sovereignty and territorial integrity were to be respected . Although numerous problems arose after 2017 , Russia , Iran , and Turkey had remained committed to the terms of Astana . Indeed , mere weeks before the start of the assault , at a scheduled meeting for Astana Process states in Kazakhstan , Turkey reaffirmed its commitment to Syrian " sovereignty " and " territorial integrity . " <p> Turkey 's apparent violation of its Astana Process obligations , with no prior warning , has almost certainly enraged both Moscow and Tehran , both of which have spent much of the past decade protecting their interests there and fighting to keep Assad in power . Given both countries ' central role in the BRICS economic union , furthermore , Erdogan 's actions in Syria may have jeopardized Turkey 's bid for BRICS membership . <p> Perceptions of Turkish involvement may pose serious problems for Erdogan 's domestic standing , too . Most Turks are deeply opposed to Israel 's actions in Gaza , which many view as a genocide . Should Erdogan be perceived domestically as having aided the aims of Israel and America , the sincerity of his increasingly bellicose rhetoric towards Israel will be further questioned , with many Turks highly critical of Ankara 's reluctance to take more forceful action against Tel Aviv . <p> Given the risks to his own domestic standing and to Turkey 's historically close relations with Russia in particular , what could have motivated Erdogan to push for regime change in Syria , going against both his own public statements and his government 's official policy ? <p> Explaining Turkish Moves <p> Turkey hosts more than three million Syrian refugees , which has created significant , and sometimes violent , socioeconomic tensions between refugees and native Turks . With a turbulent and highly inflationary Turkish economy , that is suffering from years of ballooning prices and insufficient government support , these tensions have coalesced into a substantial problem for Erdogan 's government , pushing it to seek ways of repatriating Syrians to their home country . With Assad gone , Erdogan almost certainly hopes to have more control over Syrian affairs , allowing him to send Syrians out of Turkey . <p> A second likely reason for heightened Turkish involvement in Syria concerns the Kurds . The largest ethnic minority group in Turkey , Kurds have had an infamously difficult relationship with the Turkish state since its founding in 1923 . Since then , there has been a sizable minority of Turkish Kurds -- most notably the members of the Kurdistan Workers ' Party ( PKK ) -- who have sought not only greater rights and recognition but a nation-state of their own . In the eyes of the Turkish state , the U.S.-backed Kurdish forces in Syria , presiding over a large swath of territory along the Turkish border , constitute an existential threat to Turkish sovereignty . <p> The Kurdish issue is made more salient by the coming inauguration of Donald Trump . Just last week , the president-elect strongly stated that the United States should not get involved in events on the ground in the Syria , giving further credence to past reports that Trump intends to pull U.S. forces out of Syria , which Trump had previously stated were there primarily to extract Syrian oil . Should Trump make good on his promises , it would leave the U.S.-backed Kurdish forces unprotected by the presence of American boots on the ground . <p> The possibility that Trump will indeed remove U.S. troops may have been pivotal to Ankara 's calculations . Indeed , just a few weeks before the assault on Aleppo , Turkish media reported top officials in Erdogan 's government predicting a Trump-led withdrawal , suggesting that this could open up new opportunities for driving out Kurdish forces near the Turkish-Syrian border . Driving out Kurdish forces poses risks for Turkey 's relations with the United States and the broader West , where Kurdish militias have been positively represented throughout the Syrian war . But Erdogan may be expecting that , under Trump , the United States will not get in his way . <p> Erdogan may also see an opportunity to expand Turkey 's borders , which many in his base see as having been unfairly drawn after the fall of the Ottoman Empire . Perhaps Ankara will attempt to make its foothold in northern Syria permanent and expand that area by taking over areas currently held by the Kurds . Yet Turkey 's presence in the north , along with its close relations with HTS and SNA , provides Erdogan with leverage in future negotiations with various regional players -- including Russia , which is surely scrambling to negotiate the future of its military bases in Syria . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Whatever the motivations , Turkey will now be expected to take a central role in whatever government emerges out of the current chaos . Success in repatriating Syrians from Turkey back to Syria will be a critical test for Erdogan 's approval at home , as will be how he navigates the expanded Israeli occupation of Syrian territory . Abroad , Erdogan 's ability to maintain relations with Moscow and Iran will likewise be critical for the future of Turkey 's application to both BRICS and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization . Yet with a frustrated population at home , a multitude of nation states and non-state actors jostling for power in and around Syria , and a potentially difficult-to-control political force in charge of Syria , Erdogan may have this time bitten off more than he can chew . <p> Philip Balboni is an anthropologist of global politics and economy . He holds a PhD in Cultural Anthropology from the University of California , Berkeley , and teaches at Northeastern University . His writing can be found at **26;824;TOOLONG . <p> Damascus ( Quds News Network ) - In its first official stance , the new Syrian Interim Government has condemned Israel 's invasion of Syrian territories . Syria 's Permanent Representative to the United Nations , Qusai Al-Dhahhak , sent two ... <p> After the fall of Syria 's Bashar al-Assad , Israel has been encroaching on its neighbour 's territory . Israel has attacked Syria more than 400 times and , despite UN protests , launched a military incursion into ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
