<h> Speaking in Lok Sabha , Congress MP Priyanka remembered her grandmother and former PM Indira Gandhi as ' great martyr who led India to victory in the 1971 War against Pakistan ' . <p> New Delhi : Days after she made her maiden speech in Parliament , Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra appealed to the Modi government to raise with its counterparts in Bangladesh the issue of attacks on religious minorities in the neighbouring country . <p> Speaking in the Lok Sabha during Zero House Monday , she also criticised the decision to relocate the famous painting , depicting Pakistan 's surrender to India in the 1971 War , from the Army Chief 's annexe in South Block . Later , Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat responded to Priyanka , saying that the painting has been shifted to Manekshaw Centre . <p> The BJP , in turn , attacked Priyanka for sporting a handbag in Parliament emblazoned with symbols associated with solidarity with Palestine . To this , the newly elected Congress MP from Kerala 's Wayanad reacted by saying , " No one will decide what I will wear . " <p> Inside the Lower House , Priyanka rose to intervene during Zero Hour . She started her speech by paying tribute to those who laid down their lives in the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War . Each year , 16 December is observed as Vijay Divas in memory of Pakistan 's surrender to India on that day in 1971 . <p> She also remembered her grandmother , former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi , referring to her as a " great martyr " who ' showed courage in the most difficult of times and led India to victory in the war against Pakistan . <p> " At the time , India stood alone . It was not granted a hearing anywhere in the world . No one listened to the voices of our Bengali brothers and sisters in Bangladesh . It was then that the people of India stood with their Army , their leadership and their principles , " she said . <p> The Congress party also staged a demonstration on Parliament premises to highlight the issue of increase in attacks on religious minorities in Bangladesh since the fall of Sheikh Hasina 's Awami League government . <p> Before Priyanka rose to speak in Lok Sabha , the chair allowed BJP MP from Jharkhand 's Godda Nishikant Dubey who while praising Indira Gandhi also criticised the former Prime Minister for not giving Jagjivan Ram -- who was defence minister at the time of the 1971 War -- his rightful due . " Today is 16 December and on this day Bangladesh secured Independence . The Indian Army , its soldiers and the leadership at the time did something very big . The Indian Army took as many as 93,000 Pakistani soldiers as prisoners and later released them . And the same Bangladesh where Pakistan killed democracy , we established it . But through you madam chairperson , I want to tell the country that in this movement , Nazrul Islam , the royal family , king , of Tripura and former Congress chief minister Mukul Sangma ... and the biggest contribution , that of Babu Jagjivan Ram who was defence minister at the time ... history has forgotten them , " he said . <h> Row over Palestine handbag <p> A vocal critic of Israel 's actions during the ongoing war in Gaza , Priyanka was also criticised for carrying a bag emblazoned with the word ' Palestine ' and symbols of Palestinian solidarity . <p> In July , she had described Tel Aviv 's actions as " genocidal " and called on the global community to " force them Israel to stop " . Last week , she met Abed Elrazeg Abu Jazer , Charge d'affaires of the Palestine Embassy in New Delhi , who congratulated her on being elected to Parliament . <p> Reacting to her decision to express support for Palestine , Gulam Ali Khatana , a nominated member of the Rajya Sabha , told news agency IANS , " People do such things for news ; when they have been rejected by the people , they resort to such actions . " <p> Amit Malviya , in-charge of BJP 's national information and technology department , went even further to say the " Congress is the New Muslim League " . <p> " She is a bigger disaster than Rahul Gandhi , who thinks sporting a bag in support of Palestine in the Parliament , is about fighting patriarchy ... Crass communal virtue signaling to Muslims is now cloaked as stance against patriarchy , " Malviya wrote on X , reacting to Priyanka 's response to Khatana 's remark -- she had termed it " typical patriarchy " .
