<h> ' Noble people consider entire world as their family ' : Priyanka Gandhi 's jibe at Centre <p> Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra with other opposition MPs takes part in a protest against alleged atrocities against minority communities in Bangladesh PTI <p> Ever since she was elected an MP for the first time , Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has chosen to make big political statements through her accessories . <p> On Monday , Vadra stirred up a controversy after she carried a handbag to parliament with the word ' Palestine ' emblazoned on it . The BJP targeted the Wayanad MP , questioning her ' silence ' on the plight of Bangladeshi Hindus . <p> However , she sought to silence her critics on Tuesday , by wearing another cream-coloured cloth bag bearing the slogan " Stand with Bangladeshi Hindus and Christians " . A group of opposition MPs also joined wearing similar bags , demanding the government 's intervention on the issue . <p> In her address in the Lok Sabha , Priyanka Gandhi raked up the issue of alleged atrocities on the religious minorities in Bangladesh and urged the Centre to engage diplomatically with Dhaka to ensure the safety of Hindus and Christians . <p> " The government should raise the issue of atrocities on minorities , both Hindus and Christians , in Bangladesh . We should discuss this with the Bangladesh government and support those who are in pain , " she said . <p> The Congress leader also took to social media to share the images of their protest outside parliament . In a Sanskrit post , she said : " This is mine , that is someone else 's - such petty thoughts are harboured by narrow-minded individuals ! People of high character consider the entire world as their family " . <p> Priyanka Gandhi 's ' bag move ' and the protests on the parliament premises hint at a major shift in the opposition 's approach to the turmoil in Bangladesh where minority communities have been facing attacks ever since the collapse of the Sheikh Hasina government . <p> On Monday , the Congress MP had expressed solidarity with the people of Palestine , carrying a handbag with ' Palestine ' emblazoned on it . She has been raising her voice against Israel government 's " genocidal actions " in Gaza .
