<p> Earlier on Monday , Priyanka Gandhi Vadra carried a bag to the Parliament that had " Palestine " emblazoned on it . Gandhi was seen carrying a handbag emblazoned with the word " Palestine " and Palestinian emblems , including a watermelon -- seen as a symbol of Palestinian solidarity . <p> New Delhi : A day after creating a buzz with her ' Palestine ' emblazoned bag , Congress MP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday carried a new bag which had a slogan on the plight of minorities in Bangladesh . <p> In reference to the incidents of attacks on minorities in Bangladesh following the ouster of Sheikh Hasina , the slogan on bag read , " Stand With Bangladeshi Hindus And Christians . " Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina stepped down from her post on August 5 and fled the country amid growing pressure from the country 's army and anti-quota protestors . <p> Earlier on Monday , Priyanka Gandhi Vadra carried a bag to the Parliament that had " Palestine " emblazoned on it . Gandhi was seen carrying a handbag emblazoned with the word " Palestine " and Palestinian emblems , including a watermelon -- seen as a symbol of Palestinian solidarity . The Congress general secretary has been raising her voice against Israel 's actions in Gaza and expressing solidarity with Palestinians . <p> The BJP hit out at the Congress leader , accusing her of continuing the family 's legacy of " appeasement . " BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said , " The appeasement bag is the reason for their losses in elections . " <p> On BJP 's objection , Gandhi said , " Tell them that they should do something about the atrocities that are happening on minorities- Hindus and Christians - in Bangladesh . Talk to the Bangladesh government and stop these atrocities . " <p> BJP 's Amit Malviya wasted no time in retaliating , calling Priyanka a " bigger disaster than Rahul Gandhi . " He wrote on X , " At the end of this Parliament session , observe a two-minute silence for everyone in the Congress , who believed Priyanka Vadra was the long-awaited solution , they should have embraced earlier . She is a bigger disaster than Rahul Gandhi , who thinks sporting a bag in support of Palestine in the Parliament is about fighting patriarchy . That is right . Crass communal virtue signaling to Muslims is now cloaked as stance against patriarchy ! Make no mistake , Congress is the New Muslim League . " <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from India and around the world .
