<h> Share : <p> The national organization Veterans For Peace , with chapters in over 100 US cities , is calling on US Senators to vote NO on Pete Hegseth for US Defense Secretary , should President-elect nominate him . <p> Veterans For Peace is astounded that someone with the track record of Pete Hegseth would seriously be considered for the critically important role of US Secretary of Defense . His dubious and questionable qualifications are far overshadowed by the many reasons that should disqualify him . These include a well-documented record of misogyny , sexual assault , white supremacy , Islamophobia , financial malfeasance , alcoholism , and opposition to VA healthcare . Are these the qualities we want in our Secretary of Defense ? <p> Misogyny <p> Hegseth 's long-running abusive behavior toward women -- even decried by his own mother -- should be more than enough to disqualify him . His stated intention to reverse progress for women and gays in the military was only reversed by him in recent days , after pressure from key women Senators whose votes he needs if he is to be confirmed as Defense Secretary . Can he be trusted to defend the rights of women and LGBTQ+ people in the military ? Would he challenge the rampant sexual abuse within the military today ? <p> White Supremacy / Islamophobia <p> Pete Hegseth sports tattoos on his body that are associated with White Supremacy . In January 2021 , Hegseth was one of 12 national guardsmen flagged as potential insider threats and removed from a group providing security for the presidential inauguration of Joe Biden , after a fellow Guard member reported he had a tattoo on his biceps reading " Deus Vult , " a phrase associated with the Crusades and , in the 21st century , with white supremacists . Hegseth has said that his National Guard superiors removed him because of his Jerusalem Cross tattoo , a Christian symbol which they determined was connected to extremism . <p> Post Traumatic Stress / Alcoholism <p> Pete Hegseth 's bouts with binge drinking and public drunkenness at formal organizational events have been widely reported . On one such occasion , he was heard shouting " Kill All Muslims . " Was it the alcohol talking ? Islamophobia ? Or both ? As a national guardsman , Hegseth served at Guantanamo Bay and in Iraq and Afghanistan . Veterans For Peace recognizes that many veterans who experience Post Traumatic Stress , Traumatic Brain Injury , or Moral Injury have difficulty returning to civilian life , and have problems with alcohol and antisocial behavior . They need professional help , not the additional stress associated with US war-making . <p> A Voice of Restraint ? Or Nuclear War ? <p> Pete Hegseth should not be making critical defense decisions for the largest military in the world , particularly at this dangerous moment of superpower confrontation and nuclear brinksmanship . The very existence of human civilization is imperiled . Would Pete Hegseth be able to provide the president with wise counsel regarding ending the war in Ukraine ? Could he stop sending US weapons to fuel the horrific genocide in Gaza ? Would he put a brake on the Neocon drive for wars against China and Iran ? Could he be a responsible check on a president 's decision to use nuclear weapons ? We fear that the answer to these questions is No . <p> Financial Mismanagement <p> Pete Hegseth has a track record of " failing upward . " He has been demoted and forced to resign from several veterans organization and PAC 's , after failing to raise funds , and spending as much as half of the organizations ' funds on Christmas parties for families and friends . Arguably , the stupendous and ever-growing Pentagon budget , which just failed its 7th audit in a row , and for which there is remarkably little accountability , might be the perfect piggy bank for Pete Hegseth . <p> Hegseth Threatens VA Healthcare <p> Of particular concern to many veterans is Hegseth 's opposition to VA healthcare . He supports " outsourcing " -- or privatizing VA healthcare -- a concerted goal of the Koch brothers-funded Concerned Veterans of America , which Hegseth headed up from 2013-16 . For all its shortcomings , the Veterans Administration continues to provide excellent healthcare to millions of veterans , who rely on it and greatly appreciate it . Undermining , defunding and privatizing healthcare is an attack on all veterans , as well as an attack on the healthcare system , for which the VA provides one of the very best models . Senators who are interviewing Pete Hegseth should ask him why he would dismantle VA healthcare in favor of the failing private healthcare model . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Poll : Pete Hegseth should not be Secretary of Defense <p> Veterans For Peace 's opposition to confirming Pete Hegseth as US Defense Secretary is shared by most Americans , only 20% of whom approve , according to a recent poll . Will our Senators get the message ? We should make sure that they do . <p> <p> Veterans For Peace is dedicated to restraining the US government from intervening in the internal affairs of other nations , and calls on the US to end its complicity in the Gaza genocide by stopping the flow of US weapons to Israel . <p> As President-elect Donald Trump shapes his administration , his cabinet picks have raised eyebrows , especially among those concerned about US foreign policy and long history of wars . A significant number of ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
