<h> Published by HarperCollins India , ' Original Sin ' will be released on 20 December on SoftCover , ThePrint 's online platform for launching non-fiction books . <p> The surprise attack by Hamas on Israel on 7 October 2023 sparked a devastating war in Gaza , with the world remaining divided in its support of Israel or Palestine as the death toll continues to rise . The proposal for a ' new Middle East ' by the US , supported internationally , has been overshadowed by doubt due to the ongoing war , despite the recent normalization of ties with Israel by four Arab countries in the Abraham Accords of 2020 . Stanly Johny 's thorough research on the roots of the conflict in West Asia sheds light on India 's evolving policies and current interests in the region , making Original Sin a must-read for those seeking to grasp the complexities of the ongoing war . <p> The book explores the longstanding conflict between Israel and Palestine , focusing on the people 's experiences in the region . The book highlights the devastating war Israel has been fighting in Gaza since the Hamas attack on 7 October 2023 , with no clear end in sight . The Palestinian suffering is unimaginable , and the international community seems helpless or unwilling to do anything more than share verbal concerns . <p> Hamas broke the status quo of the occupation without consequences on 7 October but brought the fury of Israel 's state on the people of Palestine . Israel appears belligerent and cares little about Palestinian lives , but it does n't seem to have an endgame . Hezbollah poses a potent challenge to Israel from southern Lebanon , and the Houthis have attacked Tel Aviv using drones , a sign of what is to come . The book also discusses the looming hot and cold war between Israel and Iran , with an Indian diplomat stating that " war is the reality in West Asia . Peace is just a promise . " <p> Published by HarperCollins India , ' Original Sin ' will be released on 20 December on SoftCover , ThePrint 's online platform for launching non-fiction books . <p> Stanly Johny is the International Affairs editor with The Hindu . He has a PhD in international studies from the Centre for West Asian Studies , JNU , New Delhi . He has been writing on geopolitics and Indian foreign policy for over a decade and has reported from different parts of the world . He is a visiting professor at KREA University , Sri City , Andhra Pradesh ; an adjunct faculty member at Asian College of Journalism , Chennai ; and a visiting fellow at Kerala University , Thiruvananthapuram . He is the author of The ISIS Caliphate : From Syria to the Doorsteps of India ( 2018 ) , and co-author of The Comrades and the Mullahs : China , Afghanistan and the New Asian Geopolitics ( 2022 ) .
