<h> Israel 's Love Affair with Syrian Jihadis <h> Share : <p> Zionist apologists commonly present support for Israel as a necessary extension of opposition to radical Islam and the threat of Jihadi terrorism . " Support us fighting them here , so you do n't have to fight them there " is a common plea to the West from Zionist spokespeople within Israel . Yet when it comes to the Syrian Civil War , the conflict which sparked the major refugee crisis responsible for flooding Europe with millions of Muslims , Israel has been firmly on the side of Jihad , even and most particularly Al-Qaeda . <p> Israeli support for Jihadis in Syria first became known in the West when reports circulated of Israel providing medical care to anti-Assad fighters on its contested border with Syria . <p> Israel portrayed this as a principled humanitarian response , but in 2015 , the Wall Street Journal reported that only a third of those treated by Israel were women and children . Electronic Intifada : <p> The rest have been fighters who Israeli officials admit are not screened and likely belong to al-Nusra . <p> Once it became undeniable , Israel confessed it was treating fighters , but claimed that they were moderates . <p> But after al-Nusra captured and ejected UN peacekeepers in the Golan Heights last August , there was no longer any doubt that al-Nusra was the dominant force among opposition fighters in the area . <p> Efraim Halevy , a former head of Mossad , defended the aid on humanitarian grounds , but confirmed there was a " tactical consideration " . In a 2016 interview , Halevy dismissed the idea that Israel would suffer any blowback from supporting Al-Nusra , the Syrian offshoot of Al-Qaeda . While rejecting the idea Israel might also offer medical assistance to Hezbollah fighters on similar humanitarian grounds , he explained that the difference between Hezbollah and Al Nusra Front was that Israel was " not specifically targeted by Al-Qaeda " . <p> In 2019 , an outgoing Israeli army commander Gadi Eisenkot confirmed suspicions that as well as medical aid , Israel had been providing lethal material support for Syrian Jihadists . Eisenkot said that Israel had been years providing light arms weapons to rebel groups along the Syrian/Israeli border . Eisenkot also acknowledged that " we carried out thousands of attacks in recent years without taking responsibility and without asking for credit . " <p> Israeli support for these groups actually went well beyond the " light arms " Eisenkot acknowledged . In September 2018 , Foreign Policy magazine reported that Israel had funded " at least 12 rebel groups in southern Syria " , based on reports from " more than two dozen commanders and rank-and-file members of these groups . " The transfers included : <p> Assault rifles , machine guns , mortar launchers and transport vehicles . Israeli security agencies delivered the weapons through three gates connecting the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights to Syria -- the same crossings Israel used to deliver humanitarian aid to residents of southern Syria suffering from years of civil war . <p> Israel also provided salaries to rebel fighters , paying each one about $75 a month , and supplied additional money the groups used to buy arms on the Syrian black market , according to the rebels and local journalists . <p> Israel also carried out numerous airstrikes in the region which exclusively benefited groups like Al-Nusra front . In one incident , Israel responded to some rebel group firing rockets into the occupied Golan Heights by launching airstrikes on Syrian army artillery positions . <p> In a year and a half period from 2017 to 2018 , Israel carried out over 200 airstrikes in Syria , mostly directed at Iranian forces assisting the Syrian army . In a 2015 interview , Bashar al-Assad responded to the question of Israel 's agenda in Syria : <p> They are supporting the rebels in Syria . It 's very clear . Because whenever we make advances in some place , they make an attack in order to undermine the army . It 's very clear . That 's why some in Syria joke : " How can you say that al-Qaeda does n't have an air force ? They have the Israeli air force . " <p> As far back as 2015 , senior Israeli military figures had justified Israeli support for Al-Nusra front in Western media . Michael Herzog , a former chief of staff for Israel 's defense minister , told The Wall Street Journal <p> Nusra is a unique version of al-Qaida . They manage to cooperate with non-Islamist and non-jihadi organizations in one coalition ... They are totally focused on the war in Syria and are n't focused on us . But when Hizballah and Iran and others are pushing south , they are very much focused on us . <p> The same article quotes Amos Yaldin , a retired Israeli general , who reasoned that : <p> There is no doubt that Hizballah and Iran are the major threat to Israel , much more than the radical Sunni Islamists , who are also an enemy ... Those Sunni elements who control some two-thirds to 90 percent of the border on the Golan are n't attacking Israel . This gives you some basis to think that they understand who is their real enemy -- maybe it is n't Israel . <p> Also in 2015 , the Pentagon acknowledged that the " moderate rebels " who were being armed and trained by the United States and its allies were passing their equipment to Nusra Front . <p> Although the US publicly claimed it did not intentionally support Islamists like Al-Qaeda and ISIS in Syria , leaked internal documents have repeatedly shown that US officials were aware that these groups dominated the Syrian opposition and were often the chief beneficiaries of their aid . For example , a declassified 2012 memo from the Defense Intelligence Agency ( DIA ) revealed that , from the beginning of the Syrian Civil War , the US believed that " The Salafist , the Muslim Brotherhood , and AQI are the major forces driving the insurgency in Syria " . AQI being a reference to Al-Qaeda in Iraq , which later evolved into ISIS . <p> The DIA also foecasted " the possibility of establishing a declared or undeclared Salafist principality in Eastern Syria ( Hasaka and Der Zor ) , and this is exactly what the supporting powers to the opposition want , in order to isolate the Syrian regime " . <p> This is exactly what happened when the region was overrun by ISIS . The DIA even pointed to Mosul , the future capital of the Islamic State and base of its expansion , as a prime potential location for this " Salafist principality " . <p> Wikileaks revealed that current US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan told Hillary Clinton in 2012 that " AQ ( Al-Qaeda ) is on our side . " <p> When ISIS did emerge , many voices within Israel saw it as a positive . A 2016 paper by an Israeli strategic think-tank that contracts for NATO and the Israeli government argued against destroying the Islamic state , since " The continuing existence of IS serves a strategic purpose " , and could be " a useful tool in undermining " Israel 's enemies of Hezbollah , Iran , Syria and Russia . <p> Arguing against the perspective that a defeat of ISIS would help stabilise the Middle-East , the paper noted that : <p> Stability is not a value in and of itself . It is desirable only if it serves our interests . The defeat of IS would encourage Iranian hegemony in the region , buttress Russia 's role , and prolong Assad 's tyranny . <p> Other senior Israeli figures also saw an opportunity in the growth of ISIS . Naftali Bennett , now a former Prime Minister of Israel , told the annual Herzliya conference -- a " closed-door annual gathering of the country 's very top political , security , intelligence , and business elite " -- that the emergence of ISIS would offer Israel an opportunity to legitimise its annexation of the Golan Heights . Calling for a quintupling of the Jewish occupation population to 100,000 in a 5 year period , Bennett argued the chaos in Syria now made Israel 's claim more appealing than ever to the international community : <p> Who do they want us to give the Golan to ? To Assad ? Today , it 's clear that if we listened to the world we would give up the Golan and ISIS would be swimming in the Sea of Galilee . Enough with the hypocrisy . <p> By supporting Jihadis in Syria , Israel fulfilled multiple strategic goals : weakening Iranian and Russian influence in the region , dragging its arch-enemy Hezbollah into a costly fight , and solidifying its hold on the occupied Golan Heights from the claims of the Syrian regime . <h> The Jihadis who love Jews <p> In late November 2024 , the world was shocked with the news that rebel forces in Syria had seized Syria 's second city of Aleppo . This came just days after the announcement of a ceasefire between Israel and Assad ally Hezbollah , significantly weakened by a year of conflict with Israel since Israel began it 's war on Gaza . <p> This latest advance was led by the Islamist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , which has maintained control of the north-western province of Idlib . HTS grew out of a merger of multiple radical Islamist groups in Syria , most notably the Al-Nusra Front . Its leader Abu Mohammad al-Julani , is previously a member of Al-Qaeda , ISIS and Al-Nusra , as well as other Jihadi groups , and fought in both the Iraqi insurgency and Syrian Civil War , leading to the US State Department declaring him a " Specially Designated Global Terrorist " and placing a $10 million bounty on information leading to his capture . <p> Now though , " Jolani " is providing thoughtful interviews to CNN , where he promises Syria under HTS rule will be a pluralist country , ready to join the civilised world . As well as working on working on their PR with the liberal-democratic West , this new wave of Jihadis have also been keen to improve their relations with Israel . <p> Notably , the one time ISIS actually attacked Israeli forces -- in a brief exchange of fire in the Golan Heights -- it promptly issued an apology . <p> Israel 's state media outlet Kan interviewed some of the Jihadis leading today 's advance , who were surprisingly grateful to the Zionist state . Those interviewed expressed gratitude for Israeli strikes on Hezbollah and weapons transfers within Syria " which have allowed us to return and free the lands and the country " . <p> " They accuse us of cooperating with you because we were quite happy when you attacked Hezbollah , really happy , and we 're glad that you won , " the source said . <p> Both said the rebels had no issue with Israel . " We love Israel and we were never its enemies , " the man from the Idlib area said . " Israel is n't hostile to those who are not hostile toward it . We do n't hate you , we love you very much . " <p> Given that Israel is carrying out a genocide on their Muslim brothers and sisters in Gaza , you might think militant Muslims in Syria would n't be the biggest fan of the Jewish state . Yet Israeli media has ran multiple pieces on the pro-Israel sympathies of the chief threats to Assad 's rule . A commander for the US-backed Free Syrian Army assured Israel 's Channel 12 News that : <p> We are open to friendship with everyone in the region -- including Israel . We do n't have enemies other than the Assad regime , Hezbollah and Iran . What Israel did against Hezbollah in Lebanon helped us a great deal . Now we are taking care of the rest . <p> With Assad 's forces seemingly being overrun , the future of Syria is uncertain . What seems assured is a strengthening of Israel 's position . Assad was a key ally of Iran , whose rule in Syria allowed them access to the " resistance highway " of Tehran-Beirut , a Shia crescent extending across the Middle East right up to Israel 's door . If it comes to pass , Assad 's fall will follow a year of war on Hezbollah and Hamas that has significantly debilitated each . Who or what will replace Assad , and whether Syria as an entity will even survive the transition or be balkanised or collapse into years of sectarian conflict remains to be seen . But Israeli leaders are confident that what follows will not offer the same resistance to its hegemony that an Iran-aligned Syria did . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> When Israeli support for Jihadist groups was first reported , it sounded too crazy to be true , the kind of thing one might hear from an Infowars host sensationalising the complicated dynamics of the region . We now know it was not just real , but far greater extent than suspected . As its long time enemy Bashar al-Assad now seemingly faces his end , and Iran 's axis of resistance loses a crucial link in its chain , the cold logic of Israel 's Jihad-friendly military leadership and their cousins in the Pentagon appears to have borne fruit . <p> Keith Woods is an Irish writer , content creator and activist . He has been ranked as one of the most influential political commentators on social media . Since 2023 , he has been publishing a series of essays on political theory on his newsletter , keithwoods.pub . He is the author of Nationalism : The Politics of Identity <p> Damascus ( Quds News Network ) - In its first official stance , the new Syrian Interim Government has condemned Israel 's invasion of Syrian territories . Syria 's Permanent Representative to the United Nations , Qusai Al-Dhahhak , sent two ... <p> After the fall of Syria 's Bashar al-Assad , Israel has been encroaching on its neighbour 's territory . Israel has attacked Syria more than 400 times and , despite UN protests , launched a military incursion into ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
