<h> Joe Biden Is an Accomplice to the Slaughter of Thousands of Palestinian Children <h> Share : <p> Joe Biden should be tried and convicted of illegally providing American bombs and planes for genocide , but not before being forced to watch videos of some of the thousands of Palestinian kids murdered or maimed by Biden 's bombs and warplanes . Let Biden see the blank look of horror of a temporarily surviving Palestinian child alongside the bloodied dead body of its mother , father , brother , sister , playmate , auntie , uncle , grandad , grandma , or as often enough all of them killed by the same blockbuster bomb . <p> Let the condemnable President of the United States of American brutality be seen on the cover of Time magazine as ' Man of the Year . ' Let Americans become aware of the reality of their government 's horrific crime against humanity . Though there is currently an international arrest warrant for Biden 's partner in the crime of genocide , Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu , the International Criminal Court lets Biden off the hook . <p> Also let the rest of the world know the truth that the TV entertainment/news conglomerates under U.S.-CIA control , by their world wide audience via satellites , make every effort to obscure the mass murderous nature of the U.S. government . <p> Currently criminal Western media keeps focusing their tele-broadcasting time on the hostages held by Palestinian freedom fighters for a second exchange for some more of Israel 's thousands of Palestinians in Israeli prisons . <p> While the world watched and students protested as Israel committed genocide with American bombs turning the cities of Gaza into rubble , the Biden presidency vetoed ceasefires in Gaza commanded by the United Nations Security Council last year on October 18 , October 25 , November 8 , November 20 , and November 28 . <p> On November 22 of this year , the International Criminal Court issued an arrest warrant for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , accusing him of crimes that include " starvation as a method of warfare , " Just two days later the Biden administration again vetoed the latest UN Security Council resolution demanding a ceasefire in Gaza that even France and Britain voted in favour of . <p> For Biden and his cohorts , the Israeli users of the lethal American weapons provided , Palestinian lives must mean less than nothing.Some Israeli soldiers ' social media have shown soldierslaughing like hyenas in videos of themselves cheering the genocidal destruction on . More than 50 thousand Palestinians under illegal militarily occupation , mostly women and children have already been put to death , while another 11 thousand or more lie buried beneath the ruins of their homes , and hundreds of thousands of Palestinians in Gaza suffer the life endangering pangs of hunger that bring disease , dysentery , and fatal results of starvation and malnutrition . <p> The Face of Good ol ' Joe Biden <p> What does this caricature of a human being see when it looks in a mirror ? This monster of pitiless death and destruction sees not the creature thrown up from Hell that seeks to help Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu annihilate all Palestinian life in Gaza and the West Bank , but rather the jovial face of a human being deceptively presenting himself as a likeable father figure . <p> Do n't be fooled ! Joe Biden is a serial destroyer of human life on Earth , and Biden did n't start in October of last year . <p> Previously Joe Biden as Senator Made War on Iraq Possible <p> We knew Joe Biden as a super ' yes man ' of the war and weapons investors complex deep state already when as Senator and Chair of the powerful Senate Foreign Relations Committee , Biden vociferously called for the invasion of Iraq , even though it would be a war of the opposing party Republican President George Bush Junior . Senator Biden embraced an ultrahawkish position on Iraq , already in March 2000 , Joe Biden said at a Senate hearing that if Iraq refused weapons inspections , he " would introduce a resolution calling for the use of force by the United States of America , if we have to do it alone , to go after Saddam Hussein . " ( CongressionalQuarterly , March 2000 ) <p> In September 2004 , then-United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan stated , " I have indicated that it is not in accordance with the UN charter . From our point of view and the UN Charter point of view , it the war was illegal . " <p> Fast forward <p> " Iraq conflict has killed a million " , says survey <p> By Reuters , January 30 , 2008 ( Updated 17 years ago ) <p> LONDON , Jan 30 ( Reuters ) -- More than one million Iraqis died as a result of the conflict in their country since the U.S.-led invasion in 2003 , according to research conducted by one of Britain 's leading polling groups , ( The survey was conducted by Opinion Research Business ORB ) , but Biden 's Gaza genocide , so widely and graphically tele-broadcasted all around the world makes him someone to be remembered for representing the intensive cruelty of the American government and the deadly indifference of the American public . <p> America 's most famous critic , 96-year-old Noam Chomsky , has said repeatedly that all the U.S. presidents after Franklin Roosevelt would have been hanged if tried under the same laws the Nazis were tried under . With his Palestinian Gaza genocide Joe Biden seems to have outdone all of them in extreme mortal cruelty , except possibly Harry Truman , who had atomic bombs dropped on two cities . But Biden has the distinction of having been able to watch his provisioned genocidal daily and nightly horror go on for 14 months . <p> May Joe Biden Be Condemned To Watch Videos of the Thousands of Adorable Palestinian Children He Has Had Murdered . <p> May Americans be made aware of the genocide of their president . <p> May the Global South be empowered to stop it and learn from it . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> On January 20 , another president might continue to provide for the inhuman mass butchery of women and children . Trump has warned of consequences if the hostages are not released , but tellingly made no mention of the more than 50 thousand dead Palestinians . <p> Let 's hope and agitate for a termination of the Gaza genocide and the usurping of Palestinian land . <p> Jay Janson , spent eight years as Assistant Conductor of the Vietnam Symphony Orchestra in Hanoi and also toured , including with Dan Tai-son , who practiced in a Hanoi bomb shelter . The orchestra was founded by Ho Chi Minh , and it plays most of its concerts in the Opera House , a diminutive copy of the Paris Opera . In 1945 , our ally Ho , from a balcony overlooking the large square and flanked by an American Major and a British Colonel , declared Vietnam independent . Everyone in the orchestra lost family , " killed by the Americans " they would mention simply , with Buddhist un-accusing acceptance . Jay can be reached at : email protected . <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called the conditions at Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza " appalling , " as the area has been under relentless Israeli ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
