<h> Taking a swipe at Congress MP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra , senior BJP leader Amit Malviya said she is a " bigger disaster than Rahul Gandhi " <p> Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra during the ongoing winter session of Parliament , in New Delhi on December 16 . ( Image : PTI ) <p> Congress MP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra 's show of support for war-ravaged Palestine in the form of a bag she carried to Parliament on Monday , has triggered a war of words with the BJP terming it as " Muslim appeasement " . <p> Hitting out at Priyanka over the bag issue , the BJP wondered what message she wanted to send across . They said while she was showing solidarity for Palestinians , she had not spoken out against the reported attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh . <h> related stories <p> She , however , reportedly hit back at the criticism calling it " typical patriarchy " and said no one will decide what she wears . When asked about the BJP 's reaction , she said the saffron party should not dwell on " useless things " . <p> " Tell them that they should do something about the atrocities that are happening on minorities -- Hindus and Christians -- in Bangladesh . Talk to the Bangladesh government and stop these atrocities ... " she told news agency ANI , adding ( on Palestine bag issue ) that " they should not say such useless things . " <p> According to a video posted by Congress national spokesperson Supriya Shrinate , when the Wayanad MP was leaving in a car , she sternly reacted on the backlash over her bag . " I 've said many times what my beliefs are regarding this . If you look at my Twitter handle , all my comments are over there . Who 's going to decide what clothes I wear now , who 's going to decide that ? That 's typical patriarchy , that you decide what clothes women wear also . I do n't subscribe to that , I 'll wear what I want , " she told reporters . <p> Watch the video here : <p> Very few people in this world are led by the courage of their convictions I am glad @priyankagandhi has stood by her word -- that under NO circumstances NOTHING can justify the brutal killing of children in Gaza <h> ' WANTS TO MAKE FASHION STATEMENT ' <p> Slamming Priyanka , Lok Sabha MP Anurag Thakur said she was only interested in making a " fashion statement " . " She did not speak a word on atrocities on Hindus in Bangladesh but wants to make a fashion statement with the Palestine bag , " he said . <p> Calling the Congress " the new Muslim League " , senior BJP leader Amit Malviya called Priyanka a " bigger disaster than Rahul Gandhi " . Taking a swipe at her , he said a two-minute silence must be observed for the Congress at the end of the winter session . <p> " At the end of this Parliament session , observe a two minute silence for everyone in the Congress , who believed Priyanka Vadra was the long-awaited solution , they should have embraced earlier . She is a bigger disaster than Rahul Gandhi , who thinks sporting a bag in support of Palestine in the Parliament , is about fighting patriarchy . That is right . Crass communal virtue signaling to Muslims is now cloaked as stance against patriarchy ! " he said in a post on X. <p> At the end of this Parliament session , observe a two minute silence for everyone in the Congress , who believed Priyanka Vadra was the long-awaited solution , they should have embraced earlier . She is a bigger disaster than Rahul Gandhi , who thinks sporting a bag in support of ... **26;404;TOOLONG -- Amit Malviya ( @amitmalviya ) December 16 , 2024 <p> He added : " Make no mistake , Congress is the New Muslim League . " <p> Another BJP leader , Dr Anirban Ganguly , said Priyanka was " neither well-informed , nor is she educated " and " absolutely unaware of geopolitical landscape " . Echoing Malviya , he called the Congress the " new Muslim League " and said the Nehru-Gandhi family had always displayed an " anti-Hindu mindset " . <p> " Congress is the new Muslim League . Priyanka Gandhi is neither well informed , nor is she educated . She is absolutely unaware of the geopolitcal landscape ... Right from Pt Nehru to Priyanka Gandhi , they have alwasys shown their anti-Hindu mindset . They never said anything for the persecuted minorities in Bangladesh . Her carrying the Palestine bag to the Parliament is nothing but the Muslim League agenda ... " he told news agency ANI . <h> FROM ' BIGGEST THREAT ' TO ' BIGGER DISASTER ' <p> Three days ago , however , Malviya had a different take on Priyanka , whose first speech in the Lok Sabha as MP stole the limelight from her brother Rahul Gandhi . He said she could be " the biggest threat " to his political career if that speech was any indication . <p> In her 32-minute speech in Hindi , she was combative yet restrained , never raising her voice as she raised the Opposition 's key planks . These included the BJP 's alleged attempts to change the Constitution , atrocities on women , violence in Sambhal and Manipur , and the demand for a nationwide caste census . <p> In a post on X , he said : " If Priyanka Vadra 's maiden speech is any indication , she poses the biggest threat to Rahul Gandhi 's political career , not just in terms of heir in waiting , but someone who can outmatch him in raising the levity quotient in public discourse . " <p> If Priyanka Vadra 's maiden speech is any indication , she poses the biggest threat to Rahul Gandhi 's political career , not just in terms of heir in waiting , but someone who can outmatch him in raising the levity quotient in public discourse . ? ? -- Amit Malviya ( @amitmalviya ) December 13 , 2024 <h> PRIYANKA MET PALESTINE EMBASSY OFFICIAL LAST WEEK <p> Priyanka has been raising her voice against Israel 's actions in Gaza and expressing solidarity with Palestinians . Her bag had " Palestine " emblazoned on it along with other Palestinian emblems , including a watermelon -- seen as a symbol of Palestinian solidarity . <p> Last week , Abed Elrazeg Abu Jazer , charge d'affaires of the Palestine embassy in New Delhi , had called on the new Congress MP to congratulate her on her recent election victory from Kerala 's Wayanad . <p> In June , she had slammed Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu over what she had said were the his government 's " genocidal actions " in Gaza , as she accused him and his government of " barbarism " . <p> The Congress general secretary 's remarks had come after Netanyahu defended Israel 's ongoing war in Gaza in a speech to the US Congress . She had said it was no longer enough to speak up for the civilians , mothers , fathers , doctors , nurses , aid workers , journalists , teachers , writers , poets , senior citizens and the thousands of innocent children who were being wiped out day after day by the " horrific genocide " taking place in Gaza . <p> " It is the moral responsibility of every right-thinking individual , including all those Israeli citizens who do not believe in hatred and violence , and every government in the world to condemn the Israeli government 's genocidal actions and force them to stop , " she had said in a post on X. <p> Priyanka had added that their actions are unacceptable in a world that professes civility and morality . <p> In Lok Sabha on Monday , Priyanka also raised the issue of reported atrocities against minorities in Bangladesh on the occasion of Vijay Diwas . She said the central government should raise the issue of atrocities on minorities in Bangladesh with the neighbouring country . <h> top videos <p> In her ' zero hour ' reference , she sought the Centre 's support for those in pain because of the attacks . " The government should raise the issue of atrocities on minorities , both Hindus and Christians , in Bangladesh . Should discuss this with the Bangladesh government and support those who are in pain , " she said .
