<h> Anand Sharma slams UP CM for his jibe at Priyanka on support for Palestinians <p> PTI Updated : December 17 , 2024 23:34 IST <p> New Delhi , Dec 17 ( PTI ) Former Union minister Anand Sharma on Tuesday hit out at Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for taking a swipe at Congress MP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra over her support for Palestinians , saying his criticism is " unjustified " and in conflict with India 's firm and consistent position on Palestine . His remarks came after Adityanath took a veiled jibe at Priyanka Gandhi for carrying a handbag to Parliament that had ' Palestine ' emblazoned on it . On the second day of the Winter Session of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly , Adityanath said , " Yesterday , a Congress leader was seen walking around Parliament carrying a Palestine bag , while we are sending our youth to Israel for opportunities . " So far , more than 5,600 youth from Uttar Pradesh have gone to Israel for construction work . Every youth gets free food and accommodation besides a monthly salary of Rs 1.5 lakh there . There is also a full guarantee of safety , " Adityanath said . In a statement , Sharma said , " UP CM Yogi Adityanath 's criticism of Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra 's expression of solidarity with the people of Palestine is unwarranted , unjustified and in conflict with India 's firm and consistent position on Palestine in the UN and support for the establishing a sovereign and viable State of Palestine within secure borders . " " Yogi and BJP leaders should be made aware that India is also a party to the recent declarations of G20 Countries in Rio Brazil and the BRICS Summit in Kazan - both attended by PM Narendra Modi , expressing deep concern over the catastrophic humanitarian situation in Gaza and reaffirming the right of Palestinian people and creation of state of Palestine as per UN Resolutions , " the former Minister of State for External Affairs said . " Yogi Adityanath should also be informed that India is sending humanitarian assistance to Gaza for the Palestinian people . He should withdraw his comments or clarify whether he is in conflict with the government of India 's position , " Sharma said . In a swipe at Adityanath , Priyanka Gandhi on Tuesday said throwing youths into the war zone in Israel for " employment " is not an achievement but a matter of shame . <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
