<p> Congress lawmaker Priyanka Gandhi reached Parliament on Monday with a ' Palestine ' tag on her handbag , drawing the attention of fellow Parliamentarians and television cameras alike . <p> It is seen as a move by the Congress MP to express solidarity with Palestinians amidst the months-long military face-off with Israel . <p> Priyanka has been vociferous about the Israel-Gaza fight in the recent past and termed Israeli actions in Gaza as " barbaric and inhuman . " <p> As the photo of Priyanka Gandhi smiling and flaunting a bag that reads " Palestine " landed on social media , it ignited a storm of reactions from netizens with many expressing shock and surprise while others raised eyebrows over her espousal of the cause of Palestinians . <p> Priyanka 's symbolic support for Palestine comes a day after her meeting with Palestine embassy charge d'affaires Abed Elrazeg Abu Jazer . The Palestinian diplomat met Priyanka at her residence days ago , to congratulate her on Lok Sabha victory from Wayanad and also suggested a leadership role for India in reaching a ceasefire in the Israel-Gaza war . <p> Notably , the Congress General Secretary has been vocal in condemning Israel 's actions in Gaza and called its military offensive a violation of international law . <p> " It is the moral responsibility of every right-thinking individual , including all those Israeli citizens who do not believe in hatred and violence , and every government in the world to condemn the Israeli government 's genocidal actions and force them to stop , " Gandhi had expressed on X in July . <p> In October last year , the Gaza-based Hamas operatives launched a major terror strike in Israeli territory , killing more than one thousand Israelis and taking away many more as captives . It was after this terror attack that Israeli forces launched a large-scale military operation and hit Hamas hard inside Palestine . <p> India had strongly condemned the October 7 , 2023 terror attack in Israel and also demanded the immediate release of Israeli civilians from Hamas ' captivity . ( IANS )
