<h> ? But market here where the dollar is strong and bond yields are rising which makes it very hard for countries across EM to cut rates . This is just a very tough environment and so I do not think investors should be all that constructive going into 2025 . <p> ETMarkets.com And in this environment , investors will be looking for safe havens and gold will be one of those . <p> " For the first time Chair Powell kind of tipped his hat to that saying we just do not know what is going to go on . So , in this environment with not much in the way of rate cuts , I thought there will only be two actually in the new dot plot . I thought they would be a bit more hawkish . I am surprised the market was so surprised but there you go , " says Geoff Dennis , Independent Emerging Markets Commentator . <p> What should one be prepared for in the year 2025 because given the fact that you had the Federal Reserve go ahead and lowered their dot plot when you talk about the rate cuts come next year . You saw the markets spook . How should one read into all of these signs because yesterday when you saw the US GDP growth as well , they revised it upwards ? Geoff Dennis : It is a difficult environment for emerging markets let me start by saying that and it is summed up by the fact that the Fed is now assumed anyway in terms of the dot plot that the midpoint is two interest rate cuts . <p> So , what the Fed is doing here is they are accepting that the benefits if you like of sharply lower interest rates next year are basically not there anymore and they are therefore being more cautious . There are three things going on . <p> First of all , as you just mentioned the economy is reasonably strong , there does not seem to be a recession on the horizon . Secondly , inflation has seemingly bottomed out between 2.5% and 3% headline , 3% to 3.5% core and , of course , we have the enormous uncertainty of what will happen to tariffs and to the tax situation when President Trump comes in . <p> For the first time Chair Powell kind of tipped his hat to that saying we just do not know what is going to go on . So , in this environment with not much in the way of rate cuts , I thought there will only be two actually in the new dot plot . I thought they would be a bit more hawkish . I am surprised the market was so surprised but there you go . <p> But market here where the dollar is strong and bond yields are rising which makes it very hard for countries across EM to cut rates . This is just a very tough environment and so I do not think investors should be all that constructive going into 2025 . <p> But that is exactly what has happened with China too , they have managed to hold their loan prime lending rates and let us talk about Japan as well . The inflation has peaked to a three-month high there.Geoff Dennis : Yes , with China the story quite frankly is that we need to see the fiscal action and unfortunately in business and in the world you are supposed to under-promise and over-deliver . What the Chinese are doing on fiscal policy is over-promising and under-delivering and the market is not impressed and they are waiting for decent fiscal action . So , minor tweaks to interest rates just would not make any difference in China right now and this is why people have turned a bit more cautious again . <p> On Japan , all it is doing is making further rate hikes or slightly , perhaps I should say , slightly tighter monetary policy going forward , being more likely than the most recent data that you have seen as you mentioned , but they are going very-very slowly . And this is , of course , getting reflected in the weaker yen , which in turn reflects the very-very strong dollar . <p> So , Japan is not being very helpful here . And the Chinese were waiting for something that is really going to be decent enough to support the Chinese economy significantly , particularly the consumer and the property sector and frankly , it has been a long wait . <p> Given the uncertain environment in the equities right now , yes , they did have their ups and downs , but the gold did shine in the whole year of 2024 . So , going ahead in 2025 , do you believe that this asset class is ready to shine even more and the money could be flowing in here ? Geoff Dennis : These are pretty ideal conditions for investing in gold . First of all , inflation has come down , but it is still a little troublesome . Therefore , investors will probably see gold as an inflation hedge , just in case inflation happens to tick back up again in the US and in other countries . As we all know on this programme , the geopolitical tensions around the world are numerous and we then have to deal with incoming president , President Trump in the US , who could introduce major changes in policy towards all sorts of countries , the Ukraine , the Israel-Gaza story , Iran as well . So , gold as a safe haven , will still be well bid and I am sure it would not do as well as it has done this year , but I would not think this is a selling opportunity here , especially given what I think is a very poor outlook for US bonds . I mean , US bond yields are going to go to 5% , 10-year yields . They are heading that way now . It will take a while , maybe a little higher than that . And in this environment , investors will be looking for safe havens and gold will be one of those .
