<h> Families of hostages endure uncertainty even as hopes rise for ceasefire in Gaza <p> PTI Updated : December 18 , 2024 20:35 IST <p> Kiryat Gat ( Israel ) , Dec 18 ( AP ) Ilana Gritzewsky is fighting a battle against time to save her boyfriend from Hamas captivity . While there appears to be progress toward a deal to free the remaining captives in phases , Matan Zangauker would likely not be released in the first stage since he is a young man . Gritzewsky is terrified a deal could break down or he could die in captivity before he 's freed . Gritzewsky knows first-hand the perils facing her boyfriend , who turned 25 on Wednesday . She was kidnapped and held hostage for 55 days before being released during the only previous ceasefire deal a year ago . " All the hostages need to get out , " said Gritzewsky . " If we do n't release all of the hostages -- all the hostages in captivity -- they will be dead . " Many relatives of people held in Gaza find no reprieve in reports that negotiations toward a deal are progressing . The renewed ceasefire talks are just the latest twist in what 's been more than 14 months of anguish , despair and uncertainty about their loved ones ' fates . Still , they dedicate themselves to lobbying for their loved ones ' freedom , even as the world moves on to other crises . " I gave my promise to my friends from the kibbutz in the tunnels before I went home . I told them I will do everything , everything I have to , to take them out from that hell . And I ask all the time : Am I doing everything I can ? " said Gritzewsky , 31 . Hamas militants stormed into southern Israel on October 7 , 2023 , killing 1,200 people and abducting roughly 250 , dragging them into Gaza . The attack sparked an Israeli invasion of Gaza . More than 45,000 people have been killed in the ongoing war , according to local health authorities , who say more than half are women and children but do not distinguish between civilians and militants in their count . About 100 hostages were freed in a brief truce in November 2023 , while others have been rescued or their bodies have been retrieved by the Israeli military . Around another 100 have not been released , though Israel believes at least a third of them are dead . In the deal under discussion , mostly women and older people are expected to be freed in the first six-to-eight-week phase , but many families of hostages are lobbying for all of the hostages to be freed at once . Zangauker and Gritzewsky were kidnapped from Kibbutz Nir Oz , where they lived together , and then held separately in Gaza . Just before her release from a tunnel under Gaza , Gritzewsky heard from other hostages that Zangauker was nearby . She begged to be able to see him but was not allowed . Two weeks ago , Hamas released a video of Zangauker , filmed under duress , where he described difficult conditions in Gaza and pleaded with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to strike a deal to end the war . " He spoke quietly , but his eyes were screaming for help , " Gritzewsky said of the footage . While it was a relief to see Zangauker , the video is no guarantee that he 's still alive today , she said . " I do n't want a photo . I do n't want a video . I want him here . I want all the hostages here , " she said . The video brought back some of the worst memories of her captivity : the middle of the night interrogations , the filthy conditions , the lack of medical help for the injuries she suffered during the kidnapping . Gritzewsky 's pelvis and jaw were broken and she has burns on her legs . She suffered hearing loss in one ear . " What they are going through is physically , psychologically , and emotionally torture , day and night , " said Gritzewsky , wearing a hat that belonged to Zangauker that she rescued from their destroyed home . " I know the psychology that they use , how you do n't have water , how you do n't have food , how you do n't see the light , you do n't know what day or hour it is . " Gritzewsky said she hates being in front of the cameras , telling her story over and over , reliving the worst days of her life , in a desperate attempt to raise awareness of the plight of the hostages and bring her boyfriend home . Nonetheless , Gritzewsky has been a constant presence at protests and demonstrations across the country along with Zangauker 's mother , who has emerged as one of the most vocal activists for the hostages . Einav Zangauker , who used to support Netanyahu , has virulently opposed his handling of the war and is furious at the government for not yet reaching a ceasefire deal , accusing it of forsaking the hostages in its bid to topple Hamas . Netanyahu has said that the war must continue until Hamas is crushed and unable to rearm , but critics point out that Israel has already assassinated the top leadership and destroyed large swaths of Gaza . Einav Zangauker , a single mother , has been relentless in her crusade , attending demonstrations daily , speaking repeatedly to every major Israeli media outlet , and even climbing into a cage that was hoisted high above a protest to hammer home the idea of her son in captivity . She has demanded that politicians pursue a ceasefire that will release all the hostages at once . " If my son returns in a body bag or body parts , I will not put you on trial , I will take the law into my own hands ! " she screamed at lawmakers during a parliamentary committee meeting Monday . While Gritzewsky is no longer captive in Gaza , she said she ca n't begin to heal until the hostages , including her boyfriend , come home . " Since October 7 , it 's like time stopped , " she said . " You see the world running in front of your eyes , but your life is crushed like little pieces of dust . " ( AP ) GRSGRS <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
