<h> The ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas , which has repeatedly failed over multiple issues , has now narrowed most of its gaps in the agreement 's clause , the mediators claim . <p> Smoke rises following an explosion in the Gaza Strip as seen from southern Israel , Wednesday . ( AP Photo ) <p> The United States , joined by Arab mediators , is looking to close a ceasefire deal between Israel and Gaza based Hamas militant group and halt the 14-month long war which has killed over 45,000 Palestinians , according to Gaza 's health ministry . <p> The ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas , which has repeatedly failed over multiple issues , has now narrowed most of its gaps in the agreement 's clause , the mediators claim , according to a Palestinian official close to the negotiations . The official added that Israel introduced certain conditions which Hamas rejected . <p> According to a Reuters report , people close to the talks in Cairo have claimed that a ceasefire agreement is bound to be signed in the coming days wherein the hostages in Gaza would be returned and Palestinian prisoners held by Israel would also be released . <p> Advertisement <p> Palestinians search in the rubble of a building hit by an Israeli airstrike that apparently targeted a municipal meeting in Deir al-Balah , central Gaza Strip , Saturday Dec. 14 , 2024 . Palestinian medical officials said at least 10 people were killed . ( AP Photo ) <p> Israel 's defence minister , Israel Katz also said that an agreement between Gaza and Tel Aviv is closer than ever . A Palestinian official , who is involved in the talks , told BBC that the deal is in a " decisive and final phase " . <p> According to reports , US President-elect Donald Trump 's recent message to ascertain a deal between Israel and Hamas and return the hostages held by the militant group , had an impact on the talks which showed a sudden optimism in the talks going forward . <p> " As you know , I gave a warning that if these hostages are n't back home by that date , all hell is going to break out , " Trump had said during a press conference in Palm Beach , Florida . <p> As per news agency AFP , Hamas is keen to close the ceasefire agreement before the end of the year amid the weakening of its ally Lebanon based Hezbollah group and the ouster of Syria 's ex-President Bashar al-Assad . <p> Advertisement <p> Meanwhile , the Israeli airstrikes in Palestine have continued with medics stating that at least 10 people were killed in a house in the northern town of Beit Lahiya while six were killed in separate airstrikes in Gaza City , Nuseirat camp in central areas , and Rafah near the border with Egypt .
