<h> Share : <p> On November 2nd , there was a " No Votes for Genocide " protest in New York City . To those pro-Palestinian activists , candidate Kamala Harris was fully supporting a genocide in Gaza and candidate Donld Trump promised complete devotion to the Israeli war criminal state committing it . Palestinian-American Layan Fuleihan was out in front of the march leading the chants in Arabic and English : " Free free Palestine ! From the river to the sea , Palestine will be free ! " And " Imperialism will fall ! Every fascist state will fall ! Hands off Gaza now ! Hands off Lebanon now ! We demand liberation ! End the Zionist occupation ! " <p> Claudia de la Cruz , presidential candidate for the People 's Party for Socialism and Liberation , also exhorted the crowd . " Our so-called ' democracy ' has no backbone to stand against genocide . Trump and Harris both support millionaire military contractors ! " For Fuleihan and de la Cruz , as with the thousands of women marching there and all over America , there is no other choice but to dissent against the egregious US/Israeli partnership to commit war crimes against the Palestinian people . <p> Anti-genocide women activists see this holocaust as a feminist issue . They see it as a matter of " human rights and justice , " as the Palestinian Feminist Collective puts it , and as a war crime directly impacting huge numbers of defenseless and innocent women and children . The seven women featured here , although from diverse backgrounds , and employing different strategies , strongly agree with those sentiments . They are young socialist feminists Layan Fuleihan and Calla Walsh ; veteran Palestinian activists Hazami Barmada and Huweida Arraf , and very long-time anti-war activist Medea Benjamin ; and two women in politics , one , Michigan Congresswoman and Palestinian , Rashida Tlaib ; and socialist , anti-imperialist PSL candidate , Claudia de la Cruz . <p> The seven women dissenters are fighting the Israeli/Jewish apartheid state which is carrying out the ethnic cleansing of Palestinians , and the US/Western support of this genocide , as part of racist Western colonialism . The Palestinian resistance group Hamas started their " Al Aqsa Flood " operation last October 7 , essentially a slave rebellion to break out of 75 years of extreme apartheid/occupation . It was met with an unbelievably violent response : an Israeli holocaust which has killed tens of thousands of Palestinians . The journal Lancet reported last July that the Gaza Ministry of Health 's count of 45,000 dead is far too low . They estimate , after considering the victims buried under the rubble , and the people who succumb to disease and famine , the true tally is upward of 186,000 . UN Rapporteur Francesca Albanese has outlined in great detail how Israel 's intention is to kill " the totality of the Palestinian people . " After over a year the US and Western countries continue to stand by and watch the genocide unfold , literally and in great detail , on social media . Anyone with a shred of humanity has to oppose it ; many women are choosing to resist it . And many are paying the price for defying the Empire and its cosseted partner , Israel . <p> Professor As'ad Abu Khalil has said that the " movement against Israeli/American colonialism and genocide is being led by remarkably brave young Palestinian women . " If you have seen the rallies , marches , university encampments , and attacks and arrests by police -- you 've seen many remarkably brave young women . Layan Fuleihan re-tweeted the comments of Hamas-allied Hezbollah Resistance leader Hassan Nasrullah , since murdered by the Israelis . Nasrullah was surprised at the support American student protests gave to the Palestinians . He called it " another front of the resistance . " Fuleihan and her fellow young protesters take being another resistance front very seriously and are convinced they can show their power in their dissent . There are hundreds of student/youth organizations involved in this effort , many of them Palestinian-led , and many women-led . The very visible Students for Justice for Palestine ( SJP ) " supports and unifies " the over 200 campus Palestinian solidarity organizations " in occupied Turtle Island " ( US-occupied Native-American lands ) . Its aim is to " contribute to the fight for Palestinian liberation . " <p> Last May , the SJP and Within Our Lifetime , which seeks university divestment of Israel investment , organized a rally which included hundreds of protesters , to oppose Israel 's Gaza genocide . That same month , encampments were set up at Columbia University and City College in NYC , and in Massachusetts , Iowa , Texas , Michigan , California , and all across the country . And in every case , they were met by heavy-handed repression by university authorities and security and by the police . At the May NYC student protests , over 300 were arrested . Hunter College student Johanna von Maack joined an encampment praising the students ' " solidarity and support . " But von Maack was appalled at the NYPD 's reaction . They were in full riot gear , " pepper spraying students ; they were injuring them . " She wondered , " Why was it so brutal and violent ? They were just trying to get CUNY to divest away from genocide . " The counterforce was well under way to stop student protest . <p> Zionist/Jewish/Israeli pressure has influenced university presidents , legislators and law enforcement to bring the hammer down on the anti-genocide dissenters . Many hundreds have been arrested -- often in brutal and violent ways -- from Emerson College in Boston to USC and UCLA . USC security and LAPD police shoved young women protesters wearing kaffiyehs to the ground and clubbed them , and then hauled them off as their fellow protesters chanted " free Palestine ! " The crackdown has only worsened this fall . There are new stricter regulations for demonstrations , and at NYU , pro-Israel " Zionists " are now a protected class . There is more repressive surveillance and a greater police presence . Two women students , Samantha Escobar and Naomi Guttierrez , were among four arrested for the felony of putting up posters criticizing people who were for genocide at the University of Rochester . The Jewish/Israeli lobby was at work to maintain the school administration 's continued support of Israeli/US genocide . When student protester Reem Odeh of Chicago was out in the streets last summer , she said " The US role is to continue genocide and persecution . . . The American ruling class spends money killing children in Gaza . " And " We want a weapons embargo now ! " At the same event , a young woman called Melach of the Palestinian Assembly for Liberation denounced the " settler colonial regime of Israel . " " Revolution is here ! " Such is their commitment . <p> My two young activists -- Layan Fuleihan and Calla Walsh -- have different methods , but share leftist politics : they want the revolution here and now . A day after Hamas began the Al Aqsa Flood Operation , Layan Fuleihan said " the oppressed people of Palestine broke out of the open-air prison they have been subjected to . " She was speaking at an " All Out for Palestine " rally organized by the People 's Forum . Fuleihan is education director for the Forum , an organization which " makes no apologies for calling for the destruction of an apartheid and colonial state that is actively engaging in a genocide of the Palestinian people . " Fuleihan is an impressive and insightful writer . She " educates and organizes " for the Forum , sharing what she has learned as a " student of the struggles of the oppressed . " She works to promote a " world free from the control of imperialism and capitalism . " She has written that the end of the Gaza war will bring a way " for the Palestinian people to realize their goals for liberation , for dignity and for true independence . " She dreams of returning to " a liberated Palestine . " <p> She 's continually at rallies -- in New York on October 24 , ' 23 , she spoke out against the US as a " capitalist imperialist government " which supports the Gaza genocide . Fuleihan was at the huge march in DC last July protesting Netanyahu 's visit , which saw a lot of police violence against the marchers . Her message was that the US " provides a " fortress " for " war criminal " Bibi Netanyahu . " We are the people of conscience -- there is no place for genocide ! " " Hands off Gaza now ! " Her twitter posts reflect her politics : she lauds the Palestinian resistance and condemns Israel . When Israel bombed a hospital in Gaza she wrote : " Israeli occupation is genocidal and needs to go now . " Last January at the " Shut it down for Palestine " march , she said " we will stay in the streets until there is a permanent ceasefire and Palestine is free ! " She was arrested and she continues to be . " The genocide defenders sent their puppets , the NYPD , thinking they could shut us down . They were wrong . Arrest us , and the millions will keep marching . We are the ones with the power . " And the bravery . <p> Beyond rallies , marches and encampments , some female dissenters opt for direct action in their anti-genocide fight . Activist Calla Walsh , now 20 , is one of the " Merrimack 4 , " arrested for her action against the Haifa ( Israel ) -based Elbit Systems plant . Elbit is a major supplier of the drones , artillery and munitions Israel needs to do its genocide in Gaza . Walsh began her political activism at 16 in Massachusetts , working to create online youth support for Senator Edward Markey , who quickly disillusioned her with his support for Israel . Walsh changed political directions and became a socialist , often speaking out against US imperialism , especially as used against Cuba and China . She argues that the US uses promises of " democracy " and aid as weapons to fight real ( anti-US ) democracy around the world . <p> Walsh , with Sophie Ross , 22 , Paige Belanger , 32 , and Bridget Shergolis , a 24-year-old former Disney actress , spray-painted walls , raised burning torches and smashed some windows at the Merrimack , NH branch of Elbit . Walsh and Belanger had helped organize a US branch of the British Palestine Action which has been busy getting its people arrested for doing direct action against Israeli arms-related businesses . Before Merrimack , Walsh and company had been involved in related actions in Virginia and Cambridge , MA ( Ross and Walsh are still facing court action there ) . The Merrimack arrests were followed by very harsh charges . <p> Brought into court in shackles and orange jumpsuits , the women were met with accusations of " riot , conspiracy to commit criminal mischief , burglary and falsifying evidence . " Each charge , a felony , could mean a three and a half to seven- year prison sentence . A conservative NH attorney general , backed by numerous politicians , such as Governor Chris Sununu , called the action " antisemitic " and " a vile act of hate . " They joined the Jewish Anti-Defamation League in calling the women antisemitic for crimes targeting Jewish and Israeli-owned businesses . The Canary Mission , an Israeli-run website which tracks and smears Palestinian advocates ( including Fuleihan ) through network informants , calls Walsh a " vicious antisemitic communist hooligan . " This is partly because she supposedly worked on the " Mapping Project " of Boston Jewish organizations ' support for colonization of Palestine . She denies that and says she only " supported it , " but did n't work on it . <p> In September the felony charges were dropped . Apparently , the prosecutors hoped to coerce some guilty pleas , but also to discourage others from such actions . The sentences were reduced to 60 days , starting on November 14 , for misdemeanors . Walsh said the " hardest part was all the months of waiting , isolation and fear of a lifetime in prison . " But she still believes direct action is better than parades and " liberal reformism . " Palestine Action stated the women will be " imprisoned for trying to stop a genocide . " The punishments for fighting a holocaust are harsh . <p> My older activists , Hazami Barmada , Medea Benjamin , and Arraf Huweida , have all faced numerous arrests and threats . Palestinian Barmada was inspired to fight because of the Gaza genocide , but Jewish anti-war campaigner Benjamin and anti-occupation Palestinian Huweida have been in the struggle for years . Barmada , probably my favorite dissenter , comes from an interesting background . I first saw Hazami Barmada in a video with another dozen people , shouting at Secretary of State Antony Blinken as he drove away from his house . " War criminal ! War criminal ! " Barmada and crew set up their camp across the road from his house in January , calling it " Kibbutz Blinken . " The protesters ask people driving by to honk for Palestine , and they usually do . At seven every morning , Barmada wakes Blinken : " Wakey , wakey war criminal ! How many kids did you kill while you were sleeping ? " The group follow that up by putting blood red paint on the road as Blinken leaves for the State Department . Blinken asked Barmada not to make his kids " uncomfortable . " But she told him Palestinian kids their age " are treated as dispensable . They ca n't escape the rain of bombs that drop on their heads . " <p> Barmada is **27;1259;TOOLONG ; she is CEO of Humanity Lab Foundation , and once headed the Arab Empowerment Institute . She has an MA from Harvard in public policy and has been a consultant to the UN , Aspen and the government of Oman . In 2023 she became an adjunct professor at George Washington University in DC . In her earlier persona , she is pictured as an attractive buttoned-down CEO , but as an anti-genocide activist , her hair is carelessly pulled back in a kerchief and she 's in jeans . Why the change ? She says the last few years have been hard : her father had a paralyzing stroke , and she almost died twice during her last pregnancy . She had never been a Palestinian activist , because they did n't do that " in philanthropy work . " But then she saw a photo of a Palestinian woman holding her daughter on her knees . She looked at it as she was putting her son to sleep . She started crying . " What would I do if it was my kid ? " So she said she " went out and put my body on the ground in front of the Capitol . " As a mother , she felt compelled to fight the Israeli/American genocide . <p> Barmada wanted , like Walsh , to do direct action and " political street theater " to " engage " and " educate " people more that marches do . Her actions include " die-ins " at the Israeli Embassy and White House , making State Department workers walk through blood red paint to get to work , and interrupting pro-Israel politicians ' speeches . For her actions , she has received many death threats and been assaulted by Israeli Embassy people . Barmada and company lived at Kibbutz Blinken from January through July , experiencing a lot of support from locals ( and especially from Arab and Palestinian restaurants ) . Finally in late July , the state of Virginia decided it was illegal for them to " block the road " ( although they were n't ) . Police with rifles cleared them out . Barmada says she has lost friends because of her activism , but she has gained a new family . <p> Fellow dissenter Medea Benjamin seems to be constantly dogging the steps of government leaders -- trying to make them listen . It 's very much an uphill battle , and Benjamin has been fighting to change politicians ' minds for decades . To me , her most dramatic and spectacular anti-genocide display was the one done very early in the Gaza " war , " on November 3 , 2023 . Dozens of protesters , including Benjamin and her COlDEPINK colleagues , held up hands painted bloody red as a backdrop to secretaries of state and defense , Antony Blinken and Lloyd Austin as they presented their case to the Senate Appropriations Committee for giving more money to Israel to commit war crimes against the Palestinians in Gaza . When her turn to interrupt came , Benjamin told them they had blood on their hands . " How can you send more weapons to Israel ? They kill a child every 10 minutes . . . Who are you representing ? Jewish/Israel lobby 's AIPAC ? The arms industry ? " She was dragged away as the Senate audience looked annoyed or indifferent . <p> Medea Benjamin has been arrested hundreds of times because she refuses to stop her anti-government dissent . Benjamin was born to a Jewish family on Long Island in 1952 . She went to Tufts where she embraced feminism and joined SDS . She left school to hitchhike through Europe , and then returned to earn MAs at Columbia ( public health ) and the New School ( education ) . She spent 10 years as a nutritionist in Latin America and Africa . Her activism efforts are really too numerous to mention , but they center in anti-war dissent : a watch center on US abuses in Baghdad , anti-Guantanamo Prison protests in Congress , anti-drone activism , pro-Venezuela action in Washington , and taking part in Gaza flotillas and freedom marches to break Israel 's siege . <p> Medea Benjamin , Jodie Evans and 100 others started CODEPINK in November ' 02 to protest the Iraq War . The CODEPINK name was to counter President Bush 's national security codes of Orange and Red and offer pink as a call " to wage peace . " After four months in existence , 25 of their number including Benjamin , were arrested at the White House gates protesting the war . From then until now , you can find CODEPINK people , often including Benjamin , at any significant government function regarding war and peace . They were there in force at the Democratic National Convention last July -- plaguing VP candidate Tim Walz when he spoke at the " Women 's Caucus " about the ERA . But he did not mention Palestinian women 's rights , and so he was informed . " Gaza is a feminist issue ! " The DNC was a clear example of US political depravity . Onwar Omeish was one of the women reading out the names of dead Gazan children , to ridicule , and for the most part , to attendees " covering their ears . " <p> When Medea Benjamin was honored at the global Peace Unity Conference in London last October , she told them she has gone to Congress every day since October 7 . As an American she is disgusted . And as a Jew , she says her " religion has been twisted . " " Anti-Zionism is not antisemitism . " She is fighting " Israeli apartheid . " She does not ( publicly ) grapple with the huge support American Jews , in every local synagogue and federation , give to Israel and its genocide . One egregious example was an LA synagogue selling Gaza land in anticipation of its Israeli takeover . Israel is a Jewish supremacist apartheid state and needs to be condemned by -- as Benjamin put it -- " anyone with a sense of humanity . " Benjamin was back opposing Austin last April at the House Appropriations Committee . She told him US support for Gaza genocide is " illegal , immoral and disgraceful . " She shouted , " The whole world is watching what we are doing in Gaza . Secretary General you are supporting a genocide . Free Palestine ! " Again , she was led away in handcuffs . She spoke to the cameras : " We must all do what we can even if it means going to jail for justice . " And she did . And she will . <p> Veteran Palestinian-American activist Huwaida Arraf has also been doing what she can for Palestinian rights for decades , although as a Palestinian she comes at it from a different direction from Benjamin . Like Benjamin , Arraf maintains mainstream connections while she criticizes political policy . My impression is that she and Benjamin are both shaken by the US government/Democratic administration support for Israeli genocide . Last March , Arraf joined the crowd of protesters rallying against President Biden as he prepared to give his State of the Union message . She wielded a microphone to tell the crowd they " actually represent the ideals Biden claims to speak for . " " We know the State of the Union , the State of the Union is genocide ! " His motorcade avoided the protesters , their huge Palestinian flag , and their chants : " From DC to Palestine , occupation is a crime ! " Arraf , 48 , knows only too well about the crimes of occupation . Huwaida Arraf grew up in Michigan after her Palestinian parents moved there when she was an infant . She visited Palestine until she was 11 , and later studied in Jerusalem . She got her law degree with a focus on human rights . <p> Arraf worked with Seeds of Peace , a US organization promoting Jewish-Palestinian dialogue , and met her Jewish husband there . But it was n't long before she left Seeds of Peace . She has said it was a " feel-good project " and it " ignored Israeli hegemony . " Instead she and her husband founded the International Solidarity Movement ( ISM ) in 2001 with the very different focus of resisting " the long-entrenched and systematic oppression and dispossession of the Palestinian population " with non-violent and direct actions methods . She was off and running : from Ramallah , West Bank , joining the PLO 's Arafat in solidarity , under Israeli fire in 2002 ; to serving as a " Palestinian freedom rider " defying Israeli anti-Palestinian law and thus getting dragged off a bus and arrested in 2011 . In 2008 she was aboard the first of the International Gaza Freedom Flotillas ( which she helped organize ) . The ship was the first to reach a Gaza port in 40 years . Arraf was also onboard in 2010 when their ships were raided by Israeli commandoes . The Israelis killed 10 and injured 50 of the activists . When a Greek participant of the 2010 action recently died , she tweeted he 'd be with her in spirit " when we return to a free Gaza and free Palestine ! " She was an organizer for the Flotilla attempt last April to call attention to the siege and genocide in Gaza , knowing " Israel might attack us . " But there were Turkey/Israeli/American political machinations and delays which ended their attempt . <p> Maintaining her ties with the Michigan Democratic party , Arraf ran for Congress in 2022 . She said she hoped once there , she would be able to work on writing better human rights laws . Unsurprisingly , she had vicious Jewish/Israeli Lobby opposition with their charges of antisemitism , and lost the primary handily . As noted , her disillusion with the Democrats is growing . She tweeted on November 1st she would never vote for Kamala Harris , and on the 6th that she was not surprised Secretary Blinken ignored Israel 's blocking aid to Gaza and his refusal to change administration policy . She spends her time defending Michigan students who face disciplinary action for their pro-Palestinian protests . She 's at rallies and giving talks and seminars -- my husband , a pro-Palestinian writer himself , says she does n't get enough credit for all she 's done . According to Huweida Arraf , " The Palestinian struggle is for freedom -- for basic human dignity and human rights . " Obviously an Israeli/American genocide would , to her , have to be fought at all costs . <p> My two women in politics , Rashida Tlaib and Claudia de la Cruz , have differing political views but the same dedication to the anti-genocide struggle . The only politician in Washington fighting against genocide , like her close friend Arraf , Palestinian Congresswoman Rashida Tlaib of Michigan , has been scorned and censured by her own party for her ( understandably ) strong pro-Palestinian stands . She refused to endorse Democratic presidential candidate and pro-genocide , Kamala Harris , but won her own fourth term with 80% of the vote . She won in spite of strong Jewish lobby pressure against her . On November 14 , she was on the floor of the House , demanding that Secretary Blinken resign for lying to Congress . In an October letter he threatened Israel with withholding arms if they did n't start sending aid to the population of Gaza . He , of course , reneged on that promise , which , as noted , Arraf also condemned . Tlaib tweeted that Blinken 's lies had led to the starvation of Gaza . " I ca n't believe our country wo n't stop funding and enabling these war crimes . " <p> Rashida Tlaib , 48 , is the first and only Palestinian-American to be in Congress . She comes from a working-class Detroit family ; attending college for a political science and then law degree . She ran for and won state office in 2007 and then Congress in 2019 . Her opposition to Israeli apartheid has always been central for her , and she 's made no apologies for it . She promotes a one-state solution and supports Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions ( BDS ) against Israel . Israel banned her from the country so she can not visit relatives in the West Bank . In Congress she has been investigated for allegedly violating campaign finance laws , and last October the House voted to censure her for criticizing Israel and " leading an insurrection " for participating in a Capitol protest . That censure motion failed . Tlaib called it " deeply Islamophobic . " The next attempt in November succeeded . This time 22 Democrats joined the GOP in denying their colleague free speech . The Republican-led resolution accused her of " promoting false narratives " regarding the Hamas operation of October7 and of using the phrase " from the river to the sea " to advocate Palestinian self-determination as " a genocidal call " to " destroy Israel . " Tlaib has actually been careful about her statements , dutifully criticizing Hamas and denying the Congressional " river to the sea " interpretation . But her ceasefire calls and criticism for US support for genocide is too much for Congress . <p> One of the bravest acts of courage I 've ever seen is when Tlaib sat alone in Congress on the occasion of the Congressional lovefest for Israeli war criminal Benjamin Netanyahu last July . She was noticeably avoided and ignored by her colleagues . No one joined her as she held up a sign which said " War Criminal " on one side and " Guilty of Genocide " on the other . She explained : " It is important for myself as a Palestinian-American to make sure that our community is not erased , that the genocide in Gaza is not ignored . " There was one presidential candidate who opposed the Democrats who joins Tlaib in her determination that it will not happen . <p> No one exemplifies the courage and backbone to fight genocide better than the indomitable Claudia de la Cruz , 44 . As noted , de la Cruz was marching with Fuleihan last January in a NY " Shut it Down for Palestine " rally , when she suffered one of her numerous arrests . She pulls no punches as to whom to blame for the genocide . Last July at a rally in NY protesting Netanyahu 's visit , one met with slobbering devotion by both political parties , Dominican-American de la Cruz , PSL candidate for president , had a decidedly different view . " The US sponsors terrorism ! **28;1288;TOOLONG and Harris -- no pass given for a black woman -- all support it . " " We are in the belly of the beast . . . We are committed to liberation . Long live Palestine ! " De la Cruz is a complete socialist : anti-capitalist and anti-imperialist . <p> She prides herself on her working- class background . Born in the South Bronx , she has a degree from John Jay , an MA in social work from Columbia , and a divinity degree from Union Theological Seminary . At an early age she was organizing -- as in a 2003 march against the Iraq war -- and began a movement to promote leadership for young Dominican and Puerto Rican women in honor of the nuns killed in 1960 who opposed Dominican dictator Trujillo . As pastor in a Latin American church , she worked to use her faith to do community organizing . Her link with Layan Fuleihan stems from her being co-founder of the People 's Forum . Her PSL candidacy features socialist reforms like single payer healthcare , recognition of Native-American treaty rights , and eliminating billionaires ; but her main goal has been ending Israeli/American genocide . <p> In a University of Rochester student interview , she said she 's been demonstrating for Palestine since she was 13 . In her opinion , the worst thing to do " as we approach one year of this genocide is give them the ruling power space to demoralize us . . . Genocide is the issue because it shows us that they have the capacity to annihilate , to exterminate , an entire population . What do you think will happen to us ? " So de la Cruz keeps marching , organizing , speaking out and being arrested . A few weeks ago she was in New York exhorting her listeners : " Hello comrades ! It 's a long march ! People in Syria , in Gaza -- they all know the US is a terrorist entity too ! . . . Are you tired of marching ? A resounding No ! Hands off the Middle East ! From the Belly of the Beast ! " She said she 's a girl from the Bronx and she " fights to win ! " So " Buckle up , it 'll get bumpy ! We 'll build resistance to lift us to liberation ! Free Palestine ! " De la Cruz would be the president we badly need . <p> Not everyone believes the genocide should be fought at all costs . In fact , incredibly , the job of mainstream western media is to normalize genocide , and again , an array of female dissenters are working hard to make sure people are constantly presented with the reality of how genocide is abnormal and the worst crime against humanity . One of the most infamous supporters and hawkers for Israel , is CNN 's Dana Bash . Bash makes her arguments , like Antony Blinken , by unabashedly centering them in her being a Jew . She constantly parrots the IDF and Israeli government line . She insists Israel is a wonderful democracy where " every life matters . " She calls US student protests against the genocide " rage against Jews " and " hate on college campuses . " When addressing the need for a ceasefire , she says " On October 6 , there was a ceasefire , but it ended on October 7 with the brutal massacre of Israelis done by Hamas . " There is no context and no argument . <p> Bash has been confronted by protesters who charge her with " media malpractice " and " promoting genocide . " When Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal told Bash 15,000 women and children had been killed by Israel , Bash said " at least Israeli soldiers do n't rape Palestinian women . " That , of course , is a lie , with plentiful documentation of their soldiers ' raping women and men in their prisons and at their checkpoints . But her favorite focus was the since disproved story of Hamas soldiers systematically raping and killing Israeli women on October 7 . <p> The weaponization of rape as used by Empire narrative managers is not new . In this case , beyond Dana Bash and CNN , it was used most notably in a film by Sheryl Sandberg called " Screams Before Silence . " The film is supposedly a documentary of the rape and murder of Israeli women by Hamas , with women sexually abused , some mutilated and raped , and some killed . But her witnesses and her evidence have been debunked . In spite of that , Democratic Party " feminists " like Hillary Clinton and Senator Kristen Gillibrand lined up for an Israeli embassy event lauding the film . Kamala Harris repeated the disproved narrative numerous times , insisting " Israeli women suffered unspeakable sexual violence . " Truth has no place when engaging in heavy-handed Israeli genocide propaganda . <p> A whole host of alternative female podcasters , journalists and writers battle that narrative by presenting the truth and horror of genocide . There are numerous Americans , including Anya Parampil , Sabby Sabs , Katie Halper , Amy Goodman , and Margaret Kimberley . The writing efforts of Australian Caitlin Johnstone tackle the horrors of genocide and imperialism with her wit and insight every day . And there is brave former Gaza activist , Canadian Eva Bartlett bringing her first-hand knowledge to describe Israeli atrocities . Truthteller Vanessa Beeley , once detained by police at Heathrow , is still bringing the truth about the Empire 's new invasion in Syria . And the stubbornly strong Sarah Wilkinson , because she provides Gaza news for many thousands , was arrested , injured , and her home ransacked -- with the British SWAT team dumping out her mother 's ashes . All these women bring their sanity and humanity , and their unswerving support for the women , the children , the innocents being killed in the Israeli/American genocide . <p> A couple of weeks ago , the door to my house was egged . We live in a small town , but on a busy highway . Someone objected , I believe , to the signs in our windows : " Stop Israeli Apartheid " and " Let My People Go " in English and Arabic . As a child of the 60s , it is clear to me this is the time for building a movement against the Empire 's imperialism and global destruction , which now includes the brutal , violent takeover of Palestinian Resistance bulwark Syria . Young Palestinian women like Layan Fuleihan are leading rallies and marches , which she says shows the strength of the movement -- of " people who refuse to be complicit in genocide . " Claudia de la Cruz has the same mission : " We 're fighting to build socialism here . . We 'll build resistance to lift us to liberation . " Barmada , Benjamin and Arraf demand that women in government stand for " true feminism and liberation " and not " weaponize women 's rights " as the Palestinian Feminist Collective puts it . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Female dissenters are willing to take the consequences for being part of this movement . To quote Paige Belanger of the Merrimack Four : " I did n't want to serve time in jail , but I have no regrets about being incarcerated for materially disrupting the flow of weapons to Palestine and I will forever be proud that I took a stand against genocide , especially because it meant putting my own freedom on the line . Standing by and doing nothing simply was n't an option . " And standing by silently was not an option for Hazami Barmada when she confronted Joe Biden 's campaign speech last January . The topic was reproductive health . She interrupted him to shout out that women 's reproductive health was under attack in Gaza . He spoke over her , said she was a Trump MAGA , and called her " the woman hollering over there . " Women are hollering and they wo n't be silenced . They wo n't be stopped . <p> Palestinian territory -- The Israeli military 's destruction of entire Palestinian cities and neighbourhoods in the Gaza Strip is a clear manifestation of the genocide Israel has been committing in Gaza for ... <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called the conditions at Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza " appalling , " as the area has been under relentless Israeli ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
