<h> Parliament Winter Session : From Ambedkar Row To One Election Bill , Issues That Raised Temperature In The House A Recap <h> Parliament Winter Session : Following three days of acrimonious debate over preserving the dignity of BR Ambedkar , the winter session will most likely end on a bitter note with Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha Rahul Gandhi in focus <p> Parliament Winter Session Updates : It all started with a promise of peace from both the ruling and opposition sides , but with a day left for the winter session to end , unprecedented scenes of unruliness were witnessed with rival MPs screaming at and shoving each other on Thursday . <p> There was much action during the winter session this time -- from ' One Nation One Election ' Bill and a now-dismissed impeachment motion against Rajya Sabha chairman Jagdeep Dhankhar to a fiery first speech by Wayanad 's new MP Priyanka Gandhi to Union Home Minister Amit Shah 's controversial speech on the 75th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution . <h> related stories <p> Following three days of acrimonious debate inside the House over preserving the dignity of BR Ambedkar , the winter session will most likely culminate on a bitter note with Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha Rahul Gandhi as the focal point . <p> Here 's a recap : <h> PARLIAMENT SCUFFLE , FIR AGAINST RAHUL GANDHI <p> Congress MP Rahul Gandhi now faces an FIR in connection with the scuffle in Parliament , after two BJP MPs were hospitalised on Thursday ( December 19 ) . A woman MP also accused him of " misbehaviour " . Balasore MP Pratap Sarangi , 69 , had to get stitches in the temple while his colleague Mukesh Rajput was also injured in the head . <p> Tempers and voices rose as BJP and opposition MPs marched towards each other over Amit Shah 's comments on BR Ambedkar . Trouble broke out minutes before both Houses were to convene at 11 am as both sides were protesting at the steps of Parliament 's ' Makar Dwar ' , an entrance and exit reserved for lawmakers . <p> The BJP MPs claimed that Rahul Gandhi tried to push his way through the middle of the stairs where they were standing , ignoring a side passage , and caused injuries in the ensuing jostling . However , some opposition MPs claimed that the BJP members refused to give way to Gandhi who was headed to the Lok Sabha to attend the House proceedings . <p> Both the BJP and Congress held pressers , squarely putting the blame on each other for the fracas . " Rahul Gandhi does not deserve to hold the post of the Leader of Opposition , " said Union minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan , while Congress president Mallikarjun Kharge said he was pushed so violently that he lost his balance and sat down . <h> THE AMBEDKAR CONTROVERSY <p> A massive political row erupted on December 18 as the Congress and other opposition parties launched an all-out attack on Amit Shah for his remarks on BR Ambedkar and demanded his sacking , while Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other top BJP leaders rallied to his defence and said he has exposed the " anti-Ambedkar " stand of the Congress . <p> " Baba Saheb is the architect of the Constitution , a great man who gave direction to the country . The country will not tolerate his insult or the insult to the Constitution framed by him . Home Minister should apologize ! " Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha Rahul Gandhi said . " They are against the Constitution . They had said earlier that we will change the Constitution . They are against Ambedkar and his ideology . Their whole work is to finish off Ambedkar 's contribution and the Constitution . The whole country knows . " <p> As opposition parties unitedly protested against him and stalled both houses of Parliament , alleging that his remarks had insulted Ambedkar and demanding his apology , Shah said the Congress had distorted his comments under a malicious campaign after the discussion on the Constitution " established " that the opposition party was against Ambedkar and reservation . <p> " Abhi ek fashion ho gaya hai -- Ambedkar , Ambedkar , Ambedkar , Ambedkar , Ambedkar , Ambedkar . Itna naam agar bhagwan ka lete to saat janmon tak swarg mil jata ( It has become a fashion to say Ambedkar , Ambedkar , Ambedkar , Ambedkar , Ambedkar , Ambedkar ' . If they had taken God 's name so many times , they would have got a place in heaven ) , " he said in the Rajya Sabha during the debate on the Constitution . <p> Modi , too , hit out at the Congress saying its " rotten ecosystem " and " malicious lies " can not hide its misdeeds and said the home minister had exposed the opposition party 's " dark history of insulting " Ambedkar . <p> " They are clearly stung and stunned by the facts he presented , which is why they are now indulging in theatrics . Sadly , for them , people know the truth , " he said in a series of posts on X. <p> Parties like the Congress , Trinamool Congress , AAP , RJD , SP , Shiv Sena ( UBT ) and the Left protested against Shah inside Parliament and outside . Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien submitted a notice to move a privilege motion against him , followed by Congress president and Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge . <p> " I hereby give a notice of question of privilege against Shri Amit Shah , Minister of Home Affairs under Rule 188 of Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Council of States ( Rajya Sabha ) , " Kharge said in his notice . <p> The uproar in Parliament also spilled onto the streets of the national capital and other states like Maharashtra , Bihar and Tamil Nadu where various parties held protests . In Delhi , AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal led a protest with hundreds of supporters outside the BJP chanting slogans of ' Amit Shah maafi maango , Amit Shah sharm karo ' . <h> ' ONE NATION , ONE ELECTION ' <p> The two ' one nation , one election ' ( ONOE ) bills , including one requiring an amendment in the Constitution , lay down the mechanism to hold simultaneous polls and were introduced in the Lok Sabha on December 17 after a fiery debate . <p> Opposition parties dubbed the draft laws -- a Constitution amendment bill and an ordinary bill -- as an attack on the federal structure , a charge rejected by the central government . Speaking to reporters on Parliament premises , Congress MP Priyanka Gandhi had termed the bills " anti-constitutional " . " It is against the federalism of our nation . We are opposing the bill , " she had said . <p> The BJP and its allies such as the TDP , JD(U) and Shiv Sena have stoutly defended the bills , saying frequent elections are an obstruction to development programmes and simultaneous polling will boost them by cutting down on election expenditure . <p> Priyanka , along with former Union ministers Anurag Thakur and PP Chaudhary from the BJP , are set to be among the 21 Lok Sabha MPs , who will be part of the joint parliamentary committee ( JPC ) that will scrutinise two bills on simultaneous polls . <p> A total of 21 MPs will be part of the committee . The Rajya Sabha will name its 10 members in a separate communication . Among members proposed to be on the committee , 14 are from the BJP-led NDA , including 10 from the BJP . <p> According to official sources , BJP MP Bhartruhari Mahtab is being considered to head the JPC . With the BJP set to get the position of the chair for the crucial panel , they said Mahtab 's parliamentary experience may weigh in his favour . He is a seven-time Lok Sabha member from Odisha and is currently heading the standing committee for the finance ministry . <h> DEBATE ON CONSTITUTION <p> Amid the new Rahul Gandhi controversy and Amit Shah 's alleged insult of BR Ambedkar , the Parliament debate on the 75th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution seems to have taken on a life of its own . But , it was Prime Minister Narendra Modi who set the tone in a searing attack on the Nehru-Gandhi family . <p> On December 14 , Modi alleged generations of the family had assaulted the Constitution leaving its spirit in a " bloodied state " . Responding to the two-day debate on the ' Glorious Journey of 75 Years of the Constitution of India ' , he said first PM Jawaharlal Nehru had " tasted blood " by amending the Constitution and his successive generations kept assaulting the guiding document time and again , leaving it in tatters . <p> " They tasted blood by changing the Constitution and they kept assaulting it . They had tasted blood . They left the spirit of the Constitution in a bloodied state . The seed that was sown by the first prime minister was nurtured by another prime minister Indira Gandhi , " he said . " When Rajiv Gandhi became the prime minister , he continued to attack the Constitution . " <p> He further took potshots at Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi , while claiming that the Constitution was altered 75 times in 60 years of Congress tenure . He said Indira Gandhi imposed Emergency by misusing the Constitution and even clipped the wings of courts through constitutional amendments to capture the judiciary . <p> " The Constitution was torn apart when it was completing 25 years . The Emergency was imposed in 1975 , all constitutional rights were snatched , and the country was turned into a jail . All the rights of the citizens were taken away and there was a clampdown on the media , " he said . " The Congress can not wipe off this sin . Whenever democracy will be discussed across the world , this sin of the Congress will be remembered . " <p> Before his remarks on Ambedkar , Shah more or less made similar observations while concluding the debate . On December 17 , during his speech , he said the Congress treated the Constitution as the " private fiefdom " of one family and " played fraud " with Parliament . <p> " In the last 75 years , the Congress played fraud in the name of the Constitution ... They ( Nehru-Gandhi family ) considered not just the party as their personal property , but also treated the Constitution as their ' private fiefdom ' , " he alleged , adding that it amended the document several times to remain in power . <h> PRIYANKA GANDHI VADRA : NEW MP ON THE BLOCK <p> It looks like Wayanad 's MP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had an interesting Parliament run -- be it her fiery first speech , which set tongues wagging about how she could be a " big threat " to brother Rahul 's political career , or her statement-making bags in support of Palestine and Bangladesh . She even called Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's speech for the debate on Constitution in Lok Sabha boring and like sitting through a " double period of mathematics " in school . <p> During her 32-minute speech in Hindi , Priyanka said Modi has not understood that the Constitution is " Bharat ka Samvidhan " not " Sangh ka Vidhan " . Launching a blistering attack against the BJP , she said had it not been for the Lok Sabha poll results , the ruling party would have started changing the Constitution . <p> She was combative yet restrained , never raising her voice , as she raised the opposition 's key planks . These included the BJP 's alleged attempts to change the Constitution , atrocities on women , incidents of violence in Sambhal and Manipur , and the demand for a nationwide caste census . <p> Slamming the BJP over its alleged divisive politics , the Congress MP said seeds of suspicion and hatred are being sown where the Constitution gave a protective shield of unity . " The suraksha kavach of unity is being broken . The prime minister touches his forehead to the Constitution but when there are cries for justice from Sambhal , Hathras and Manipur , there is not a wrinkle on his forehead , " she said . <p> When it came to her making bold statements , she did so twice by carrying bags in support of Palestine and Bangladesh to Parliament . When she was criticised for her " Palestine bag " , she called it " typical patriarchy " and asserted that no one will decide what she wears. <h> top videos <p> Not only has she previously made her views on the Gaza war public by severely criticising the Benjamin Netanyahu-led Israel , in Parliament , she raised the issue of reported attacks on minorities in Bangladesh .
