<h> Washington Pushes Shia-Sunni Politics To Divide West Asia Again <h> Israel has bombed Syria over 800 times , and still counting <p> It is difficult to fathom how Israel has been able to get away with a genocide , and all out military action against two sovereign nations . Difficult as Americans too had not expected this level of complicity and support from their President Joe Biden who has turned a deaf ear and a blind eye to the worst kind of human atrocities seen by the modern world , surpassing even Vietnam . The brutal annihilation of an entire people with schools and hospitals and women and children being killed with bullets , bombs and now starvation confounds . The justification of this makes it absolutely impossible to understand , as a genocide is unfolding on camera and the world that has made much of Hitler and his concentration camps is watching with just a few small countries finding the conscience to speak out . <p> It has been American lie after lie to justify the all consuming desire to control the Middle East , to sanitise the region for the expansion of Israeli Zionism , and to have the power to turn on the tap for the gas and oil that the ME is so rich in . The region has been in the US and now Israel led war for almost a decade and a half . The countries supporting the Palestinians have been systematically targeted . Iraq was the first , with the world watching in shock and awe as US fighter jets bombed the sanctions hit country day and night for several days . Then the mighty tanks filled with soldiers and embedded journalists , triumphant at having conquered a country without an army and without weapons . The excuse for the attack in which entire villages were wiped out , was that Saddam Hussain was manufacturing weapons of mass destruction . Journalists like this writer who visited Iraq just before the invasion knew that this was a big lie as the country was badly hit by the years of sanctions , and literally struggling to survive . The surveillance was such that the government could not move a rifle without the alarm bells ringing , let alone build a nuclear bomb or they said weapons . <p> The truth was out soon , but not before Iraq had been destroyed . And while this was admitted by the Americans , it was just power for the course . The projection was of terrorists and jihadis all grouped together in the targeted country , with not one of the hundreds of western big media journalists who visited Iraq bothering to write about the rich civilisation of Mesopotamia ; the culture of Iraq ; the sophistication of the people , their passion and their desire to live a better life . It was all about spreading the American lies to justify a barbaric invasion that the western world at least condoned . And the rest of the world watched , stupefied . <p> Since then it has been unending . The attack on Gaza , the atrocities , the killings , has stoked protests in the younger generations across the world . Protests have increased , Israel and Netanyahu condemned , Biden called out -- but nothing absolutely nothing has come in the way of the leveling of Gaza and now the attacks on the West Bank . The Palestinians have been literally finished , there is nothing left , but even then Israeli fighter planes are bombing a starving , ill and maimed population day after day . The brutality is unbelievable , as Israel , armed and supported by the US and some other governments , has been allowed to run amok -- in violation of all rules of human law . <p> Targeted assassinations are now justified . As is the death of the Palestinians . The attacks on Lebanon where the south in particular has been destroyed and scholar and Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah killed . The focus now has shifted to Syria where President Bashar al Assad left within days , but despite the proclaimed regime change Israel has carried out over 800 strikes on the hapless country , killing and wounding , and occupying more and more territory . Again there is no army , no fight back , but the bombing continues as the world watches , America endorses , and the peoples protest . <p> In the midst of all this are the Arab regimes . Autocratic rulers , sycophants who have never stood up for the Palestinians . Not even when Yasser Arafat was alive and most capitals in the world were keen to resolve the issue . The Arabs treated the Palestinians like dirt , simply because they were secular and educated and progressive and unlike Saudi Arabia for instance , did not base their existence on the support of oil and religion . All the despots occupying the top positions in the region played their own games with Sunni vs Shia dominating the political discourse until recently . The Israel war is also a sign of worry about the rapprochement between Sunni Saudi Arabia and Shia Iran -- or at least the beginnings of it -- as a united region strikes fear in Tel Aviv . <p> So even this time around Saudi Arabia did not jump to Washington 's bugle , Turkey did and Erdogan joined Israel in destroying Syria . Syrians told this writer repeatedly that while they had no love lost for Assad they would now rally behind him , as the alternative was far worse and would lead to unimaginable persecution of the minorities and a fragmentation of Syria . They said this after the first sign of trouble at Homs a few years ago , and as Salafists brought together by the Americans and their allies in the region , were gathering at the borders . Assad had in his last years worked for a pluralistic society and it was very visible to all of us who visited the beleaguered country more than once . The same motley group of al Qaeda and ISIS remnants were brought together again by their controllers and armed sufficiently to walk into Syria and topple the regime . In that , Assad decided to leave , and as some commentators have said , perhaps to give Russia and others time and the opportunity to retrieve lost ground in the region . But more of this later . <p> The celebrations are limited to the Salafists and their western backers . And of course to some misguided Syrians who left their country and are bursting crackers with little to no idea of what they are really celebrating . The man commanding this new army that is looting and burning Damascus is himself a wanted terrorist , and plays hardline Sunni politics . It is apparent that the West has decided to bring in the worst face of the Salafists into Syria and thereby drive a wedge into the Sunni-Shia amity that was slowly taking shape earlier . America and Israel are happier in a divided West Asia , and this conflict has been blurred by Shia Iran , and a Shia Hezbollah giving support to Sunni Palestinians . It also suits regimes like in the Gulf and Jordan and Egypt who have kept a long distance from the Palestinian issue , and can now continue to do so , without pressure from the Arab street that was quite disgusted with these governments . But will now be assuaged or so they hope with the tensions of a Shia -Sunni divide . <p> Iran of course knows better than the rest that it is the main target . And while it has Russia 's support , this might or might not fructify into a real defence . The extreme leadership in Syria will give it a rough time , and the almost certain persecution of Shias and others in the country will make it difficult for the Iranian government to withstand the pressure from their own people . The axis of resistance thus has been dealt a severe blow and the installation of puppets in Syria , supported by supposedly more legitimate puppets like Erdogan , spells deep trouble for the Middle East that has been unable to rise to levels that could keep it out of American control . Israel of course , will pay a price for this but then Benjamin Netanyahu is as expendable as Erdogan although both do not realise it as yet .
