<h> What does Donald Trump 's win mean for peace in the Middle East ? <h> Published on Dec 18 , 2024 <p> While Donald Trump has promised to bring peace to the Middle East , his intention to support the state of Israel and his ambivalent track record makes the future uncertain <p> Image Source : Getty <p> In his public address to his supporters after winning , the newly elected 47th President of the United States ( US ) , Donald Trump , said , " I 'll stop wars " , without explicitly mentioning the ongoing war in Gaza . He also asserted that during 2017-2020 , his presidency saw no major civil wars involving the US , reiterating his intent to restore world peace . " This will truly be a golden age of America " , he emphasised , while constantly pledging that the Republicans would make America great again through his " America First " policy . This article traces the currency of President Trump 's claims to restore world peace , particularly its implications for peace in the Middle East , by analysing America 's foreign policy in the region during his earlier presidency while simultaneously evaluating the possible impact of his presidential victory on the Middle East . <p> By December 2017 , Iraq declared its victory over Daesh and in February 2019 , the SDF besieged Daesh in the village of Baghouz , its last territorial enclave , thus ending ISIS ' physical caliphate in both Iraq and Syria . <p> The Trump administration continued implementing Obama 's strategy , although employing the new " rules of engagement " , which involved " greater risks in return for faster , more decisive operations " . As a result , backed by the US-led coalition airpower , Mosul was recaptured by Iraqi forces in July 2017 and Raqqa by the Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) in October 2017 after months-long battles . By December 2017 , Iraq declared its victory over Daesh and in February 2019 , the SDF besieged Daesh in the village of Baghouz , its last territorial enclave , thus ending ISIS ' physical caliphate in both Iraq and Syria . It is worth noting that within two and a half years of Obama 's military campaign , Daesh lost its only international border with T ? rkiye , and approximately half of its territory had already been liberated by the time Trump joined the office . The remaining territory was recaptured within the next nine months , demonstrating the rigour of Trump 's military operations . <p> During Trump 's tenure , significant tactical changes were made to Obama 's military strategy . For instance , Trump " delegated authority to the right level to aggressively and promptly move against enemy vulnerabilities . " In other words , fewer sign-offswere required when those on the ground requested airstrikes due to a faster decentralised approval process . As proclaimed by Trump himself , " We have made , alongside our coalition partners , more progress ... in the past several months than in the past several years . " Rather than establishing peace in the Middle East , Trump 's broader objective in defeating Daesh has been to prevent American casualties , illustrating his " America first " motto . That being said , Daesh was almost defeated within a year of Trump 's presidency , which eventually paved the way for reconstruction and peacebuilding initiatives in the recaptured territories of both Iraq and Syria . <h> From 2017 to 2020 : Trump 's foreign policy in the Middle East <p> During Trump 's time in office , although his constant " wading in and out of conflicts " risked further destabilisation in the region , he significantly reduced the US presence in Iraq and Afghanistan , fulfilling his promise to pull the US out of endless wars . In 2018 , Trump withdrew from the Iran nuclear deal , which aimed to have P5+1 sanctions lifted on Iran in exchange for its agreement to serious restrictions on its nuclear development . The US withdrawal from the deal was seen as a new crisis in the making . Around the same time , the Trump administration pursued a maximum pressure campaign against Iran , thereby increasing the risks of escalation and conflict with Iran . However , Trump did not respond to <p> Iran 's provocations in the Persian Gulf in the summer of 2019 , thereby maintaining peace in the Middle East . <p> Around the same time , the Trump administration pursued a maximum pressure campaign against Iran , thereby increasing the risks of escalation and conflict with Iran . <h> Ongoing war in Gaza and Trump 's renewed pledge for peace <p> Fast forward to 2024 . Trump has won the 2024 presidential election in the US , defeating the Democratic candidate Kamala Harris . In her closing pitch for the presidential campaign , Harris promised to end the war in Gaza , a rather weak attempt to change the narrative regarding her party 's unrelenting military support to Israel . Trump has also pledged to bring " peace " to the Middle East , suggesting that he would end the ongoing war in Gaza , which has killed around 45,000 individuals , devastated the region , and brought neighbouring countries such as Lebanon , Yemen , Syria , and Iran to be engulfed in the war . Although indecisive in his statements regarding foreign policy , Trump has a reputation for keeping the promises he made during his campaign . <p> The Gaza war poses a serious threat to peace in the Middle East and beyond , therefore , it is inevitable that Trump would make some difficult decisions , balancing his support for Israel and his commitment to world peace . For months during his campaign , Trump has asserted to end the ongoing war in Gaza , even setting a timeline for Israel , asking it to end its campaign against Hamas by the time he officially enters office . If reports are to be believed , Trump has pressured Hamas to backpedal on key issues during recent ceasefire and hostage-release talks with Israel . For instance , Hamas has now conceded to temporary intervention through Israeli forces staying in the Gaza Strip after the fighting ends , as well as agreed to provide a complete list of hostages , including Americans , who will be released as part of the ceasefire agreement . Trump 's warning that he wants to see a deal before he enters office has been perceived as " a big factor " in these recent concessions . Trump has been opposed to wars , and it is doubtful that his support for Israel would include an extension of the ongoing war in the region . <p> Trump has a reputation for maintaining strong relations with leaders in the Arab world who could , in turn , further influence Hamas for the safe return of hostages . <p> Trump will prioritise his promise to " Make America Great Again " . Consequently , his foreign policy would emphasise cutting down on war funding to external actors , including Israel , while also restraining American military assistance . Trump has already made several statements throughout his campaign asserting his intention to end the ongoing war in Gaza . Although he has had a complex relationship with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , Trump , it is believed , can pressure him to end the war , adding to the domestic pressure on Netanyahu in Israel . Alternatively , Trump might push for Netanyahu 's exit , if required , while keeping his support for Israel intact . Trump has a reputation for maintaining strong relations with leaders in the Arab world who could , in turn , further influence Hamas for the safe return of hostages . However , it is still unclear how Trump would navigate his desire to show strong support for Israel while also bringing the war to an ultimate closure , recognising Palestinian rights to humanity , dignity and freedom . <h> Conclusion <p> Trump 's previous tenure was marked by strategic military initiatives prioritising quick results , as evident in his approach to defeating Daesh while maintaining an " America First " stance . His past actions , such as his stance on the Israel/Palestine issue and his abrupt withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal , depict a leader with indecisive decision-making and a lack of lasting diplomatic solutions . However , Trump 's 2024 election victory signals a new phase in US foreign policy towards the Middle East , with the potential for both progress and setbacks . While his renewed " America First " approach may lead to a more restrained US presence in the region , his promise to end the war in Gaza and broker peace is fraught with complexities . Ultimately , his second term will test his ability to balance competing interests and navigate the delicate dynamics of Middle Eastern geopolitics . <p> Sabine Ameer is a doctoral researcher in Politics and International Relations at the University of Glasgow ,
