<p> When Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi carried a bag to Parliament emblazoned with the name and symbols of Palestine , it ignited more than just visual curiosity -- it sparked a biting reaction from Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath . Mocking her gesture , he boasted about sending 5,600 youth from his state to work on projects in Israel . <p> Interestingly , while delivering an animated speech in the state Assembly , Adityanath emphasised that the youth from Uttar Pradesh going to Israel are taking up skilled jobs , receiving free food and accommodation , and sending back Rs 1.5 lakh each month . He also proudly claimed that these remittances are fuelling the state 's development . <p> Unfortunately , Adityanath remained silent on critical questions : why are youth from Uttar Pradesh risking their lives by migrating to Israel , a region still grappling with conflict ? How was the recruitment process carried out , seemingly bypassing the Ministry of External Affairs ( MEA ) guidelines and safeguards established by the late minister Sushma Swaraj to ensure the safety and rights of Indian labour migrants ? Moreover , he offered no clarity on the nature of the jobs these young workers are undertaking in Israel , leaving a cloud of ambiguity over their working conditions and the risks involved . <h> Israel Remains a Highly Volatile Country <p> According to a document presented in the Parliament on 12 December , there are currently 32,000 Indians working in Israel . Notably , 12,000 of them migrated after October 2023 , when the Hamas-Israel conflict erupted , resulting in over 45,000 Palestinian deaths so far . Khaled Khiari , the Assistant Secretary-General for the Middle East , Asia , and the Pacific in the United Nations Departments of Political and Peacebuilding Affairs and Peace Operations , said on Wednesday that a ceasefire is " long overdue . " <p> In other words , the region remains highly volatile . Yet , it is here that our youth , including 5,600 from Uttar Pradesh , are working under dangerous conditions , risking their lives . Should Adityanath feel proud about this ? No . The testimonies I collected from UP youth standing in the queue for a recruitment drive revealed that many had chosen to migrate out of necessity rather than by choice . <p> A young man from Uttar Pradesh shared his story with me during the recruitment drive . He explained that he had lost his job in the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) during the COVID-19 outbreak and returned to India empty-handed . He attempted farming but found it insufficient to support his joint family of 20 . Desperate for better opportunities , he began exploring options to migrate again . That 's when the Israel recruitment drive caught his attention . <p> He told me that before he could start working in Israel , he was required to pay the equivalent of $1,000 to " the Indian company " that recruited him , in addition to covering the cost of airfare from India to Israel , as outlined in the documents all applicants were required to sign . <p> In short , his migration was driven by necessity , not choice . Moreover , the recruitment was not free either . <h> How the Recruitment Drive Was Carried Out <p> In May 2023 , India and Israel signed an agreement to send over 40,000 Indian workers to Israel . At that time , neither country anticipated that a war between Israel and Hamas , based in Gaza , would erupt just a few months later in October . Despite the outbreak of war , the Indian government honoured the deal . On 19 December 2023 , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu even called Prime Minister Narendra Modi to expedite the arrival of Indian workers . In early 2024 , the National Skill Development Corporation ( NSDC ) launched a recruitment drive in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh . <p> Interestingly , the majority of available jobs were in the construction sector , and there was a specific reason for this . After the Hamas attack , the Israeli government stopped hiring Palestinian workers . As a result , Indian workers began replacing Palestinians in these positions . <p> The NSDC , however , was conducting the recruitment bypassing the guidelines set by the MEA and the eMigrate system , which was established by the late minister Sushma Swaraj to streamline labour migration and safeguard the rights of migrant workers . <p> The NSDC is a public-private partnership company , created in 2008 under India 's Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship . The Indian government holds 49 percent of the company 's shares , while private firms hold 51 percent . According to the NSDC 's ' About Us ' section , the organisation 's mission is to promote skill development by catalysing the creation of large , quality , for-profit vocational institutions . Interestingly , recruitment is not mentioned in the ' About Us ' section . <p> Launched in 2014 , eMigrate aims to protect Indian workers abroad by mandating insurance and ensuring monitoring by Indian embassies and consulates in labour destination countries . Workers migrating through the eMigrate system are required to subscribe to the Pravasi Bharatiya Bhima Yojana , a mandatory insurance scheme that provides coverage of Rs 10 lakh in case of accidental death or permanent disability . The insurance premiums are Rs 275 for a two-year period and Rs 375 for a three-year period . <p> This scheme is compulsory for workers in various professions under Section 2(o) of the Emigration Act , 1983 , regardless of their passport category . Interestingly , workers recruited to Israel must also subscribe to the Pravasi Bharatiya Bhima Yojana . However , as recruitment to Israel through the NSDC is not conducted via eMigrate , these workers are not eligible for the scheme or other benefits . <p> The Indian government data show that 135,882 youth from UP migrated for work to the above listed 17 countries in 2024 . Out of that , 74,174 UP youth had migrated to Saudi Arabia . <p> Despite its ongoing conflict with Hamas , Israel has not been added to the ECR list , but the Indian government has the option to implement eMigrate for workers heading to Israel . Yet , it has refrained from doing so . Migrating to Israel should not be seen as a matter of pride ; Israel remains a war zone with no guaranteed safety for its citizens or workers . Instead of celebrating the migration of youth from Uttar Pradesh to Israel , Yogi Adityanath should reflect on why young people are leaving for Israel , as well as for countries like Saudi Arabia . This migration in large numbers , speaks volumes about the lack of opportunities at home , and it 's time to address the root causes of this outflow . <p> ( Rejimon Kuttappan is an independent journalist , forced labour investigator and author of the book Undocumented : Stories Of Indian Migrants : Stories of Indian Migrants in the Arab Gulf . This is an opinion piece and the views expressed are the author 's own . The Quint neither endorses nor is responsible for them . ) <p> ( At The Quint , we question everything . Play an active role in shaping our journalism by becoming a member today. )
