<h> Can Trump Trump China ( or Vice Versa ) ? <h> Share : <p> Gaza , Haiti , Iran , Israel , Lebanon , Russia , Syria , Ukraine , and Venezuela : President-elect Donald Trump will face no shortage of foreign-policy challenges when he assumes office in January . None , however , comes close to China in scope , scale , or complexity . No other country has the capacity to resist his predictable antagonism with the same degree of strength and tenacity , and none arouses more hostility and outrage among MAGA Republicans . In short , China is guaranteed to put President Trump in a difficult bind the second time around : he can either choose to cut deals with Beijing and risk being branded an appeaser by the China hawks in his party , or he can punish and further encircle Beijing , risking a potentially violent clash and possibly even nuclear escalation . How he chooses to resolve this quandary will surely prove the most important foreign test of his second term in office . <p> Make no mistake : China truly is considered The Big One by those in Trump 's entourage responsible for devising foreign policy . While they imagine many international challenges to their " America First " strategy , only China , they believe , poses a true threat to the continued global dominance of this country . <p> " I feel strongly that the Chinese Communist Party has entered into a Cold War with the United States and is explicit in its aim to replace the liberal , Western-led world order that has been in place since World War II , " Representative Michael Waltz , Trump 's choice as national security adviser , declared at a 2023 event hosted by the Atlantic Council . " We 're in a global arms race with an adversary that , unlike any in American history , has the economic and the military capability to truly supplant and replace us . " <p> As Waltz and others around Trump see it , China poses a multi-dimensional threat to this country 's global supremacy . In the military domain , by building up its air force and navy , installing military bases on reclaimed islands in the South China Sea , and challenging Taiwan through increasingly aggressive air and naval maneuvers , it is challenging continued American dominance of the Western Pacific . Diplomatically , it 's now bolstering or repairing ties with key U.S. allies , including India , Indonesia , Japan , and the members of NATO . Meanwhile , it 's already close to replicating this country 's most advanced technologies , especially its ability to produce advanced microchips . And despite Washington 's efforts to diminish a U.S. reliance on vital Chinese goods , including critical minerals and pharmaceuticals , it remains a primary supplier of just such products to this country . <p> Fight or Strike Bargains ? <p> For many in the Trumpian inner circle , the only correct , patriotic response to the China challenge is to fight back hard . Both Representative Waltz , Trump 's pick as national security adviser , and Senator Marco Rubio , his choice as secretary of state , have sponsored or supported legislation to curb what they view as " malign " Chinese endeavors in the United States and abroad . <p> Waltz , for example , introduced the American Critical Mineral Exploration and Innovation Act of 2020 , which was intended , as he explained , " to reduce America 's dependence on foreign sources of critical minerals and bring the U.S. supply chain from China back to America . " Senator Rubio has been equally combative in the legislative arena . In 2021 , he authored the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act , which banned goods produced in forced labor encampments in Xinjiang Province from entering the United States . He also sponsored several pieces of legislation aimed at curbing Chinese access to U.S. technology . Although these , as well as similar measures introduced by Waltz , have n't always obtained the necessary congressional approval , they have sometimes been successfully bundled into other legislation . <p> In short , Trump will enter office in January with a toolkit of punitive measures for fighting China ready to roll along with strong support among his appointees for making them the law of the land . But of course , we 're talking about Donald Trump , so nothing is a given . Some analysts believe that his penchant for deal-making and his professed admiration for Chinese strongman President Xi Jinping may lead him to pursue a far more transactional approach , increasing economic and military pressure on Beijing to produce concessions on , for example , curbing the export of fentanyl precursors to Mexico , but when he gets what he wants letting them lapse . Howard Lutnick , the billionaire investor from Cantor Fitzgerald whom he chose as Commerce secretary , claims that Trump actually " wants to make a deal with China , " and will use the imposition of tariffs selectively as a bargaining tool to do so . <p> What such a deal might look like is anyone 's guess , but it 's hard to see how Trump could win significant concessions from Beijing without abandoning some of the punitive measures advocated by the China hawks in his entourage . Count on one thing : this complicated and confusing dynamic will play out in each of the major problem areas in U.S.-China relations , forcing Trump to make critical choices between his transactional instincts and the harsh ideological bent of his advisers . <p> Trump , China , and Taiwan <p> Of all the China-related issues in his second term in office , none is likely to prove more challenging or consequential than the future status of the island of Taiwan . At issue are Taiwan 's gradual moves toward full independence and the risk that China will invade the island to prevent such an outcome , possibly triggering U.S. military intervention as well . Of all the potential crises facing Trump , this is the one that could most easily lead to a great-power conflict with nuclear undertones . <p> When Washington granted diplomatic recognition to China in 1979 , it " acknowledged " that Taiwan and the mainland were both part of " one China " and that the two parts could eventually choose to reunite . The U.S. also agreed to cease diplomatic relations with Taiwan and terminate its military presence there . However , under the Taiwan Relations Act of 1979 , Washington was also empowered to cooperate with a quasi-governmental Taiwanese diplomatic agency , the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office in the United States , and provide Taiwan with the weapons needed for its defense . Moreover , in what came to be known as " strategic ambiguity , " U.S. officials insisted that any effort by China to alter Taiwan 's status by force would constitute " a threat to the peace and security of the Western Pacific area " and would be viewed as a matter " of grave concern to the United States , " although not necessarily one requiring a military response . <p> For decades , one president after another reaffirmed the " one China " policy while also providing Taiwan with increasingly powerful weaponry . For their part , Chinese officials repeatedly declared that Taiwan was a renegade province that should be reunited with the mainland , preferably by peaceful means . The Taiwanese , however , have never expressed a desire for reunification and instead have moved steadily towards a declaration of independence , which Beijing has insisted would justify armed intervention . <p> As such threats became more frequent and menacing , leaders in Washington continued to debate the validity of " strategic ambiguity , " with some insisting it should be replaced by a policy of " strategic clarity " involving an ironclad commitment to assist Taiwan should it be invaded by China . President Biden seemed to embrace this view , repeatedly affirming that the U.S. was obligated to defend Taiwan under such circumstances . However , each time he said so , his aides walked back his words , insisting the U.S. was under no legal obligation to do so . <p> The Biden administration also boosted its military support for the island while increasing American air and naval patrols in the area , which only heightened the possibility of a future U.S. intervention should China invade . Some of these moves , including expedited arms transfers to Taiwan , were adopted in response to prodding from China hawks in Congress . All , however , fit with an overarching administration strategy of encircling China with a constellation of American military installations and U.S.-armed allies and partners . <p> From Beijing 's perspective , then , Washington is already putting extreme military and geopolitical pressure on China . The question is : Will the Trump administration increase or decrease those pressures , especially when it comes to Taiwan ? <p> That Trump will approve increased arms sales to and military cooperation with Taiwan essentially goes without saying ( as much , at least , as anything involving him does ) . The Chinese have experienced upticks in U.S. aid to Taiwan before and can probably live through another round of the same . But that leaves far more volatile issues up for grabs : Will he embrace " strategic clarity , " guaranteeing Washington 's automatic intervention should China invade Taiwan , and will he approve a substantial expansion of the American military presence in the region ? Both moves have been advocated by some of the China hawks in Trump 's entourage , and both are certain to provoke fierce , hard-to-predict responses from Beijing . <p> Many of Trump 's closest advisers have , in fact , insisted on " strategic clarity " and increased military cooperation with Taiwan . Michael Waltz , for example , has asserted that the U.S. must " be clear we 'll defend Taiwan as a deterrent measure . " He has also called for an increased military presence in the Western Pacific . Similarly , last June , Robert C. O'Brien , Trump 's national security adviser from 2019 to 2021 , wrote that the U.S. " should make clear " its " commitment " to " help defend " Taiwan , while expanding military cooperation with the island . <p> Trump himself has made no such commitments , suggesting instead a more ambivalent stance . In his typical fashion , in fact , he 's called on Taiwan to spend more on its own defense and expressed anger at the concentration of advanced chip-making on the island , claiming that the Taiwanese " did take about 100% of our chip business . " But he 's also warned of harsh economic measures were China to impose a blockade of the island , telling the editorial board of the Wall Street Journal , " I would say to President Xi : if you go into Taiwan , I 'm sorry to do this , I 'm going to tax you at 150% to 200% . " He would n't need to threaten the use of force to prevent a blockade , he added , because President Xi " respects me and he knows I 'm expletive crazy . " <p> Such comments reveal the bind Trump will inevitably find himself in when it comes to Taiwan this time around . He could , of course , try to persuade Beijing to throttle back its military pressure on the island in return for a reduction in U.S. tariffs -- a move that would reduce the risk of war in the Pacific but leave China in a stronger economic position and disappoint many of his top advisers . If , however , he chooses to act " crazy " by embracing " strategic clarity " and stepping up military pressure on China , he would likely receive accolades from many of his supporters , while provoking a ( potentially nuclear ) war with China . <p> Trade War or Economic Coexistence ? <p> The question of tariffs represents another way in which Trump will face a crucial choice between punitive action and transactional options in his second term -- or , to be more precise , in deciding how severe to make those tariffs and other economic hardships he will try to impose on China . <p> In January 2018 , the first Trump administration imposed tariffs of 30% on imported solar panels and 20%-50% on imported washing machines , many sourced from China . Two months later , the administration added tariffs on imported steel ( 25% ) and aluminum ( 10% ) , again aimed above all at China . And despite his many criticisms of Trump 's foreign and economic policies , President Biden chose to retain those tariffs , even adding new ones , notably on electric cars and other high-tech products . The Biden administration has also banned the export of advanced computer chips and chip-making technology to China in a bid to slow that country 's technological progress . <p> Accordingly , when Trump reassumes office on January 20th , China will already be under stringent economic pressures from Washington . But he and his associates insist that those wo n't be faintly enough to constrain China 's rise . The president-elect has said that , on day one of his new term , he will impose a 10% tariff on all Chinese imports and follow that with other harsh measures . Among such moves , the Trump team has announced plans to raise tariffs on Chinese imports to 60% , revoke China 's Permanent Normal Trade Relations ( also known as " most favored nation " ) status , and ban the transshipment of Chinese imports through third countries . <p> But Trump will also face possible pushback from other advisers who are warning of severe economic perturbations if such measures were to be enacted . China , they suggest , has tools of its own to use in any trade war with the U.S. , including tariffs on American imports and restrictions on American firms doing business in China , including Elon Musk 's Tesla , which produces half of its cars there . For these and other reasons , the U.S.-China Business Council has warned that additional tariffs and other trade restrictions could prove disastrous , inviting " retaliatory measures from China , causing additional U.S. jobs and output losses . " <p> As in the case of Taiwan , Trump will face some genuinely daunting decisions when it comes to economic relations with China . If , in fact , he follows the advice of the ideologues in his circle and pursues a strategy of maximum pressure on Beijing , specifically designed to hobble China 's growth and curb its geopolitical ambitions , he could precipitate nothing short of a global economic meltdown that would negatively affect the lives of so many of his supporters , while significantly diminishing America 's own geopolitical clout . He might therefore follow the inclinations of certain of his key economic advisers like transition leader Howard Lutnick , who favor a more pragmatic , businesslike relationship with China . How Trump chooses to address this issue will likely determine whether the future involves increasing economic tumult and uncertainty or relative stability . And it 's always important to remember that a decision to play hardball with China on the economic front could also increase the risk of a military confrontation leading to full-scale war , even to World War III . <p> And while Taiwan and trade are undoubtedly the most obvious and challenging issues Trump will face in managing ( mismanaging ? ) U.S.-China relations in the years ahead , they are by no means the only ones . He will also have to decide how to deal with increasing Chinese assertiveness in the South China Sea , continued Chinese economic and military-technological support for Russia in its war against Ukraine , and growing Chinese investments in Africa , Latin America , and elsewhere . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> In these , and other aspects of the U.S.-China rivalry , Trump will be pulled toward both increased militancy and combativeness and a more pragmatic , transactional approach . During the campaign , he backed each approach , sometimes in the very same verbal outburst . Once in power , however , he will have to choose between them -- and his decisions will have a profound impact on this country , China , and everyone living on this planet . <h> Related Posts <p> Amid other crises , China 's economy has reeled from Western decoupling efforts . While several countries stand to gain from this process , it has only partially reduced China 's extensive global influence . The ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
