<h> Priyanka Gandhi Vadra 's use of tote bags supporting Palestine and minorities in Bangladesh has been criticised by the BJP , calling it a gesture of appeasement . She has called the criticism ' typical patriarchy ' <p> To support minorities in Bangladesh , Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was seen sporting a bag with a slogan -- ' Stand with Bangaldeshi Hindus and Christians ' -- on Tuesday . ( Images/X ) <p> Congress MP from Wayanad Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been grabbing nation 's attention for her choice of tote bags , apparently showing her support to the international causes . She was seen carrying a bag in Parliament on Monday with ' Palestine ' printed on it . A day later , another of her handbag bore a phrase condemning atrocities against Hindus in Bangladesh . <p> Vadra , who gave her maiden speech in Parliament on December 15 , touching issues concerning women , violence in Sambhal in Uttar Pradesh and Manipur and nationwide caste census , has been quite outspoken about the matters in the world . <h> related stories <h> What Priyanka Gandhi Vadra Has To Say On Palestine And Bangladesh ? <p> Her gesture to support the Palestine cause was met with criticism , with the BJP terming her action " appeasement " . Vadra said the censure was " typical patriarchy " where she was " being told what to wear and what not to wear " . <p> " I do n't subscribe to patriarchy . I will wear what I want to , " she said . <p> Vadra has been showing solidarity with Palestine in Parliament for a few days . As a symbolic gesture , she was seen wearing a black-and-white ' keffiyeh ' ( a traditional Palestinian headscarf ) during a meeting with the Palestinian Charge d'Affaires . <p> She had criticised Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in June , accusing his government of genocide in Gaza . " It is the moral responsibility of every right-thinking individual , including all those Israeli citizens who do not believe in hatred and violence , and every government in the world to condemn the Israeli government 's genocidal actions and force them to stop , " she had posted on X. <p> To support minorities in Bangladesh , Vadra was seen sporting a bag with a slogan -- ' Stand with Bangaldeshi Hindus and Christians ' -- on Tuesday . The phrase referred to the attacks on minorities in Bangladesh , which happened since former Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina was overthrown in August . <p> In her address at Zero Hour in the Lok Sabha on Monday , Vadra asked the government to bring up the matter of atrocities against minorities in Bangladesh . She also urged the Centre to establish relations with Dhaka in order to protect the safety of Christians and Hindus . <h> What Has Been BJP 's Reaction On Vadra 's Stunts ? <p> BJP MP and spokesperson Sambit Patra said Vadra 's gesture was not a surprise . " As far as Gandhi family members are concerned , it is nothing new . Right from Nehru to Priyanka Vadra , members of the Gandhi family roam around with the bag of appeasement ... They have never hung the bag of patriotism on their shoulders . This baggage is the reason behind their defeats , " he said . <p> BJP 's IT cell head Amit Malviya accused the Wayanad MP of using " communal virtue signalling " under the guise of a stance against patriarchy . " At the end of this Parliament session , observe a two-minute silence for everyone in the Congress who believed Priyanka Vadra was the solution . Sporting a bag in support of Palestine in Parliament is crass communal posturing , " he said . " Make no mistake , Congress is the New Muslim League " . <h> What Has Been Congress ' Stance On Palestine ? <p> The Congress had reiterated its past position on Palestine and avoided questioning the government on its stand in relation to the conflict that began in Gaza on October 7 , 2023 . <p> " The Indian National Congress condemns the brutal attacks on the people of Israel . The Indian National Congress has always believed that the legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian people for a life of self-respect , equality and dignity must be fulfilled only through a process of dialogue and negotiations while ensuring the legitimate national security interests of the Israeli people . Violence of any type never provides a solution and must stop , " Congress communication head Jairam Ramesh had said on X. <p> Historically , the Congress has always supported the legitimate cause of the Palestinian people , at the same time , underlining the need for better relations with Israel . <p> In June 2021 , the Congress had issued a statement raising concerns about India 's stand on the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians in Gaza . The party had pointed out that while New Delhi 's initial statement in the UN Security Council on May 16 noted that the intrusion by Israeli forces into the Holy Al Aqsa mosque during Ramzan prayers ruptured the delicate peace in the region , its statement at the UN General Assembly four days later omitted that mention . <p> In 2004 , UPA government 's common minimum programme drafted by the Congress and Left leaders stressed the historical commitment of India to the Palestinian cause . " Traditional ties with West Asia will be given a fresh thrust . The UPA government reiterates India 's decades-old commitment to the cause of the Palestinian people for a homeland of their own , " it said . <h> What Is India 's Policy On Palestine ? <p> The Ministry of External Affairs has stated , " India 's policy towards Palestine has been long standing and includes support for a negotiated two State solution , and the establishment of a sovereign , independent and viable State of Palestine within secure and recognized borders , living side by side in peace with Israel . India also supports Palestine 's membership of the UN . <p> " India has strongly condemned the terror attacks on Israel on October 7 , 2023 and also the loss of civilian lives in the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict . India has called for a ceasefire , release of all hostages and peaceful resolution of conflict through dialogue and diplomacy . " <p> External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had stressed India 's commitment to a " sovereign , independent , and viable Palestinian state " . Responding to allegations of India abstaining from UN resolutions on Gaza , Jaishankar had clarified that India had supported 10 of 13 resolutions concerning Palestine at the UN General Assembly since the Israel-Hamas conflict began in October 2023 . <p> Since the beginning of the Gaza conflict , India has provided around 70 million tonnes of humanitarian aid , including 16.5 million tonnes of medicines and medical supplies to Palestinian refugees . It has also released $5 million last year and disbursed another $5 million this year to United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian refugees in Near East ( UNRWA ) . Recently , 65 tonnes of medicines were also sent to UNRWA and Palestine Ministry of Health in October and November 2024. <h> top videos <p> India and Palestine share strong ties , which date back nearly five decades . In 1974 , India became the first non-Arab nation to recognise the Palestine Liberation Organisation ( PLO ) . Diplomatic relations deepened in 1996 , when India established a representative office in Gaza , later shifted to Ramallah in the West Bank in 2003 . <p> The Central government has criticised the October 7 attack in Gaza , which killed more than 1,000 Israelis and kidnapping of many . It has called for ceasefire and restraint in the besieged Palestinian enclave the death toll has exceeded more than 45,000 people , including 17,000 children , according to the Ministry of Health in Gaza .
