<h> Israel has launched a series of airstrikes on Yemen 's capital , occupied by rebels , and a port city , and killed at least nine people . This occurred sometime after a Houthi missile targeted central Israel . The strikes have escalated Israel 's war on the Iranian-backed Houthis , who have not yet faced the same level of intense military strikes such as those against the militant group Hamas in Palestine and Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> By PTI December 19 , 2024 , 11:58:02 AM IST ( Published ) <p> 4 Min Read <p> A series of intense Israeli airstrikes shook Yemen 's rebel-held capital and a port city early Thursday and killed at least nine people , officials said , shortly after a Houthi missile targeted central Israel . The strikes further escalate Israel 's campaign against the Iranian-backed Houthis , who have so far avoided the same level of intense military strikes that have targeted the Palestinian Hamas militant group and Lebanon 's Hezbollah , members of Tehran 's self-described " Axis of Resistance . " <p> Meanwhile , Israel and Iran have exchanged direct fire while the government of Syria , an enemy of Israel since its founding in 1948 , collapsed in the face of a rebel advance as the region 's wars have upended Iran 's network of allied proxy groups . <p> However , Thursday 's strikes risk further escalating conflict with the Houthis , whose attacks on the Red Sea corridor have drastically impacted global shipping . <p> The Houthi-controlled satellite channel al-Masirah said that some of the strikes targeted power stations in the capital , as well as the Ras Isa oil terminal on the Red Sea . The channel , citing its correspondent in the port city of Hodeida , said at least seven people had been killed at a port , while another two had been killed at the Ras Isa oil terminal . <p> An Israeli military statement offered no specifics on the targets hit . <p> " The targets struck by the ( Israeli military ) were used by the Houthi forces for military purposes , " the statement said . " The strikes degrade the Houthi terrorist regime , preventing it from exploiting the targets for military and terrorist purposes , including the smuggling of Iranian weapons to the region . " <p> Rear Adm Daniel Hagari , an Israeli military spokesman , said the strikes hit energy and port infrastructure , which he alleged the rebels " have been using in ways that effectively contributed to their military action . " " Israel will not hesitate to act in order to defend itself and its citizens from the Houthi attacks , " Hagari said . <p> Rebel-held Hodeida , some 145 kilometres ( 90 miles ) southwest of Sanaa , has been key for food shipments into Yemen as its decadelong war has gone on . There 's also longstanding suspicion that weapons from Iran have been transferred through the port . <p> The strikes happened just after the Israeli military said its air force intercepted a missile launched from Yemen before it entered the country 's territory . <p> " Rocket and missile sirens were sounded following the possibility of falling debris from the interception , " the Israeli military said . Sirens sounded near Tel Aviv and the surrounding areas , and a large explosion was heard overhead at the time . The Houthis did not immediately claim the missile attack , but said an important military statement would be issued in the coming hours , following a pattern of how they claim their assaults . <p> Israel previously struck Hodeida and its oil infrastructure in July after a Houthi drone attack killed one person and wounded 10 in Tel Aviv . <p> American forces have also launched a series of strikes on the Houthis over nearly a year due to Houthi attacks on shipping in the Red Sea corridor . On Monday , the US military 's Central Command said it hit " a key command-and-control facility " operated by the Houthis in Sanaa , later identified as the al-Ardi complex once home to the government 's Defence Ministry . But Israel appears to have carried out Thursday 's strikes alone . <p> The Houthis have targeted some 100 merchant vessels with missiles and drones since the Israel-Hamas war in the Gaza Strip started in October 2023 after Hamas ' surprise attack on Israel that killed 1,200 people and saw 250 others taken hostage . Israel 's grinding offensive in Gaza has killed over 45,000 Palestinians , local health officials say . <p> The Houthis have seized one vessel and sunk two in a campaign that has also killed four sailors . Other missiles and drones have either been intercepted by separate US- and European-led coalitions in the Red Sea or failed to reach their targets , which have also included Western military vessels . <p> The rebels maintain that they target ships linked to Israel , the US or the United Kingdom to force an end to Israel 's campaign against Hamas in Gaza . However , many of the ships attacked have little or no connection to the conflict , including some bound for Iran . <p> The Houthis have battled a Saudi-led coalition into a stalemate in a wider Yemen war that 's killed more than 150,000 people , including civilians . The conflict also has created one of the world 's worst humanitarian disasters that 's believed to killed tens of thousands more .
