<h> My Hunger Strike for Gaza : A 31 Day Experience <h> Share : <p> When Northern Gaza was placed under a complete siege , the Biden Administration issued a warning that if conditions did n't improve within 30 days , he would stop weapons shipments to Israel . At the time of the announcement , hundreds of thousands of Palestinians faced imminent starvation because the Israeli military was blocking trucks of humanitarian aid from entering Northern Gaza . As children and their parents either starved to death or suffocated under the rubble of their homes that were deliberately bombed -- Biden told them to wait thirty days . When the thirty days were up , Israel correctly called Biden 's bluff . They knew he was n't going to stop sending weapons , and they were right . <p> I began this hunger strike to demand that my government end the siege on Gaza . It 's clear to the entire world that Israel acts with full backing from the United States and both governments are responsible for the death and human suffering happening in Palestine . <p> The people of Gaza were starving before Biden 's 30 day warning . They faced famine even before October 7th . People who defend this genocide will often note that there was peace on October 6th , 2023 . But on October 6th , there was an Israeli imposed blockade that only allowed in the minimal calorie intake per Palestinian every single day -- with no intention of making sure it reached each of the two million people that resided in Gaza . On top of that deprivation , Israel waged sporadic wars on the people of Gaza every few years . Nearly a month has gone by since Israel called Biden 's bluff -- the arms are still flowing into Tel Aviv with American flags stamped into the bomb casings and the people of Gaza are still starving to death . When the very few aid trucks do arrive to feed the starving population , Israel kills them while they stand in line for food . <p> I want to tell you what 30 days with no food does to a person , and my experience is made easier by the fact that I have a roof over my head , access to clean water , and a certainty that I wo n't have to flee my home at any moment depending on the whim of the IOF evacuation orders . The women my age in Gaza are not given the same luxuries . I 'm an Elder , a mother and a long time Peace and Social Justice activist . I 've lived in California for over forty years , mostly in Sonoma County , but also in San Francisco and presently in Marin County . <p> In the first days of my hunger strike , I felt really tired and the hunger pangs were intense . Now they occur only several times a day . My body aches and as of today I 've lost seventeen pounds . I 'm constantly cold and my resistance and immunity are low . I learned yesterday from a dear friend and sister Palestinian Activist -- something I did n't know about hunger strikes -- that after days of starvation , beginning to eat food again could kill you . Your body is n't used to processing even a little bit of food . My friend Hazami , who ended her hunger strike this week , ended up in the hospital . So , I wonder what would happen to a person who has n't had enough food for months and months ? What happens to them when they have no hospital to go to ? What happens when the remaining hospital they do find gets bombed ? Or when their doctors get executed ? I know I will be able to eat again , but what if I was a child and I had no idea when food might be coming ? How scared would I be ? Hunger is n't just hunger in Gaza , it 's grief and suffering compounded a hundred times . It 's a form of torture . <p> I feel I 've been living in a traumatized state for over a year . I cry everyday , multiple times a day , my heart is beyond broken , it 's shattered . I wake up each morning worrying about the genocide that is happening in Gaza , knowing that if it was n't for my government 's partnership with the Israeli government this could n't continue . Our government is sending billions upon billions of our tax dollars to slaughter innocent children , mothers and fathers , entire families with bombs and artillery funded by our country . <p> I understand that " my trauma " is nothing compared to what the people of Gaza must be suffering . I ca n't even imagine the horrors they 're being forced to live through or die from . <p> I 'd gone to Washington DC on Oct 3rd wanting to work for diplomacy in the war in Ukraine . When Oct 7th happened , I decided to stay until we had a ceasefire in Gaza . I was there for seven long months , going to Capitol Hill , the White House and the State Department everyday trying and failing to get a Ceasefire . I came home broken . Last summer I joined the Handala in Lisbon , part of the Freedom Flotilla that is trying to break the Siege of Gaza . There are ships with 5,500 tons of humanitarian aid stuck in Istanbul , because the Turkish government has succumbed to Israeli and US pressure not to allow the ships to sail ! The US government is not allowing much needed humanitarian aid to reach Gaza , but then spends millions on building a port that was never going to work . Our government 's hypocrisy is soul crushing . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> I was desperate for this genocide and ethnic cleaning of Palestine to end , so I took a stand and put my body on the line . Today , Thursday Dec. 19th , is the beginning of the 31st day of my hunger strike/fast for Gaza . Even now my Representative in Congress , Jared Huffman , refuses to sign onto Representative Casar 's letter for an arms embargo against Israel . I asked for a meeting with him on the 25th day of my hunger strike/fast and was told he was unavailable to meet with me . Since it 's clear Rep. Huffman does n't care about Palestinians or his constituent 's lives and he seems to be indifferent to our collective suffering , I 'm ending my hunger strike/fast for Gaza with my dear friends and colleagues at the press conference at a press conference today and saving my energy to sue the ****** . <p> Leslie Angeline is a decades-long peace activist and proud mom based in San Francisco . She organizes with CODEPINK , Palestine Solidarity Network , and Greenpeace . <h> Related Posts <p> ( Jerusalem ) -- Israeli authorities have intentionally deprived Palestinian civilians in Gaza of adequate access to water since October 2023 , most likely resulting in thousands of deaths and thus committing the crime against ... <p> Repeated Israeli military attacks on Palestinian civilians over the last 14 months , the dismantling of the health care system and other essential infrastructure , the suffocating siege , and the systematic denial of humanitarian assistance are destroying ... <p> Gaza ( Quds News Network ) - Israeli soldiers and officers have exposed shocking practices by the Israeli army in Gaza , where Israeli soldiers have created a line of corpses in northern Gaza . According to ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
