<p> Contributing to talent , tech and tradition ' : PM Modi hails Indian diaspora in Kuwait <h> Contributing to talent , tech and tradition ' : PM Modi hails Indian diaspora in Kuwait <h> Calling Kuwait an important trade and energy partner , a day ahead of his bilateral meetings with the Emir and Crown Prince of the Gulf nation , Prime Minister Narendra Modi also highlighted the role of the Indian diaspora in the country in terms of " talent , technology and tradition " . Addressing a large gathering of the Indian community ... <p> Calling Kuwait an important trade and energy partner , a day ahead of his bilateral meetings with the Emir and Crown Prince of the Gulf nation , Prime Minister Narendra Modi also highlighted the role of the Indian diaspora in the country in terms of " talent , technology and tradition " . <p> Addressing a large gathering of the Indian community in Kuwait in a special event ' Hala Modi ' at the Sheikh Saad Al-Abdullah Indoor Sports Complex , Modi said , " The relationship that culture and commerce had built in the past is moving towards new heights in the new century . Today , Kuwait is a very important energy and trade partner of India . India is also a big investment destination for Kuwaiti companies . " <p> He also recalled what the Crown Prince said during their recent meeting in New York : " When You Are In Need , India Is Your Destination " , recalling Indian assistance to Kuwait during the pandemic times , and also how Kuwaiti authorities came forward to help during the fire accident in Mangaf earlier this year where more than 40 Indian workers lost their lives . The PM also visited the Gulf Spic Labour Camp , where more than 90% inhabitants are Indians , and interacted with them . <p> He landed in Kuwait on Saturday evening for a two-day visit , marking the first visit to the Gulf nation by an Indian PM in 43 years . " Landed in Kuwait to a warm welcome . This is the first visit by an Indian PM in 43 years , and it will undoubtedly strengthen the India-Kuwait friendship across various sectors , " Modi said in a post on X. <p> At a time when the tension in West Asia is still simmering , Modi also said that India and Kuwait have a " shared interest in peace , security , stability and prosperity in the West Asia region " . His visit to Kuwait is taking place two weeks after the collapse of President Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria and the continuing Israeli offensive in Gaza . <p> Modi said his talks with top Kuwaiti leadership would be an opportunity to chalk out a roadmap for a futuristic partnership with India . " We are not just strong trade and energy partners but also have shared interest in peace , stability and prosperity in the West Asia region , " he said . <p> On Sunday , PM Modi will be accorded a ceremonial guard of honour at the Bayan Palace ( Emir 's palace ) , following which he will hold separate meetings with the Emir of Kuwait and the Crown Prince of Kuwait Sabah Al-Khalid Al-Sabah . There will be delegation-level talks with the PM of Kuwait as well . <p> Advertisement <p> During these discussions , PM Modi will review with the leadership of Kuwait " the entire spectrum of our bilateral relations -- trade , investment , energy , culture , and people-to-people ties , and the steps that both sides need to take to further enhance them " , the MEA said . Kuwait is among India 's top trading partners , with bilateral trade valued at $10.47 billion in 2023-24 . <p> Divya A reports on travel , tourism , culture and social issues - not necessarily in that order - for The Indian Express . She 's been a journalist for over a decade now , working with Khaleej Times and The Times of India , before settling down at Express . Besides writing/ editing news reports , she indulges her pen to write short stories . As Sanskriti Prabha Dutt Fellow for Excellence in Journalism , she is researching on the lives of the children of sex workers in India . ... Read More
