<h> India , Kuwait elevate ties to strategic partnership <p> Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's visit to Kuwait , the first in 43 years , resulted in a strategic partnership and a defense cooperation agreement . The nations condemned terrorism , agreeing to enhance counter-terrorism efforts . Discussions included trade , investment , and the West Asia situation , with Kuwait supporting India-GCC cooperation . <p> Narendra Modi 's visit to Kuwait , the first by an Indian Prime Minister in 43 years , was marked by the two sides signing a significant agreement to boost defence cooperation and also elevate relations to a strategic partnership . The defence agreement is in line with efforts by Indian govt in recent times to boost security and defence cooperation with Gulf nations . " The agreement will institutionalise bilateral cooperation in the area of defence , " said the Indian govt , adding that key areas of cooperation will include joint military exercises , training of defence personnel , coastal defence , maritime safety , joint development and production of defence equipment.Importantly for India , Kuwait joined India in unequivocally condemning terrorism in all its forms and manifestations , including cross-border terrorism and called for disrupting terrorism financing networks and safe havens , and dismantling of terror infrastructure . Expressing appreciation of their ongoing bilateral cooperation in security , both sides agreed to enhance cooperation in counter-terrorism operations , information and intelligence sharing and , among other things , to strengthen cooperation in law enforcement , anti-money laundering , drug-trafficking and other crimes.Modi held bilateral talks with Kuwait PM Sheikh Ahmad Al-Abdullah Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah , looking to finalise a roadmap to bolster strategic partnership in political , trade , investment , energy , defence and security ties . <h> India , Kuwait believed to have discussed West Asia situation <p> During his Kuwait visit , PM Modi also met the Amir , Sheikh Meshal Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah , and Crown Prince Sheikh Sabah Al-Khaled Al-Sabah Al-Hamad Al-Mubarak Al-Sabah.Modi 's visit to Kuwait took place in the middle of renewed efforts for a ceasefire in Gaza . Kuwait , which holds the GCC presidency , strongly called for a temporary ceasefire at a recent GCC summit it hosted . While neither side officially said anything on Gaza or the overall West Asia situation , it 's believed there was a discussion on the issue with Indian govt reiterating its support for a ceasefire and also two-state solution . <p> On Modi 's meeting with the Amir , Indian govt said that the leaders recalled the strong historical and friendly ties between the two countries and re-affirmed their full commitment to further expanding and deepening bilateral cooperation . " In this context , they agreed to elevate the bilateral relationship to a ' strategic partnership ' , " said an Indian readout . Modi also thanked him for ensuring the well-being of over 1 million-strong Indian community in Kuwait and invited him to visit India . " The Kuwaiti side as the current Chair of GCC assured full support for deepening of India-GCC cooperation under the recently adopted ' joint action plan ' in areas , including health , trade , security , agriculture and food security , transportation , energy , culture , amongst others . Both sides also stressed the importance of early conclusion of India-GCC Free Trade Agreement , " said a joint statement.Both sides also noted that trade has been an enduring link between the two countries and emphasised on the potential for further growth and diversification in bilateral trade . " They also emphasised on the need for promoting exchange of business delegations and strengthening institutional linkages , " said the statement , adding Kuwait agreed to explore investment opportunities in India in a range of areas .
