<h> Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is Loitering in Grand Style <p> " Like Grandfather Nehru ... " posted a Pakistani politician who was a minister in the Imran Khan regime . Fawad Hussain , clearly in awe of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra , whose Palestine Tote bag and black &amp; white check sari made an emphatic if controversial political statement , and will likely launch a fashion trend , too , if not anywhere else , at least in her parliamentary constituency Wayanad and places nearby where " All eyes On Rafa " has been trending for months since Hamas terrorists fled to Rafa and the Israel Defence Forces followed in hot pursuit . <p> And who said Pakistan and India are two-nations ? They are n't . Not after Fawad Hussain and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra spoke in one voice . Also , both are as secular as the French and Palestinians are . Hamas , too , if it had n't jumped the border and carried out ' October 7 ' -- dragged away over 200 hostages including young women , one of whom the Israeli Defence Forces " rescued " and she turned out to be a " Yazidi slave " of a West Bank Palestinian family , " bought from the ISIS . " <p> Indeed , life in Palestine is full of surprises . From the beehive of tunnels , stretching right into Israel , to the underground bunkers and the arsenal stored under the operating rooms of Gaza hospitals , which keep count of those killed and injured in Israeli bombings . It ca n't be Priyanka Gandhi Vadra 's fault that she did n't know all this ? There was too much happening in India to keep track . . <p> To her credit , though , Priyanka Gandhi Vadra went ahead and voiced her solidarity with the people of Palestine , especially the children of Gaza , who the Israeli Defence Forces bombed to death in the thousands . Priyanka met the Palestine Charge-d ' -affairs in New Delhi and within the week , she was attired to kill in Palestinian keffiyeh ! To those who have n't seen it , Priyanka Gandhi Vadra made a pretty picture ! <p> Of elegance and purpose . Questioned by a wayward reporter , she retorted , " Now , I have to be told what to wear , too ? ' The statement she made with the Palestine bag resounded inside and outside Parliament . Pakistanis heard it on the other side of the Wagah . Fawad Chaudhary termed Pakistani MPs spineless for not doing a " Priyanka " in the Pakistan National Assembly , for not coming out bold and clear in solidarity with the " oppressed people of Palestine . " <p> Just like Priyanka Gandhi , who is today more popular in Pakistan than Bushra Imran Khan . Also to her credit , Priyanka Gandhi Vadra steered clear of Hamas , the vile terrorists who still roam the underground tunnels of Gaza and Rafa , living like rodents deep in the underground warrens . Analysts are asking why Priyanka Gandhi Vadra forgot Hamas while praising the Palestinians ? They are questioning Priyanka ? <p> Point is , Priyanka Gandhi Vadra kept her focus on Palestine and Palestinians . And that made her speak of the plight of Bangladesh 's Hindus . Priyanka 's ire was on the Modi government 's total inaction in alleviating the lives of Bangladeshi Hindus ? She did n't question the Modi government 's apathy towards the Palestinians . She questioned Modi 's handling of the Bangladesh crisis . <p> And she put the focus on Israel 's war on Gaza 's babies ? Fawad Hussain identified with Priyanka Gandhi Vadra . Modi 's ministers did not . Fawad heaped praises on Priyanka Gandhi Vadra . Modi 's ministers could not see anything beyond their flared-up nostrils . They only saw the Palestine-emblazoned black tote bag that Priyanka carried to Parliament and with it , Palestine ! <p> BJP MP and spokesperson Sambit Patra sat like Buddha and cast asides at Priyanka Gandhi Vadra , calling her now-iconic Palestine bag , ' Bag of Appeasement ! ' Patra did n't call it ' Bag of Muslim Appeasement ' , very much aware when not to cross the line . Modi 's NDA government and before that the Modi government has been walking a tightrope on Palestine and Israel , racing with the hare and running with the hound . The Modi government is a cleft stick . And it 's always on Modi 's side , always . <p> Priyanka Gandhi Vadra , however , is totally on the Palestine side , begging the question , has any of the Nehru-Gandhi family members ever visited Palestine ? Should n't Priyanka Vadra invite herself to Palestine ? As it is , Priyanka is known to the Palestinian embassy in New Delhi . It will be crowning glory if she makes a historic trip . <p> Priyanka Gandhi Vadra 's black tote bag with Palestine emblazoned on it has on its bottom right corner the image of the Jordan River , and the Sea ! Who has n't heard of ' From the River to the Sea ' , which makes Palestinians raise their fist in solidarity and Israelis clench their fist in anger ? Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is lucky she has n't heard of ' from the river to the sea ' , an allusion to how numbered the days are for the Israelis . Priyanka Gandhi Vadra could n't have been any more emphatic about her support for the Palestine cause . <p> Priyanka Gandhi Vadra 's ' Palestine Bag ' should be preserved and protected ; kept in a Parliament vault to send a message as that sent by Bhagat Singh and his bunch of freedom-fighters . Fawad Hussain saw Priyanka " standing up against Israel and showing courage " and asked , " What else could we expect from a granddaughter of a towering freedom fighter like Jawaharlal Nehru ? Priyanka Gandhi has stood tall amidst pygmies , such shame that to date , no Pakistani member of Parliament has demonstrated such courage . " <p> Pakistani Fawad Chaudhary not only saw ' Palestine ' emblazoned on Priyanka Gandhi Vadra 's tote bag , he also saw the slice of the watermelon , one of many Palestinian emblems . AIMIM MP Asaduddin Owaisi took his oath with a ' Jai Palestine ' and but for Priyanka Gandhi Vadra 's ' Palestine bag ' , the people of India would n't have heard of the " atrocities against Hindus in Bangladesh . " Right ? ( IPA Service )
