<h> Israel 's Defence Minister inspected troops in Lebanon . He oversaw preparations for the next phase of the Hezbollah ceasefire . The Minister warned of crushing consequences if Hezbollah violates the agreement . Hezbollah is required to withdraw south of the Litani River . The Lebanese Armed Forces and UN will deploy along the border . Hezbollah attacks followed the Hamas attacks in October . <p> " We have extracted the serpent 's fangs , and if Hezbollah does not withdraw beyond the LitRiver and attempts to violate the ceasefire , we will crush its head , " Katz stated . " We will not allow Hezbollah to rebuild its terror infrastructure in southern villages , ensuring the safety and security of the residents of northern Israel . " <p> During the visit , he conducted a situational assessment with division commanders and spoke with soldiers . <p> Under the terms of a two-month ceasefire that went into effect on November 27 , Hezbollah is supposed to withdraw its armed presence from areas of southern Lebanon south of the Litani River . Israeli forces will also withdraw from southern Lebanon in stages . The Lebanese Armed Forces is to be deployed in southern Lebanon including along the 120 km border with Israel , as will monitors from the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon . <p> After the Hamas attacks of October 7 , 2023 , Hezbollah began launching rockets and launching drones at northern Israel communities daily . More than 68,000 residents of northern Israel are displaced from their homes . Hezbollah leaders have repeatedly said they would continue the attacks to prevent Israelis from returning to their homes . <p> According to United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701 , which ended the 2006 Second Lebanon War , Hezbollah is forbidden from operating in southern Lebanon south of the Litani River . <p> At least 1,200 people were killed , and 252 Israelis and foreigners were taken hostage in Hamas 's attacks on Israeli communities near the Gaza border on October 7 . Of the 97 remaining hostages , more than 30 have been declared dead . Hamas has also been holding captive two Israeli civilians since 2014 and 2015 , and the bodies of two soldiers killed in 2014.
