<h> Seeking middle ground in Middle East <p> The collapse of assumptions is like the end of the world -- or worldview . We assumed conventional battles and nuclear bombings ended with the 20th century . But wars in Russia-Ukraine , Gaza , Yemen , Sudan , Somalia and Lebanon prove us wrong . Western defence officials now raise the nuclear threat level . Britain 's armed forces chief Tony Radakin declared , " We are at the dawn of a third nuclear age . It is defined by proliferating nuclear and disruptive technologies and the almost total absence of the security architectures that went before . " <p> Such warnings are ominous . But western threat perceptions are also fuelled by false narratives , a kaleidoscope of selective evidence and wilful distortions . Russia threatens to use tactical nuclear weapons if NATO crosses its redlines in Ukraine . Mainstream west unreservedly accuses Russia of invading Ukraine . But respected American and European historians , left and rightwing groups , openly blame NATO expansion for triggering this war . <p> Nuclear drumbeat increases , but there is no mention of the US unilaterally withdrawing from its nuclear and missiles treaties with Russia in 2019 . Radakin said Russia 's induction of North Korean troops into Ukraine is dangerous . But equally dangerous was deploying British agents into Ukraine to invade Russia 's Kursk region . The west sees threats from China 's growing nuclear stockpiles and maritime fortifications . Is n't that what ascending powers do ? No mention that China 's nuclear arsenal and naval bases do n't compare with the US . Radakin blamed Iran for not cooperating with international efforts , when it was Britain 's " special friend " Donald Trump who scuppered the nuclear deal . <p> Imaging : Deni Lal <p> Geopolitical changes challenge assumptions . Perched on tanks , victorious rebels raced into Damascus , cheering and jeering , shouting and shooting . Statues of the fallen Syrian dictator and founders of his dynasty were toppled , heads severed and kicked like football on streets strewn with shattered glass . Bearded men blazing guns and praising God invariably bring long-term misery to ordinary citizens . This is not prediction , it is d ? j ? vu . We have seen such triumphal scenes before . They did not end well , not in Iraq , not in Libya , Sudan or Afghanistan . <p> The Middle East meltdown threatens the world as nation states disintegrate , their leaders assassinated or banished . Syria has now fallen to a scattershot patchwork of rebels , jihadists , nationalists , mercenaries , militias and terrorists with links to the Islamic State and al-Qaeda . They hail from competing geographies , feuding histories and incompatible ideologies . " It 's a pretty toxic brew , " said Democratic Senator Chris Van Hollen . <p> The long arm of the US and its great games stir these toxic brews . The covert CIA operation Timber Sycamore to topple Syria 's Bashar al-Assad was launched a decade ago by the Obama regime . As weapons and money flowed , Syria became a honeypot for swarming regional gunmen , its opposition overrun by gangsters and terrorists . Like Saddam Hussein and Muammar Gaddafi , Assad used brute force to keep his diverse country together . Now Syria risks being balkanised , disintegrating into separate fiefdoms tacitly controlled by big powers -- the US , Russia , Turkey , Israel and a weakened , isolated Iran . Shadowy hands now rock the cradle of civilisation . <p> Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu 's decades-long , self-proclaimed ambition is redrawing the Middle East map . He has devastated Gaza , invaded Lebanon and Syria . Iraq , Libya and Sudan were already destroyed . War with Iran remains . As president again , Trump may reduce the nuclear threat from Russia , but increases it from Iran . The US is complicit , the UN toothless , regional Sunni powers , treacherous . Iran 's allies are distracted , dismembered or destroyed . Shia-Iran is a cornered power with nuclear weapons . Threat levels rise , alarm bells ring . What it may do is best left unimagined .
