<h> 2 US Navy Pilots Shot Down Over Red Sea In ' Friendly Fire ' <p> Both pilots were recovered alive , with one suffering minor injuries , but the incident underlines just how dangerous the Red Sea corridor has become over the ongoing attacks on shipping by the Iranian-backed Houthis despite US and European military coalitions patrolling the area . <p> Two US Navy pilots were shot down Sunday over the Red Sea in an apparent " friendly fire " incident , the US military said , marking the most serious incident to threaten troops in over a year of America targeting Yemen 's Houthi rebels . <p> Both pilots were recovered alive , with one suffering minor injuries , but the incident underlines just how dangerous the Red Sea corridor has become over the ongoing attacks on shipping by the Iranian-backed Houthis despite US and European military coalitions patrolling the area . <p> The US military had conducted airstrikes targeting Yemen 's Houthi rebels at the time , though the US military 's Central Command did not elaborate on what their mission was and did not immediately respond to questions from The Associated Press . <p> The F/A-18 shot down had just flown off the deck of the USS Harry S. Truman aircraft carrier , Central Command said . On Dec 15 , Central Command acknowledged the Truman had entered the Mideast , but had n't specified that the carrier and its battle group was in the Red Sea . <p> " The guided missile cruiser USS Gettysburg , which is part of the USS Harry S. Truman Carrier Strike Group , mistakenly fired on and hit the F/A-18 , " Central Command said in a statement . <p> It was n't immediately clear how the Gettysburg could mistake an F/A-18 for an enemy aircraft or missile , particularly as ships in a battle group remain linked by both radar and radio communication . However , Central Command said that warships and aircraft earlier shot down multiple Houthi drones and an anti-ship cruise missile launched by the rebels . <p> Since the Truman 's arrival , the US has stepped up its airstrikes targeting the Houthis and their missile fire into the Red Sea and the surrounding area . However , the presence of an American warship group may spark renewed attacks from the rebels , like what the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower saw last year . That deployment marked what the Navy described as its most intense combat since World War II . <p> The Houthis have targeted about 100 merchant vessels with missiles and drones since the Israel-Hamas war in the Gaza Strip started in October 2023 after Hamas ' surprise attack on Israel that killed 1,200 people and saw 250 others taken hostage . <p> Israel 's grinding offensive in Gaza has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians , local health officials say . The tally does n't distinguish between combatants and civilians . <p> The Houthis have seized one vessel and sunk two in a campaign that has also killed four sailors . Other missiles and drones have either been intercepted by separate US- and European-led coalitions in the Red Sea or failed to reach their targets , which have also included Western military vessels . <p> The rebels maintain that they target ships linked to Israel , the U.S. or the United Kingdom to force an end to Israel 's campaign against Hamas in Gaza . However , many of the ships attacked have little or no connection to the conflict , including some bound for Iran .
