<h> ' Younger people have a different narrative on Israel now , ' says Joe Sacco <h> Summary <p> The graphic novelist reflects on the evolving legacy of his work on Palestine and his need to respond to the violence there <p> This is a Mint Premium article gifted to you . Subscribe to enjoy similar stories . <p> Joe Sacco has been called the heir to Art Spiegelman ( Maus ) and his award shelf creaks under the weight of trophies ( Eisner Award for Best Original Graphic Novel , Ridenhour Book Prize , American Book Award , etc . ) . But the scale of achievements casts no shadow on the man himself . When hordes of fans turned up at his brief appearances in two Delhi bookstores last month , the response surprised the 64-year-old Maltese-American graphic novelist . Wearing an unfaltering smile under a black fedora , he gracefully shook hands , signed copies and obliged selfie requests . Sacco is known around the world for his comics journalism , a genre unique enough even without his choice of subjects -- the Bosnian War , indigenous North America , Israel-Palestine relations . For many Indians , his two graphic novels on Palestine -- released in the 1990s and the aughts -- were the first accessible and immersive reports from the region that did not conform to the existing media narrative . In the wake of the current violence , Palestine and Footnotes in Gaza have acquired another lease of life , informing a whole new generation about the history of a besieged people . Sacco speaks to Lounge about the current situation . Edited excerpts : <h> Amnesty International recently concluded that Israel is committing a genocide in Palestine . You spent a lot of time in Gaza to report your stories . Did you ever think that violence would take such a shape against the Palestinians ? <p> I ca n't say I thought there 'd be a genocide . I thought what they ( Israel ) euphemistically call a " population transfer " might take place at some point . I thought the long-term goals of Israel might be to remove the Palestinians from various areas -- whether it was Gaza or parts of the West Bank .... Though if you look back , you see the impunity with which Israel has behaved over decades , the people they have killed in their various assaults in Gaza , even my own research into the massacres of Palestinians in 1956 , the logic of it was there . <h> Do you think something has shifted in the world 's perception of Israel and Palestine during this last year ? <p> Younger people do n't have the romanticised view of Israel that people of my generation and older had : This scruffy little nation " besieged by the Arab world " and " making the desert bloom " . They saw the bloodshed and carnage on their phones and got it right away . ... They started to examine the issue and see that there was a great unfairness historically . Younger people have a different narrative on Israel now , and we can see the power that narrative is developing -- Western governments have started to feel incumbent upon themselves to throttle that ( narrative ) , to threaten the people with that viewpoint , to expel them from schools , to say that they 'll never work after they 've graduated . People are losing jobs over their viewpoint . That demonstrates how powerful this new narrative is . <p> View Full Image <p> Sacco is known around the world for his comics journalism . ( Getty Images ) <h> Survivor accounts from Palestine in the form of photos and videos have been ignored and/or discredited by some media outlets . In this context , do you fear that comics journalism is even easier to discredit by someone so inclined ? <p> No , I think it 's the opposite . We see a photo and we tend not to trust it . We think , " Oh , this can be manipulated . " Even voice can be manipulated . But with the drawn image , the reader knows straightaway that this is filtered through someone 's hand . It 's clear that it 's a subjective viewpoint .... because I 've drawn this , people already know that they 're seeing this through my eyes . <h> You 've mentioned before that your form of journalism takes time . Years , instead of hours or days or weeks . What does that kind of timeline lend to the narrative and what are the limitations of it ? <p> Sometimes I wish that the books I 'm working on could be done in an instant . What written journalism has over what I do is that you see something one day and a day or two later , people are reading about it . That 's the power of newspaper reporting . When I studied journalism , I wanted to be a reporter who worked quickly . I liked working under deadline pressure . But I 've had to conform to the medium , and this medium requires time . I 'm very interested in getting the details right , drawing the buildings accurately , and that requires time . So instead of saying that I 'd like to do this quicker , I have decided to focus on the advantages of " slow journalism " . ... The longer time I spend there , the more people get to know me , see me around asking questions , and understand why I 'm there . ... I tend to look for universal sources of stories . What happened in 1956 was important to talk about because it 's a historical event . I 'm also showing what 's happening now -- that too is now a historic event . I think I practise journalism through a historical lens . <h> Given that you often represent people who are traditionally under-represented and oppressed , do you struggle with the question of realistic representation versus caricature in your comics ? <p> When I first started doing the book Palestine , it was serialised . I was criticised for the first issue I did by a Jewish person I did n't know and a Palestinian I did n't know . Both said that I had drawn them as caricatures . I had to think about that . The truth is I never learnt to draw realistically . I always tended to draw everything in a grotesque fashion . It had its appeal . But I also realised that to do journalism , or something aspiring to a journalism standard , I had to learn to draw more realistically . So , over time I began to shift how I drew . I listened to those lessons and learned to draw more realistically , which is not natural to my hand . <h> Did this realistic style shift only impact your books on Palestine or has it affected all of your work since ? <p> It 's seeped into all of my work . Even when I 'm doing funnier stuff on the side , I try to get the realistic line out of my hand . But your hand tends to do what it 's trained to do . ( Initially ) I beat it up so that it could draw realistically . And now I beat it up when I need to draw more cartoon-y . My poor hand ! <h> You 've covered horrific stories of violence through your career and immersed yourself into these stories drawing them . How do you balance the demands of your work and your mental health ? <p> Well , you should never think that I 'm so experienced in all this that I 'm not shocked . I never became inured to any of this stuff . It 's always unpleasant to see things , hear stories and draw them , especially to draw . Drawing is sometimes harder on you than being in the place , in the emotional toll it takes on you . The genocide in Gaza right now affects me like it affects everyone . It 's so horrific . There 's a part of me that really wants to turn away from it . Over decades of working with this sort of material I have recognised that because I have n't become calloused to it , I want to shift away from it . ... For my own mental health , I do want to move away from it . But I should say that I have a pretty good home life , good friends , a couple of martinis over the weekend . There are ways everyone copes , and I 'm lucky for the things that allow me to cope . <h> You say that you want to shift away from these stories . But as an artist who has reported on Gaza before , do you also feel compelled to respond to this event ? <p> I did about 32 pages of comics ( https : **36;267;TOOLONG ) that was n't reporting but my pontificating about what was going on . One of my friends in Khan Younis managed to get out of Gaza after 60 days of bombardment and got in touch with me . He said , " Please lift up your voice . " So , I felt compelled to do something . It 's sort of a critique , maybe less so of Israel than of the US , and our complicity in this .... and there 's more in the works . If I wanted to think about my mental health I 'd just go off and do my side projects that I have been dying to get to for decades but I also have obligations . <h> Any Palestinian writers or artists you 'd like to recommend to our readers ? <p> Rashid Khalidi , the Palestinian-American historian who wrote The Hundred Years ' War on Palestine ; Mohammad Sabaaneh , a Palestinian cartoonist -- I particularly like his black-and-white work ; Refaat Alareer , a Gazan poet whose work still resonates -- he was killed with family members by an Israeli bomb a year ago .
