<h> Elon Musk criticises Germany for refusing to extradite Saudi suspect <p> Elon Musk has criticised Germany 's decision not to extradite a Saudi suspect , describing the move as " insane . " His remarks have drawn attention to the country 's rising political tensions , especially in the context of his support for the far-right Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) party . The incident highlights the complexities of international relations and extradition policies . <p> Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday landed in Kuwait for a two-day visit at the invitation of Sheikh Meshal Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah , the Amir of the State of Kuwait . PM Modi 's visit to Kuwait , the first by an Indian prime minister in 43 years , comes two weeks after the collapse of Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria and amid signs of a possible ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas in Gaza . The last Indian prime minister to visit Kuwait was Indira Gandhi in 1981 . <p> Congress workers in Rajasthan on Saturday took out a rally in protest against Union Home Minister Amit Shah 's remarks about Babasaheb Ambedkar . Demanding immediate resignation and apology from Shah , the Congress protest was also joined by Congress general secretary Sachin Pilot . The Congress reiterated its demand for a public apology from Shah over his remarks , which it claimed were an " insult " to Ambedkar , and called for his resignation . <p> The ED has received sanction from Delhi Lt Governor VK Saxena for the prosecution of former Delhi Chief Minister and AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal in the liquor policy case , sources said . The development comes weeks ahead of the crucial Delhi Assembly elections , where the AAP is aiming to secure a fourth term in the face of an upbeat BJP . Citing a November 6 Supreme Court judgment , the ED sought sanction for prosecution under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act ( PMLA ) , 2002 , on December 5 . In its letter to the Lt Governor , the ED said it found a " huge level of corruption in framing and implementation " of the excise policy .
