<h> Children in Gaza are " Cold , sick and traumatized " : UNICEF <h> Share : <p> UNICEF/UNI463117/El Baba A boy sits on a mattress in the courtyard where displaced persons have taken shelter in the State of Palestine . <p> AMMAN/GENEVA , 20 December 2024 -- " Children in Gaza are cold , sick and traumatized . Hunger and malnutrition , and the dire living conditions more broadly , continue to put the lives of children at risk . Right now , over 96% of women and children in Gaza can not meet their basic nutritional needs . Most are surviving on rationed flour , lentils , pasta , and canned food -- a diet that slowly compromises their health . <p> " In November , an average of 65 truckloads of assistance entered Gaza , compared to 500 truckloads daily , before the war -- and when Gaza still had internal food production capacity . The most northern part of Gaza has been under a near total siege for 75 days now . Humanitarian assistance has been largely unable to reach the children in need for more than 10 weeks . <p> " Gaza must be one of the most heartbreaking places on earth for humanitarians . Every small effort to save a child 's life is undone by fierce devastation . For over 14 months , children have been at the sharp edge of this nightmare , with more than 14,500 children reportedly killed , thousands more injured . <p> " Last week I met with Saad , five years old . He lost his eyesight in a bombing , and sustained a head injury and burns . When I met him this week , he told me : " my eyes went to heaven before I did " . As we were talking , a plane flew overhead . He froze , screamed , and clutched for his mother . Seeing this boy , recently rendered blind , in such deep distress was unbearable . <p> " As we approach the end of the year , a time when the world strives to celebrate family , peace , and togetherness , in Gaza the reality for over a million children is fear , utter deprivation and unimaginable suffering . <p> " The war on children in Gaza stands as a stark reminder of our collective responsibility . A generation of children is enduring the brutal violation of their rights and the destruction of their futures . <p> " The stories I heard over the past months will torment me forever . Let me share one : this summer we met with a baby boy , also named Saad , he was seven months old . His mother 's miracle after years of trying to conceive . He weighed just 2.7 kilograms at 7 months -- a fraction of what a baby his age should . Eleven days ago , his fragile body gave out after not getting enough nutritious food . He was born in war and left this world without being given a chance to live in peace . I can not even start to imagine the depth of suffering of his parents . The suffering is not merely physical . It is also psychological . <p> " Winter has now descended on Gaza . Children are cold , wet , and barefoot . Many still wear summer clothes . With cooking gas gone , many are searching through rubble for scraps of plastic to burn . Diseases are ravaging the little bodies of children all while hospitals are destitute and continuously attacked . Health care is on its knees : hospitals lack medicines , medical supplies and doctors . This is worsened by the continuation of a near total electricity black out , making hospitals and other critical infrastructure entirely dependent on meagre fuel imports . <p> " There are immediate things we can all do today to make life just a little more bearable for these children . <p> " We can use our voices , use our political capital and our diplomatic leverage , to push for the evacuation of grievously injured children and their parents to leave Gaza and seek life-saving medical care in East Jerusalem or elsewhere . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> " As so many of us head into the celebrations of Christmas and the New Year , surrounded by so much , let 's take a moment to think of these children , who have so little and yet continue to lose more , day by day . Use your power , use your influence , to push for a ceasefire , and for the entry of aid at scale . <p> " Every day without action steals another day from Gaza 's children . Every delay costs more lives . This war should haunt every one of us . Gaza 's children can not wait . <p> Bethlehem ( Quds News Network ) - The Bethlehem Municipality announced that this year 's Christmas events will be limited to prayers and religious rituals . The decision aims to show solidarity with Gaza and ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
