<h> Nine killed , many injured as Israel bombards refugee camp in Gaza <p> Israeli soldiers stand guard on the Palestinian side of the Kerem Shalom crossing as reporters tour the area where aid is awaiting pickup in the Gaza Strip . -- Photo:AP <p> Gaza : At least nine people were killed in Israeli shelling on the Gaza Strip , according to Palestinian sources . Israeli warplanes targeted in the morning a gathering of Palestinians west of the al-Shati refugee camp on Saturday , said Mahmoud Basal , spokesman for Civil Defence in Gaza . <p> Basal told Xinhua that seven people were killed and some others injured in the strike , all of whom were taken to the Baptist Hospital in Gaza City . Medical workers also recovered a body and a number of wounded persons after an Israeli airstrike on a house in the vicinity of al-Ta'min school in central Gaza , according to Basal . Meanwhile , in southern Gaza 's Rafah , medics said that a Palestinian was killed by an Israeli drone in the Khirbet al-Adas area , north of the city , Xinhua news agency reported . <h> Also Read <p> Sources and eyewitnesses reported the Israeli army has been blowing up residential buildings in the al-Janina neighbourhood , east of Rafah , since morning hours . The Israeli army has not commented on these incidents . Also on Saturday , Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahia , northern Gaza , warned of the seriousness of the situation inside the hospital . <p> " Shells landed Friday on the third floor and at the doors . Fortunately , there were no casualties reported . However , it caused terror and fear among the wounded and children , " Abu Safiya said . " Until now , we have not received all the necessary electricity , water , and oxygen supplies , " he complained . Abu Safiya noted that the Israeli army " has not agreed to allow the entry of all the required medical supplies , and medical staff are prevented from entering . " <p> The Palestinian death toll from ongoing Israeli attacks in the Gaza Strip has risen to 45,227 , Gaza-based health authorities said in a statement on Saturday .
