<h> Story highlights <p> As per media reports , the tunnels were uncovered by the IDFs Kfir Brigade , operating under the command of the 162nd Division . During the operation , soldiers recovered military equipment that had been seized by Hamas fighters during the attacks on 7 October 2023 . Maps of Israeli communities near the Gaza border were also found , as per Jerusalem Post . <p> The Israeli Defence Forces ( IDF ) announced on Friday ( December 19 ) , that they had destroyed three tunnel routes in the northern Gaza city of Beit Lahia . According to the military , these tunnels spanned a combined length of 7.5 kilometres . <p> As per media reports , the tunnels were uncovered by the IDF 's Kfir Brigade , operating under the command of the 162nd Division . During the operation , soldiers recovered military equipment that had been seized by Hamas fighters during the attacks on 7 October , 2023 . Maps of Israeli communities near the Gaza border were also found , as per Jerusalem Post . <p> In another development , an article published by the Israeli newspaper Haaretz , citing anonymous soldiers , accused Israeli forces of carrying out random killings of Palestinian civilians in the Netzarim Corridor in Gaza . The corridor has been designated as a military zone . <p> The report suggested that commanders were given exceptional authority in Gaza , enabling or ordering the killing of unarmed civilians , including women and children . <p> The IDF firmly rejected these claims . " All activities and operations conducted by IDF forces in Gaza , including in the Netzarim Corridor , adhere to structured combat procedures , plans , and operational orders approved by the highest ranks in the army , " the military told AFP . <p> IDF said that all strikes in the area ( of Netzarim ) are conducted in accordance with the mandatory procedures and protocols , including targets that are struck in an urgent time frame due to essential operational circumstances where ground forces face immediate threats " . The military added that any concerns regarding potential deviations from orders or ethical standards are thoroughly investigated . <p> The ongoing conflict in Gaza has caused significant casualties . According to the Gaza Health Ministry , 45,206 Palestinians have been killed , and 107,512 injured since Israel began its military offensive on 7 October , 2023 . <h> Sweden axes funding for United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees <p> In a separate development , Sweden has announced it will stop funding the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees ( UNRWA ) . The country said that it will redirect its support to Gaza through other humanitarian channels , Swedish Aid Minister Benjamin Dousa told broadcaster TV4 . <p> Dousa said that Sweden would consider organisations such as the UN World Food Programme to provide aid . The decision follows repeated accusations by Israel that UNRWA was complicit in Hamas ' attacks on 7 October , 2023 , which marked the start of the 13-month-long conflict . Israel has stated it will ban UNRWA 's operations in the country starting January . <p> Disclaimer : WION takes the utmost care to accurately and responsibly report conflicts in West Asia involving Israel , Iran , Syria , Iraq , and non-state actors like the Islamic State , among others . In this context , claims and counterclaims are being made online and offline . WION can not independently verify the authenticity of all statements , social media posts , photos and videos .
