<p> PM Modi 's Kuwait visit : First by an Indian Prime Minister in 43 years What 's on agenda <h> PM Modi 's Kuwait visit : First by an Indian Prime Minister in 43 years What 's on agenda <h> PM Narendra Modi will become the first Indian Prime Minister to visit Kuwait in 43 years . PM Modi will address ' Hala Modi ' event at the Sheikh Saad Al Abdullah Sports Complex . He will also visit a labour camp . <p> PM Modi embarked on a two-day visit to Kuwait , becoming the first Indian Prime Minister to tour the Gulf nation in 43 years . On Saturday , the PM said that India and the Gulf nation have a shared interest in peace , security and stability of the West Asian region . <p> Invited by Amir Sheikh Meshal Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah , PM Modi will meet Kuwait 's top leadership , which includes the meeting with the Crown Prince and the Prime Minister . In another notable engagement , the PM will visit a labour camp which houses blue-collar Indian workers . The PM will also address the Indian diaspora at the Sheikh Saad Al Abdullah Sports Complex in the ' Hala Modi ' event . <h> From Hala Modi to labour camp visit : Top agenda <p> On Modi 's visit to the labour camp , Ministry of External Affairs Secretary , Arun Kumar said , " We have a community of around one million in Kuwait . The idea of the visit to the labour camp is to express the amount of importance the government of India attaches to our workers who are working in a foreign country . " <p> Before PM Modi 's visit , the MEA said that discussions are underway between both nations on a bilateral investment treaty and a defence cooperation pact . The MEA in this weekly media briefing expected that PM 's visit will bolster India-Kuwait ties . <p> Notably , PM Modi 's visit to Kuwait is taking place two weeks after the collapse of President Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria and the continuing Israeli offensive in Gaza . <p> Moreover , the visit is also crucial for strengthening India-Gulf Cooperation Council ( GCC ) ties . GCC is an important bloc , comprising nations like Saudi Arabia , United Arab Emirates , Oman , Qatar , Bahrain , and Kuwait . <h> Here 's what the PM said <p> In a departure statement , PM Modi said that his talks with Kuwait 's top leadership will be an ' opportunity to chalk out a roadmap for a futuristic partnership ' between both countries . <p> " We deeply value the historical connection with Kuwait that has been nurtured over generations . e are not just strong trade and energy partners but also have shared interest in peace , security , stability and prosperity in the West Asia region , " he said . <p> " It would be an opportunity to chalk out a roadmap for a futuristic partnership for the benefit of our people and the region , " he said . " I eagerly look forward to meeting the Indian diaspora in Kuwait who have immensely contributed to strengthening of bonds of friendship between the two nations , " he added .
