<h> Essay On The World In 2024 : A Geopolitical Outlook <p> The Russian President is here to stay and the way Zelensky is being beleaguered on the battlefield and the US Congress , it 's going to get only more difficult for Ukraine to sustain losses of men and equipment without any robust commitment by its NATO ' partners ' and more prominently the US . <p> The Hamas-Israel conflict will drag on well into the next year , more so as Netanyahu -- fearing that he will be shown the door soon- is unwilling to pull back . <p> Photo : AP <p> In the post-Covid era , the world has witnessed a rapid deterioration of long-held principles of how global trade should be conducted , how wars can be fought and how people can be manipulated through disinformation . And 2024 could be another watershed year as we need to prepare for any of the above three eventualities . <p> Gone are the days of a unipolar or bipolar world , where superpowers could enforce their writ without the fear of any consequences . Multipolarity is here to stay . The major countries of the Global South and their pivotal roles in maintaining a semblance of strategic equilibrium in an ever-increasingly volatile world will come into greater focus . India , Saudi Arabia , Turkey , South Africa and Brazil are going to be the major swing states that will play a leading role in collectively managing the domains where the interests of each country overlaps with the other , especially on the critical issues of climate change and economic cooperation . <h> 2024 will also be a year of many crucial elections <p> In South Asia , PM Modi aims to attain a 3rd term in office ; in Bangladesh , PM Sheikh Hasina looks to do the same , but for the fourth consecutive time ; and in Pakistan , it hardly matters which puppet comes to power as the Pak ' Deep State ' will always have the remote control to stage manage the country 's affairs . And if the trend continues , then we could be looking at another 1971 redux in the West , as the country is teetering on the precipice of another accelerated internal rebellion in Sindh and Balochistan . In the US , the Presidential elections slated for November 5 next year could truly be a turning point in America 's recent history . Perhaps the outcome of that election will determine if America 's decline is going to be slower than anticipated or not . <p> Indonesia , another Asian powerhouse goes to elections this February , Joko Widodo will not be able to achieve a hat trick as President . Both their President and the Vice President are allowed to hold office only for 10 years , i.e. two 5 year terms , but this does n't bar him from trying to make political calculations to suit his legacy even when not in office , as he has selected a former military general for his political campaign and Widodo has also ensured that his son is the VP candidate . And another crucial election that everyone will be keenly watching is the Taiwan general election slated to be held next month , that China will be watching keenly too . <h> War in the Ukraine will continue <p> The Russian President is here to stay and the way Zelensky is being beleaguered on the battlefield and the US Congress , it 's going to get only more difficult for Ukraine to sustain losses of men and equipment without any robust commitment by its NATO ' partners ' and more prominently the US . Bipartisan support that Ukraine enjoyed at the start of the war and in the subsequent months is being eroded recently , with the US Republican Party questioning the purpose of sending Ukraine another tranche of aid worth $61 billion . This month , the Hungarian PM Viktor Orban too blocked a $55 billion EU package of financial aid for Ukraine . Even then , the Russia-Ukraine war will drag on , if the West does n't take a hard relook at its policies which should aim at achieving a ceasefire and a dialogue to settle this conflict . Perhaps for that to happen , either Zelensky has to go or he has to realize the fact that the eastern regions of Ukraine annexed by Russia should be accepted as fait accompli and come to the negotiating table . <h> Conflicts at present , in the future <p> The Hamas-Israel conflict will drag on well into the next year , more so as Netanyahu -- fearing that he will be shown the door soon- is unwilling to pull back . Now the conflict has become harder to contain , and the US should change tack to seek new options : instead of supplying weapons to Israel to pulverize the Gaza Strip , maybe they should attempt to douse this fire , and focus more on the war in Ukraine and to prevent a possible Chinese attack on Taiwan . If the continuous escalation of rhetoric backed by offensive manoeuvres conducted by the Chinese naval forces with the Philippines are signs of things to come , any miscalculation can spiral out of control . Aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson ( CVN-70 ) and its escorts are presently stationed in South East Asia . With the Taiwan elections round the corner , a lot is at stake in the region . With an increasingly belligerent China , a skirmish is in the offing , if not in early 2024 , but soon hereafter . <p> Even as the Quad foursome deliberate on their role in the high seas , at present every major maritime route crucial for trade is under pressure due to conflicts that have engulfed the regions these routes pass through , the Red Sea , the Strait of Hormuz , the Strait of Malacca , the Taiwan Strait , the Black Sea and the Suez Canal . Perhaps , China , saddled with a falling economy too , would want to test the waters with Taiwan and try something dangerous during the outgoing President Biden 's last term and last year in office . And just like US and its Indo-Pacific partners must be prepared for any eventuality , India too has adopted a robust posture at the LAC to deter any attempt at misadventure by the PLA . 2024 could be another action-packed year on the geopolitical stage . <h> Artificial Intelligence and its increasing role <p> Yet another inescapable development that has caught the world 's attention for better or worse , is the almost indispensable application of Artificial Intelligence ( AI ) in every major domain of world affairs , from fighting wars , to disseminating information or disinformation , right down to its everyday use in our personal and professional lives . Regulating the ethical use of AI would be another big hurdle -- since the rules for AI uses are yet unclear - as many countries want to weaponize it for their own strategic interests . <h> And finally the UN must be re-invented <p> Above all else , there could be a push to re-invent the UN and its role , as this over-rated global body has failed all expectations as a peacemaker , in big and small wars . Equally important would be cooperation of like-minded countries in ensuring that the West considers their interests as well , when attempting to de-risk the global economy from disruption of supply chains that are in concentrated clusters or select countries and make it more diverse and equitable at the same time so as to ensure that in case another black swan event occurs , the world would be ready to better address the unique socio-economic and health-related challenges that may arise in the future . <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from Opinion and around the world .
