<p> Historically , the Red Sea route has been a major waterway to provide India with a maritime engagement link to the Gulf region and north Africa . Now , with the attacks by the Houthis the Red Sea has become another evolving flashpoint in the wider canvas of security in the Gulf region <p> New Delhi : The recent launch of Indian navy 's lethal marine commandos ( MARCOS ) to free an Indian merchant vessel with its crew from sea pirates in the Red Sea area , has shown that India will now onwards refuse to be a passive observer to events in the Red sea , which is now an area of confrontation between stakeholders in that region . <p> And India - must look beyond a white water coastal defence role in its west - should plan to go alone even as the US and UK use their fighter jets to pound Houthi bases in Yemen . <p> It is unclear what the US led air attacks can achieve except to show a muscular foreign policy approach . Such air strikes are easy to implement , but as reports indicate , they have n't achieved much against a rag-tag militia , like the Houthis . But this will slowly and steadily push the Western powers and the so-called Axis of Resistance backed by Iran - comprising the Houthis , Hamas and Hezbollah - towards a situation that 's incendiary . <p> Historically , the Red Sea route has been a major waterway to provide India with a maritime engagement link to the Gulf region and north Africa . Now , with the attacks by the Houthis the Red Sea has become another evolving flashpoint in the wider canvas of security in the Gulf region , following the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict . And if not contained , it can in all certainty , explode into a wider regional conflict that 'll draw the US and its allies into a confrontation with Iran that is backing the Houthis , Hamas and Hezbollah . <p> By targeting , the Red Sea and Suez Canal route , that carries 12 percent of the world 's maritime trade , and for India , a one trillion dollar plus merchant ship based trade , sea pirates and the Houthis -- a Shia group -- see India 's recent alignments with the Sunni Arab states like the UAE , Saudis and even Israel ( I2U2 ) , in conflict with their anti- Israel and anti-US agenda . The dynamics of the geo-political equations , evolving rapidly following the Israel-Hamas conflict has provided India a new set of diplomatic opportunities for India . <p> The Costs Of Larger Conflict In The Gulf Region <p> By raising the possibility of a conflict -- as Americans love a good war - President Biden has nothing to lose , with his popularity ratings rather low . If anything , he would probably give another headache to the upcoming White House occupant , by not hesitating to take the war to Iran , if its proxies get too emboldened to attack ships in the Red Sea . <p> It could cause further turmoil to the global economy that 's on the edge already , after the Israel-Hamas conflict , that will lead to a conflict premium , and a major hike in oil prices . <p> In the past , Iran has benefitted from higher oil prices -- as the fear of a bigger conflict adds to the premium on Oil prices and the insurance costs of shipping oil in troubled waters . As of now , ships are charging both for the 15 to 20 days extra travel time and the detour of about 5000 km , by avoiding the Red Sea and the Suez Canal , to travel to West via the Cape of Good Hope , that lies at the bottom tip of Africa . In turn , the deliveries of shipped products are delayed , causing supply chain disruptions . <p> What Do The Houthis Want ? <p> Iran , that has close ties with Russia and China , India too has a diplomatic dialogue going with Iran along with India 's oil imports , its investments in the Chabahar port and the North South Transport Corridor , from Russia to the Arabian sea , India can play a balancing act between the agendas of the US and West on one side , and Russia-China on the other . And with the Gulf countries , following the recent IME-EC ( trade corridor initiative ) , India is a much sought after partner for the Gulf region . <p> The Houthis have decided to spread their foot print in the area beyond the coast line of Yemen -- where they control at least half its territory and the capital , Sana'a -- into the Red Sea region . This is a crucial waterway for ships to ferry goods to Israel . By blocking it , the Houthi rebels want to exercise leverage in the region , as a proxy for its patrons , Iran . Until food , and medicines are allowed into the Gaza strip by Israel , the Houthis will continue to target ships of Israel and the US in particular , even if they are n't headed to Israel . <p> And finally to put pressure on Saudi Arabia , since Riyadh has for several years led a badly implemented military campaign , bombing on an already poor and famished people of Yemen , that has had little success in eliminating Houthis . Now , with Iran back missiles and drones , the Houthis have attacked ships around Yemen , drawing the ire of the US and UK . But unless there is a collective effort to contain them , it is unlikely the Red Sea attacks will cease soon . <p> Merchant Shipping Giants Pause Activities In Red Sea <p> Four of the world 's five major shipping firms -- Maersk , Hapag-Lloyd , CMA CGM Group and Evergreen -- along with oil giants like BP have paused shipping through the Red Sea amid fears of Houthi attacks -- moves that 'll cause oil and gas prices to rise . Oil prices are often held hostage by brokers to tensions on the shipping lanes . <p> " If a large part of Strait of Hormuz flows were to be halted , it would present up to three times the impact of the 1970s oil price shocks and over double the impact of the Ukraine war on gas markets , atop already fragile supply chains and stock levels , " Reuters quoted Saul Kavonic , an energy analyst at MST Marquee , as saying . <p> More than 20 million barrels of oil move through the Strait of Hormuz each day which is equivalent to around 20 per cent of global consumption , the report quoted ING analysts as saying . But the bigger concern could be inflation , which has been above the central bank 's comfort zone of 4% since the end of 2019 . " Higher global freight and insurance rates , possible upside risk to oil and global trade and re- emergence of potential supply chain would mean cost push inflation pressures , " she said . <p> Impact On India 's Economy <p> India 's economy too has felt the heat of these attacks . The threats have pushed Indian exporters to hold back around 25% of the outbound shipments transiting through the Red Sea , according to Ajay Sahai , director general of the Federation of Indian Export Organizations , which falls under India 's Trade Ministry . " In many cases , both buyers and exporters are also renegotiating contracts to adjust to surging freight charges , " he said . <p> India usually exports a variety of goods including petroleum products , cereals , and chemicals using the Red Sea route . Other major commodities include steel , engineering goods , textiles , vehicles , and agro-products , which are exported from India to Europe and the West via the Red Sea route . The Red Sea disruption could hit margins for India 's oil and auto sectors , says Madhavi Arora , an economic analyst . <p> RBB Ship Chartering , a company dealing with ship chartering services , has said that shipping costs have gone up manifold . " These incidents in the Red Sea are a cause for concern for the shipping industry . The Europe-bound containers of cargo companies are taking the Cape of Good Hope route instead of the Suez Canal after these incidents on sea came to light . However , this re-routing of the shipping assets has led to a tripling of the transportation cost " , its CEO Raajesh Bhojwani explained . <p> " Several insurance companies have jacked up premiums by 100 times for the ships sailing in the Red Sea while some have stopped offering insurance cover altogether . " <p> The prevailing situation has put Indian exporters at risk of becoming non-competitive in other market segments " he said . When reports assessing the potential fallout on India 's wider economic outlook due to these attacks , pegging the losses of up to $30 billion dollars in its cumulative total exports in FY24 , it is in India 's and West Asia 's interest that these skirmishes over vital maritime trade routes is resolutely beaten back or resolved at the earliest . <p> The UAE and India bilateral relationship is of critical importance in ensuring that there persists a calmer atmosphere in resource-rich West Asia , and China is incapable of playing that role with any of its Arab partners . Socotra is Yemeni territory but it largely depends on tourism and funding from the UAE . The Emiratis have built a port and airport at Hadiboh , which was in a strategically sound move later followed by a military base as well . <p> In the future , India too could be allowed access to bolster the maritime surveillance and protection of maritime trade in partnership with the UAE . It is only with strategic partners like France which has its overseas territories in the Indian Ocean Region and also the UAE , can India truly and effectively counter its anti-piracy efforts and also keep China 's growing maritime ambitions in check . <h> India 's future options <p> It 's the general election season in India , and a push in domestic inflationary pressures will cause further unease to Indians and especially , its ruling dispensation . India can carve out its own alliances with her strategic partners in the Gulf and ensure that it is a part of an amicable solution or at least be ready to show and sustain her defensive and offensive naval prowess as an instrument of protecting its people in West Asia and also its economic interests in the volatile region . <p> India can aim to have a deeper strategic foothold in the Red Sea , the island of Socotra situated between the Gulf of Aden and the Arabian Sea , not just for protecting its economic interests but also as an attempt to blunt China 's growing presence in the region that is expanding around the vital chokepoint . <p> ( Disclaimer - The views expressed in this article are personal and solely that of the author 's . They do not necessarily reflect the publication 's views ) <p> Get Latest News Live on Times Now along with Breaking News and Top Headlines from Opinion and around the world .
