<h> The festival celebrates a miracle during the rededication of Jerusalem 's Second Temple by Jews after a rebellion against the Greeks in 200 BCE . <p> On Shabbat , the Jewish holy day from sunset on Friday to Saturday evening , the lamp is lit before sunset . <p> Jews began their eight-day-long festival of lights , called Hanukkah or Chanukah , on the evening of December 25 , with prayers for the Israelis still held hostage by Hamas in Gaza . Mumbai 's synagogues , including the Keneseth Eliyahoo in Kala Ghoda , have been decorated with lights to mark the festival . <p> Central to the celebration is the lighting of the Hanukkah menorah , a ceremonial candelabrum with eight flames , and a ninth lamp to light the other branches . <p> The festival celebrates a miracle during the rededication of Jerusalem 's Second Temple by Jews after a rebellion against the Greeks in 200 BCE . <p> When the celebrants lit the menorah , they found just enough oil to light one lamp . They lit the menorah and the oil miraculously lasted for eight days . Their religious leaders asked them to celebrate the festival annually to mark the miracle . <p> Sinora Kolatkar , secretary of the Share Roshon synagogue in Khadak , near Masjid railway station , said , " The Maccabees successfully revolted against Antiochus IV Epiphanes . According to the Talmud , the temple was purified and the wicks of the menorah miraculously burned for eight days , even though there was only enough sacred oil for one day 's lighting . We light one flame daily . This is done for eight days . " <p> On Shabbat , the Jewish holy day from sunset on Friday to Saturday evening , the lamp is lit before sunset . <p> Ezra Moses , director of the Shaar Hashamaim or Gate of Heaven Synagogue in Thane , said Hanukkah this year is special for Jews worldwide . world . " We are lighting the lamps to pray for the hostages taken to Gaza . More than 100 are still missing and we do not know how many are still alive , " said Moses . <p> The Thane synagogue is also celebrating its 145th anniversary on December 29 . Unlike the dwindling number of worshippers at most Indian synagogues , the Thane shrine has a congregation of nearly 1500 , said Moses , making it the biggest in India . <p> The festival is a period to give charity . It is also a time when families meet . Noah Ashtamkar , a Santacruz resident , joined his mother , Milkah , at the family 's Alibaug home for the festival .
