<h> A Mourner 's Prayer for Gaza <h> Share : <p> Strange now to think of you while I read the words of a Jewish poet long gone on his boat of metaphors and flowers for the constant beat of time and all it brings forth . I think of you and how once you flourished there beside the sea despite the ever-tightening constraints placed upon you by the hateful gods of Zion . They tried to make you yield to oppression . They took away your freedom . They took away your land , parcel by parcel . They torched your olive trees , burned your crops , bulldozed your homes , sexually assaulted your men and women , killed your children , invaded your towns and villages , while the world looked on and looked away and excused your crimes , your wanton destruction as the necessary acts of a persecuted people fighting back against the terrorists in their midst -- you , the people of Gaza . <p> They said your children are destined to become terrorists , so even newborns are legitimate targets . So too are the mothers who have brought them into the world and will turn them into killers and haters of Israeli Jews , decreed the gods of Zion . But you will never be gone no matter how many martyrs they make , no matter how many loved ones they take from you while their people cheer the killing , salute the killers , treat them as heroes , bring their children to watch you dying , teach them to see you as vermin , animals , sub-humans not worth a single shekel of mercy . There are days when I can understand how Aaron Bushnell , a U.S. Air Force servicemember , could light himself on fire in front of the Israeli Embassy in Washington D.C. The genocide was more than he could bear . And his fiery exit from our world was an expression of his principled opposition to this genocide . <p> Who can doubt his death by self-immolation was also a cry from the heart for the suffering of your people , Gaza . The flames that engulfed Aaron are the same flames rising among families in Gaza , families sheltering in tents or huddling in whatever homes have not yet been bombed , shelled , hit with a Hellfire missile . Like Aaron , like so many others , I grieve . Am filled with rage for what could only happen with the full approval and backing of my own government , a willing accomplice to genocide . <p> While an entire people is being inexorably exterminated , I go about my life feeling powerless to make any significant difference in the lives of Palestinians stripped of dignity , herded into enclaves where the killers can more easily and comfortably complete their tasks with no limit on the amount of suffering they can inflict . I can rail against the murderers and their overlords and those who cheer them on from Washington to Tel Aviv . But what good does railing do when so many are starving , bleeding out on hospital floors , caught in the gunsights of snipers and quadcopter drones , torn to pieces or incinerated in the flames from a missile attack while lying asleep in some thin tissue of a tent . It is the children who weigh most heavily on my heart . Your children , Gaza . Not even their tender , untested lives are safe from the bullet 's wrath , the bomb 's fiery breath , the hatred that pours from the very souls of those people we claim are only defending themselves . Children . Like the children I see every day in the town where I live . I watch them in the local bakery whooping with delight at displays of beautifully crafted pastries . Some of them come straight from their dancing class still dressed in slippers and tights and skirts trimmed with sparkling costume jewels . And the parents , credit cards at the ready , are quick to indulge their children 's sweetest tooth . There are almost no bakeries left in your towns and villages , Gaza , where children can pick out their favorite sweet or pastry and hold it in their hands as the children do here knowing after it 's gone , there will always be another . Those bakeries that have not been destroyed have had to close their doors because of flour and fuel shortages caused by Israel 's blockade . In the north , there was one bakery where families could find bread . And then the Israelis bombed the warehouse where the flour was kept . In March , they gunned down men and women waiting for a convoy of trucks to deliver priceless bags of flour and other forms of aid . How can I not think of you , Gaza , each time I cut into a loaf of bread or lift a sweet roll to my lips . I see your children holding out empty bowls and pots as they clamor around a charity kitchen and push for a helping of the day 's fare . But the day may come when there will no more such kitchens and no more cauldrons of soup or vegetable stew . Already a famine is spreading from one end of your land to the other , and starvation , the weapon of choice by Zion 's holy warriors , may very well " finish the job . " And should that happen , clean-up crews from the Promised Land will scrub the stones till no trace of blood remains . Tons of rubble will give rise to lofty towers and luxury apartments . On holidays , settler families will take their kids down to the sea and let them scour the beach for trinkets -- a doll , a bracelet , a shiny ring . Things from a time when other children , long gone from Gaza , played in the waves and flew their kites on ocean breezes as signs of their presence and the angels who loved them . While the ghosts of all the martyrs , scooped from their graves , will haunt the wind with a long lament for the life they lost when the killers came . <p> Have I arrived at the place where Aaron Bushnell came to , the place where he knew he could no longer accept the deliberate immolation of families by America 's closest ally and the refusal of the world 's greatest power to lift a finger in defense of Palestinian life ? No . I walk on , yet ashamed to be a citizen of this place , my country . As I was ashamed at 25 and traveling overseas with a freshly printed passport while my country was at war in Vietnam , a war the International War Crimes Tribunal in 1967 found met the definition of genocide . And again , 25 years later , in Iraq 's public hospitals , the same shame followed me as I visited the pediatric wards . The wards were strangely , unnaturally silent . Mothers and grandmothers could do nothing but hold the hands of their loved ones or wipe their brows with a damp cloth because no medicine would be coming , and it was only a matter of time before the children would all be dead . That time , in Iraq , it was n't Israel withholding aid but America , and as in Gaza , it was the young , the elderly , the sick , the poor who were the first to suffer and to die . <p> I walk on , knowing there is no justification for what Israel has done , is doing to your children , Gaza . From afar , I see men searching for survivors of another attack . One of the men finds a child by a pile of rubble . As he lifts her up , her arms collapse at her side . Her head falls back . Her eyes , once glistening with life and the light of childhood , stare up at the heavens where no gods reside and the only inhabitants are stone-cold killers throwing down whatever will deprive your people , Gaza , of the will to live ... of life itself . <p> So , yes , I rage . I grieve . But my grief is nothing next to those who find their spouses or their children wrapped in bloody shrouds and left among the dead . My grief is nothing beside the mother whose child is withering away , his body a mere outline of bones , his heart a tattered flag soon to be set free , his arms too weak to even lift his voice beyond a whispered cry . But she has no food to give him . It has all been taken away as part of a glorious plan to which Yahweh has given His seal of approval , or so the story has been told and the generals of Zion agree . What would I do if I were sheltering in a school among dozens of families hoping to survive another night under relentless bombardment ? And should the school be hit , and men , women , and children ripped apart , decapitated , how then would I grieve in the midst of this carnage ? For that matter , if the people I most dearly love were among the dead in whatever is left of this shelter , would I have the strength to carry on or would my grief , like a bird of prey , sink its talons into me and not let go till it drops me into a pit of my own oblivion ? <p> Here , in this sun-filled room , I have no fear of winter . No matter how cold it gets , I can simply adjust the thermostat in my home or put another blanket on the bed . But for you , Gaza , there are no thermostats and no cozy , indoor gatherings of families and friends , sharing glasses of steaming hot tea and slices of crunchy , sugary knafeh . Ninety percent of your people are displaced and facing another winter of harsh rains and falling temperatures without adequate shelter , warm blankets , sources of heat , and enough food to prevent malnutrition . Families in tent encampments along the coast have no defense against rising tides that can flood the tents and wash away clothing and bedding , and even pull little children out to sea . No matter how immiserated the people of Gaza become , no matter how violently they shiver night after winter night in leaky , patched up tents , their suffering is never too much for the armed forces of Zion . The bombs continue to fall , the missiles continue to find their mark , and extended families continue to be blown apart in the name of fighting Hamas -- that elusive , shape-shifting entity whose command centers can magically assume the form of a school or hospital , and just as easily shape shift into an outdoor market or apartment building where extended families may be sheltering . <p> I saw footage of a field trip in which students came to the Israeli town of Sderot to " watch the genocide " from an observation deck . Using coin-operated binoculars , the students searched for signs of the suffering taking place in northern Gaza in which thousands of Palestinians are trapped and being deliberately starved to death . But the horror was n't visible , and the students came away disappointed . They would need a different set of eyes to see what you 're going through , Gaza . And even then , they might not understand or be moved . <p> Fourteen months of war have left behind an estimated 46 million tons of rubble . That much can be seen with the naked eye . What ca n't be seen are the estimated 10,000 victims -- from the very young to the very old -- buried under concrete slabs , twisted metal rods , tin roofs , asbestos , and other contaminants . The amount of debris is so great , if it could be bulldozed into one enormous heap , there would be enough material to fill Egypt 's largest pyramid 11 times . The bodies of the men , women , and children entombed within that ravaged land may never be recovered or given a proper burial . <p> To paraphrase a line from the poet Wallace Stevens , there is the rubble we can see and the rubble we ca n't . I am many , many times removed from the extreme suffering your people face each day of their lives , Gaza . I can only imagine that in their hearts , that other kind of rubble exists -- a great expanse of smoldering fires , heaps of shattered dreams , jagged shards of trauma and loss , bloody pieces of a life that once was whole . And no place safe to go , not even in the furthest depths of one 's very soul . There are no machines that can clear away this sort of rubble or convert it into new , life-giving , life-supportive structures where hopes and aspirations can once again take root and flourish . But there is compassion and mercy , the promise of peace and the path to restorative justice . <p> Should a time ever come when Netanyahu , his generals , and his accomplices in Berlin and Washington D.C. are called to account for their crimes , a god worthy of the name would need to look very deeply into the hearts of those who have destroyed Gaza . Would she find within her otherworldly being the capacity to forgive the Israeli soldiers who murdered children in cold blood , stormed the hospitals , ordered the evacuation of patients , including those who could barely walk or were desperately ill ? Would she forgive the pilots flying drones or actual aircraft who deliberately bombed civilian targets , whether a school , a hospital , even tents sheltering families who had nowhere else to go but a designated " safe zone " -- in effect , a kill zone ? Would she forgive the military masterminds who drew up the battle plans , the members of the Knesset who sanctioned genocide and called it self-defense ? Would she forgive Joe Biden and other Western leaders who continued to arm Israel even as it committed war crimes and crimes against humanity ? And what of the Israeli citizens for whom the daily massacres of your people , Gaza , were occasions to celebrate , to rejoice in the power and glory of the IDF and the blessed patrimony handed down from God to the chosen people , according to the Torah and other sacred Jewish texts ? <p> I raise these questions but have no answer . Nor can I proclaim the greatness of God as I would if I were a religious Jew reciting the Kaddish for someone who has died . I can , however , proclaim the greatness of the Palestinian people , their strong ties to the land of their ancestors , and their refusal to submit to occupation and oppression . I praise the families of Gaza who have endured hunger , illness , displacement , trauma , and the cruelty of Israel 's assault that spares no one , not even the newborn child , or the old man or woman forced to evacuate whatever shelter has become their home . I can not even begin to fathom the depth of the suffering of these families or the reserves of courage and faith that must sustain them . But I can imagine that within their suffering , there must be a much greater force , one that draws its power from the land and the culture that has shaped them . And it is this force , this fire that must not be extinguished for it is the thing that gives hope to marginalized , dispossessed people . <p> I praise the many Palestinian doctors , nurses , medics , first responders who risk their lives every day that others may live . I praise the teachers in Gaza who continue to set up makeshift classrooms so children can continue their education even while schools have been systematically destroyed by the Israeli military . I praise the Palestinian journalists who do not let the murder of their colleagues keep them from reporting the truth about Israel 's reign of terror . I praise Fadel Nabhani , a young man in Gaza . Besides caring for his family , he is doing all he can to provide food for cats and other animals that would otherwise die from hunger . Fadel also tries to take care of sick cats even though medicine , like food , is increasingly unavailable . <p> I praise Luay and Najah , adult siblings who are lifelong farmers . Originally from north Gaza , they have been displaced four times with their respective families . One day , while searching for firewood in the southern city of Rafah , it occurred to Najah that she and her brother could continue doing what had always given their lives purpose and meaning -- farming . With seeds they had brought with them from Beit Lahiya in the north , they planted radishes , wild garlic , Swiss chard , beans , tomatoes , and herbs , including mint and thyme . Najah has said that each time she places a seed in the soil she prays to God to feed their families and also the birds . Despite the constant threat from Israeli missiles , their hard work yielded an abundant harvest -- enough to sustain themselves , their relatives , and their neighbors . That mattered more to them than selling their crop in the market . <p> The fourth time they were displaced , Najah , Luay , and their families ended up living in tents on barren land mostly consisting of sand . They could have given up and relied on whatever food supplies made it through the Israeli checkpoints . Instead , they got to work , reciting a prayer for each seed they planted . Once again , their devotion to the land , their love of farming , and their desire to provide for as many people as they could ... bore fruit . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> This too exemplifies the spirit of resistance that is up against the tanks , bombs , missiles , and bottomless cruelty of the Israeli state , its violation of international human rights law , and its ongoing program of ethnic cleansing in Gaza . I stand with those who recognize this gross disparity , support the right of Palestinians to resist the annexation of their land and the destruction of their society , and oppose the U.S. role in arming the perpetrator of genocide . <p> Amen . <p> <p> George Capaccio is a writer , performer , and activist now living in Durham NC since migrating from the Boston area . His concern for the people of Iraq under U.S.-imposed sanctions led him to make numerous trips to Iraq as a witness to the effects of those sanctions . At home , he advocated for their lifting through writing and public speaking while raising funds for Iraqi families . George appreciates hearing from readers . He can be reached by email : email protected <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
