<p> Like spy thrillers , which rarely focus on trust as the central plot , global politics is increasingly based on trust deficit . Could the lacklustre global leadership since the end of the Cold War in the early 1990s be the reason ? Compared to the aftermath of the Second World War , political achievements in the new millennium seem puny and overwhelmingly self-serving , albeit more so for individual leaders , than their countries . The ongoing Ukraine-Russia conflict , Israel 's military adventurism in the Gaza Strip and now the Golan Heights , China 's braggadocio on the border with India , the antagonism in the South China Sea and intimidation of Taiwan are all instances , where conflict -- a convenient distraction from domestic shortcomings -- breeds distrust . <p> Tangential , least-cost mechanisms to punish transgressors of the peace spawn new systemic risks . Consider , that economic sanctions on the purchase of Russian energy , devised as a rap for its Ukraine adventure , created a new security risk by incentivizing options to the dollar-dominated system for the settlement of international payments . In turn , US President-elect Donald Trump has threatened countries exploring dollar alternatives for global settlements with trade sanctions ! <p> Global disarray is inherent to the unravelling of the consensus on climate action in Glasgow in 2021 . Gone is the desire to comply with the Kyoto 1990 principle of the " common but differentiated responsibilities " which front-loads climate action for developed economies , making them squarely responsible for consuming more than their per capita share of the historical carbon emissions budget . Not only have the agreed finances ( $100 billion per year ) not been provided to the developing countries , but the European Union has gone one step further by scheduling a carbon tax , effective from 2026 , on imports exceeding a specified carbon intensity . Ostensibly designed to preserve the competitiveness of domestic EU producers against " dirty " imports , it conveniently fast-forwards and imposes developed world obligations for climate mitigation action on all exporting developing countries , in defiance of the Kyoto mandate . <p> Some of this backsliding could be because three decades on , several developing economies have quickly become less poor . Consider that 48 per cent of the growth in global GDP was driven by the United States and its European allies during 1960-1980 . During 2000-2023 they were down to just a 28 per cent share . In contrast , China grew from contributing a two per cent share in global GDP , in the earlier period , to 11 per cent over the latter period . India 's contribution grew slower , but it also increased from one per cent to five per cent . The change in relative economic muscle and the spectacular rise of China raises the question whether a rearrangement of global responsibilities is also not necessary . <p> This conversation has long been stymied by the reluctance of the entrenched order to smell the coffee and initiate a more equitable sharing of the levers of global power in the United Nations and other multilateral bodies . <p> The consequence of ignoring shifts in global economic power are most visible in the growing trend for a brazen transactional approach to global relations . China 's wolf warrior diplomacy , its opaque bilateral infrastructure financing initiatives and military stridency in the South China Sea are examples . Even the United States , till recently an advocate of an open global economic order , still the mightiest military power and the most dynamic developed economy , growing faster than the global economy is now turning mercantilist , building trade walls and adopting industrial protection policies more suitable for poor , developing economies with nascent economies . This flags a complete breakdown in global economic consensus . <p> It was not always so . Mahatma Gandhi built trust and solidarity across castes and communities in India ( 1920-1947 ) at a time when the very concept of nationality in India was nascent or colonial at best . To give this " big tent ' a political structure , India chose democracy , modelling itself on countries like the UK -- at the time , one sixth its population , and the US , half its population , France and Ireland -- all significantly richer and well-endowed with infrastructure . Dismissed by colonial rulers at the time , as an unlikely fit for India , democracy remains its bedrock even as it works to become the third largest economy . <p> Margaret Thatcher drew as many bouquets as brickbats for disrupting the economic order in the UK . But her 1980s drive to privatise government and bolster business set the tone for more than four decades of global governance and efficiency reform in the developing world . Compare that with the political theatrics around Brexit which reduced the UK 's influence to the moat around its shores . <p> Nelson Mandella 's long , principled struggle against apartheid , touched hearts and minds globally . After the end of apartheid in 1994 , his inclusiveness consolidated South Africa 's role in African economic development by preserving the integrity of the inherited institutional architecture . <p> In the US , Henry Ford set the tone in 1912 by creating a motorized car , the Model T , for common use , as did Karl Benz in Germany . Around these cars grew a globally replicable ecosystem of manufacturing-led development which spawned a large , well-paid middle class powering the economy with domestic consumption . A century later this model is increasingly broken . Manufacturing productivity has improved <p> vastly with digital design , automation , and robotics but the supply of " good " jobs has fallen behind population growth , reducing the net benefits for workers and increasing benefits for those with capital invested in such enterprises . Productivity gains , concentrated at the top , do nothing for providing gainful and satisfying work at scale , beyond " burger flipping , " for a workforce surging on the back of degenderized occupations , better medical care , and immigration . <p> In China , after the ideological purification of the Long March , Mao Zedong in 1949 curated the transformation of an ancient monarchy into an equitable but inefficient Asian version of Communism , five times more populous than the Soviet Union . By the 1980s , with the material gains from centralized production and statism stagnating , Deng Xiaoping boldly encouraged economic reform . Import of foreign investment , technology , and access to foreign education rapidly retrofitted China , making it a hub for global supply chains , enhancing the availability of domestic jobs , reducing poverty , and providing public resources for new infrastructure . <p> In contrast , contemporary global leadership appears blind to inclusive goals which can cement social cohesion . It seems unmindful of the economic paradigm that inefficiency bleeds national wealth and is uninterested in the proposition that the best policy options come with personal and political risk . Clinging to the wheel is human but surely not at the expense of sinking the ship unless an escape route exists , to a second home on Mars .
