<p> Today is Christmas , the celebration of Jesus ' birth . He was a Jew by birth because he was born in the lineage of King David , a benevolent king of the Jews . He governed a united Jewish kingdom of Israel , which he established by uniting the 12 tribes of Israel under a single monarch . Jesus was a legal descendant of David through his legal guardian , Joseph , who was of the house and line of David . However , Joseph was not his biological father but a foster father . Mary was betrothed to him , but they were yet to be married . They had yet to share their conjugal love , and yet she was found with a child . Mary was still a virgin when she conceived her son , Jesus . She is called the Virgin Mother , for Jesus had a miraculous birth . <p> In the sixth month after Elizabeth ( 88 ) , a relative of the Virgin Mary and the wife of Zechariah , conceived a son in her womb , the angel Gabriel visited Mary in Nazareth , a Galilean town . In his greetings the angel told her , " O favoured one ! The Lord is with you . " Mary was perplexed ; she wondered what that greeting could mean . However , the angel , soothing her fear , said , " Do not be afraid , Mary , for you have found favour with God . And now you will conceive in your womb and bear a son , and you will name him Jesus . He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High , and the Lord God will give to him the throne of his ancestor David . He will reign over the house of Jacob forever , and of his kingdom there will be no end . <p> Mary retorted to the angel and said , " How can this be , since I am a virgin ? " The angel assured her , " The Holy Spirit will come upon you , and the power of the Most High will overshadow you ; therefore , the child to be born will be holy ; he will be called the Son of God . " Still in confusion , Mary surrendered herself ; she consented to the message in great faith and said , " Here am I , the servant of the Lord ; let it be with me according to your word , " and she conceived Jesus , the Son of God , in her virgin womb . This is how Jesus , the Word of God , became flesh and lived on earth . About him , the prophet Isaiah had said , " For a child has been born for us , a son is given to us ; authority rests upon his shoulders , and he is named Wonderful Counsellor , Mighty God , Everlasting Father , Prince of Peace . " Even the multitude of angels sang on his birth , saying , " Glory to God in the highest heaven and on earth peace among those whom he favors . " The Jews expected the Davidic peace they had enjoyed in the reign of their benevolent king , David . <p> However , there is a sword instead of peace in the world . Since February 24 , 2022 , the Russo-Ukrainian War has been carrying on . As if the lesson was not learnt from the Russo-Ukraine war , on 7 October 2023 , Israel invaded the Gaza Strip of Palestine , and as of early December 2024 , over 46,000 people , including 17,492 children , have been killed in the Gaza Strip , and over 1700 people have been killed in Israel . Is it meaningful to celebrate Christmas , the birthday of the Prince of Peace ? <p> However , as Eleanor Roosevelt said , " It is better to light a candle than to curse the darkness . " There is an urgent need to take a proactive approach to peace . It is better to take action to solve the problem of lack of peace than to just complain about it . And Jesus teaches us the way to peace . He advocates forgiveness and reconciliation for peace . In his sermon on the mount , he says , " Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you . " In this way he promotes forgiveness and reconciliation for peace instead of retaliation and fighting . When asked by Peter , the first Pope of the Church , how many times to forgive if someone repeatedly offended me , Jesus had replied to him to forgive seventy times seven . By this phrase , Jesus meant that forgiveness should be limitless ; one has to go on forgiving . Peace is ensured where a sense of forgiveness prevails . <p> Further , Jesus champions non-violence to foster understanding and peace . He says , " If anyone strikes you on the right , turn to the other also . " He further asserts , " Come to terms quickly with your accuser while you are on the way to court with him , or your accuser may hand you over to the judge and the judge to the guard , and you will be thrown into prison . " Non-violence and negotiation are time-tested means to achieve peace . It was the non-violence movement of Mohanlal Karamchand Gandhi that freed India from British rule . Jesus teaches non-violence and negotiation to build a culture of peace , where conflicts are resolved through dialogue , understanding , and cooperation . The nonviolence fosters empathy between the opposing sides and breaks down the stereotypes and creates a more conducive environment for peace . <p> The universal truth is that you can not give what you do not have . To give peace to the world , one needs to be at peace within oneself . Jesus teaches not to be anxious . He encourages us to let go of worries and anxieties , trusting in God 's provision and care . He says , " Do not worry about your life , what you will eat or what you will drink , or about your body , what you will wear . Is n't life more than food and the body more than clothing ? Look at the birds of the air ; they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns , and yet your heavenly Father feeds them . Are you not of more value than them ? " Reflecting on Jesus ' words , Mother Teresa of Calcutta says , " Peace begins with a smile . " In the midst of the ups and downs in life , one who has a strong faith in the providence of God can truly smile and spread peace in his or her vicinity . <p> Jesus was against the dictatorship , the suppression , and the oppression of citizens by the government of his time . He pitched for servant leadership . At his trial , the Roman governor Pontius Pilot of the occupying government asked him , " So you are a king ? ' And Jesus answered , " Just as you say , I am a king . " " My kingdom does not come from this world . If I were a king like those of this world , my guards would have fought to save me from being handed over to the Jews , " he continued . Thus he opposed the brute force of the Roman rule to usher peace in the region . Instead , he proposed servant leadership for peace . Washing the feet of his disciples , he said , " If I then , your Lord and teacher , have washed your feet , you also ought to wash each other 's feet . " The authorities have to administer justice for peace in the world . <p> The message of Christmas is that God became a man in Jesus to save the world from sin and death . And he accomplished his mission by the sacrifice of Calvary . On Good Friday , Jesus shed his blood on the cross for the ransom for many . Through his sacrificial death and resurrection , Jesus offers forgiveness of sins and the hope of eternal life , bringing peace with God and humankind . This is a unique peace Jesus promises to the world when he says , " Peace I leave with you ; my peace I give to you . I do not give to you as the world gives . " The current war and conflicts could be settled easily if we were to apply the means of peace Jesus proposes .
