<h> Imperialist US-Israel led crisis in Syria and setback to Palestine liberation <h> Share : <p> A placard reading " Free Palestine , end Israel Occupation " is pictured on Parliament square , central London , on June 8 , 2024 at the end of " National March for Gaza " , calling to " end the genocide " and " stop arming Israel " . Picture Via Getty Images <p> Syria has turned into a key strategic region for unfolding of imperialist interventions . It has seen the overthrow of Bashar al-Assad regime by Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) which is an Islamic extremist organization . HTS is a break away faction of Al-Qaeda which was supported by CIA to overthrow Assad regime since 2011 . One of the reasons for US to support Islamic extremists was to topple any government in middle east which supports Palestine liberation against Israeli Zionist occupation and expand the colonial Israeli base in middle east . Syria was a key part of Axis of Resistance which was fighting against Israeli genocide of Palestinians in Gaza strip , due to its strategic geopolitical location it was the route for supplies for Hezbollah in Lebanon from Iran . Hezbollah has been militantly fighting against Israeli occupation of Gaza and for which it also took several attacks on its top leaders like Nasrallah and Israel unsuccessfully tried to occupy southern Lebanon . Israel and US wanted to paralyse Hezbollah and cut its connection with Iran , this was possible by performing regime change in Syria . Assad has been ruling Syria since more than a decade and he too was involved in several atrocities against all kinds of democratic struggles with the help of Russia , taking the advantage of his unpopularity US and Israel supported Islamic extremists like HTS and bribed Syrian army , due to which HTS conquered Syrian capital Damascus and Assad regime was overthrown . HTS is a friendly regime to Israel , and suitable for Israel to continue its genocidal policies in middle east . Meanwhile , Israel has also occupied Golan Heights region of Syrian territory and started killing protestors of occupied Syrian villages , while HTS does n't seem to intervene against Israel . Israel has intervened to topple Assad regime in order to further their goals of Greater Israel which is even bigger imperialist-colonial project in middle east which is backed by USA . <p> The Axis of Resistance has turned weaker due to Syria going out of it resulting into weakening the battle for liberation of Palestine . Meanwhile , there is another key player which has played a crucial role in overthrow of Assad , which is Turkey . Erdogan has always been supporting HTS and other extremist Islamic organizations in Syria from behind the curtains to topple Assad regime . Turkey has also taken an advantage of the crisis and started occupying regions of Syria from north . Turkey has imperialist ambitions in the region , even though it did lip-service to Palestine cause , but in practical terms it did n't do anything against Israel , now it wishes to compete with Israel to colonize Syria . Erdogan is an example how opportunists in Arab world having betrayed Palestine liberation for its own capitalist-imperialist goals . Turkey also wanted to get rid of Assad as he had done ceasefire with Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) which is armed front of Kurdish Worker 's Party ( PKK ) , and SDF has been fighting against Turkey for Kurdish national liberation since 4 decades . SDF is also backed by US as it was fighting against Islamic extremists like ISIS . However , with Assad regime out and US slowly removing its hands from SDF , Turkey has initiated attacks on Kurdish forces of SDF , the Kurdish revolution in Kobani and Rojava is also under severe crisis . It is likely the Syria will sooner become the new battleground of several imperialist forces like Israel , Turkey , and US . The result is detrimental for the Syria which was a secular country under entire legacy of Ba'ath party . All these changes unfolding in Syria are the actions to overthrow the socialist legacy of Ba'ath party by Imperialist forces of US-Israel and Turkey . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Although we are facing an overall setback in resistance struggle for Palestine liberation as well as looming threat over Kurdish revolution , however , we are sure that the imperialist forces will collide with each other and more events will unfold in Syria . Ultimately Syrian population and Kurdish liberation movement are hopes which can rise in future and can provide a potential halt in the imperialist plunder of Syria and strengthen support for Palestine liberation . Although axis of resistance is still continuing its fight against Zionist occupation and countries like Yemen are giving a challenge to Israel-US , it is important to note that uprisings in Syria against its autocratic rulers and imperialism , Kurdish revolution and uprisings in other regions of Arab countries along with unwavering brave struggles waged by Palestinian people all together will be very vital for Palestine liberation . <p> Palestine liberation is not only limited to Palestine , it will be the key to liberate entire middle east from the hands of Imperialists . <p> From the River to the Sea , Palestine will be Free <p> Jai Kishan is a communist activist and a Marxist writer . He is a science post-graduate , working as education and research professional , he is currently pursuing his M.A in Education from Indira Gandhi National Open University ( IGNOU ) . <p> by Alain Alameddine and Seth Morrison Seventy-six years of occupation , ethnic cleansing and settler-colonisation leading up to today 's genocide in Gaza can not disappear overnight . In light of this , does the ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
