<h> New manufacturing golden age for India beckons : Tata Sons chief to staff <p> NEW DELHI , Dec 26 : With global supply chains continuing to shift in India 's favour as the world 's largest businesses strike a new balance between resilience and efficiency , manufacturing has the potential to transform the country 's economy , Tata Sons Chairman N Chandrasekaran said on Thursday . <p> In his New Year message to employees of the salt-to-software conglomerate , Chandrasekaran termed it as " a new manufacturing golden age for India " and said he was looking ahead to 2025 " with a sense of hope and optimism " after 2024 , a year marked by the loss of Tata Group Chairman Emeritus Ratan Tata . <p> " While AI-led breakthroughs in healthcare and mobility can help the whole of humanity , manufacturing has the potential to transform our economy in India , " he wrote . <p> Elaborating , he said , " Global supply chains continue to shift in India 's favour as the world 's largest businesses strike a new balance between resilience and efficiency . What might have seemed like a short-term reaction to the pandemic has proved much more enduring . " <p> Reiterating Tata Group 's plans to create 5 lakh manufacturing jobs over the next half decade , he said these will come in part from investments in facilities across India 's " factories and projects that will produce batteries , semiconductors , electric vehicles , solar equipment and other critical hardware destined to play a central role in the economy of tomorrow " . <p> He said ground-breaking ceremonies and construction began at over seven new manufacturing plants , including India 's first semiconductor fab in Dholera , Gujarat , and a brand new semiconductor OSAT plant in Assam . <p> " There is the electronics assembly plant in Narasapura , Karnataka , an automotive plant in Panapakkam , Tamil Nadu , and new MRO facilities in Bengaluru , Karnataka , " Chandrasekaran said . <p> He further said , " We also have new battery cell manufacturing factories in Sanand , Gujarat , and in Somerset , UK . We inaugurated the C295 final assembly line ( FAL ) in Vadodara , Gujarat , and began solar module production in Tirunelveli , Tamil Nadu . " <p> The five lakh new jobs will be " in addition to the many services jobs we expect to introduce across retail , tech services , airlines , and hospitality , among other sectors " . <p> " Such moves are exciting for our group and for India , but more importantly , they give hope to the one million young people who enter our workforce each month . Thankfully , manufacturing has powerful multiplier effects ; indirect employment opportunities from sectors such as semiconductor manufacturing are substantial , " Chandrasekaran noted . <p> " It is with a sense of hope and optimism that I look ahead to 2025 . India 's economy is strong and the great trends of the age are in our favour , " he said . <p> He further said , " In this new technological age , and this new era of Indian manufacturing , our enormous pool of young talent will not only contribute to our nation 's future , they will build it , literally , with their hands and with their minds . " <p> Reflecting on 2024 , he said it was an " unpredictable year " that was defined globally by geopolitical instability and a slight brightening of the macro-economic outlook . <p> " Military conflicts in Ukraine , Gaza , and Sudan raged on , exacerbating humanitarian crises in Europe , the Middle East , and Africa . We also witnessed citizen-led movements in Bangladesh and South Korea , " he noted . <p> As the year draws to a close , Chandrasekaran said , " Political changes and disruptions continue to shape domestic and foreign policy , especially with regards to immigration , technology and global trade . Tariffs are once again at the forefront of leaders ' minds . " <p> He further wrote , " But aside from these momentous global events and trends , 2024 will always hold a deeper and more personal resonance for me and for everyone associated with our Group . This was the year we lost Mr Ratan Tata -- a man whose personality , integrity and strategic vision shaped our business for a generation . " <p> In an emotional note , he said , " Though it is difficult to begin a new year without Mr Tata , there is comfort in knowing that the business he devoted his life to continues to thrive . Big strategic bets , made with his encouragement , are bearing fruit , particularly in hi-tech industries and manufacturing where our footprint continues to expand . " <p> In his note , Chandrasekaran said there has been " a science and technology role reversal " . <p> " Let 's begin with AI and technology . A fundamental reversal is taking place . Historically , scientific progress has predominantly fueled technological progress . Consider how breakthroughs in quantum mechanics led to the digital age , " the Tata Sons Chairman said . <p> Today , however , the opposite is happening : advancements in technology are leading to scientific discoveries . <p> " This year the Nobel Prize for chemistry went to developers of an AI model that predicts protein structures -- a glimpse of how computational tools will revolutionise drug discovery , " he said , adding that previously , determining the 3D structure of a single protein typically took a year or more . Now AI tools can predict these shapes with remarkable accuracy in minutes . <p> " AI can transform healthcare in other profound ways , not only enhancing how we understand and treat diseases but also how we diagnose them . Machine learning is being used more in environmental research , while large language models hold the potential to significantly expand access to clinical care , " the Tata Sons Chairman said . <p> He further said , " We will continue to see significant acceleration in the use of AI in fields like healthcare and mobility . " ( PTI )
