<p> Merry Christmas 2024 Wishes Live : States like Goa and Kerala ( in pic ) are well-known for their colourful celebrations . ( Image : Shutterstock ) <p> Merry Christmas 2024 Wishes , Quotes , Images Live Updates : Christmas festivities kicked off across the globe on Christmas Eve , with families and communities coming together to celebrate the holiday season . In cities and towns worldwide , people have started gathering for festive meals , church services , and traditional celebrations . Midnight masses have organised special significance in many places , marking the spiritual essence of the holiday . Homes and streets are illuminated with dazzling lights , creating a joyful atmosphere . The spirit of togetherness , giving , and joy filled the air , as people of all ages eagerly anticipated Christmas Day . Meanwhile , children are excited to receive their gifts from Santa Claus . <h> LIVE FEED <p> In his Christmas message , Archbishop of Goa and Daman Fr Filipe Neri Cardinal Ferrao on Tuesday said in a world often overshadowed by war , division and suffering , the birth of Jesus Christ is the eternal reminder that God has not abandoned us . <p> The Archbishop , in the festival-eve message , said as the Church comes together once again to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ , " we are reminded of the eternal hope that His coming brings to the world " . <p> " And I would like to connect the profound mystery of Christmas with the beautiful theme our beloved Pope Francis has proposed for the Jubilee Year 2025 : Pilgrims of Hope , " he said . <h> Spending Christmas Alone This Year ? How To Make The Most Of It <p> Traditionally , the holidays are for spending time with family and friends , perhaps with a varying degree of religious rituals or practices . There 's also pressure not to miss certain family celebrations , but there will be times you ca n't make it -- whether by choice or circumstance . <p> So , if you 're spending the holidays alone this year , you 're actually not alone in wondering if it 's OK to be alone . You hold the ticket to your happiness , even if you 're spending the holidays ( or any special day of the year ) in a less conventional way -- all by yourself . There 's no correct formula for how to spend the holidays , experts say , and keeping that in mind is key when you 're not going to be around your loved ones . <h> Kerala Governor , CM , LoP Extend Christmas Greetings <p> Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday extended greetings to the people of the state on the eve of Christmas and wished that the celebration inspires everyone to build a more harmonious and compassionate society . <p> In his message , the Governor urged people to reflect on the divine message of peace , love , and forgiveness that Jesus Christ imparted to the world . <p> The CM said , " Christmas comes with the message of equality and brotherhood " . <h> Cheers to Christmas : The Ultimate Beer Pairing Guide <p> As the scent of freshly baked plum cake mingles with the fragrance of cinnamon rolls and the warm glow of fairy lights twinkles around us , Christmas arrives , a time for joyous gatherings and feasts with loved ones . What better way to elevate the celebrations than with a thoughtfully chosen brew that complements the rich tapestry of flavors on the Christmas table ? Enjoy each sip responsibly , savoring the moment and the company you share . <p> President Droupadi Murmu on Tuesday greeted citizens on the eve of Christmas and hoped that the " forces of trust and forgiveness " will be strengthened around the world , bringing people closer to each other . <p> " As we celebrate this sacred day , let us imbibe Jesus Christ 's message of love and harmony in our lives . His teachings of brotherhood and welfare of all continue to light the path to a better world . This festival inspires us to foster unity and peace , " she said . <p> In this season of peace , " I hope the forces of trust and forgiveness will be strengthened around the world , bringing people closer to each other , " Murmu said . <p> Christmas , the holly , jolly time of the year , is here . December has finally arrived , bringing with it the joyous sounds of Christmas , a celebration of joy , love and togetherness . For millions around the world , Christmas is a time of unparalleled joy , a celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ . This is an opportunity to come together with loved ones , sing carols , decorate the tree and make unforgettable memories . <p> Christmas fashion is all about the bold hues of red which is just in line with the festive spirit . A lot of fashion girlies are ditching the bold shade for other colours lately . While they are making fashion statements by staying away from the classic palettes , red has always been the colour of Christmas . Take a look at the outfits worn by these seven Bollywood divas who have shown how to slay in red . You can take inspiration from their looks for all the upcoming Christmas parties . <p> It 's that time of the year again when the twinkling lights adorn homes and streets , the aroma of freshly baked cookies fills the air , and the melodious carols echo through the night . As the countdown to Christmas begins , excitement is quite palpable among kids worldwide who eagerly await the arrival of Santa Claus . And like every year , the North American Aerospace Defense Command ( NORAD ) has been tracking Santa Claus . <h> Do You Know Why Santa Claus Wears Red &amp; White ? <p> Have you ever wondered why Santa Claus , the gift-bearing icon , only wears red and white ? Has it always been his attire ? Not really . Santa Claus ' red and white suit has been influenced by several factors over time , with most notable being St Nicholas who was known for his red robes . Santa Claus ' predecessors also include Netherland 's Sinterklaas , the hooded French patriarch P ? re No ? l , and the German gift-giving baby Jesus , Christkindl , among many others . <p> It is Christmas Eve . As the Christmas spirit takes over the world , celebrities have started to gear up to welcome the festive spirit . Among them is Kendall Jenner who recently gave her fans a peek into how she had decked her house for Christmas . Located in Beverly Hills , her stunning mansion exudes warm and cosy vibes which is just in line with the spirit of Christmas . <h> Merry Christmas 2024 Wishes Live : Bethlehem Is Set To Mark A Second Subdued Christmas During The War In Gaza <p> Bethlehem prepared Tuesday to mark another somber Christmas in the traditional birthplace of Jesus under the shadow of war in Gaza . <p> The excitement and cheer that typically descends on the Palestinian town in the occupied West Bank on Christmas were nowhere to be found : The festive lights and giant tree that normally decorate Manger Square were missing . Throngs of foreign tourists that usually fill the square were n't expected and youth marching bands that gather each year to mark the holiday were absent , reported AP . <p> Palestinian security forces arranged barriers near the Nativity Church , built atop the spot where Jesus is believed to have been born , and a worker cleared garbage bins <p> Keir Starmer has said he will be hoping for peace in the Middle East , the birthplace of the Christmas story , and a brighter future for all in his first festive message since being elected British Prime Minister . <p> In a video message released by Downing Street ahead of Christmas Day on Wednesday , Starmer attempts to strike an optimistic tone and encourages people to " look after those around us " . He extended his special gratitude to the armed forces and frontline workers who will be helping people up and down the country . <p> " This Christmas , I will be hoping for peace , particularly in the Middle East as the birthplace of the Christmas story , " said Starmer . <p> Since the festive day is a commemoration of the birth of Lord Jesus , the celebrations also hold immense religious and spiritual importance for Christians across India . Celebrated every year on December 25 , Christmas festivities also include other communities in many states and it 's not only limited to the followers of Lord Jesus . Read More <p> Food is one thing that adds to the celebratory spirit , and when prepared at home , it makes one 's heart full . From the delectable plum cake to the unique spicy delicacies , India 's diverse culinary landscape offers a delightful array of Christmas treats . Read more <p> American singer Mary Millben has praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for honouring Jesus Christ as a teacher of " love , harmony , and brotherhood " while participating at a Christmas event organised by the Catholic Bishops ' Conference of India in New Delhi . Taking to X , Millben wrote , " The teachings of Lord Christ celebrate love , harmony , and brotherhood . It is important that we all work to make this spirit stronger- PM Modi . " <p> As the festive season approaches , many are gearing up for celebrations while also managing essential errands . Among the common concerns during Christmas is the availability of banking services . If you 're planning financial transactions , here 's everything you need to know about the bank holiday status for Christmas Day 2024 . As Christmas is a nationwide holiday , in-person banking services , including branch operations and counter transactions , will be unavailable . Customers are advised to plan to avoid any disruptions during this period . <p> On Tuesday , Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan extended his Christmas greetings to the people of the state , hoping the celebrations inspire a more harmonious and compassionate society . <p> In his message , he encouraged everyone to reflect on the divine teachings of peace , love , and forgiveness shared by Jesus Christ . <p> " As we celebrate the birth of Lord Jesus Christ , let us contemplate the divine message of peace , love , and forgiveness he brought to the world . May this occasion strengthen our unity and motivate us to create a more compassionate and harmonious society , " the Governor stated . <p> The use of ginger at Christmas is linked to its warming properties . With temperatures in western countries often dipping to minus degrees , ginger in cakes and cookies helps keep the body warm . Moreover , gingerbread has become associated with festivals and happiness , with some people considering it auspicious . <p> Christmas is a joyful time of year when people gather together and celebrate by exchanging heartfelt greetings and displays of affection . Every year , Christmas is grandly observed on December 25 . With Christmas approaching , you need a means to wish your friends and family a happy holiday season . Stickers are a fantastic tool for doing that . They convey your feelings and are simple to communicate . Additionally , they save you the trouble of copying and pasting greetings into every private or group conversation .
