<p> Women walk past Saudi-led coalition backed forces , leading the campaign to take over Hodeida , as they patrol Mocha , a port city on the Red Sea coast of Yemen Photo : AP/Nariman El-Mofty <p> Women walk past Saudi-led coalition backed forces , leading the campaign to take over Hodeida , as they patrol Mocha , a port city on the Red Sea coast of Yemen Photo : AP/Nariman El-Mofty <p> In ancient times Yemen was known as Arabia Felix , Latin for " happy " or " fortunate " , due to its high mountains that attracted rain , making it more fertile than much of the Arabian Peninsula . Today , Yemen is neither happy nor fortunate . After nine years of war , the West Asian country has become the site of grievous civilian suffering amid an unending civil war . <p> The Yemen civil war is largely seen as a proxy war between rivals Iran and Saudi Arabia , both vying to maintain or tip the regional balance of power in their favour . On one side are the Iran-backed Houthi rebels , who ousted the Yemeni government . Opposing them is a Saudi Arabia-led multinational coalition backed by the United States . The involvement of other actors , including UAE-backed separatists , has complicated the picture . <p> According to the UN Development Program , the war has caused over 370,000 deaths , with indirect factors such as food , water , and health service shortages responsible for nearly 60 percent of these fatalities . Torture , arbitrary arrests , and forced disappearances are among the other alleged war crimes perpetrated by all sides of the conflict . <h> Beauty In The Broken Land <p> " Nothing can be imagined more beautiful than the scenery of the mountains of the Yemen . Torn into all manner of fantastic peaks , the rocky crags add a wildness to a view that otherwise possesses the most peaceful charms . " <p> These words , by Walter B. Harris , a journalist and traveler who visited Yemen in 1892 , were recorded in his book A Journey Through The Yemen . For all its remoteness , Yemen is renowned for its great physical beauty . Its highlands , unlike any other part of the Arabian Peninsula , are verdant and photogenic . <p> In this July 30 , 2018 photo , a boy takes a ' selfie ' with the Marib Dam in Yemen Photo : AP/Nariman El-Mofty <p> In this July 30 , 2018 photo , a boy takes a ' selfie ' with the Marib Dam in Yemen Photo : AP/Nariman El-Mofty <p> Despite its ancient history as a crossroads of Africa and Asia , the Republic of Yemen is relatively young . The modern state was established in 1990 through the unification of the U.S.- and Saudi-backed Yemeni Arab Republic in the north and the Soviet-backed People 's Democratic Republic of Yemen in the south . Ali Abdullah Saleh , who had led North Yemen since 1978 , became the leader of the unified country . <p> Situated on the southwestern edge of the Arabian Peninsula , Yemen shares borders with Saudi Arabia to the north and Oman to the northeast , and has the Red Sea to the west and the Gulf of Aden and Arabian Sea to the south . Its population , largely Muslim , numbers 32.6 million , with 80 percent living below the poverty line . Despite the conflict , Yemen hosts more than 97,000 refugees and asylum seekers , primarily from Somalia and Ethiopia , making it the world 's third-largest host of Somali refugees . <h> Yemeni Civil War <p> Yemen has faced civil wars for decades , but the current conflict has its origins in the Arab Spring of 2011 . Pro-democracy protesters took to the streets in a bid to force the president , Ali Abdullah Saleh , to end his 33-year rule . He responded with economic concessions but refused to step down . By March 2011 , tensions on the streets of the capital city , Sana'a , resulted in protesters dying at the hands of the military . <p> An internationally brokered deal in November 2011 saw power transferred to Vice President Abd Rabbu Mansour Hadi , paving the way for elections in February 2012 -- in which he was the only candidate . The transition was not smooth . Hadi 's attempts at constitutional and budget reforms were rejected by Houthi rebels from the north . <p> Moreover , most of Yemen 's armed forces remained loyal to the ousted president rather than to Hadi . Fighting broke out in 2014 when the Houthi Shia Muslim rebel movement took advantage of Hadi 's weakness and seized control of northern Saada province and surrounding areas . The Houthis continued to advance , captured the capital , Sana'a , and forced Hadi into exile . <p> Yemen 's neighbour , Saudi Arabia , was alarmed by the prospect of the Houthis taking control of Yemen , fearing it would become a satellite of its rival , Iran . Saudi Arabia claims that Iran supports the Houthis with weapons and logistical assistance , a charge that Tehran denies . The conflict escalated dramatically in March 2015 , when Saudi Arabia , along with eight mostly Sunni Arab states -- backed by the US , UK , and France -- launched airstrikes against the Houthis , with the declared aim of restoring Hadi 's government . <h> Key Players In The Conflict <p> The intervention of regional powers in Yemen 's conflict , including Iran and Gulf states led by Saudi Arabia , has drawn the country into a regional proxy struggle along the Sunni-Shia divide . All parties to the war have their own agendas , making the conflict hard to resolve . Here are some of these groups : <p> Houthis <p> The Houthis , or Ansar Allah ( Supporters of God ) , are a local rebel group that controls a third of Yemen 's territory and two-thirds of its population . The Houthis are a militia of Zaidi Shias , a sect that held power for 1,000 years until the 1960s , when a republican army overthrew the imamate . They remain a large minority in Yemen , a predominantly Sunni nation of fewer than 25 million people . As friction with the government grew , they fought a series of guerrilla wars with the national army and a brief border conflict with Saudi Arabia . <p> Domestic Opponents Of The Houthis <p> The Houthis face domestic opposition from various groups . These include southerners , who see the Houthis as northern invaders trying to dominate the South . The new Salafi movement opposes them on religious grounds , and the Islah Party , affiliated with the Muslim Brotherhood , fights the Houthis on political grounds . Other opponents include a broad range of nationalists , liberals , and others , who resist their rule by force . The opposition is thus united against the Houthis but divided against itself . <p> Al Qaeda In The Arabian Peninsula <p> Set up by members of the Yemeni and Saudi branches of al-Qaeda , Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula ( AQAP ) was formed in early 2009 . The affiliates have their origins in the late 1980s and early 1990s , when fighters who had battled the Soviet Union in Afghanistan returned home . The group took advantage of the chaos of the Arab Spring to establish mini-states in remote eastern regions and launched attacks against Hadi 's transitional government . During the civil war , it carried out attacks on both sides . <p> A boy sits in a car damaged during the ongoing three year conflict in Mocha , Yemen , Feb. 10 , 2018 Photo : AP/Nariman El-Mofty <p> A boy sits in a car damaged during the ongoing three year conflict in Mocha , Yemen , Feb. 10 , 2018 Photo : AP/Nariman El-Mofty <p> Saudi Arabia , UAE And West Backed Coalition <p> Saudi Arabia views the Houthis as a proxy for Iran , its main regional rival , and seeks to prevent Tehran from gaining influence in Yemen . Saudi troops have been deployed along the border and in some Yemeni provinces but have largely relied on airstrikes against Houthi-held areas . The UAE , which is the member of the Saudi-led coalition , exerts influence by arming and training tens of thousands of Yemenis , mostly from the southern provinces . The United States , United Kingdom , France , and other Western countries have actively supported the coalition with weapons , logistics , and intelligence throughout the war until late 2020 . <p> Iran And Its Regional Allies <p> In Yemen 's devastating war , Iran and its regional proxies have supported the Houthi rebels . Most experts believe that the Houthis began receiving weapons from Iran by 2014 , the year they captured Sana'a . In return for Iran 's support , the Houthis have become an increasingly important part of Iran 's " axis of resistance , " a network of state and nonstate actors seeking to undermine Western influence in the Middle East . Unlike groups including Lebanon 's Hezbollah and Iraq 's Badr Organisation , which are Iran 's proxies , the Houthis were not founded with Iran 's help . The extent of the relationship between Houthis and Iran is disputed . Some view the group as Iran 's proxy , while others say that it is an autonomous actor . <h> Ceasefire : A Pause Or Turning Point ? <p> In April 2022 , the United Nations facilitated a cease-fire between Houthi rebels and the Yemeni government along with its Gulf allies . Although this six-month UN-mediated truce expired in October 2022 , both sides have avoided major escalations , and hostility levels have remained low . Improved Saudi-Iran relations and ongoing talks between Riyadh and the Houthis have raised hopes for peace . <p> Saudi Arabia 's ambassador to Yemen , Mohammed Al-Jaber , visited Sanaa in April 2023 and met with Houthi leaders to discuss a potential peace agreement . In September 2023 , a Houthi delegation also visited Riyadh . Both meetings concluded with optimism but no definitive agreements . <p> The ongoing Israel 's war on Gaza has put the de facto truce in Yemen at risk . In what the Houthis call a show of support for Hamas and Palestinians , the group has attacked supposed U.S.- and Israel-linked targets in the Red Sea and even fired missiles at Israel to which Israel has retaliated . <p> The truce is not an end to the war in itself . It is just a pause . It could lead to a permanent ceasefire , requiring concessions from the Houthis and sustained diplomatic efforts from Saudi Arabia , the UAE , and Iran . Failure to use this pause effectively can lead to a new chapter of war . Ultimately , the story of Yemen leaves question marks over its long and uncertain road to peace .
