<h> Needed : A star not just above Bethlehem <h> Bethlehem faces a tense Christmas due to the Gaza war , affecting tourism significantly . Hotel occupancy has dropped drastically and visitor numbers are down . Meanwhile , RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat urges caution against disrupting temple-mosque issues . This blends into the wider context of religious conflicts and their impact , stressing the need for peace and kinship . <p> It 's no small irony that religions - essentially branded sets of behaviour for ' being and doing good ' - are also the purported source of discord , disputes and conflicts . Within this paradox lies the matter of quarrels of proprietorship over ' sacred sites ' . Today being Christmas , let 's take Bethlehem , revered as the place where Christ was born some 2,022 years ago . Thanks to the ongoing war in Gaza , this city in Israeli-occupied West Bank is having a tense , sombre Christmas for the second time in so many years . Tourism was once the city 's mainstay , fuelling 70% of its economy . Hotel occupancy is down to 3% . Pre-Covid visitor numbers of 2 million in 2019 are now under 10,000 in 2024 . This town , reenacted in countless nativity scenes across the world , will be in war-imposed lockdown this Christmas while we celebrate . <p> Closer home , RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat recently cautioned against an ' unacceptable trend of wannabe Hindu leaders raking up temple-mosque issues at various sites ' . Predictably , this has drawn flak from ' both sides ' - from those who think he is ' unduly getting soft ' , as well as from those who believe him to indulge in double-speak . Some religious leaders have also stated that matters of faith should be decided by ' dharmacharyas ' , not leaders of ' cultural organisations ' like RSS . As if in India , culture and religion is kept in separate , airtight silos . <p> The fact is , who says something matters as much as - if not more than - what is being said . So , Bhagwat 's warning against right-wing groups moving courts seeking the demolition of mosques they claim to have been built on ancient temple sites is welcome . Lest it be forgotten , religions exist to arouse peace and kinship , with all the differences that exist in the world .
