<h> As 2024 draws to a close , the global community struggles to navigate the ripple effects of conflicts , wars , geopolitical shifts , and climate change while striving to achieve a just world order . <p> 2024 has been a defining chapter in the ever-evolving landscape of international relations . <p> From the return of Donald Trump as the US President to the almost unexpected fall of the Bashar al-Assad regime in Syria alongside the ongoing Gaza War , the year 2024 has been a defining chapter in the ever-evolving landscape of international relations . <p> The fall of the Assad regime in Syria on 8 November 2024 escalated concerns over the restoration of peace in the region , especially after an armed Islamist group took over the country . Its potential fallout prompted regional powers , such as Israel , Lebanon , Iran , Turkey , and international actors , including Russia and the US , to scramble for a response . <p> Apparently , wars , conflicts and geopolitical rivalries overshadowed other pressing issues like climate change , human rights and gender equality . This article offers a concise summary of the most significant developments in international affairs throughout 2024 , highlighting the events and trends that have shaped the global order and set the stage for the years ahead . <p> Advertisement <h> Trump 's return to the White House <p> Following a year-long election process , Americans went to the polls on " the Tuesday next after the first Monday in November " ( as has been the tradition ) to cast their ballots for the next President . The eventual victory of Trump as the 47th President of the US became a common refrain across national and international media . <p> Whether the policies of the incoming US president -- to be inaugurated on 20 January 2025 -- would align with India 's aspirations on the world stage kept the Indian diplomatic circles engaged , specifically in view of Trump 's stance on immigration , trade , tariffs and his policies towards the Indo-Pacific . <p> Earlier this month , Trump threatened the BRICS nations with " 100 per cent tariffs " if it attempted to replace the US dollar in international trade . As of now , Trump 's initial tariff plans exclude India and intends to impose substantial tariffs on Mexico , Canada and China . The move could cause tensions between the two powerful economies -- the US and China -- and potentially disrupt global trade . <p> It also echoes the China challenge -- where the interests of the US and India converge -- with the previous Trump administration ( 2017-2021 ) framing Beijing as a " strategic threat " in its national security strategy . In that context , the incoming Trump administration 's approach towards the Indo-Pacific would bring renewed focus on India 's concerns over China 's assertiveness in the region . <p> Advertisement <p> The need for deeper US-India collaboration on both strategic and economic fronts in the region can not be ruled out . In fact , the strategic convergence between India and the US in the region was a primary driver contributing to the shift from Asia-Pacific to Indo-Pacific . The Trump administration adopted a National Security Strategy for the Indo-Paci ? c region in 2017 and renamed the US Pacific Command as the US Indo-Pacific Command in 2018 , formalising and institutionalising the concept of the Indo-Pacific . <h> Indo-Pacific : The arena of strategic concerns <p> This policy shift was seen as a vital step to address the aggression of China , increasing threats to critical sea lanes of communication , and non-traditional security challenges , such as climate change , maritime piracy , illegal fishing , natural disasters , and cybersecurity threats . It was also important for the inclusion of India -- a growing major power -- into the policy frameworks of key global actors , particularly the US . <p> Notably , under the previous Trump administration , the Foreign Ministers of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue ( Quad ) countries -- Australia , India , Japan and the US -- held talks for the first time , paving the way for the group to emerge as a vital platform for governance in key domains of the Indo-Pacific . <p> President Joe Biden built on the momentum by elevating the Quad to the leaders ' level . During the meeting in September 2024 , Biden hosted Quad leaders in his hometown of Wilmington , Delaware . The Biden administration released the Indo-Pacific Strategy in February 2022 , emphasising a free and open Indo-Pacific , sovereign decision-making by countries , adherence to international law , and lawful governance of shared domains like seas and skies -- which is in sync with India 's stance in the region . <p> Advertisement <p> In fact , through its " Act East " policy , India has emerged as a natural partner in this vision , aiming to enhance collaboration with Southeast Asia , East Asia , and the Pacific , while mitigating China 's growing influence . Now all eyes are on the expected nuanced shifts in US Indo-Pacific policy under the incoming Trump administration , while Washington 's economic competition with China -- evident in proposed tariff plans -- will remain central , shaping broader security and strategic approaches in the region . <h> A world at war : Ukraine-Russia and Hamas-Israel wars <p> Amidst all this , major conflicts across the globe , including the Ukraine-Russia and Hamas-Israel wars , continue to remain sticking points for the global powers . As the Ukraine-Russia war approached its third year in 2024 , Prime Minister Narendra Modi made historic visits to Russia in July and Ukraine in August this year , engaging in discussions with President Vladimir Putin and President Volodymyr Zelensky , respectively . <p> He clarified that India is " not neutral " but " in favour of peace " in this bilateral conflict , and urged that both parties should come to the table without wasting time . However , the prolonged war coupled with the bad economy of Russia prompted Trump to call Moscow a " weakened state " , which could n't come to the rescue of its long-term ally in West Asia -- Bashar al-Assad of Syria . However , the prolonged war coupled with its economy in bad shape <p> More importantly , the fall of the 24-year-old Assad regime in Syria was seen as a strategic setback for Iran , particularly to its Axis of Resistance -- an alliance of armed entities and government actors in Iraq , Lebanon , Syria , Yemen along with Palestinian groups . <p> Advertisement <p> The Axis has been a major force for Iran to exert regional influence and oppose the US and Israel . Given the volatile situation in the region , it wo n't be feasible to forecast the outcome of Assad 's fall . Yet , the possibility that powers like Turkey , Iran and Gulf Cooperation Council states along with Israel would recalibrate their strategies for regional aspirations is on the horizon . <p> Meanwhile , talks to broker a ceasefire in Gaza remain precarious , with Israel and Hamas accusing each other of hindering the progress . The war began after Israel retaliated against Hamas ' October 2023 attack on southern Israel and soon escalated to even include direct attacks between Israel and Iran . The situation does not bode well for countries like India with a huge stake in the stability of the region . <h> The Gaza war , Assad 's fall , West Asian geopolitics and implications for India <p> The recent overthrow of the Assad regime in Syria further complicated the situation , with considerable implications for India . In addition to being home to over nine million Indian expatriates ( a major source of remittances ) , West Asia is a vital source of energy imports , trade , investments and defence for India . <p> Therefore , prolonged instability and widening conflict will pose a threat to the security and well-being of Indians , cause a considerable loss in remittances , and affect India 's economy . The loss of trade and commerce , and the impact on energy imports will be other serious concerns for India . In addition , India 's effort to promote regional connectivity , trade and commerce through initiatives like the India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor , the International North-South Transport Corridor , and the Chabahar port pivots on the restoration of stability in the region . <p> India has expressed its concerns at the deteriorating security situation in the region , and has emphasised a peaceful resolution of the conflict through dialogue and diplomacy . India 's position on the Gaza War is in tune with its historical stand for a two-state solution achieved through diplomatic negotiations within the purviews of the resolutions passed in the United Nations . However , a ceasefire in the Gaza War seems elusive , but it does raise a pertinent question -- Will environmental protections be prioritised over traditional military goals ? <h> Climate change , women and gender equality <p> It wo n't be an exaggeration to say that issues like climate change , women and gender equality remained overshadowed by the issues of high politics , such as conflicts , war , and diplomacy . The recently concluded COP29 climate talks in Baku , Azerbaijan , ended in disappointment for the developing countries . The main agreement negotiated at the conference promised to mobilise $300 billion annually in climate finance for the developing countries -- significantly lower than the $1.3 trillion a year they had been demanding in line with their requirements . <p> The setback draws our attention to the strong correlation between women 's empowerment and effective climate action . Addressing climate change and promoting gender equality are pivotal steps toward building a more inclusive and equitable world order . In that context , India 's push for reforms in global institutions such as the United Nations Security Council , multilateral development banks , and the World Trade Organisation continues to be a critical issue in promoting fairness and equality in global governance and building an inclusive world order . <p> Hence , as 2024 draws to a close , the global community struggles to navigate the ripple effects of global conflicts and wars , geopolitical shifts , and climate change while striving to achieve a just world order . The year 2025 will mark 30 years of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action , which recognised women 's rights as human rights and envisioned a world in which women have the same rights and opportunities as men .
