<h> Just In <h> Israel orders ' impossible ' evacuation <h> Even as its forces are attacking one of North Gaza 's last hospitals <p> If Kamal Adwan Hospital is decommissioned , there will be no way of preserving conditions of life to the remaining 75,000+ civilians in north Gaza . We call on the world to witness these crimes of extermination and act now , says hospital director Dr Husam Abu Safiya . The Israeli military has ordered evacuations from the hospital , but they have also created an intimidating environment that makes people feel it 's unsafe to leave <p> The Israel Defense Forces have ordered one of the last partly operating hospitals in northern Gaza to shutter and evacuate , even as hospital staff say there are not enough ambulances to do so safely and persistent firing on the facility makes people afraid to leave . <p> Israel launched bomb , artillery , and sniper attacks on the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahia beginning Saturday , as the Wafa news agency reported . The attacks killed three people in the area and wounded several , according to Wafu . On Sunday , an Israeli drone strike on the hospital 's fuel tanks and power generator shut off its electricity , the Anadolu Agencyreported . <p> " We currently have nearly 400 civilians inside the hospital , including babies in the neonatal unit , whose lives depend on oxygen and incubators , " hospital director Dr Husam Abu Safiya said in a statement on Sunday . " We can not evacuate these patients safely without assistance , equipment , and time . " " Every bomb that slams into Kamal Adwan Hospital , every nurse forced to watch a child slip away , every life lost from denied treatment indicts us all . " Abu Safiya described the onset of what he called an " unprece-dented " attack in a message Saturday evening local time : <p> The Israeli military has targeted the Kamal Adwan Hospital with different types of weapons without prior warning . " We are being directly attacked , the ICU unit , along with the maternity and nursing depart-ments , are coming under fire . The bombing is being conducted with tank fire and quadcopters , directly targeting us while we are present inside the hospital departments . We do n't know why we are being targeted at this hour . What we are seeing now is a deliberate attack on the health facility , " Al Jazeera 's Hani Mahmoud reported from Deir el-Balah . " The Israeli military has ordered evacuations from the hos-pital , but they have also created an intimidating environment that makes people feel it 's unsafe to leave . Mahmoud said he lost contact with the hospital Saturday night . <p> Responding to reports from the hospital on Saturday , World Health Organization ( WHO ) director Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called for a cease-fire around the hospital and for the protection of patients and staff . " Tonight 's reports of bombardment near Kamal Adwan Hospital and order to evacuate the hospital are deeply worrisome , " Ghebreyseus wrote on social media . " The hospital has been in the midst of fighting for too long , and the lives of patients are at risk . " <p> Also on Saturday , the Palestine Mental Health Networks and Doctors Against Genocide issued a state-ment in support of Abu Safiya and Kamal Adwan , demanding that the international community act to open a humanitarian corridor in Gaza , protect healthcare facilities and staff , and end the blockade on the besieged enclave . <p> Arguing that the " relentless assaults on Kamal Adwan Hospital -- a sanctuary meant to save lives in northern Gaza -- are part of a deliberate genocidal campaign , " they wrote : " Humanity can not pretend not to see . Neutrality in the face of genocide is complicity . Every bomb that slams into Kamal Adwan Hospital , every nurse forced to watch a child slip away , every life lost from denied treatment indicts us all . The world is watching . Will it once again stand idly by as another hospital crumbles , another child 's breath is silenced , another fragile hope is extinguished ? Or will it finally rise to restore the sanctity of life and the universal right to health ? " <p> In a video message shared by Drop Site News early Sunday morning Gaza time , Abu Safiya said that he had been ordered to evacuate patients to the Indonesian Hospital , but that this would be " impossible " since the hospital needs ambulances to transport the wounded and would need to move supplies as well . He said a successful evacuation would take days . <p> In a second message on Sunday , he linked the IDF 's attacks on Kamal Adwan to similar attacks on hospi-tals throughout Gaza . In October , a report from the United Nation 's Independent International Commis-sion of Inquiry on the Occupied Palestinian Territory concluded that " Israel has perpetrated a concerted policy to destroy Gaza 's healthcare system , " carrying out nearly 500 attacks on healthcare facilities be-tween October 7 , 2023 and July 30 , 2024 . <p> Abu Safiya said that the IDF did not provide hospitals with the support they needed when it ordered evacuations , such as equipment and safe passage : " We call on the world to witness this pattern once again . We have repeatedly requested assistance and have openly invited the occupation to see for themselves the internal workings of our hospitals so that we may continue to serve our population without fear of attack and death . These calls were rejected . We also call on the world to witness , that if Kamal Adwan Hospital is decommissioned , there will be no way of preserving conditions of life to the remaining 75,000+ civilians in north Gaza . We call on the world to witness these crimes of extermination and act now . " <p> Safiya also said the IDF was targeting the hospital 's fuel tanks , which would explode if hit , causing " mass casualties . " Gaza 's Government Media Office urged the WHO to visit the hospital on Sunday , saying the attack was part of a concerted attempt to destroy Gaza 's healthcare system . " These attacks are ongoing and have not stopped for nearly 80 days since the ground aggression on the northern Gaza Strip Gover-norate began , which has claimed the lives of thousands of martyrs , left many missing , wounded , or de-tained , " the statement said . In response to the reports from the hospital , the IDF told The Washington Post that it had not targeted Kamal Adwan on Saturday to its knowledge . It also said separately that it was operating in Beit Lahia . Israel has intensified military operations in northern Gaza over the past three months , according to Reu-ters . The IDF further told Reuters on Friday that it had helped to evacuate more than 100 patients from Kamal Adwan and provided fuel and food to the hospital . It did not respond to a request for comment about Saturday 's attacks . <p> Also on Sunday , the Gaza Health Ministry reported that Israeli attacks had killed 32 people and wounded 54 in the last 24 hours . At least eight people , including children , were killed in a strike on a school-turned-shelter in Gaza City . <p> " We came out to see the scale of destruction , with dead bodies , blood , and body parts all over the place . Israeli warplanes fired three missiles on this school . The explosion was huge and frightening to us and to our children , " witness Um Aref Ahel , who has been displaced by the war , told Al Jazeera . " We appeal to the whole world to bring this war to an end . " The official Gaza Health Ministry death toll from Israel 's war on Gaza , which began October 7 , 2023 in response to a deadly Hamas attack on Southern Israel , stands at over 45,000 , though many remain un-accounted for beneath the rubble . This month , both Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch issued reports labelling Israel 's assault a genocide.
