<h> With Bashar al-Assad gone , Turkish President Erdogan wants to position himself as de facto leader of the Sunni Muslim world . Israel , on the other hand , is clearly perturbed by the rise of rebel Islamist groups in Syria and fears its transformation into a jihadist state ... Read More <p> Recep Tayyip Erdogan ( left ) has opposed any concessions by the HTS to the minority Kurdish population in Syria 's northeast , which he regards as supporters of the Kurdish separatists in Turkey . <p> The relations between Israel and Turkey have collapsed after the attacks in Gaza on October 7 , 2023 . President Recep Tayyip Erdogan had announced severing ties with Israel last month , noting that Turkey would do all it can to hold Benjamin Netanyahu accountable for his actions in Gaza . <p> With the recent political turmoil in Syria , which led to the ouster of President Bashar al-Assad , Israel and Turkey have emerged key players in the Middle Eastern geopolitical competition , instead of Russia and Iran , who have been backing Damascus all this while . <h> related stories <p> With the worsening of Turkey and Israel 's relations over the past few months , the Syria descent sets stage for the two non-Arab states for a bitter showdown . <h> How Turkey-Israel Relations Deteriorated Over Time <p> The ties between Turkey and Israel began to degrade since the meeting of their leaders in New York in September of last year . The meeting was supposedly intended to reconcile relations between Erdogan and Netanyahu . <p> But the Hamas-led attack on Israel in October 2023 and the subsequent Israeli strikes in Gaza , which killed more than 44,000 Palestinians , intensified bitterness between the two countries . This led to a series of sanctions because Erdogan 's ruling Justice and Development Party ( AKP ) faced the brunt in local elections over its weak response to the war on Gaza . <p> Since September , ongoing Turkish trade with Israel through third countries and Palestine has sparked a public pressure campaign by the opposition , who accused Erdogan of failing to close loopholes that allow continued interaction with Tel Aviv . <p> Earlier this year , Turkey intervened in a genocide case against Israel at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) in support of Palestine and advocated for an arms embargo against Tel Aviv . <p> Erdogan said 52 countries and two international organisations had expressed their support for the arms embargo on Turkey launched at the United Nations in early November to prevent the shipment of weapons and ammunition to Israel . <p> " We recently submitted our formal letter regarding this initiative to the president of the UN Security Council and the secretary-general of the United Nations , " Erdogan said . " During our summit in Riyadh , a decision was made to invite all organisations and members of the Arab League to sign this letter . " <h> Impact On Trade And Cooperation <p> Turkey , which recognised the Palestinian state in 1988 , signed key agreements in 1996 with Israel , such as the Defence Coorporation and Free Trade Agreement ( FTA ) . <p> The FTA , in particular , played a crucial role in boosting economic relations , with bilateral trade exceeding $1 billion by 2000 . The agreement laid the foundation for strong bilateral economic ties that have remained active until after October 7 crisis in Gaza . <p> The relations strained in 2000s with the collapse of the Israeli-Palestinian peace process , along with the outbreak of Second Infitada . <p> Ankara 's condemnation of the 2008-2009 Israel-Gaza conflict marked the beginning of a grim era , followed by the " one-minute " crisis in Davos in 2009 and the 2010 Gaza flotilla raid , leading to the deaths of nine Turkish citizens . <p> Despite Erdogan suspending " military and commercial ties " with Israel after nearly every crisis , the bilateral trade relations have not been significantly impacted . On the contrary , they have expanded in the last 20 years . According to the Turkish Statistical Institute ( T ? IK ) , the bilateral trade volume of $1.41 billion in 2002 rose to $8.91 billion by 2022 , favouring Turkey . <p> Experts see the rhetoric as mere fa ? ade aimed at securing domestic gains , while prioritizing the Israel-Turkey economic interests over politics . <h> How Syria Is An Opportunity For Turkey <p> Several reports have suggested that Turkey had backed the offensive led by the Sunni rebel group , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , to throw out Assad from Syria , thus betraying Damascus ' traditional allies -- Iran and Russia . Iran believes that without Turkey 's support , HTS would not have pulled off a coup against Assad . <p> With Assad gone , Erdogan is believed to be positioning himself as de facto leader of the Sunni Muslim world . The first step Turkey performed after the Assad government 's fall was immediately reopening its embassy in Damascus and offering help to HTS in transition and establishing Syria 's new Islamist order . <p> Interestingly , Erdogan has said if the Ottoman Empire had been divided in a different way following its defeat in the World War I , several Syrian cities , including Aleppo and Damascus , would have likely been part of modern-day Turkey . <p> Erdogan has also opposed any concessions by the HTS to the minority Kurdish population in Syria 's northeast , which he regards as supporters of the Kurdish separatists in Turkey . <p> This comes after HTS leader Ahmad al-Sharaa ( also known as Abu Mohammad al-Jolani ) had said in interviews that the new government 's focus would include security of minorities in Syria and growth and development of the country based on moderate methods . <h> How Israel Sees Syria 's Current Political Situation <p> After Assad 's fall , Israel took control of a demilitarized buffer zone in Syria near the Golan Heights , which it already occupied , citing the need for increased security along the border until a deal with the new government can be reached . It also executed a massive bombardment of Syria 's military assets across the country . <p> Israel 's foreign minister said destroying these assets , which included ammunition depots , fighter jets , missiles and chemical weapons storage facilities , was important to ensure they did n't fall into the " hands of extremists " that could pose a threat to the Jewish state . <p> The action was condemned by Arab countries , who demanded Syria 's sovereignty and territorial integrity . <p> Israel is clearly perturbed by the rise of rebel Islamist groups in Syria and fears the transformation of Syria into a jihadist state . <h> What Is The US Thinking ? <p> Washington , which is an ally of both Turkey and Israel , has launched intense diplomatic efforts to ensure that HTS moves Syria in a favourable direction . It is keen to see a post-Assad system of governance aligned with America 's interests , which include HTS ' support for America 's Kurdish allies in northeast Syria and the continued presence of 1,000 American troops in the country . The US also wants HTS to continue to prevent the Islamic State terror group from reviving in Syria . <h> top videos <p> The US will also have to manage the emerging geopolitical rivalry between Israel and Turkey in Syria . <p> Some political observers have not ruled out the possibility of an Israeli-Turkish military showdown , should Israel turn its " temporary occupation " of the demilitarised zone on the Syrian side of the Golan Heights into a permanent one , as per an article by Amin Saikal , Adjunct Professor at The University of Western Australia 's School of Social Sciences and Emeritus Professor of Middle Eastern and Central Asian Studies at Australian National University , in The Conversation .
