<h> 2024 , one of the worst years for child casualties ; 473 million children living in conflict zones : UNICEF <p> The United Nations Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) in a recent study stated that an estimated 473 million children , more than one in six , are living in conflict zones worldwide . <p> In a study released on Saturday , UNICEF highlighted the ongoing conflicts in regions like Palestine , Myanmar , Haiti , and Sudan and stated that the world is experiencing the highest number of conflicts since the Second World War . <p> In their report , the UN organisation stated that 19 per cent of the world 's children live in conflict zones , with 47.2 million having been displaced by conflict and violence . <p> The UN further verified that there were more child casualties during the first nine months of 2024 than during all of 2023 , as thousands of children were killed and injured in conflicts in Gaza and in Ukraine . <p> Notably , according to many reports , the conflict between Israel and Palestine has led to the deaths of at least 17,492 children over the past 15 months in Gaza . <p> Meanwhile , UNICEF Executive Director Catherine Russell stated that 2024 has been one of the worst years on record for children in conflict , both in terms of the number affected and the severity of the impact on their lives . <p> She stated that children in conflict zones are far more likely to experience disruptions such as being out of school , facing malnutrition , or being displaced compared to those in peaceful areas . Russell emphasised that this can not become the " new normal " and stressed the need to prevent a generation of children from becoming victims of ongoing global conflicts . <p> " By almost every measure , 2024 has been one of the worst years on record for children in conflict in UNICEF 's history -- both in terms of the number of children affected and the level of impact on their lives , " Russell said . <p> " A child growing up in a conflict zone is far more likely to be out of school , malnourished , or forced from their home -- too often repeatedly -- compared to a child living in places of peace . This must not be the new normal . We can not allow a generation of children to become collateral damage to the world 's unchecked wars , " the UNICEF Executive Director added . ( ANI )
