<h> 2024 : Milestones in the art world <h> Summary <p> 2024 was the year of milestones for leading modernists and galleries . While it ended on a high note with a spate of important events , certain issues slipped under the radar <p> This is a Mint Premium article gifted to you . Subscribe to enjoy similar stories . <p> It would be hard to look at 2024 in isolation . Threads from 2023 have woven their way into 2024 , at least within the arts ecosystem . The mode of expansion continued , with existing galleries and institutions moving into fresh spaces , and newer names being added to the contemporary arts community . 2024 was a landmark year for leading galleries as well as artists with the centenary of K.G. Subramanyan , F.N. Souza , Ram Kumar , V.S. Gaitonde and Mohan Samant . The second half of 2024 began like a symphony but ended as an overdone crescendo with December being absolutely packed with cultural events , including new additions such as the Bengal Biennale . <p> Invisibilised histories of marginalised communities became more visible , with work by artists such as Vikrant Bhise , Siddhesh Gautam and Sajan Mani being showcased . However , some felt art could have served as a braver lens to contemplate conflict in Gaza , Ukraine and closer home in Manipur . Barring a few examples , there was a certain degree of silence , which Mumbai-based cultural theorist Ranjit Hoskote found inexplicable . " It 's hard to believe that Indian art has nothing to say on something as cataclysmic as the ongoing genocide and wars . Previous generations of Indian artists would have responded to these events for sure . This startling absence of response , an inwardlooking approach , and withdrawal from a broader public exchange has been rather disappointing , " he says . <p> As a new year dawns , Lounge looks back at the hits and misses of 2024 . <h> WOMEN AND BELONGING <p> Certain trends that had been in the making for the past two to three years , achieved a certain degree of maturity in 2024 , and that included the feminist gaze on the lives of women . The female figure from everyday scenes had been long missing from the canvas . Artists like Varunika Saraf , Soma Das and Baaraan Ijlal have documented everyday experiences -- big and small -- in women 's lives , be it their response to politics , grief , leisure , or community . <p> This year , there were more showcases of the theme . For instance , Sujata Setia 's A Thousand Cuts addressed patterns of domestic abuse in south Asian community , at G5A , Mumbai , while He/Hem at Vida Heydari Contemporary , Pune , featured works of six artists including Debasree Das , Kanan Koteshwar , Mayuri Chari and Monali Meher . They stitched thread on to paper , seeking to erase lines between high art and skill-based crafts , " while engaging with tropes of identity , care , body and ecology " . <p> In fact , textile , involving embroidery , stitching and used clothing , became a stronger part of artistic practices to create narratives around belonging and identity . <h> AN EXPANDED ECOSYSTEM <p> 2024 saw not just fresh editions to existing fixtures such as the Madras Art Weekend , Chennai Photo Biennale and Serendipity Arts Festival , but also the debut of newer events such as the Bengal Biennale . Curated by Siddharth Sivakumar , this series of events , themed around Anka Banka -- Through Crosscurrent , is spread across Kolkata and Santiniketan . The idea is to present the state 's cultural heritage alongside contemporary voices that are shaping its art ecosystem . <p> November also brought back Art Mumbai -- a young fair that is rooted in the context of the Maximum City -- with 71 participating galleries and three foundations . The Kochi-Muziris Biennale rounded out the year with the announcement of its new curators , artist Nikhil Chopra and HH Art Spaces , for its sixth edition , to take place between December 2025 and March 2026 . <h> TRANSFORMATIVE YEAR FOR ART SPACES <p> 2024 was the year of milestones for art spaces -- new ones opened up for niche themes while existing ones celebrated landmark years . Sarmaya Arts Foundation , a not-for-profit founded in 2015 by Paul Abraham , a Mumbai-based banker and arts patron , moved its archive into a newly-restored space . This rich repository of art and artefacts opened up within the 146-year-old Lawrence &amp; Mayo Building , which is part of the " Heritage Mile " on Dr D N Road . The new space is accompanied by curated programming of talks and events in a bid to make the archive accessible to people from all walks of life . <p> Artist-curator Bose Krishnamachari came together with entrepreneur Sreejith Pathangalil to start Gallery Dtale ARCHIST in Bengaluru in October . The white cube space , spread across 3,000 sq . ft , hopes to tackle the intersections of art , architecture , design and technology . " Dtale ARCHIST trusts that everyone could be an artist , designer , architect or a scientist . We are exploring works of practitioners , whose thinking sensitises us to the ' other ' while also inculcating a better understanding of the self , " writes Krishnamachari in an email interview . <p> Delhi-based GallerySKE and PHOTOINK ended the year with an announcement about moving to a new space -- the location still under wraps -- in 2025 . <p> This was also a landmark year in the journeys of leading galleries such as Tarq , Experimenter and Gallery Espace . Each marked the moment with exhibitions and events that showcased its evolution while also laying out the vision for the future . <p> New Delhi-based Espace , for instance , marked the occasion with shows such as Memory Fields , featuring artists such as Amit Ambalal , Manjunath Kamath and Nilima Sheikh , who have been part of the gallery 's journey . <p> Tarq , Mumbai , which celebrated 10 years , showcased dialogue between its artists through collaborative prints created by artist pairs such as Sameer Kulavoor and Vishwa Shroff , Pratap Morey and Philippe Calia , Garima Gupta and Nibha Sikander , and more . The exhibition looked at the ethos of collaboration and the sense of community that has defined Tarq 's programming over time . <p> Meanwhile , Experimenter , on turning 15 at the cusp of this year , curated events that highlighted the manner in which the gallery functions across multiple spaces , while having a politically charged programme featuring diverse practices . <h> REVISITING ARTISTIC LEGACIES <p> It was not just art spaces but also wellloved artists -- K.G. Subramanyan , V.S. Gaitonde , Mohan Samant , Himmat Shah , Ram Kumar and F.N. Souza -- who had landmark years . A series of exhibitions unfurled across the country to offer newer perspectives on their practices . Progressive Art Gallery , Delhi , hosted Creating the Century : Four Iconic Artists , curated by Yashodhara Dalmia to celebrate the birth centenaries of Souza , Kumar , Subramanyan and Gaitonde . " When India was still under colonial rule , these artists started , each in his own distinct way in art , to grapple with a nonrevivalist modernity , the irrepressible reality of Indian plurality , both of life and expression , traditions and ideas ... . Their art , in its specifics , complexity and indi-viduality , is plural , Indian , and modern , " wrote Ashok Vajpeyi , managing trustee , The Raza Foundation , whose efforts brought the show to life . <p> The legacies of these artists continue to be pertinent for their approach -- outward- looking , progressive and responsive to the sociopolitics of the times . Unfortunately , for some like Souza and Akbar Padamsee , censorship of their work continues beyond their lifetimes . Last year the Mumbai customs department had seized seven artworks by the two as " obscene material " . In October , this year , the Bombay high court passed an restraining order , preventing the department from destroying the works . Through repeated events , one can only hope that the nonconformist approach of these artists continues to be highlighted . <p> Subramanyan was the other artist , whose life and times were celebrated throughout the year . Cultural theorist Nancy Adajania and curator R. Siva Kumar offered newer readings of his work . In A Forest of Many Suns at Arthshila , Delhi , the latter looked at Subramanyan 's multifaceted career , including his role as an educationist , and at another exhibition at Vadehra Art Gallery , he focused on the last decade of the artist 's career . Prior to that , in May , Adajania looked at ways of making the artist 's legacy relevant for the next 100 years in the show , One Hundred Years and Counting : Re-Scripting KG Subramanyan , at Emami Art , Kolkata . " I decided to focus on K.G. Subramanyan 's political philosophy by highlighting his pluralist vision , and his belief in conviviality over conflict ... , " Adajania had told Lounge then . <p> For Hoskote , both One Hundred Years and Counting and Handprints , one of the two-part retrospective on Gulammohammed Sheikh , featuring his print works and curated by artist Pushpamala N , stood out as rereadings of artistic legacies . These were not just significant in their scope , but also offered an insight into different ways of creating meaningful curatorial frameworks . " What distinguished both these shows was that they were deeply researched and went into the actual nature of the artists ' journeys . Handprints is situated within Gulam 's engagement with visual arts , literature and the larger public sphere , " he adds . <p> Similarly One Hundred Years resituates K.G. Subramanyan in context of his politics , and spotlights the philosophy informing his illustrated children 's books , which were earlier seen as minor works , thereby creating a far more complex portrait of the artist . " These remind us of what Indian artists have been at their very best -- cultural organisers , writers , public intellectuals and political thinkers . Both Gulam and K.G.Subramanyan are luminous examples of what having an artistic imagination means -- to not be confined to the studio , but to create a bridge between the studio and the world , articulating experimental curiosity for a medium , and serving the difficult mandate of critical citizenship , " says Hoskote . <p> Meanwhile , Sheikh himself turned curator for his late friend , Bhupen Khakar . Titled Bhupen in Goa , and shown as part of the Serendipity Arts Festival , one could see over 150 works -- paintings , drawings , ceramic plates , sculptures -- from Sunil Kant Munjal 's private collection and the Swaraj Art Archive established by Vijay Aggarwal . " I have selected 164 works out of over 207 in the collection , choosing a variety of mediums Bhupen was adept at , " Sheikh told The Indian Express . <p> This celebration of milestones will spill into the next year , with modernist Krishen Khanna and the late Satish Gujral marking their 100th birth anniversaries . <h> DOCUMENTING MARGINALISED HISTORIES <p> Various artists and collectives have , over time , tried to extract histories of Dalit and other marginalised communities , long buried within the mainstream narrative . This year saw a greater dialogue around these new forms of history making . <p> Sajan Mani -- who had his first major solo in India , The Multiple Legs of Historically Wing-Chopped Bird , at Shrine Empire , Delhi -- wanted to look beyond the postcolonial approach , which focused on " Brahmanic history , royalty and related clothes and ornaments , but never on the people who made these and suffered through the social systems " , as he mentioned in an interview . Through his drawings and videos , Mani has tried to wrest his community from historical obscurity . <p> Vikrant Bhise , a Mumbai-based artist , whose practice is rooted in Ambedkarite politics , Dalit histories and people 's movements in resisting caste discrimination , showed his work at different platforms throughout the year , starting with the Anant Art Gallery booth at the India Art Fair and moving on to Experimenter-Colaba for the two-person exhibition , We Will See . He is now part of the ongoing group show , Unhoming : Fragile Belonging , at Exhibit 320 , Delhi , about displacement and human suffering , specifically in the context of Gaza . Bhise 's work spans both large multi panelled paintings and smaller ink works , and looks at narratives of resistance and resilience . <p> Meanwhile , the calendar for 2025 already seems to be coalescing with major solos and fixtures like the Mumbai Gallery Weekend returning . Perhaps , for art enthusiasts , the turn of the year could act as an brief interlude to reflect on the practices that engaged with realities of a world in flux , and readings and responses that we would like to see in 2025.
