<h> Share : <p> President Biden and Secretary Blinken knew and witnessed the ferocious and tragic abnormality of Israeli planned killing of civilians and genocide in Gaza but their interest and policies were aligned to unthinking of evilmongering in Palestine . Continued occupation , forcible displacement and daily killings of civilians are the strategic goals , the Israeli extremist political leadership encouraged by the US hired supporters envisage plans of ' greater Israel ' inclusive of Jordan , Saudi Arabia and parts of Egypt . The neo-colonial installed puppets -- the former tribal agents -- now self-made kings , princes and presidents follow the European and American dictum for their survival . They are immune to logic and advice from Muslim scholarly experts in global affairs . The US and few West European leaders neglecting their own history masked their warmongering not knowing the consequences of their own viciousness against humanity . When life and human survival faces critical challenges , the thinking people and global institutions should respond with a collective will to stop the civilian massacres and genocide . Not so , in-waiting are the Arab-Muslim leaders to see if anything would happen out of nowhere to stop the Israeli carnage of planned killing and destruction of Gaza and the rest of Palestine . Please see : <p> The UNO failed miserably its Charter obligations , for millions of people with nowhere to go , nowhere to find a place of safety and life protection . Everyday is a killing day- bombardments of innocent civilians , places of worship , hospitals , UNRWA 's school shelters , Israeli freely use weapons of mass destruction conveniently made available by the US Government . The war scenario emboldens Netanyahu 's political absolutism -- an egoistic leader with a controversial profile will do utmost to regain unbridled ambition either by manipulation , violence or new conflicts . The current paradigm links directly to PM Netanyahu affiliated with extreme Jewish Ultra Nationalists to deny the Palestinian people their rights of existence as an independent State and to dismantle the Al-Aqsa Mosque . Please see : " Al-Aqsa Mosque Waiting for the Arab Leaders " https : **31;1377;TOOLONG ... The Arab-Muslim Leaders Friends of Israel and America <p> The US media reports of the Saudi and Emirati leaders having financial investments in Israeli technology and manufacturing industries . Ironically , they lack a sense of time and history and how they could be punished by God for their treachery and dishonesty to the interest of Arab masses . There are no Arab leaders having moral and political integrity to represent the masses and no Arab armies to defend Islam . Simply put , they are puppets and hired agents of the Western imperialism . Netanyahu needed a powerful political and intellectual challenge to rethink his egoistic belligerency against Arabs but it was nowhere to be found . Israel bulldozed and occupied Egyptian Rafah crossing to Gaza but President Sissi took no action in defense . The Saudi , the UAE and others stooges kept silent profile while massacres of innocent killing embolden Israel to put finishing end to Gaza . Several thousand Israeli citizens regularly protest against the Netanyhau Government in Tel Aviv 's military defense complex calling for an immediate ceasefire and return of the 100 hostages and peace talks . Are the historic Israelities ( progeny of Jacob ) and the followers of Moses versus the Zionists , the same ? <p> Israel and the US Need War , Not Peace as the End Game <p> " Fear God " and ' do not violate the covenants of peace and trust on earth ' , the Divine reminders echoed by Abraham , Moses , Jesus and Mohammad -- Prophets of God to humanity for peace and global brotherhood . ( The Quran:33:72 ) : <p> We did indeed offer the Trust to the Heavens and the Earth And the mountains but they refused to undertake it , being afraid thereof . But man undertook it , he was indeed unjust and foolish . <p> Those bombing and causing catastrophic events to destroy planet Earth and mankind and all of its treasures and enrichments are not normal human beings but sadistic people and leaders . The followers of Moses -- the generations of Israelite are reminded by God ( The Quran 2 : 84-85 ) : And remember , We took a Covenant from the Children of Israel ( progeny of Jacob ) , Worship none but God ; .... shed no blood amongst you , Nor displace people from homes : and Ye solemnly ratified , And to this ye can bear witness .... It was not lawful for you to banish another party , then it is only a part of the Book that ye believe in .... And on the Day of Judgment they shall be consigned to the most grievous penalty , For God is not unmindful what ye do . <p> The Israeli leaders and the US Biden administration are on the same page to conquer and control the oil exporting Arab states . More than worst is yet to come when President-elect Donald Trump will take office on January 20th . Was the animosity built-in to the Israeli extreme political psyche and ideology to expel Palestinains from their homeland ? Are the Israeli leaders driven by the lust of American weapons and economic power to commit genocide ? Those doing so are not conscious of their own end game . PM Netanyahu and his extremist regime would try to put an end to the freedom of Palestine . Gaza is the experimental lab for that end game.We , the People of knowledge speak logically about the Nature of Things affecting our lives , morals and our hopes for a sustainable future . Are you willing to explore the Nature of Things ? There is something you as intelligent human beings do not understand about God , the sanctity of human life , the working of the universe in which we live , the earth as a trust and its systematic understanding which could change your inner thoughts , values and rational thinking . The stern warning from the Divine Revelations is clear ( The Quran : 35:44 ) : Do they not travel through the earth and see what was the End of those before them . Though they were superior to them in strength ? Nor is God to be frustrated by anything whatever ; in the heavens or on earth : For He is All Knowing -- All Powerful . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> If time and history are a reference point , we humankind stand at a critical juncture of our own complicity to have allowed ignorance , hatred , fear , failure and animosity to destroy our life , culture and existence . God created you as human beings -- the most intelligent creation on this planet with moral and intellectual capacity , obligations and accountability . Regardless of the phony claim of ethnic superiority , If you defy the Laws of God , you will be held accountable like other aggressors in the past . You can not pretend to think and behave like animals . Animals live and do not reflect on the imperatives of life , human rights , freedom and justice whereas , we , the human beings can not act like animals as we are supposed to be intelligent and responsible species on this Earth . At the edge of reason , the notion of evil leads to realization of evil and tyranny of war must be stopped by all means and those responsible for the genocide and crimes against humanity must be held accountable to restore the manifestation of equal human rights , freedom , peace and security for all . <p> Dr. Mahboob A. Khawaja specializes in international affairs-global security , peace and conflict resolution and has spent several academic years across the Russian-Ukrainian and Central Asian regions knowing the people , diverse cultures of thinking and political governance and a keen interest in Islamic-Western comparative cultures and civilizations , and author of several publications including : One Humanity and the Remaking of Global Peace , Security and Conflict Resolution , and a forthcoming book : Global Humanity and the Remaking of Peace , Security and Conflict Resolution beyond the Lens of Human Consciousness . <h> Related Posts <p> At least three Palestinian infants have frozen to death in Gaza in recent days amid winter temperatures and inadequate shelter due to Israel 's 446-day U.S.-backed assault and blockade of the besieged coastal ... <p> There is so much conflict around the world accompanied by brutal killings and destruction . Often these conflicts are simplistically dismissed as religious rivalries , competing ethnic claims , caste-based oppression and racism , Some ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
