<h> Trump 2.0 : A Global Agent Of Change ? <p> As 2025 approaches , uncertainty looms over two wars raging in Gaza and Ukraine , with West Asia destabilised by the sudden fall of Syria 's Assad regime on December 8 . The passing away of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh , a day after Christmas , symbolises the end of India 's post-Independence era . The unseemly debates in Parliament and beyond , commemorating the 75th anniversary of the Indian Constitution , became a Congress-BJP brawl over B.R. Ambedkar 's role . The saga involved the Congress embracing a fictional past , where it more abused than used the Constitution , and the BJP feigning respect for constitutionalism while desiring to shape it as per its majoritarian instincts . <p> Political churn is not specific to India alone . In 2024 , 76 nations held polls , constituting half the world 's population . In some , like Russia and Venezuela , it was a rigged exercise to claim legitimacy for authoritarian rulers . In others , like the UK , where Conservatives lost power after 14 years , or France , where the adverse parliamentary elections ' verdict challenged the sitting President Emmanuel Macron , electoral results signalled change . In India too , people left the BJP in parliamentary elections dependent on allies ' support , which the BJP , by its self-centred agenda and arrogant governance , is defying . <p> The most challenging development is Donald Trump 's victory in the US presidential election . Although his term begins only on January 20 , he is already in the limelight , continuously nominating individuals that reflect loyalty to him and commitment to the Make America Great Again ( MAGA ) agenda . Some have been forced to withdraw due to past sexual indiscretions , while some others may yet face the Senate 's disapproval due to lopsided views . For instance , Robert Kennedy Jr. , named to lead the health departments , advocates the rejection of vaccines . <p> The Economist magazine anticipates , in the coming year , an " interplay between Donald Trump , technology , and radical uncertainty . " The global worry is over his threat of imposing retaliatory tariffs of 20% on all nations trading with the US , with China attracting an even higher percentage . Some aides of Trump argue that his bark may be worse than his bite , as he often uses threats simply as a negotiating tactic . However , Indian analysts missed the implications of Trump 's remark that the US and China could effectively address most contentious global issues if they collaborated . <p> This has , for decades , been precisely the Indian strategic concern : that bipolar Sino-US convergence would automatically relegate India to a secondary position . Although unstated publicly , the External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar 's hurried US trip post-Christmas , when official business languishes due to the holiday season , indicates this concern . The fact that Trump invited , albeit unsuccessfully , Chinese President Xi Jinping for his inauguration without extending a similar offer to Prime Minister Narendra Modi reflects Trump 's priorities . Reportedly , Hungarian President Viktor Orban , a Trump acolyte who rejects European military support for Ukraine , may also be on the invitees list . No previous US president has invited foreign leaders for the inauguration . <p> Trump has claimed that he would end the Ukraine war almost instantaneously after assuming office . Russian President Vladimir Putin , who deliberately delayed congratulating Trump after his win , may accept a ceasefire only if Ukraine is arm-twisted into accepting the status quo over land held by either side currently . Perhaps that explains reports of Russians employing North Korean soldiers to eject Ukrainians from their Kursk region . Ukraine wants to use that occupation to bargain for the return of Ukrainian territory under Russian control . <p> Although Trump is likely to give Israel a carte blanche to conduct its military operations , Israel , having already decapitated Hamas , may be ready for a ceasefire . Trump fathered the Abraham Accords to normalise Israel-Arab relations . These are now stymied by Israel rejecting both a ceasefire and a two-nation solution to the Israel-Palestine dispute . <p> Thus , globally , Trump 2.0 can either be an agent of disruptive but positive change or an initiator of global economic and geostrategic bedlam . The US deterrence has mostly stabilised the world , especially since the end of the Cold War in 1991 . Chinese ascendancy and alliance with Russia , Iran , and North Korea is resurrecting a new bipolar order . But China faces economic headwinds , and its GDP , having become three-quarters that of the US , fell to two-thirds by 2021 . <p> The European Union faces economic challenges due to its energy dependence on Russia being disrupted by the Ukraine war and its slow transition to industries of the future . The feared new standoff between the US and China catches Europe on the backfoot , already hobbled by its centrist ruling alliances breaking down , causing the rise of far-right parties . <p> India is adopting a wait-and-watch strategy , like most of the world . At the United Nations , the Chinese contribution to the UN budget , at 20% of the total , now rivals that of the US . Trump is likely to withdraw the US from the World Health Organisation ( WHO ) and UNESCO . Ideally , after some turbulence , the Trumpian storm would pass . But diminished US deterrence and an isolationist America bode ill for global peace and friendship .
