<h> Modi in Kuwait Elevating The Ties <p> Prime Minister Narendra Modi was on a two-day visit to Kuwait on the invitation of the Emir . It was a historic event inasmuch as the Indian Prime Minister was visiting the country after a long gap of 43 years ; Indira Gandhi was in Kuwait in 1981 . Second , during this visit , bilateral relations between the two countries were elevated to a strategic partnership . Third , the Indian Prime Minister was conferred with the highest honour of Kuwait , ' The Order of Mubarak AL-Kabeer ' . <p> A visit by the Head of State to a country indicates the importance attached to the host country by the visiting Head . The visit by Modi was significant as it came after 43 years by his predecessor . And it 's like the Prime Minister visiting Poland after a gap of 45 years that showed the priority India attaches to Poland . The strategic heft of Warsaw grew considerably after it joined the European Union and NATO . Poland was under the ' Soviet/Russian sphere of influence ' and it borders Ukraine and Russia . Now it assumes the Presidency of the European Union , which , of course , is a rotating position . <p> Likewise , Kuwait holds the Chair of six-member Gulf Cooperation Council ( GCC ) . India is negotiating an FTA Agreement with GCC . Modi impressed upon the Emir , the Crown Prince and the Prime Minister of Kuwait for moving towards an early conclusion of an FTA with GCC . Notably , GCC countries hold 1/6th of India 's total trade , one third of India 's Diaspora , about 9 million Indians . A close cooperation with GCC is essential for India 's growth . <p> Among GCC countries , Kuwait has been friendly with India , barring a downturn in ties during the Gulf War , to be more precise , Iraq 's invasion of Kuwait . More on that , a bit later . Kuwait remains important to India . It has 6.5 per cent of world oil reserve , sixth largest crude oil and LPG supplier to India , meeting 3.5 per cent of India 's energy needs . Indians constitute 21 per cent of Kuwait 's population and 30 per cent of its work force . Indians are the largest expat group in Kuwait . While meeting with the Indian Diaspora in Kuwait , Modi lauded their contribution in talent , technology and traditions to the growth and development of Kuwait . He called them a ' mini Hindustan ' . <p> In addition to one-to-one meeting with the Emir and at a delegation level with the Kuwait Prime Minister , he attended the inauguration of the Arabian Gulf Club football tournament . This was part of a cultural diplomacy allowing time for informal exchange of pleasantries between Heads of States . It is a popular tournament among eight countries , Kuwait having won the trophy more than any other teams . People-to-people exchange and cultural diplomacy enrich bilateral relations . Also , an MoU was signed for 2025-28 to promote cooperation in sports between the two countries . <p> The strategic partnership , signed during the visit , aims at enhancing bilateral relations in all possible and potential sectors . This includes defence , wherein it would translate into joint military exercises , training of defence personnel , coastal defence , maritime safety , and joined development and production of defence equipment . It will also include counter terrorism operations , sharing of intelligence and information , anti-money laundering and drug-trafficking . The cooperation will deepen in pharmaceuticals , IT , Fin-tech , infrastructure , solar energy , health , digital , innovation , and textiles etc . It was decided to gradually move the focus from fossil fuel to trading in renewable energy , wherein it will be easier to step up cooperation as Kuwait is a member of the International Solar Alliance . <p> Prime Minister Modi appreciably noted that ' Made in India ' products were finding their way into Kuwait including automobiles , electrics , mechanical and telecom etc . He suggested that the petrochemical sector could be another big trade bridge between both countries as it is likely to grow up to 300b USD by 2025 . The leadership of both countries agreed to promote business delegations from both countries and greater institutional linkages . Kuwait could explore more opportunities for investment in India . At the same time , Modi stressed that India has the technology and skills to contribute to making of a New Kuwait . <p> On international politics , both leadership discussed Gaza and Ukraine . Modi reiterated his commitment to finding a negotiated solution to the war . On Gaza , he reaffirmed India 's commitment two-state solution by recourse to dialogue and diplomacy . He said ' No ' to terrorist action that provokes retaliation causing deaths and destruction . <p> It is necessary to recall that relations between India and Kuwait go back to millennia , as evidenced by discovery of the artifacts of pottery and jewellery from the Kuwait Island of Failaka . Before the oil was found in Kuwait , trade between India and Kuwait consisted of dates and pedigreed horses . After trading on horses stopped at the end of the Second World War , Pearls and teak wood were the items traded . <p> As Kuwait got independence in 1961 , India was one of the first countries to establish diplomatic contacts . In 1962 , Kuwait supported India in its war with China . Ever since , the relations between both countries remained friendly . Kuwaitis concentrated in Bombay for their trade and commerce . Emir of Kuwait even had a house in Marine Drive in Mumbai . <p> The bilateral relations plummeted by India 's pro-Iraq stance during Gulf War . New Delhi refused to condemn Iraq for invading and annexing Kuwait . India was the first country to shift her embassy from Kuwait to Basra , Iraq . It was surly bad diplomacy by New Delhi . It has often fumbled in condemning the aggression in balancing the principle of international law and national interest . It faltered in condemning Soviet occupation of Hungary in 1956 , Afghanistan in 1979 , Iraq 's occupation of Kuwait in 1990 and Ukraine in 2022 . New Delhi gets away with such diplomatic faux pas as it has not attacked any country , nor has it incurred into territories of other countries . <p> Talking of Kuwait , New Delhi almost repeated the mistake in Afghanistan . One statement , made during the Gulf War , indicates its confusion , " We regret that it had not been possible for Iraq and Kuwait to resolve their differences , we hope for Iraqi withdrawals ( instead of calling for them ) " . And in the same sentence , noted Iraqi statements in this connection . There was not a word of disapproval of Iraqi action . It is perhaps India 's policy of non-alignment in the past and strategic autonomy now that makes India tentative and vulnerable and thus New Delhi does not want to provoke enmity with anyone , even if it is an invader . <p> The demolition of Babri Masjid in 1992 had thrown another spanner into the fragile relationship . However , that is history . Prime Minister Modi 's visit and Kuwait 's highest honour to him have put those two bad patches into the dustbin of history . Let it be said and realised that India , in quest for a world role and a big power status , should stand up for international law in keeping with her tradition for peace , non-violence , and non-aggression , unless it endorses a Darwinian world and lives by the logic of survival . -- INFA
