<h> The message holds a deep message for Ratan Tata and his valuable contribution to the emergence of the Tata Group . <p> Tata Sons Chairman N. Chandrasekaran on Thursday said that India 's economy is strong and that the great trends of change are in India 's favour . In his New Year 2025 message to Tata Group employees , Chandrasekaran said the group plans to create 5 lakh jobs in manufacturing in the next 5 years . <p> Remembering 2024 as the year ' we lost Ratan Tata ' Chandrasekaran said that the years ahead will mark a new era of Indian manufacturing . <h> N. Chandrasekaran 's Message to Employees - Full Text <p> Dear Colleagues , <p> We reach the end of another unpredictable year . Globally , 2024 was defined by geopolitical instability and a slight brightening of the macro-economic outlook . Military conflicts in Ukraine , Gaza and Sudan raged on , exacerbating humanitarian crises in Europe , the Middle East and Africa . We also witnessed citizen-led movements in Bangladesh and South Korea . <p> As the year draws to a close , political changes and disruptions continue to shape domestic and foreign policy -- especially with regards to immigration , technology and global trade . Tariffs are once again at the forefront of leaders ' minds . <p> But aside from these momentous global events and trends , 2024 will always hold a deeper and more personal resonance for me and for everyone associated with our Group . This was the year we lost Mr Ratan Tata -- a man whose personality , integrity and strategic vision shaped our business for a generation . <p> There is n't room in this letter to capture fully what he meant to us , not even amongst the many tributes we have seen across the world . So I will simply say again that our Group has lost an irreplaceable role model and leader . And I have lost a cherished mentor and friend . <p> I know many of you feel the same . <p> News from across the group <p> Though it is difficult to begin a new year without Mr. Tata , there is comfort in knowing that the business he devoted his life to continues to thrive . Big strategic bets , made with his encouragement , are bearing fruit , particularly in hi-tech industries and manufacturing where our footprint continues to expand . <p> Ground-breaking ceremonies and construction began at over seven new manufacturing plants , including India 's first semiconductor fab in Dholera , Gujarat and a brand new semiconductor OSAT plant in Assam . There is the electronics assembly plant in Narasapura , Karnataka , an automotive plant in Panapakkam , Tamil Nadu and new MRO facilities in Bengaluru , Karnataka . We also have new battery cell manufacturing factories in Sanand , Gujarat , and in Somerset , UK . We inaugurated the C295 final assembly line ( FAL ) in Vadodara , Gujarat , and began solar module production in Tirunelveli , Tamil Nadu . <p> TCS and Tejas Networks delivered our first indigenous 4G mobile telecom stack for BSNL , and stand poised for 5G . Our retail companies continue to scale up . Air India has brought together four airlines to create one integrated airline group to serve India and the world . And Indian Hotels ' Taj brand continues to be the world 's strongest hotel brand . <p> Sustainability remains a focus of our growth plans . In Bhutan , we began our hydroelectric power initiative , with a commitment to developing five GW renewable capacity . With the UK government we announced ? 1.25 billion of investment in the transition to high-quality , low-CO2 steel production in South Wales . <p> I 'm thrilled that our companies are beginning to make the most of data , digital and AI . For example , Tata Motors recently revealed a model to predict real-world range of EVs , using data from connected vehicles along with traffic , road infrastructure and user driving patterns . <p> While we are making good progress , global uncertainty and rapid change require us to stay focused on delivering world class performance with strong emphasis on execution , customer satisfaction , technology and safety . <p> At the Tata Group , we believe progress holds little value if it does n't enhance human wellbeing . I 'm particularly excited by two areas where economic opportunity and social progress converge : AI and manufacturing . <p> A science and technology role reversal <p> Let 's begin with AI and technology . A fundamental reversal is taking place . Historically , scientific progress has predominantly fueled technological progress . Consider how breakthroughs in quantum mechanics led to the digital age . Today , however , the opposite is happening : advancements in technology are leading to scientific discoveries . This year the Nobel Prize for chemistry went to developers of an AI model that predicts protein structures -- a glimpse of how computational tools will revolutionize drug discovery . Previously , determining the 3D structure of a single protein typically took a year or more . Now AI tools can predict these shapes with remarkable accuracy in minutes . <p> AI can transform healthcare in other profound ways , not only enhancing how we understand and treat diseases but also how we diagnose them . Machine learning is being used more in environmental research , while large language models hold the potential to significantly expand access to clinical care . <p> We will continue to see significant acceleration in the use of AI in fields like healthcare and mobility . <p> A new manufacturing golden age for India <p> While AI-led breakthroughs in healthcare and mobility can help the whole of humanity , manufacturing has the potential to transform our economy in India . Global supply chains continue to shift in India 's favour as the world 's largest businesses strike a new balance between resilience and efficiency . What might have seemed like a short-term reaction to the pandemic has proved much more enduring . Amid relentless geopolitical instability , the equation has tilted firmly toward resilience -- and India , with our vast talent pool and growing manufacturing capacity , is poised to benefit . <p> Our Group plans to create 500,000 manufacturing jobs over the next half decade . These will come in part from the aforementioned investments in facilities across India -- factories and projects that will produce batteries , semiconductors , electric vehicles , solar equipment and other critical hardware destined to play a central role in the economy of tomorrow . This is in addition to the many services jobs we expect to introduce across retail , tech services , airlines , and hospitality , among other sectors . <p> Such moves are exciting for our Group and for India , but more importantly , they give hope to the one million young people who enter our workforce each month . Thankfully , manufacturing has powerful multiplier effects ; indirect employment opportunities from sectors such as semiconductor manufacturing are substantial . <p> So , after a year marked by loss , it is with a sense of hope and optimism that I look ahead to 2025 . India 's economy is strong and the great trends of the age are in our favour . In this new technological age , and this new era of Indian manufacturing , our enormous pool of young talent will not only contribute to our nation 's future -- they will build it , literally , with their hands and with their minds .
