<p> Whatever your views on Narendra Modi 's politics , one of the more remarkable achievements of his prime ministership has been the way he has fostered relations with the Arab world and the Middle East in general . <p> He regularly visits Muslim countries that Indian prime ministers have generally avoided and always receives a warm welcome from his hosts . For instance , Modi 's trip to Kuwait this week was the first by an Indian PM in 43 years . He was also the first Indian prime minister to visit the UAE in 30 years . These are countries important to India , if for no other reason than the millions of Indians who live and work there . <p> There are many remarkable aspects of Modi 's travels to the Middle East . <p> First , he has managed to improve relations with these countries at a time when circumstances might seem unfavourable to such an initiative . Many of the government 's most vocal supporters in India are sharply pro-Israel . While not all Arab nations are staunchly pro-Palestinian ( or pro-Hamas ) , there is widespread revulsion throughout the Arab world over the Israeli bombing of civilians in Gaza . Moreover , India has abandoned its historical pro-Palestinian stance to make friends with Israel and buy Israeli technology such as Pegasus . Yet , this shift has not stood in the way of improvement in relations with the Arab world . <p> Second , Modi 's image as a " Hindu Hriday Samrat " and the actions of his government ( and BJP state governments ) have alienated many Indian Muslims . Some of these Muslims expected solidarity from the broader Islamic world . However , the warm receptions Modi receives make it clear that such support is not forthcoming . Middle Eastern countries regard the status of Indian Muslims as India 's internal affair . They are happy to engage with Modi and respect India 's position as an Asian power . Indian Muslims may have grievances with Modi , but Arab rulers seem to have no problems with him whatsoever . <p> As and when there is an irritant that strains ties with the Islamic world , the Modi government acts quickly to address it . While Arab nations may be indifferent to the plight of Indian Muslims , they do not tolerate insults to Islam or the Prophet . When BJP 's former national spokesperson Nupur Sharma made offensive remarks about Prophet Muhammad , Arab nations protested . The Modi government responded by promptly throwing Sharma under the bus . They told Muslim countries that she was no more than a fringe element -- even though this caused frustration and anger among many BJP supporters . <h> Why do Hindus leave India for Muslim world ? <p> Two aspects of the Modi-Arab bonhomie intrigue me . The Sangh Parivar faithful view Muslims , particularly those from the Middle East , as historical invaders who tried to damage Hindu civilisation . There are persistent narratives suggesting that millions of dollars from the Arab world fund jihad or conversions in India . <p> Yet , Modi shows no sign of subscribing to these beliefs . When he hugs Arab leaders , bizarrely enough , even the more extreme elements within the Sangh Parivar take a break from Muslim-bashing to express pride in the warm welcome Modi receives . Apparently , all it takes to silence the bigots is a " jaadu ki jhappi " . <p> Equally interesting is how BJP supporters perceive Indians living in the Arab world . We keep hearing that Muslims oppress Hindus and that Hindus are victims of Islamic fundamentalism . And yet , more and more Hindus keep leaving India to live in Muslim-majority countries . Millions of Indians already live in the Middle East and it 's not just poor labourers . Each week , more Indian millionaires pack their suitcases and leave their country to make new homes in Dubai and the rest of the Middle East . <p> In many West Asian countries , there is now a sizable Hindu minority . And yet there is no evidence of persecution . Hindus in these countries continue to live happily and are in no hurry to return to India to escape any alleged persecution . <p> Here 's my question : if so many Hindus live happily and peacefully in Muslim countries , where does the notion of Hindu victimhood come from ? And if BJP supporters believe Hindus in the Middle East are unhappy but forced to stay there due to economic necessity , why does PM Modi not discuss their plight when he is cheerfully hugging Arab leaders ? <p> The short answer is that no compelling narrative of Hindu victimhood exists in the Arab world . That 's why Modi does n't bring it up . And that is why he 's so eager to win friends in the Muslim world . <h> Easier to claim victimhood than to admit truth <p> The current notion of Hindu victimhood is largely a 1980s creation , exploited for electoral purposes by LK Advani and passed down , in some garbled form , to the rabble . In some strange , twisted way , the victimhood theory held a limited credibility in the Congress-dominated 1980s , when the government 's willingness to pander to the most regressive elements within the Muslim community and the tendency of leaders like VP Singh to seek fatwas in their favour from dodgy Imams angered Hindus . That 's when Advani was able to propound his " Hindus are second-class citizens in their own country " narrative . <p> But now ? How can anyone argue that Hindus -- many of whom voluntarily migrate to Muslim-majority countries -- are victims in India , where they constitute 85 per cent of the population ? After 10 years of Modi rule , can anyone seriously claim the government panders to regressive elements within the Muslim community ? Or that Muslims are pampered ? <p> Yet , claims of Hinduphobia continue to be made . Even as Muslim homes are bulldozed in BJP-ruled states , we are told that Hindus are the real victims . Incredibly enough , there are people who still swallow this stuff . <p> Or do they ? I am coming around to the view that even Hindutva leaders who complain about Hinduphobia and the oppressed status of Hindus in their own country , do n't really believe their rhetoric . They find it easier to say " I speak for oppressed Hindus " than to admit the truth : that they hate Muslims because of some visceral , primeval prejudice -- not for any logical reason . <p> Perhaps it is time for Modi 's followers to learn from their leader . He may have risen to power on a Hindu wave , but he does not let rhetoric or bogus narratives stop him from getting on with the job of making friends with the Muslim world . Modi knows that Hindus in these countries are not an oppressed minority . <p> Just as he knows that Hindus in India are a dominant , triumphant majority -- the very opposite of an oppressed community . <p> Vir Sanghvi is a print and television journalist , and talk show host . He tweets @virsanghvi . Views are personal .
