<h> Terms and Conditions <h> Can 2025 bring stability to the Middle East ? Expert weighs in <h> The year 2024 opened with an intensification of the conflict between Israel and Hamas in Gaza . Since the war 's outbreak in October 2023 , over 45,000 Palestinians have lost their lives . Despite months of negotiations , ceasefire talks collapsed , with both sides blaming each other for the stalemate . Meanwhile , another conflict reignited in the region as rebels mounted an offensive to overthrow Syrian President Bashar al-Assad . So , will the Middle East find a path to peace ? CNBC-TV18 sought insights from Anju Gupta , Former Cabinet Secretariat Official , on the future of these conflicts . <p> Israel also launched a military campaign against Hezbollah in Lebanon . After weeks of intense conflict , a 60-day ceasefire agreement was reached on November 27 . However , multiple violations have marred the fragile truce . <p> Meanwhile , another conflict reignited in the region as rebels mounted an offensive to overthrow Syrian President Bashar al-Assad . Syria continues to suffer from a profound humanitarian crisis amidst the ongoing war . <p> The question remains : will the Middle East find a path to peace ? CNBC-TV18 sought insights from Anju Gupta , Former Cabinet Secretariat Official , on the future of these conflicts . <p> Below are the excerpts of the interview . <p> Q : Let me straight away ask you about the situation in Syria . How bad are things there ? How could this contribute to more tension in the Middle East , and also , could this lead to a revival of the ISIS ? <p> Gupta : Currently different parts of Syria are being held by different state and non-state actors . I think we need to really unpack Syria to understand the picture today and how we can expect it to pan out in 2025 and beyond . So up until the Arab Spring , which was about 2011 the dictatorial regime of Bashar al-Assad pretty much controlled whole of Syria . But when the dissent began , when the Arab Spring unfolded , the Arab neighbours also kind of pumped in their resources to support these protesters , and Assad 's regime used brutal force against their own people . The Arab states also started pumping in arms , and that is how so called Free Syrian Army came into being , and it became an armed insurgency , or armed protest , if you like to call it so . Of course , there are different factions that were loyal to different state actors . It 's very important to emphasise that there were state actors involved in supporting this Arab Spring in Syria , like the other places in the Arab world . <p> But at the same time , the Al-Qaeda in Iraq started rebuilding itself , especially after the US pull out in December 2011 and with that , they started governing territory , and they started calling it a state . They started calling it Islamic State in Iraq . And in 2012 they sent Abu Mohammed al-Julani to Syria to set up the Syrian branch of Daesh . So , Al-Qaeda in Iraq started capturing territories on both sides . And after that , they declared ISIS independent , and the caliphate came into being in June 2014 which attracted , thousands of foreign fighters from all over the world . When that was the situation the revolution had kind of morphed into , I would n't say , the people , but revolution had been hijacked by the terror group . And the first terror group that hijacked it was Daesh . After that , US started backing the Kurdish Syrian alliance called the SDF , and Russia and Iran started backing the Assad regime against Daesh . <p> Around the same time , Al-Qaeda declared independence of Daesh headed by Julani , and they started capturing territory closer to the Turkish border , especially the province of Idlib . And at that point in time , the revolution had morphed into fight by Assad regime and by the SDF against Daesh as well as Al-Qaeda groups . And very interestingly , US and Russia could actually manage to deconflict their air strikes , etc . And rest is known . So , the civilian revolution , which had which became armed , was hijacked by these terror groups because of strange geopolitics of this region , <p> Turkey , which has a very important role to play , with the help of some elements of the Free Syrian Army captured some of the Kurdish areas closer to the Turkish border . Now we all know after the caliphate Assad regime and the SDF have been kind of coordinating so as not to allow the Daesh to rebuild itself in Syria , which is a real threat . <p> We also know that US has carried out air strikes after air strikes , drone strikes into Idlib , which is the territory held by HTS killing Al-Qaeda top leadership . So , the interesting thing is that by around 2016 Julani , who was a leader of HTS , declared independence from Al-Qaeda , saying that I 've cut my ties with Al-Qaeda and now I 'm a simple , plain armed insurgency against Assad regime . And HTS has now taken over the area that was held by Assad . So now we have three players - HTS , Al-Qaeda linked group , which is the main player . And then we have the SDF . And then we have the Turkish backed Free Syrian Army . <p> Second , there are about 10,000 ISIS fighters in the custody of SDF and about 50,000 family members , women and children of ISIS fighters in the custody of SDF . The SDF is under pressure to disarm by HTS and also by Turkey , which are the two important players . The only way SDF can survive is with the support of US . <p> So , the last point I want to make is that if US policy decides , if President Trump draws down from Syria , that would mean that SDF will collapse , and these ISIS fighter can escape , and the number is simply too large , which means that apart from Al-Qaeda aligned group ruling Damascus , we would also see ISIS rebuilding itself in Syria . So , the threat that Syria poses today , I would say this is much more than what Afghanistan posed in August 2021 . <p> Q : Let me also ask you about Israel 's next plan of action . They have gone after Iran 's proxies in the region . What could they do next ? <p> Gupta : If we look at where Israeli 's have succeeded . They have succeeded in , taking out top leadership of Hamas and Hezbollah . But we need to also look at the fact that Israel has not been able to free all the hostages . The fighting is still going on . I think after 14 months , the cease fire with Hezbollah was affected , because one month into ground operation , Israeli forces were facing heavy casualties , so that ceasefire is very tenuous . The point I 'm making is that these two fronts are already open for Israel . Third , in the last couple of days , Israel has mounted very serious air strikes into Yemen , hitting Houthi targets , as in the airport , etc . What does that tell us ? I think it tells us that probably , with the incoming US administration , Israel is now not too sure whether new administration and then President Trump will stay involved in manning the transportation through Red Sea because US led , coalition has been taking action against Houthis , preemptive and proactive . But now Israel is taking on that role , which probably tells us that they 're not sure that US will continue with that role .
