<h> 2024 : The year in pictures <p> As 2024 draws to a close , we look back at a year shaped by moments of both crisis and transformation , each captured in powerful images that tell the story of a turbulent year and human resilience . Through the lens of photographers , these powerful images have chronicled the triumphs , challenges , and everyday moments that defined the year . From world-changing events to natural disasters , these photographs serve as a stark reminder of the events that have defined the year that has tested the limits of hope , unity , and endurance . OrissaPOST presents a reflection on 2024 , told through images that speak louder than words . <h> Also Read <h> An opposition fighter steps on a broken bust of the late Syrian President Hafez Assad in Damascus , Syria , after their lightning advance forced President Bassar al-Assad to flee the country , December 8 . ( AP photo ) <h> Rescuers use machinery to shift through debris on their second day of mission following landslides at Chooramala , Wayanad district , Kerala state , India , Wednesday , July 31 , 2024 . ( AP photo ) <h> Female Israeli soldiers pose for a photo in southern Israel , on the border of the Gaza Strip , February 19 . ( AP photo ) <h> Protesters celebrate at the Parliament House premise after news of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina 's resignation , in Dhaka , Bangladesh , August 5 . ( AP photo ) <h> Hindu devotees climb stairs to reach on top of a mud volcano to start pilgrims ' religious rituals for an annual festival in an ancient cave temple of Hinglaj Mata in Hinglaj in Lasbela district in Pakistan 's southwestern Baluchistan province , April 26 . ( AP photo ) <h> A participant waves a national flag after climbing to the top of a greased-pole to retrieve prizes as part of Independence Day celebrations , in Jakarta , Indonesia , August 17 . ( AP photo ) <h> Children shake hands before they play a chess game at The Soga Chess Club of the internally displaced persons camp in Kanyaruchinya , Democratic Republic of Congo , July 29 . ( AP photo ) <h> An animal runs through grass while fleeing flames as the Park Fire tears through the Cohasset community in Butte County , California , US , July 25 ( AP photo ) <h> A man transports an electronic voting machine on a pony as election officials walk to a polling booth in a remote mountain area on the eve of the first round of voting in the national election at Dessa village in Doda district , Jammu and Kashmir , India , April 18 . ( AP photo )
