<h> External Affairs Minister Dr. S. Jaishankar will visit Qatar from December 30 , 2024 , to January 1 , 2025 , for bilateral talks on strengthening relations across various sectors . <p> External Affairs Minister ( EAM ) Dr. S. Jaishankar will embark on an official visit to the State of Qatar from December 30 , 2024 , to January 1 , 2025 . During his trip , Dr. Jaishankar is scheduled to meet with Qatar 's Prime Minister and Foreign Minister , H.E . Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al Thani , to discuss and strengthen bilateral relations between the two countries . <p> India and Qatar today have a good relationship across various sections of trade , economy , and so on . Besides , Dr. Jaishankar 's talks are supposed to cover a multitude of topics ranging from political to trade , investment , energy , security , and even cultural ties . The countries are also likely to report for people-to-people contacts , which touched a new level due to the remarkable Indian diaspora in Qatar . <p> This visit will also open the doors to discuss the positions of both sides on regional and global matters pertinent to each other . As an essential Gulf country , Qatar plays a significant role in global issues , thus relating India 's growing relationship with it to the increased strategic partnerships in the Middle East . <p> The visit continues the high-level engagements between India and Qatar . Therefore , it will further strengthen bilateral ties and bring some fresh opportunities to collaborate significantly . India is an enthusiastic nation when nurturing ties to Gulf nations , as is exemplified by this visit , with EAM Dr. Jaishankar serving this critical nation in India 's foreign policy . <p> Earlier on December 7 , S Jaishankar met the Qatari PM and held " productive " talks on bilateral relations and developments in Gaza and Syria . Jaishankar was visiting Doha to participate in the Doha Forum at the invitation of Al Thani , who is also the Minister of Foreign Affairs . <p> In addition to that , the official visit , taking up to three days , also touches on the way of fostering significant economic and trade relations , underscoring the enormous investment that each country maintains in the other 's economies . Long and much older countries with historical ties , such as India and Qatar , have long existed as nations . Hence , trade and investment continue to frame the other foundations of the relations , which each country considers as pillars of cooperation .
