<p> In a year-end note to the employees , Tata Group chairman N Chandrasekaran shared his ambition of creating 5 lakh manufacturing jobs in the next five years as the company scales operations across sectors . In his New Year message , Chandrasekaran also called it " a new manufacturing golden age for India . " <p> In his opening note , Chandrasekaran called 2024 " another unpredictable year " marked by geopolitical instability and a slight brightening of the macroeconomic outlook . He also mentioned that he looks forward to 2025 with a sense of hope and optimism after a year marked by loss . <p> " Military conflicts in Ukraine , Gaza and Sudan raged on , exacerbating humanitarian crises in Europe , the Middle East and Africa . We also witnessed citizen-led movements in Bangladesh and South Korea , " the Tata Group chairman wrote . <h> Advertisement <p> Paying a heartfelt tribute to Ratan Tata , who passed away on October 9 , 2024 , Chandrasekaran called him a man whose personality , integrity and strategic vision shaped business for a generation . <h> 5 Lakh Jobs Creation <p> The chairman in his message further mentioned that while AI-led breakthroughs in healthcare and mobility can help the whole of humanity , manufacturing has the potential to transform our economy in India . He discussed that global supply chains continue to shift in India 's favour as the world 's largest businesses strike a new balance between resilience and efficiency . <h> Advertisement <p> He also underlined that amid relentless geopolitical instability , the equation has tilted firmly toward resilience -- and India , with its vast talent pool and growing manufacturing capacity , is poised to benefit . <p> " Our Group plans to create 500,000 manufacturing jobs over the next half-decade . These will come in part from the aforementioned investments in facilities across India -- factories and projects that will produce batteries , semiconductors , electric vehicles , solar equipment and other critical hardware destined to play a central role in the economy of tomorrow , " Chandrasekaran announced . <p> He asserted that this is in addition to many services jobs they expect to introduce across retail , tech services , airlines , and hospitality , among other sectors . According to the company website , the group has 10.28 lakh employees at present . <h> India 's Manufacturing Sector <p> Currently , India 's manufacturing sector is under pressure as its Purchasing Managers ' Index ( PMI ) fell to11-month 11 month low of 56.5 in the month of November , as per the HSBC final India Manufacturing PMI . However , it noted that the pace of growth remained above its long-run average . <p> In regards to employment , the survey underlined that factory employment in India increased for the ninth month in a row in November but the rate of job creation softened as compared to October .
