<h> Israeli Defence Force ( IDF ) in a statement released on Saturday ( Dec 28 ) denied the latest accusation by Hamas that Israeli troops had set the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Gaza on fire . <p> Israel Defence Force ( IDF ) concluded its operation around Gaza 's Kamel Adwan Hospital by arresting around 240 alleged terrorists , including the hospital 's director and other staff on Saturday ( Dec 28 ) . The development came just a day after the Israeli military launched targeted operations near the hospital in the northern Gaza Strip against Hamas infrastructures in the area . <p> Advertisment <p> Gaza 's health ministry , run by the Palestinian militant group , previously accused Israeli troops of setting multiple areas of the hospital on fire while 15 patients and 60 health workers were inside . <p> The ministry even said that the troops took staff and patients outside and forced them to strip while it was freezing . <p> An unverified video circulated on social media showed patients and staff marching in front of an Israeli tank while most of them were shirtless . <p> IDF said on Friday ( Dec 27 ) that it has been conducting multiple targeted operations against Hamas infrastructures in northern Gaza . However , the military strictly denied the claim of entering the hospital . <p> UAE and Jordan Reacts <p> The alleged act was condemned by the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) saying it categorically rejects the " heinous act that violates international humanitarian law , and the systematic and reprehensible destruction of the remaining health system in the Strip " . <p> Jordan also came forward and its foreign ministry released a statement saying the country " condemns in the strongest terms the burning of Kamal Adwan Hospital in the northern Gaza Strip by the Israeli occupation forces , and forcing patients and medical staff to evacuate it " . <p> Disclaimer : WION takes the utmost care to accurately and responsibly report conflicts in West Asia involving Israel , Iran , Syria , Iraq , and non-state actors like the Islamic State , among others . In this context , claims and counterclaims are being made online and offline . WION can not independently verify the authenticity of all statements , social media posts , photos , and videos .
