<p> Oncology patients hold up sheets of paper with the words " Stop War " in a basement used as a bomb shelter at the Okhmadet children 's hospital in central Kyiv , Ukraine , Monday , Feb. 28 , 2022 Photo : AP /Emilio Morenatti <p> Oncology patients hold up sheets of paper with the words " Stop War " in a basement used as a bomb shelter at the Okhmadet children 's hospital in central Kyiv , Ukraine , Monday , Feb. 28 , 2022 Photo : AP /Emilio Morenatti <h> World War II ( 1939-1945 ) <p> ? ? Days : 2,191 Estimated deaths : Over 70 million people <p> In the Pacific theater of World War II , U.S. Marines hit the beach and charge over a dune on Iwo Jima in the Volcano Islands Feb. 19 , 1945 , the start of one of the deadliest battles of the war against Japan Photo : AP/JOE ROSENTHAL <p> In the Pacific theater of World War II , U.S. Marines hit the beach and charge over a dune on Iwo Jima in the Volcano Islands Feb. 19 , 1945 , the start of one of the deadliest battles of the war against Japan Photo : AP/JOE ROSENTHAL <p> ? ? The war started on 1 September 1939 with German Fuhrer Adolf Hitler 's invasion of Poland . Hitler 's malevolent ambition was to conquer all of Europe. ? It was rooted in his demonic ideology that promoted the superiority of the German race while deeming the Jewish people as inferior . This belief system set the stage for the conflict between the Axis powers -- Germany , Italy , and Japan -- and the Allies , which included France , Great Britain , the United States , the Soviet Union , and , to a lesser extent , China . The six-year war was one of the bloodiest conflicts in history , marked by a brutal genocidal campaign against the Jewish people , and resulting in the deaths of over 50 million civilians . <h> Arab-Israel Wars ( 1948 , 1956 , 1967 , 1973 , 1982 and 2006 ) <p> Days : 458 Estimated deaths : 86,200+ people <p> The conflicts between Arabs and Jewish people over the right to self-determination peaked after the United Nations in 1947 voted to partition the British mandate of Palestine into a Jewish state and an Arab state . On 15 May 1948 , Israel declared independence , leading to immediate attacks on Tel Aviv from Arab forces including Egypt , Jordan , Iraq , Syria and Lebanon . Israel managed to occupy most of the Palestine territory , causing the first exodus of Palestinian people , known as Nakba . Arab and Israeli forces clashed again notably in 1956 during the Suez Canal crisis after Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser nationalised the vital waterway and blocked Israeli ships from using the canal . In the 1967 six-day war Israel took control of the Gaza Strip and the Sinai Peninsula from Egypt and took sole control of Jerusalem . The Yom Kippur War of 1973 ended in a peace agreement with Egypt . In 1982 , Israel invaded Lebanon to attack militants of the Palestine Liberation Organisation and Hezbollah . Hezbollah continued to press Israel over border disputes and Israeli detention of Lebanese prisoners during the 2006 Second Lebanon War . <h> Korean War ( 1950-53 ) <p> Days : 1129 Estimated Deaths : 200,000 to 300,000 people <p> A Korean child sits in smoldering ruins of his home destroyed by fire in the Suwon area on February 3 , 1951 , as allied troops burned dwellings which might provide shelter for red troops Photo : Jim Pringle / AP <p> A Korean child sits in smoldering ruins of his home destroyed by fire in the Suwon area on February 3 , 1951 , as allied troops burned dwellings which might provide shelter for red troops Photo : Jim Pringle / AP <p> The collapse of the Japanese empire after WWII ended its occupation of Korea . The United States and the Soviet Union agreed to temporarily divide the Korean territory for administrative purposes at the 38th parallel ( latitude 38 ? N ) . In the following years , Kim Il-sung , a guerilla leader , strengthened his hold over the Communist party in the north and launched incursions in the South , which wanted to become an independent country of South Korea . The fighting expanded between the South 's Republic of Korea Army ( ROKA ) , the North 's Korean People 's Army and the Korean border constabulary . On 25 June 1950 , North Korea , aided by the Soviet Union , invaded the South . The US and the UN came to the aid of the South while China supported North Korea 's actions . The fighting between the two sides ended in 1953 causing the deaths of over 3 million people on both sides . Korea remained divided into two hostile states , with the two sides refusing to accept negotiations . The front line has been accepted ever since as the de facto boundary between North and South Korea . <h> Algeria War ( 1954-62 ) <p> Days : 2694 Estimated Deaths : 400,000 -- 1,500,000 people <p> Algeria , a French colony in North Africa fought a long battle for independence . The conflict gained momentum after France failed to fulfil its promises of greater self-rule in Algeria after World War II . The National Liberation Front ( FLN ) , a nationalist group , launched a guerrilla war against France and sought diplomatic recognition at the UN to establish a sovereign Algerian state . To curtail the crisis , French forces cracked down heavily against Algerian fighters , torturing and executing them brutally . The conflict resulted in serious political instability in France , with French citizens launching major agitations against the occupation . The Paris police drowned hundreds of protesting Algerians in the Seine River with their hands tied behind their backs , or strangulated or wounded with bullets . In 1959 , amidst waning international support , Charles de Gaulle , President of the Fifth Republic , opened a series of negotiations after declaring that the Algerians had the right to self-determination . The 1962 ? vian Accords paved the way for the withdrawal of French troops from Algeria . In the same year , Algeria gained independence , bringing closure to the 132-year-long French occupation . <h> Angolan Civil War ( 1975-2002 ) <p> Days : 9855 Estimated Deaths : 500,000 -- 800,000 people <p> After Angola gained independence from Portugal in 1975 , the country quickly descended into the chaos of civil war . The new government was based on a three-way power-sharing agreement between the People 's Movement for the Liberation of Angola ( MPLA ) , a Marxist organization led by Agostinho Neto ; the National Front for the Liberation of Angola ( FNLA ) , led by Holden Roberto , with strong ties to the U.S. ; and the anti-communist National Union for the Total Independence of Angola ( UNITA ) , an offshoot of the FNLA , led by Jonas Savimbi and supported by the country 's largest ethnic group , the Ovimbundu . Lack of trust and power struggle between the three partners led to tensions , turning Angola into a Cold War battleground . The US supplied aid and training for the FNLA and UNITA fighters whereas the Soviet Union provided military training and equipment for the MPLA . The conflict also saw intervention from China , Cuba and South Africa assisting the opposing factions , and creating further complications for any agreements . The 27-year war witnessed periods of major fighting -- from 1975-91 , 1992-94 and from 1998-2002 . In 1989 , all foreign forces withdrew allowing for the transition from Angola , towards a multiparty political system . The UNITA and FNLA abandoned the armed struggle and joined electoral politics as political parties from 1991-92 onwards . In 2002 , following the death of Jonas Savimbi , the military leader of UNITA , UNITA and the MPLA , ? agreed to a cease-fire . The Angola civil war was characterised by the phenomenon of ' blood diamond trade ' . UNITA 's hold over diamond mines helped it to fund the war and gain the support of Western countries . The war also spilled into the neighbouring Democratic Republic of the Congo and South Africa . It contributed to a disastrous humanitarian crisis internally displacing 4.28 million people -- one-third of Angola 's total population. ? <h> Afghan War ( 1978-1992 , 1992-1996 ) <p> Days : 6570 Estimated Deaths : 700,000+ people <p> Soviet Army soldiers wave their hands as their unit crosses a bridge on the border between Afghanistan and then Soviet Uzbekistan near the Uzbek town of Termez , Uzbekistan on Feb. 15 , 1989 Photo : Leonid Yakutin/Defense Ministry Press Service via AP <p> Soviet Army soldiers wave their hands as their unit crosses a bridge on the border between Afghanistan and then Soviet Uzbekistan near the Uzbek town of Termez , Uzbekistan on Feb. 15 , 1989 Photo : Leonid Yakutin/Defense Ministry Press Service via AP <p> The Afghan war began in 1978 after the government of President Muhammad Daud Khan was overthrown by left-wing military officers led by Nur Mohammad Taraki , in a coup called the Saur Revolution . The new Communist government shared close ties with the Soviet Union . It began extensive land and social reforms that were bitterly resented by the devoutly Muslim and largely anti-communist population . To counter communism , various Muslim tribes -- known as mujaheddin-- launched a resistance movement against the government . In 1979 , Soviet troops invaded Afghanistan in large numbers to support the government and crush the mujahideen insurgency . Heavy bombing , violence and atrocities against the ethnic population resulted in a massive exodus -- around 2.8 million Afghans took refuge in neighbouring Pakistan and another 1.5 million to Iran . The U.S. eventually helped the mujahideen , supplying them with shoulder-fired anti aircraft missiles to neutralise Soviet air power . <p> Soviet troops withdrew in February 1989 , and the war came to an end with the ouster of Dr Mohammad Najibullah 's communist regime in 1992 . ? After the collapse of the government , civil war raged in Afghanistan as different mujahideen groups like Tajiks and Uzbeks in the north , Hazaras in the centre , and Pashtuns in the east and south vied to control Kabul . Severe human rights violations , including executions , imprisonment , rapes and sexual violence against women took place in this period . Taliban , a hardliner Islamist group eventually took over Kabul in 1996 , imposing strict Sharia laws , staging public executions and prohibiting women from public life. ? <h> Iran-Iraq War ( 1980-88 ) <p> Days : 2920 Estimated Deaths : 1,000,000 people <p> The neighbouring countries of Iran and Iraq were involved in a brutal war in 1980 , fueled by territorial and political disagreements . Iraqi President , Saddam Hussein , wanted to seize control of the rich oil-producing Iranian region of Khuzestan and the strategic waterway of the Shatt al-Arab River , which historically acted as the Iran-Iraq border . In September 1980 , shortly after Iran 's new theocratic Islamic Revolutionary government came to power , Saddam Hussein invaded Kuzhestan in Western Iran . Iranian forces pushed back Iraqi troops . Iraq voluntarily withdrew its forces from all captured Iranian territory soon after . As the conflict dragged on , the two countries began attacking each other 's oil tanker shipping in the Persian Gulf . The UN Security Council unanimously passed Resolution 598 in July 1987 , urging Iraq and Iran to accept a ceasefire and settle their border disputes . The two sides ended fighting in the 1988 cease-fire , but a formal agreement leading to normal diplomatic relations and the withdrawal of troops took place only in August 1990 . <h> Rwanda Civil War ( 1990-94 ) <p> Days : 1386 Estimated deaths : 500,000 - 800,000 people <p> Ethnic tensions between the minority Tutsi ( 14 per cent ) who were favoured in jobs , education and social privileges over the Hutus ( 85 per cent ) worsened once again in the 1990s . On 1 October 1990 , the Rwandan Patriotic Front ( RPF ) composed mainly of Tutsi exiles in Uganda to reform the Rwandan government on political power sharing , launched a major attack on Rwanda . The attack spurred the Rwandan government to target the minority Tutsis and label them as traitors and accomplices of the RPF . Media outlets , particularly radio played a significant role in fuelling propaganda and perpetuating violence against Tutsis . Peacemaking efforts of the Organisation of African Unity ( OAU ) led to the signing of the Arusha peace agreements in August 1993 , to end the conflict between the Hutu-dominated government and the opposition RPF . However , the conflict turned ugly after an aircraft carrying Rwandan president Juv ? nal Habyarimana and Burundian president Cyprien Ntaryamira , both Hutu , was shot down with surface-to-air missiles on 6 April 1994 . The Radio Television Libre Des Mille Collines ( RTLM ) attributed the plane crash to the RPF and incited people to eliminate " Tutsi cockroaches . " The next day onwards , the Rwandan army alongside civilians began killing Tutsis and several moderate Hutu leaders including Prime Minister Agathe Uwilingiyimana . Over 800,000 Tutsis were massacred in a three-month-long period until July 1994 when the RNF forced the interim government into exile . Approximately 2,000,000 Hutus also fled to the Democratic Republic of Congo , Burundi , Tanzania and Uganda . <h> Sierra Leone Civil War ( 1991-2002 ) <p> Days : 3954 Estimated Deaths : 50,000-70,000 people <p> On 23 March 1991 , Sierra Leone came under attack from the neighbouring Liberian leader Charles Taylor 's National Patriotic Front of Liberia ( NPFL ) and the rebels of the Revolutionary United Front ( RUF ) , who wanted to overthrow the Joseph Momoh government . Momoh was deposed in a coup in April 1992 and severe political instability gripped the country . A series of coups and hostilities between various rebel groups continued over the next decade . The Lom ? Agreement , proposing a peace agreement between the government and rebel forces was signed in 1999 . However , fighting continued till 2001 , when the UN Mission to Sierra Leone ( UNAMSIL ) brokered a compromise . An official end to the civil war was declared in January 2002 . The 11-year-long civil war left over 50,000 dead and some 2,000,000 people displaced by the conflict . <h> Bosnian War ( 1992 -- 1995 ) <p> Days : 1347 Estimated deaths : 200,000 people <p> A father and his son pass the dead body of a Bosnian policeman killed when a shell landed next to his guard house in Sarajevo , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Dec. 30 , 1992 Photo : AP/Santiago Lyon <p> A father and his son pass the dead body of a Bosnian policeman killed when a shell landed next to his guard house in Sarajevo , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Dec. 30 , 1992 Photo : AP/Santiago Lyon <p> After the breakup of Yugoslavia , the socialist republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina , inhabited by Muslim Bosniaks ( 44 per cent ) , Orthodox Serbs ( 32.5 per cent ) and Catholic Croats ( 17 per cent ) , passed a referendum for independence on 29 February 1992 . The Bosnian Serbs who controlled about 70 percent of the land , boycotted the referendum and rejected its outcome . Radovan Karad ? ic with the support of Serbian President Slobodan Milo ? evic and the Yugoslav People 's Army ( JNA ) , mobilised troops inside Bosnia and Herzegovina to secure ethnic Serb territory . The Bosniak population was attacked and expelled from many areas . Bosnian Serb forces perpetrated the massacre of more than 7,000 Bosniak men in acts described as ethnic cleansing . With the backing of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation , a final ceasefire agreement known as the Dayton Accords was negotiated in 1995 . <h> Second Congo War ( 1998-2003 ) ? <p> Days : 1811 Estimated deaths : 5.4 million people <p> The Second Congo War ( 1998-2003 ) was one of the deadliest wars in the history of modern Africa . It started soon after the First Congo War ( 1996 -- 1997 ) which began in the wake of the 1994 Rwandan Genocide after nearly two million Hutu refugees took refuge in Congo 's North Kivu and South Kivu provinces . After coming to power , Congolese President Laurent-D ? sir ? Kabila banned political parties and public demonstrations and removed ethnic Tutsis from his government , weakening Rwanda 's military presence in the DRC . Kabila 's former allies Rwanda and Uganda backed rebel groups against the new Congolese government . In response , he received support from the Angolan , Namibian , and Zimbabwean governments in its fight against the rebels . The war involved nine African nations and about 25 armed groups . The 1999 Lusaka Peace Accord was aimed at ending all the hostilities ; however , it was not fully implemented , and fighting continued . Kabila was assassinated in January 2001 and was succeeded by his son , Joseph , who declared his commitment to end the war . In 2003 , a new interim government took over with Joseph Kabila as the President . Although the war came to an end , it caused tremendous destruction and was responsible for large casualties , diseases , and famine . <h> Second Chechen War ( 1999-2009 ) <p> Days : 3540 Estimated deaths : 25,000-200,000 people <p> The Second Chechen War was fought between the Russian Federation and the breakaway Chechen Republic of Ichkeria . In the first Chechan war ( 1994-97 ) , Russia attacked the capital city of Grozny in an attempt to overthrow the Chechen government . The conflict resumed in August 1999 after Chechen separatists infiltrated the Dagestan region in Russia in a bid to create an Islamic state . Moscow blamed Chechen rebels for a series of apartment block bombings in Russian cities , killing around 300 people . Russian troops along with pro-Russian Chechen paramilitary forces attacked Chechen separatists and seized Grozny . Russia heavily bombed Chechnya , flattening and destroying much of Grozny . Moscow installed a pro-Russian government by appointing **26;479;TOOLONG Akhmat Kadyrov as head of its administration in Chechnya . In 2003 , a new constitution granted Chechnya autonomy but stipulated that Chechnya was part of the Russian Federation . President Kadyrov was assassinated in a bomb blast by Chechen rebels after which his son Ramzan Kadyrov was appointed as President in 2007 . <p> ? <h> Second Intifada ( 2000-2005 ) <p> Days : 1594 Estimated Deaths : 5800+ people <p> The Second Intifada also known as al Aqsa intifada was a Palestinian uprising against Israel 's military occupation , in the wake of the failure of the 2000 Camp David Summit peace process . Despite expectations of autonomy , the Palestinian Authority controlled less than one-fifth of the West Bank , while Israeli occupation continued in the remainder . The uprising erupted after Israeli opposition leader Ariel Sharon made a provocative visit to the Temple Mount ( where Al-Aqsa Mosque , one of Islam 's holiest sites , is also located ) , which outraged Palestinians and sparked widespread violence . Israel launched military operations to reoccupy the West Bank and parts of Gaza and erect a separation barrier in the West Bank . More than 4,300 fatalities were registered , with the majority of deaths of Palestinian people . The fighting ended with the Sharm el-Sheikh Summit of 2005 after Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon agreed to take definitive steps to de-escalate the hostilities <h> Afghanistan : 2001-2014 <p> Days : 4830 Estimated Deaths : 70,000 people <p> Following the 9/11 attack , a U.S.-led international coalition invaded Afghanistan to topple the Taliban regime due to its links with al Qaeda and other militant groups . America launched an intensive manhunt for Taliban chief Mullah Omar , al Qaeda head Osama bin Laden , and deputy chief Ayman al-Zawahiri . After ousting the Taliban from power , the US launched reconstruction and nation-building efforts . Hamid Karzai , a tribal leader , was appointed as the head of the interim government in December 2001 . The Taliban , which had retreated into rural countryside and along the border with Pakistan began to reorganise . Between 2002-05 , the Taliban launched several high-profile attacks through IED and suicide bombings against the international coalition to expel foreign troops and took control of large parts of villages and towns . The U.S. gained major success with military operations and drone strikes ; however , faced difficulties in negotiating an end to the conflict . In late 2014 , Ashraf Ghani was finally inaugurated as president after which the U.S. and NATO formally ended their combat mission in Afghanistan. ? <h> Iraq war ( 2003-2011 ) <p> Days : 3195 Estimated Deaths : 113,728 people <p> An Iraqi baby lies in a cradle while a woman argues with US soldiers searching for weapons , explosives and information about militants in the area during a foot patrol in neighbourhoods of Mosul , June 26 , 2008 Photo : Reuters <p> An Iraqi baby lies in a cradle while a woman argues with US soldiers searching for weapons , explosives and information about militants in the area during a foot patrol in neighbourhoods of Mosul , June 26 , 2008 Photo : Reuters <p> In continuation of its war on terror following the September 11 attacks , a U.S.-led coalition invaded Iraq over its alleged possession of weapons of mass destruction ( an accusation that was later proved erroneous ) and its support for the al Qaeda terror group . In less than two months the coalition removed Iraqi President Saddam Hussein and his Ba'ath Party from power . It declared the end of major combat operations paving the way for a political transition . The first Iraqi parliamentary election was held in 2005 and Nouri al-Maliki became the Prime Minister . After the fall of the Ba'ath regime , sectarian civil war raged between the Shia majority and Sunni minority . Whereas , Sunni militants raised insurgency against the U.S.-led coalition and the new Iraqi government . The US gradually reduced its military presence in Iraq and officially withdrew in December 2011 . <h> Darfur War ( 2003-2020 ) <p> Days : 6396 Estimated Deaths : 3,000,000 people <p> The War in Darfur , Sudan began in February 2003 after the Sudan Liberation Movement ( SLM ) and the Justice and Equality Movement ( JEM ) took up arms against the Arab-dominated government for discriminating against black African communities . The government , in response , lashed out against them by unleashing the notorious Popular Defence Forces militia or Janjaweed and massacring hundreds and thousands of non-Arab people , raping , killing , looting and burning their villages . The UN estimates 300,000 people were killed and 2.5 million displaced in the conflict . The International Criminal Court , in 2009 held Sudan 's President Omar al-Bashir , on charges of war crimes , crimes against humanity and genocide . However , he continued to be in power over the next decade . In 2019 , the military overthrew al-Bashir after months of widespread protests against his nearly 30-year rule . He was convicted on charges of corruption and has been on trial in Khartoum . <p> Sudan has since been led by a transitional civilian-military administration that has pledged to bring justice to victims of crimes committed under Bashir . The arid and impoverished region continues to be afflicted with conflict and humanitarian crises . <h> Libya Conflict ( 2011 -- Present ) <p> Days : 2352 Estimated Deaths : Over 14,882 people <p> The Arab Spring protests reached Libya , a North African country home to some of the largest oil fields , with demonstrators calling for the end of Muammar al-Qaddafi 's four-decade dictatorship . The peaceful protests quickly escalated into a full-scale civil war , leading to international military intervention in support of the opposition . As protests spread from Benghazi to Tripoli , the government began to use lethal force against demonstrators including using air power . As clashes between civilians and government forces escalated , international efforts intensified to pressure the regime to halt the bloodshed . Qaddafi 's efforts to hold on to power were weakened after the U.N. , the U.S. and the European Union imposed a no-fly zone along with severe sanctions against his regime . Western countries sought to dislodge Qaddafi and weaken his control over the oil-rich coastal region by promoting a democratic political transition . They aimed to remove his regime and support establishing a more democratic government in Libya . Using NATO military power , the US , UK and France , launched airstrikes to target members of Qaddafi 's inner circle . The move was opposed by several countries who argued that the coalition 's aggressive targeting of pro-Gaddafi ground forces had exceeded the mandate set by the UN Security Council to protect civilians . On October 20 Qaddafi was discovered and killed by rebel fighters in his hometown , Sirte . Libya remains deeply divided between opposing rebel factions and continues to be mired in armed conflict and political instability with no clear resolution in sight . <h> Syria Conflict ( 2011 -- Present ) <p> Days : 5037+ Estimated Deaths : 620,000 people <p> In March 2011 , pro-democracy protests erupted against the authoritarian regime of President Bashar al-Assad , whose family had been controlling Syria since 1970 . The protests as part of the popular Arab Spring uprisings challenged Assad 's authority . The Syrian government used violence to suppress demonstrations , with the use of police , military , and paramilitary forces . The government forces were opposed by militias of Sunni Islamists and rebel groups who expanded the conflict into a full-fledged civil war . Iran and Russia militarily supported the Assad regime by fighting against the opposition forces . On the other hand , jihadi groups and Islamists also entered the battlefield . By 2013 , the hardliner Salafi jihadi group , Islamic State of Iraq and Syria ( ISIS ) , occupied Syrian territory and declared a Caliphate . ISIS administered the occupied territory of Raqqa ruthlessly , delivering justice under Sharia law , public executions of disbelievers , or those found committing apostasy , and destruction of shrines , museums and ancient heritage sites . The US-led international coalition entered Syria in September 2014 to fight ISIS . With the help of the Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) , a Kurdish-Syrian Arab alliance , ISIS was militarily defeated in Iraq and Syria in 2019 . In late 2024 , as the government 's support from military allies collapsed , opposition forces surrounded the capital city of Damascus . In early December Assad fled to Moscow . <h> South Sudan Civil War ( 2013-2020 ) <p> Days : 2260 Estimated Deaths : 400,000 people <p> The new country of South Sudan descended into civil conflict in December 2013 , shortly after it was declared independent on 9 July 2011 . President Salva Kiir accused his opponent of attempting to oust him from power with a coup d ' ? tat . Fighting broke out between Kiir 's Sudan People 's Liberation Movement and the Sudan People 's Liberation Movement in Opposition ( SPLM-IO ) triggering a civil war . Kiir was supported by Uganda which deployed its troops to fight alongside the South Sudanese government . The civil war led to severe human rights violations , including killings , forced displacement , and attacks on activists , ? journalists and civil society members . An August 2015 peace agreement , which aimed to establish a transitional unity government and end the violence , failed to bring lasting peace as fighting persisted . Despite the continued unrest , the transitional unity government was eventually formed in April 2016 which militarily stabilised the country by 2020 . Since the war 's end , South Sudan has been governed by a coalition between the former warring leaders , Salva Kiir Mayardit and Riek Machar . As of 2024 , the young country 's struggle for democracy remains deeply scarred , with ongoing instability continuing to destabilise the nation . <h> Yemen Conflict ( 2014 -- Present ) <p> Days : 3756+ Estimated Deaths : 377,000 people <p> A boy sits in a car damaged during the ongoing three year conflict in Mocha , Yemen , Feb. 10 , 2018 Photo : AP/Nariman El-Mofty <p> A boy sits in a car damaged during the ongoing three year conflict in Mocha , Yemen , Feb. 10 , 2018 Photo : AP/Nariman El-Mofty <p> The conflict in Yemen began in September 2014 when Houthi forces seized the capital city Sanaa . The Houthis are Shia militants and it was believed that the conflict was backed by Iran . The civil war is widely regarded as part of the Iran-Saudi proxy war . To counter Iran 's influence , a coalition of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) responded with airstrikes in 2015 against the Houthi rebels to reinstate the internationally recognised government of President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi . The coalition 's air campaign , lasting 7 years , caused massive destruction in Yemen , with countless attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure , creating what the UN described as the " greatest humanitarian catastrophe . " Attempts at negotiating a truce and cease military action by all parties to the conflict have failed . The conflict has escalated since then , with Houthis attacking Israel in solidarity with the Palestinians and Israel conducting airstrikes in Yemen . Yemen continues to be afflicted by man-made disasters that have spurred famine , food insecurity and starvation . <p> Russia launched a full-scale military invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022 marking a significant escalation point in the conflict which first began in 2014 . President Vladimir Putin claimed that Russia did not intend to occupy Ukraine but wanted to ' demilitarise and denazify ' the country . He demanded NATO to end all activity in its Eastern European member states and ban Ukraine from ever joining NATO . In an attempt to annex the breakaway regions , Moscow held referendums in regions of Kherson , Zaporizhzhia , Donetsk , and Luhansk -- collectively representing about 15 per cent of Ukrainian territory . Russia 's acts of aggression causing widespread atrocities , including indiscriminate bombing , torture , enforced disappearances , looting , and other human rights abuses were widely condemned internationally . The European Union and the US imposed sanctions against Moscow and supported Ukraine with military equipment and humanitarian aid . Ukraine pushed back against Moscow with a counteroffensive that allowed it to push back Russian forces and regain control of strategic ground despite heavy casualties and destruction . In the aftermath of the war , millions of Ukrainians fled the country as Russia intensified attacks on civilian areas . The conflict continues as of 2024 . ? <h> Israel-Gaza war ( 2023-Present ) <p> Days : 450 Estimated Deaths : 46,000 + people <p> The ongoing war started on 7 October after Hamas militants conducted a surprise raid breaching Israel 's border and attacking civilians and military bases . Around 1,195 Israelis were killed and another 251 were taken captive in Gaza . In response to the aggression , Israel launched a massive offensive with airstrikes and ground incursions with the stated goal of wiping out the Hamas militant group . The war has killed over 46,000 Palestinians , including over 15000 children . Women and children have been the worst victims , and nearly 17 percent of the children belong to a unique phenomenon that has emerged in the war : Wounded Child No Surviving Family ( WCNSF ) . The Israeli forces have destroyed all essential civilian infrastructure , hospitals , and medical facilities in the Gaza Strip , leaving no access to water , sewage treatment , or electricity . Tel Aviv has also tightened the blockade restrictions , prohibiting the entry of commercial trucks carrying humanitarian and medical aid , which has worsened the food shortage and hunger crisis . Israel 's actions have also been termed a textbook example of genocide . The United Nations and several humanitarian aid agencies have labelled Israel 's aggressive unilateral offensive as one of the worst military actions ever that has unleashed an unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe . The war has continued for over 15 months , with no signs of slowing down .
