<p> We are not alone in the world in being insular as a people . Let there be the smoke of war and burnt flesh wafting in and mixing with crop stubble ash in our air . Or the noise of people 's coups around the corner . Regimes toppling as if in a game theory scenario come true , countries threatening to disappear off the map . Yes , the world order itself can shift its axis . It really did , in 2024 , the year that saw the birth pangs of a world about to come . <p> But we do n't look up from our phones . Let the Cassandras say the world could be ending , they always say that anyway . Our traumas are related to a web series ending . Catch us taking our eyes off the last over of a T20 match , a Turkish thriller , or whatever your poison is . Just give us our caramelised popcorn in our pushback multiplex seats , and we Indians wo n't trouble the world thereafter . At least for the next couple of hours . We never get much troubled by it anyway . <p> We are not alone in the world in various other ways either . The year we are leaving behind was the hottest ever since temperature recording on a planetary scale began in 1880 . Come to think of it , that means hotter than any time during the entire life span of many modern nations , including ours . Nationalism itself , as an accepted way of dividing up the planet , has been in full force for only about a century . Could that finally be a trigger for us to think together as a species ? <p> A polar ice cap 's chance in hell . We are bargaining with each other for a 21st-century crisis with a 19th-century mindset . As if 41 extra days of " dangerous heat " , which is what we had in 2024 ( and promises to be just a trailer ) , is the sort of thing that will only touch Karachi and not Coimbatore . In reality , there 's not even the deluded comfort of Niem ? ller 's classic line that it may " first come for x " ( that ' x ' being someone else ) . Everyone sinks -- or burns -- together . We thought Covid taught us that . <p> New Delhi was , of course , hot for other reasons , too , in 2024 . It 's among the few major world capitals where the ruling party was sworn back in after a general election , though trimmed a little in terms of its body mass index . It was a busy year for democracy globally . The Pew Research Center counted well over 60 countries that saw elections , and called it " a difficult year for incumbents " . <p> Only some , like the BJP in India , managed to endure . It was Narendra Modi , therefore , who rubbed shoulders with other world-dominating figures who do n't have to bother much with elections at all , like a Xi or a Putin , at the BRICS summit in Kazan . In Japan , the ruling party had been an incumbent almost uninterruptedly since 1955 . In 2024 , it survived one of its biggest scares , and the opposition got its best score ever . In France , too , Emmanuel Macron barely survived a snap poll and is now very dependent on allies . Sounds familiar ? <p> What else was common ? More than just the number of fallen incumbents , the Pew Center helpfully told us that voters in many countries were " rattled by rising prices , divided over cultural issues and angry at the political status quo , ( and thus ) sent a message of frustration " . No one who bothers to look up from a homemade TikTok video in rural India will find that idea too foreign . Likewise , though more invisible , the corporatisation of elections is truly global . Glib " election executives " who manage vast armies that profile voters digitally and create marketing material for sundry parties are everywhere . <p> Many ruling parties did not survive . The Indian imagination may still be nostalgically colonised by the goings-on in the United Kingdom , where a Rishi Sunak managed a charmingly British statement of self-deprecation with his " life comes at you fast " speech . But really , our former masters do not matter much in the new world order -- their role is practically over , except as a caddie to the Big Boy who struts around the entire golf course . <p> And that is , of course , where the most famous regime change happened . And Donald Trump promises to be a Black Swan event all by himself . Why should the post-Covid world have it so easy ? He may be just the biggest piece of evidence in a world-wide lurch to the Right , and there 's much interest in terms of pure political theory . He comes in 20 days after the last Sun of 2024 sets but occupies the very frontiers of Right Libertarian ' minarchism ' -- a self-contradictory being -- along with someone who came in 20 days before the first sunrise of 2024 : Argentinian president Javier Milei . <p> Someone who dislikes the state as the big boss of the biggest state . How does that work ? Most people in Gaza , those still left that is , have no time to spend on the results of that experiment . They have their own laboratory , where they are the Guinea pigs . Treblinka might have passingly ( and tremblingly ) felt a touch of d ? ja vu as some estimates of the numbers consigned to history ranged up towards 200,000 . A letter published in the Lancet suggesting such a range finally caused some heads to turn in the world . <p> How many died in Gaza in 2024 ? The factual answer is that we will never really know . How many were babies ? That 's a ' we do n't know ' within a ' we do n't care ' . Counting the dead is a grim and boring but professional exercise , and there are analysts who pore over all kinds of data and results from statistical modelling -- satellite imagery of the acreage of bombed buildings , and the like -- but it 's always a range . In the Ukraine-Russia war , the total number of dead and injured is apparently about one million . In Syria , in the last dozen years or so , the death toll alone is upwards of 600,000 . How many Israeli soldiers have died ? They do n't tell so easily . <p> Too much of a digression . The world is only interested in who will finally control the untapped lithium beneath Ukraine 's soil , said to be the world 's largest . Whether Israel wants just the land , or also the water and anything else that may lie under the land . Whether a gas pipeline from the Arab states can now pass through Syria onward to Europe via Turkey , through a peace enforced by the children of ISIS ( nurtured by the Big Boys ) . Can Syria fall off the map altogether ? Can countries cease to exist ? Why did South Korea have three presidents in one month ? Will Iran survive ? ...
