<p> As the year comes to an end , three major wars -- Israel 's continued genocide in Gaza , Vladimir Putin 's pulverisation of Ukraine and the lesser-known but no less murderous , the ' civil ' war in Sudan -- rage on . International diplomacy and the international legal order seem unable or unwilling to bring these hostilities to an end . In addition to human lives , homes and homelands , these wars have blown the fiction of ' a rule- based global order ' and the related lie of ' just war ' , to smithereens . <p> Bob Marley 's 1976 song speaks of wars without end . At any time , some part of the world is engulfed in , struggling out of , or preparing to go to war . <p> Wars seem to be a permanent condition of human life . They are the purest examples of human barbarity , though paradoxically , they are always waged in defence of civilisation and for the promise of an elusive peace . Wars remain popular -- they energise flagging political fortunes , give us new heroes and a sense of collective identity . Even genocides are popular -- the actions of the Israel Defence Forces in Gaza and the continuation of Putin 's operations in Ukraine are gaining massive support among Israelis and Russians , respectively . <p> When are wars ' justified ' ? When is the conduct of wars ' just ' ? The answers to these two related questions have long been dominated by liberal international relations theory , and its subsidiary -- the ' just war ' theory . With the terminal decline of liberal world order -- a process that gained speed in the 1990s -- these theories , too , have lost ground . <p> The need to go to war is recognised in international law -- as wars start when politics and diplomacy have failed , and there is verifiable evidence that some party has dangerous weapons , attacked another country and taken its territory , and has a deranged leadership . When such conditions apply -- as the collective West argued in the early 2000s in relation to Iraq -- a war is justified . <p> Wars seem to be a permanent condition of human life . They are the purest examples of human barbarity , though paradoxically , they are always waged in defence of civilisation and for the promise of an elusive peace . <p> Classically , ' just wars ' require rival combatants to agree on and remain within the limits specified by mutually agreed rules of war . These include proportionality , not targeting non-combatants , allowing aid and medical assistance and sparing the lives of captured enemy soldiers . These rules are enabled when rivals share cultural similarities and values . However , these conditions of ' just wars ' can only be met when rivals share a morality and when they recognise the humanity of their enemy . As per the theory , when enemies hold different religious beliefs , belong to a different race , speak different languages or identify with different civilisations , it is then that they see each other as " less than human " and are more willing to abandon the conventions of restrained warfare . <p> One is hard-pressed to think of wars -- not only older but also more contemporary ones -- that meet this criterion . The keepers of the liberal world order and the arbiters of which wars are ' just ' themselves have been the main destroyers of that order and of the very concept of ' just wars ' . Examples include Colin Powell 's orders to massacre withdrawing Iraqi troops in the first Gulf War , Tony Blair 's ' dodgy dossier ' of false ' facts ' against the offensive capabilities of Saddam Hussein 's Iraq , and Israel 's reduction to rubble of Gaza in retaliation for a terror attack on illegal settlers . <p> Considerable effort goes into constructing the enemy as deserving the full wrath of war and in going beyond the fictional boundaries of ' just wars ' . <p> In the aftermath of Hamas ' attacks on Israeli settlers -- which it justified on the grounds that such settlements were illegal under international law -- Zionist propaganda came alive . It insisted that Hamas had burnt babies alive , gang-raped many captive women , and hid its soldiers -- labelled ' terrorists ' -- in schools , hospitals and other civilian facilities . Curiously , many Hindutva social media influencers were hyperactive in disseminating such propaganda . The mainstream consent in Israel for the Gaza genocide rotated around these fictions and the claim that Palestinians had supported the October 7 massacres . <p> As it happens , these charges were proven to be false . But they served the purpose of gaining the assent of the collective West to back the conduct of a war , in which genocide was permitted in self-defence . It was told to the West that the high body count was made acceptable because the Palestinians were less-than-human , and so , were not deserving of human rights , including food aid . <p> Ominously , for India , Hindutva influencers -- desperately seeking parallels between Hamas attacks on Israel and the perceived threats to India from its Muslim population -- justified the drip-drip of daily lethal violence by extremist groups on minorities within the country . In both cases , the enemy deserved annihilation because the enemy was not fully human , or at least human-like-us . <p> The popularity of the ' just war theory ' does not rest on any empirical evidence . No war is just , however much those justifying these wars might insist . After all , wars within Europe -- whether the world wars , the more recent wars in the Balkans , or between Ukraine and Russia , in which the enemies have shared cultural values and civilisational affiliation -- have all provided evidence of genocide , the presence of concentration camps and the complete destruction of cities . Even the wars between groups in Africa -- often among culturally similar groups -- have been restrained . In the civil wars in Syria , Bashar al-Assad 's sacking of Aleppo was comparable to any urbicide conducted in wars between nations . <p> The popularity of the ' just war theory ' does not rest on any empirical evidence . No war is just , however much those justifying these wars might insist . <p> These wars are nowhere near ending . In fact , the death count and the instances of adoption of ever more innovative methods of killing have only escalated . ' Just wars ' have proven to be cruel and self-serving fictions -- an empty phrase used by those dominant in combat to justify their aims and methods . Even the goals of war have changed -- ' victory ' and ' peace ' have been replaced by extermination , annihilation and the destruction of the very conditions of life after war , something that we are watching helplessly in Gaza . <p> More than the cynical fictions of the ' just war ' theory , increasingly , what governs the conduct of a war , is the sceptic view -- that ethical concerns do not have a place in the conduct of war because the enemy is not sufficiently human to deserve the courtesy of war within self-imposed restraint . Increasingly , bellicose parties have fallen on religion to justify war brutalities . <p> The Islamic State relied on particular readings of the Islamic religious tradition to justify its excessive cruelties towards perceived enemies who were non-Muslims or not sufficiently so . Justifying the complete abandonment of restraint towards them , Benjamin Netanyahu named all Palestinians as ' Amalek ' , and quoted sections from the Old Testament exhorting Israelis to ' kill all men , women , infants and sucklings ' if they attacked Israel . Theoreticians of terror groups as well as nation-states argue that brutality , lawlessness and annihilation of the enemy are justified in the restoration of order and righteousness . <p> The dream of a world without war and beyond war was a fantasy entertained by European liberals , whose abandonment of it in the post-9/11 world was well-captured in Joseph Stromberg 's felicitous phrase -- " Kantians with Cruise Missiles " . The liberal world order -- within which the fiction of ' just wars ' rests -- is crumbling around us , under the weight of its own hypocrisies and contradictions . <p> In theory , the liberal world order and the ' just war ' theory was premised on the assumption of common humanity . But in practice , it was based on treating many populations -- the colonised , the post-colonies and the collective non-West as not fully human . Also , the assertions by the post-colonies in international politics have challenged liberalism on the grounds of its complicity with colonialism and imperialism . This has led to the justified critique that while it professes an idea of a common humanity , it actually has prevented its definition to cover the majority of the world . <p> This story was published as part of Outlook Magazine 's ' War And Peace ' issue , dated January 11 , 2025 . To read more stories from the Issue , click here . <p> It is bad enough that the ' liberal world order ' and ' just war theory ' have been proven to be vicious fictions . What is worse is that , in this time of divisive hyper-nationalism , the denial of a common humanity to perceived ' others ' is not just a matter of relations between nations . It is also common to promote violent conflicts within them -- violence against minorities , migrants , asylum seekers , refugees and dissidents is now widespread and is a road to acquiring state power in countries across the world . To these population categories , meting out arbitrary violence and the denial of basic justice is enthusiastically supported by the electorally significant part of the population . This involution of war has taken its logic to everyday spaces and relations . In India , the invocation of multiple jihads -- love , land , UPSC , thook , to name a few -- functions to deny equal humanity to Muslims and justifies vigilante and State violence on , and the denial of justice to , them . <p> What will germinate from the embers of the bonfires of liberalism and the ' just war ' theory ? With no credible move to create a movement behind the idea of universal humanity , wars and their spiralling brutality will seemingly be with us for some time to come . <p> Social media and the dawning of the post-truth age have made it easy to spread -- and to believe -- terrible things about nations and fellow citizens . Artificial Intelligence , drones and new technologies of surveillance and murder have made killing easier , and more remote . This will , over the long run , further build support for war , and increase the scope of its ability to cause mass death .
