<h> Do n't Deify Jimmy Carter <h> Share : <p> Jimmy Carter may have done good works out of office , but in power he fomented a series of domestic and foreign policy disasters . <p> This , That or the Other Carter -- by Mr. Fish <p> Jimmy Carter , out of office , had the courage to call out the " abominable oppression and persecution " and " strict segregation " of Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza in his 2006 book " Palestine : Peace Not Apartheid . " He dedicated himself to monitoring elections , including his controversial defense of the 2006 election of Hugo Chavez in Venezuela , and championed human rights around the globe . He lambasted the American political process as an " oligarchy " in which " unlimited political bribery " created " a complete subversion of our political system as a payoff to major contributors . " <p> But Carter 's years as an ex-president should not mask his dogged service to the empire , penchant for fomenting disastrous proxy wars , betrayal of the Palestinians , embrace of punishing neoliberal policies and his subservience to big business when he was in office . <p> Carter played a significant role in dismantling New Deal legislation with the deregulation of major industries including airlines , banking , trucking , telecommunications , natural gas and railways . He appointed Paul Volcker to the Federal Reserve , who , in an effort to combat inflation , drove up interest rates and pushed the U.S. into the deepest recession since the Great Depression , a move that saw the start of punishing austerity cuts . Carter is the godfather of the pillage known as neoliberalism , a pillage fellow Democrat Bill Clinton would turbo charge . <p> Carter fell under the disastrous influence of his Svengali-like national security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski , a Polish exile , who rejected the Nixon-Kissinger reliance on d ? tente with the Soviet Union . Brzezinski 's life 's mission , one that meant he saw the world in black and white , was to confront and destroy the Soviet Union along with any government or movement he deemed to be under communist influence or sympathetic to it . <p> Carter , under Brzezinski 's influence , walked away from the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks treaty ( SALT II ) with the Soviet Union , which sought to curb nuclear weapons deployment . He increased military spending . He sent military aid to the IndonesianNew Order government during the Indonesianinvasion andoccupation ofEast Timor , which many have characterized as a genocide . He supported , along with the apartheid state of South Africa , the murderous counter revolutionary group , the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola ( UNITA ) , led by Jonas Savimbi . He provided aid to the brutal Zairian dictator MobutuSese Seko . He supported the Khmer Rouge . <p> He instructed the Central Intelligence Agency to back opposition groups and political parties to bring down the Sandinista government in Nicaragua once it took power in 1979 , leading under the Reagan administration to the formation of the Contras and a bloody and senseless U.S.-backed insurgency . He provided military aid to the dictatorship in El Salvador , ignoring an appeal from Archbishop Oscar Romero -- later assassinated -- to cease U.S. arms shipments . <p> He poisoned U.S. relations with Iran by backing the repressive regime of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi until the last minute and then allowing the deposed Shah to seek medical treatment in New York , triggering the occupation of the U.S. Embassy in Tehran and a 444-day hostage crisis . Carter 's belligerence -- he froze Iranian assets , stopped importing oil from Iran and expelled 183 Iranian diplomats from the U.S. -- played into Ayatollah Khomeini 's demonization of the U.S. and calls for Islamic rule . He obliterated the credibility of Iran 's secular opposition . <p> Carter gave Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos , although he ruled under martial law , billions in military aid . He armed the Mujahideen in Afghanistan after the Soviet intervention in 1979 , a decision that cost the U.S. $3 billion , saw the deaths of 1.5 million Afghans and led to the creation of the Taliban and Al Qaeda . The blowback from this Carter policy alone is catastrophic . <p> He backed the South Korean military in 1980 when it laid siege to the city of Gwangju , where protestors had formed a militia , which led to the massacre of some 2,000 people . <p> Finally , he sold out the Palestinians when he negotiated a separate peace deal , known as the Camp David Accords , in 1979 between Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin . The agreement excluded the Palestine Liberation Organization from the talks . Israel never , as promised to Carter , attempted to resolve the Palestine question with Jordan and Egypt 's involvement . It never permitted Palestinian self-government in the West Bank and Gaza within five years . It did not end Israeli settlements -- a refusal that led Carter to later claim Begin had lied to him . But since there was no mechanism in the agreement for enforcement , and since Carter was unwilling to defy the Israel lobby to impose sanctions on Israel , the Palestinians found themselves , once again , powerless and abandoned . <p> Carter , to his credit , did appoint the civil rights activist Patricia Derian as his Assistant Secretary of State for Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs , leading to the blocking of loans and reduction in military aid to the military junta in Argentina during the Dirty War , restrictions the Reagan administration removed . Derian 's commitment to human rights was genuine . She supported Philippines leader Benigno S. Aquino Jr . and the South Korean dissident and former president Kim Dae-jung . Carter allowed her to anger a few of our most repressive allies . But his human rights policy was primarily designed to back democratic dissidents and worker movements in Central and Eastern Europe , especially Poland , in an effort to weaken the Soviet Union . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> Carter had a decency most politicians lack , but his moral crusades , which came once he was out of power , seem like a form of penance . His record as president is bloody and dismal , although not as bloody and dismal as the presidents who followed . That 's the best we can say of him . <p> Chris Hedges , who graduated from seminary at Harvard Divinity School , worked for nearly two decades as a foreign correspondent for The New York Times , National Public Radio and other news organizations in Latin America , the Middle East and the Balkans . He was part of the team of reporters at The New York Times who won a Pulitzer Prize for their coverage of global terrorism . Hedges is a fellow at the Nation Institute and the author of numerous books , including War is a Force That Gives Us Meaning . <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
