<h> Artists For Palestine : An Ode To Gaza <p> Resistance Art : A ' Free Gaza ' -themed mural titled ' Invasion Kills Children ' made by Palestinian artists on the walls of demolished houses in Deir al-Balah city in Gaza Photo : Getty Images <p> Resistance Art : A ' Free Gaza ' -themed mural titled ' Invasion Kills Children ' made by Palestinian artists on the walls of demolished houses in Deir al-Balah city in Gaza Photo : Getty Images <p> " Always pray for me , and do not forget me . I do n't want to be just another number on the news ticker . I am a story " -- these were some of the last words of Mahasen Al-Khateeb , a renowned young artist and digital illustrator , who had been sharing her stories of resilience in the face of destruction in North Gaza . Al-Khateeb 's last uploaded digital artwork on Instagram was on Sha'ban al-Dalou -- the 19-year-old who was filmed while being burnt alive in Deir el-Balah , when Israeli forces bombed the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital complex in the late hours of October 13 . Her page , otherwise filled with delightful images of hope , now had the gut-wrenching illustration of Sha'ban burning . On October 18 -- hours after this illustration was posted , captioned ' We are burning ' -- Al-Khateeb was killed by an Israeli airstrike on her home in the Jabalia refugee camp in North Gaza . <p> This story was published as part of Outlook Magazine 's ' War And Peace ' issue , dated January 11 , 2025 . To read more stories from the Issue , click here . <p> Suhad Khatib , a prominent Palestinian artist based in Amman , Jordan , shares how she almost crossed paths with Al-Khateeb . " The indirect connections with artists from Gaza have left a true impact in my heart . One of them is with a Palestinian artist named Mahasen Al-Khateeb , " she says . " I did n't know her in person but I used to follow her page . I knew her friends and they were working on an art workshop for youth in Gaza . They asked me if I would be interested in volunteering some time , and I agreed . They decided to put me in touch with this Palestinian woman in Falasteen who was going to plan the workshop . That woman happened to be Mahasen . In the same week that I was supposed to talk to Mahasen , she was martyred , " Khatib recounts . " When I was done with my book -- which is about martyrs -- a Gazan woman came to my studio . She knew Mahasen and was selling some of her works to support her family . I bought most of the works so that I could include them as gifts with my book . So that , everyone who buys my book also gets a gift from Mahasen , " she reminisces . <p> Unlike Al-Khateeb , Khatib never got a chance to set foot in her homeland . Born in Oman , she has lived in exile across the globe all her life . While her father comes from Lyd , her mother belongs to a village near Tulkarm . " In 1948 , my father had to walk for three days to survive a massacre when he was five years old . That was the last time my father ever saw Falasteen , " she says . She is referring to the Nakba , when Palestinian Arabs were violently displaced from their land , as Israel declared its independence . <p> For Khatib , art came to her as soon as she learned to hold a pen . When asked about the significance of art during a genocide , she wonders . " What does it mean to continue to paint during a genocide ? It becomes a question like every other question : what does it mean to continue living your life during a genocide , to continue to drink a sip of water while your people are deprived of water ? I do n't know . " <p> Diyala Zada , a Syrian-British artist based in Cairo , believes that art serves as a healing process and helps her grow stronger . " For me , creating art during a genocide is a way to express and relieve the intense emotions I feel about what 's happening . It 's also a means of preserving memories and sending messages to future generations , " she says . Like Khatib , Zada too has consistently been creating art that talks about Palestine . Being a children 's book illustrator , a lot of her illustrations are like children 's art -- but no child must have to hear the stories they tell . Her work reflects the pain that stems from belonging to a war-torn homeland . When asked what she thinks about the current state of affairs in Syria , Zada says , " What I see now is the hope to rebuild our tired Syria after 50 years of oppression and the tyranny that destroyed humanity and dignity . I hope we can stay on the right path and overcome the lasting traces of this injustice . " She is aware that the wait will be long and the journey wo n't be easy . <p> In Memory : Self portrait of Palestinian artist Mahasen Al-Khateeb , who was killed in North Gaza by an Israeli airstrike <p> In Memory : Self portrait of Palestinian artist Mahasen Al-Khateeb , who was killed in North Gaza by an Israeli airstrike <p> Khatib and Zada are both part of a pool of artists , whose art has consistently talked about the ongoing massacre in Gaza at the hands of Israel . Their works are an important testament to the kind of stories that have been wiped out by Israel since October last year . Often , narrating these stories has come at great personal cost . " I dedicated my life , not just my work , to art . And for art to be worth giving your life to , it has to be art of meaning , " says Khatib . " It becomes a choice whether to allow people to silence you or just tell the story as is and leave it to those closest to you with the hope that one day , the world will find meaning in them , outside of all of the silencing and tyranny . I was fired from my job because of my work and I 've lost friends . Some of my friends were killed , some were imprisoned and I 'm in a constant state of exile . I had to move countries to be able to continue doing my work and continue to be a freethinker , to liberate myself , little by little , from the Empire , " she says . " But I learn from my family . When I ask my father about the massacres that they went through , and the extreme poverty they overcame after the Nakba in 1948 , he says something that I hear a lot of Palestinians in Gaza say today : ' What we went through is nothing when compared to what others went through . ' This is how we Palestinians move through life . " <p> Such cross-cultural conversations about Palestine and art are now finding a footing in India too . Small but steady groups of artists are coming together across the country to spread awareness about Gaza through their art . But the initiative does n't stop there . They are also pooling together their artworks to mobilise funds to help families in Gaza . Meghna Prakash , a poet who runs an Instagram page called ' Artist Dialogue ' , turned to mutual aid when she felt that raising funds single-handedly was n't sufficient . " Initially , I had been raising money myself for ten families in Gaza in the past year . I realised that it was really hard because the money was never consistent and barely enough to support the families , " she says . Given the drastic inflation in North Gaza , a family can sustain merely for two days with 150 US dollars . " The scale of the money needed was huge and we were barely scraping it . I felt like it was n't a feasible way to go forward . I know many incredibly talented people and it made sense for all of us to pool in our resources and do a mutual aid together . " Prakash and her friends have evolved a thorough process of verifying the Palestinian families they choose to aid . From vetting ID cards to conducting video calls and checking who handles their funding pages from other countries , the process is intended to ensure that donors can trust the initiative . " Many of the NGOs and grassroots organisations in Gaza are not reaching the families that I am in touch with . They 're completely reliant on Instagram , which has been censoring them by shadow banning their accounts and blocking them . It 's brutal because that 's the only way they can get access to any funds . We know that we have less capacity so we are just trying to help 10-11 families to get through the days and support them till they reach stability , " she says . Since October 10 , she has been able to raise more than ten lakh rupees for ten Gazan families . <p> " It becomes a choice whether to allow people to silence you or just tell the story as is and leave it to those closest to you with the hope that one day , the world will find meaning in them . " <p> Being an artist has also helped Khatib forge new solidarities across the world . She describes the community around her as ' Hadina ' , which means ' incubator ' in Arabic . " The kind of love and admiration I get from around the world , not just from Palestinians , is incredible . An artist in Sudan started telling me the stories of Sudanese murders . He studied them the way I do , because he was inspired by my studies . Someone sent me a little illustration this morning by their six-year-old niece , who drew me because she visited my studio once and was in awe of my work . I became one of her heroes apparently , " she says , joyfully . " It 's not just a connection for me but a conversation that has been going on between artists in Africa , in Asia and everything in between . My conversation with them is much more intellectually honest and I never feel like I am alone in this world . " <p> Neha Shetty , an illustrator who goes by the username ' That Zany Martian ' on Instagram , is one of the contributors to ' Artist Dialogue ' . When asked how it occurred to her to use art to raise funds for Gaza , she says , " As an artist , one of my main purposes is to serve the collective . Because art and design have a way to go under the radar of algorithmic censorship , if done right , I thought it would be a great way to drive funds to help families , without having to go though the usual roadblocks that the non-art calls for funds were getting . " Pooling resources together has helped many budding artists in finding a way to contribute towards raising funds for Gaza . Paule , or ' Madpaule Diaries ' , thinks that most artists are not really good at raising funds independently , especially when it comes to art with dissent . That 's where a collective like ' Artist Dialogue ' becomes crucial . Mitali Panganti , or ' Moonclayinsta ' agrees . While attempting to raise funds on her own , Panganti encountered a lot of censorship on Instagram , which decreased the reach of her artwork among her followers . But being a part of the collective helped her showcase her art towards organising funds for Gazan families . <p> Artists for Palestine , another budding collective on Instagram , also works towards bringing together digital artists and illustrators who wish to contribute in organising mutual aid for Gaza . When asked about what kind of future such an initiative can have , given the deteriorating situation in Gaza in the past year , they say , " The role of an artist is not just to highlight what 's important but also to instil a proactive approach to problems . Worsening of the situation , especially with the targeted attacks on organisations providing aid in Gaza , demands that we act in larger numbers than before . The collective aim is to inspire more people to act rather than lose hope . " Prakash also holds a similar view about the future of ' Artist Dialogue ' . " I do n't think an initiative like this can have an end game anytime soon . I know that once we have put these families to safety , there will be others in need . We will keep going till we need to keep going . We are trying to create a model that is replicable . We want as many people as possible to replicate this . I 'm just talking about ten-eleven families , but there are thousands of families like this , who need mutual aid support . So , everyone needs to do their bit , " she says . <p> While financial support is the need of the hour , it is also imperative to ask whether art can disturb the status quo . Does art really have the power to outrage people enough to question their governments ? Paule , whose work embodies significant political commentary , believes so . " Art records history like no politician or media can write . It gives power to the coming generations and becomes the language of people beyond borders , " he says . " Artists do n't sugarcoat or sensationalise . Instead , they hand over a mirror to the society and make them realise how each one of us is responsible for the chaos and injustice and how important it is to speak up , " he adds . Paule has been subjected to extensive censorship for his works , leading to a restricted reach and removal of posts for so-called violations by Instagram . The solution , he feels , is to work around the loopholes . Asked if his artistic style makes him vulnerable to State surveillance , he says , " Art and vulnerability go hand in hand . But we are humans and sometimes we can not look away . People go through the worst during wars and genocides and when I think of that , everything else seems like a luxury . Governments should be answerable to us , not the other way round . How can anyone take away your right to live with dignity ? " <p> Khatib , on the other hand , believes that art is often confused with propaganda . " I know that art has the power to change people and to document stories . But art is not propaganda . Propaganda has the power to outrage people against governments . What true art does is remind people of the need to resist oppression , not to be outraged , " she believes . " I think that 's why despite all of the assassinations , imprisonment and silencing , Palestinians have been able to birth real artists , who remind them of the need to resist , to remain , to exist in this world . Palestinian artists give humanity the meaning of art outside the dull peripheries of Western art -- a lot of which has been governmental projects like Jackson Pollock . Palestinians still have artists like Ghassan Kanafani and Naji al-Ali , who remind humanity of the necessity of resistance . "
