<h> New Year 2025 has already arrived in some countries like New Zealand and Australia with a gleaming display of fireworks and festivities as the clock struck midnight . <p> Happy New Year 2025 : Festivities erupt in Auckland and Sydney as the cities welcomed 2025 . <p> The bells of the New Year 2025 rang loudly and festivities hung in the air as people bid farewell to the year 2024 with dazzling fireworks displays and more after a year marred by conflicts and economic woes . <p> Kiritimati ( Christmas Island ) , located in the small Pacific Island nation of Kiribati , was the first place to celebrate the new year , followed by the Chatam Islands in New Zealand . <h> related stories <p> A dazzling fireworks display was seen New Zealand 's Auckland , which was the first major city to welcome 2025 , followed by Fiji , the first country . People celebrated on the streets of key Australian cities of Melbourne , Sydney and Canberra to welcome the new year with grace and jubilation . <p> The arrival of the New Year comes with a vibrant mix of traditions and diverse cultural expressions with parties of grandeur , firework displays and prayers to mark another year hopeful of happiness , prosperity and success . <h> 2024 : A Year Of Political Turmoil <p> People would be eagerly waiting for 2025 as the outgoing year saw deep political turmoil across the world , with two wars in Ukraine and Gaza , climate-fueled disasters and armed rebellions in several years , the latest being Syria . <p> The year marked elections in more than 60 countries , which means that half of the world 's population went to polls in 2024 . Russian President Vladimir Putin secured a sixth term in an election that his critics described as a sham . In India , Prime Minister Narendra Modi secured a historic third term in Parliament . <p> Another closely watched election was in the United States , where Donald Trump upstaged his Democrat rival Kamala Harris to become the first President to serve non-consecutive terms in over a century . While he is yet to take office , his position on immigration and foreign policy have triggered big debates . <p> On the other hand , Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina was ousted from power in an unprecedented student-led protest movement that swelled into an anti-government agitation , bringing an end to her 14-year rule in the country and throwing Asian politics in an era of uncertainty with a growing Islamist shift in Dhaka . <p> Furthermore , Syrian President Bashar al-Assad 's over two-decade rule came to a violent conclusion as rebel forces led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) launched a lightning offensive in December to snatch power , ending the Assad family 's reign of over 50 years . <p> Wars continued in Ukraine and Gaza , with a daring campaign against Hezbollah through doctored explosions in a wave of assassinations targeting the Lebanon-based Hezbollah group . Throughout its campaign in 2024 , Israel notched up significant victories with the death of Hamas chief Ismail Haniyeh and Hezbollah chief Hassan Nasrallah , dealing a critical blow to Iran 's ' Axis of Resistance ' . <h> How Inflation Impacted Geopolitics In 2024 ? <p> 2024 was a year of anti-incumbency , with the exception of India , fuelled by a hefty increase in prices for household items to energy over the past few years . The British put an end to 14-year Conservative rule by electing Labour PM Keir Starmer in July . The inflation-driven anti-incumbent sentiment also ushered in new governments in Britain and Botswana , Portugal and Panama . <p> South Korean voters also put the opposition into power in its parliament , a check on President Yoon Suk Yeol due to a rising cost of living . In early December , the president imposed martial law , a move the National Assembly quickly reversed . <p> In business , companies around the world grappled with how to adapt to artificial intelligence . The dominance of tech companies for investors can be summed up in this simple fact : seven tech firms -- the so-called Magnificent Seven -- now account for more than one-third of the S&amp;P 500 's market cap . <h> What Next In 2025 ? <p> Alas , there is no one way of answering this question due to the unfamiliar terrain of contemporary geopolitics . The Russia-Ukraine war nears a grim three-year anniversary in February , while civilians grow weary of the grinding war in Gaza , where more than 45,000 Palestinians have already been killed . <p> However , US President-elect Donald Trump has promised to bring an end to the war in Ukraine within a single day , although uncertainties prevail on how he would do it . There was also hope and trepidation as the new year approached in Syria following Bashar al-Assad 's ouster . <p> In the new year , we can expect Artificial Intelligence ( AI ) to dominate public discourse . Rampant inflation is also tipped to slow in the upcoming year . The combination of tech companies and political power , given Elon Musk 's close ties with Trump , could also define 2025 . <p> Some 400 million pilgrims are expected at the spectacular Kumbh Mela festival in Uttar Pradesh 's Prayagraj -- billed as the largest gathering of humanity on the planet . India will also hold elections in two important states . <p> People are also looking forward to numerous sports events -- like the ICC Champions Trophy and the 32-team US Club World Cup . India will host the 2025 Kabaddi World Cup . In entertainment , Britpop bad boys Oasis will make a long-awaited reunion , while K-pop megastars BTS return to the stage after military service in South Korea . <h> top videos <p> The UK weather service has already forecast sweltering global temperatures for 2025 , suggesting it is likely to rank among the hottest years recorded . But with electric vehicle sales growing and renewable energy on the rise , there is a shred of hope that glacial progress on climate change may finally gain momentum .
