<p> " Do Gazans truly die when their body is not whole or can not be found and when they can not be properly grieved ? " asked Mariam Mohammed Al-Khateeb , a 20-year-old Palestinian from Gaza , in a prose titled , ' The Luxury of Death ' , published in June 2024 -- eight months since Israel launched its war on Gaza . " To die with a full body in Gaza is a luxury , " she declared . <p> When she saw a photograph of the body of her friend , Buthaina , she could not believe how her blue eyes had turned black . " Did the missile shoot black ink into your eyes ? " she asked her dear dead friend . <p> In ' Where will I hide my poem ? ' , she described how " debris wrecked my words until the poem bled . " Her poem was killed -- a poem " made of words/ overlooking graveyards/ words overlooking death . " As no place was safe -- from her ruined home to the bombed refugee tents -- she hid her poem in the eyes of the children . But bombs found the children . <p> She says , every day , Death puts his hand on her mouth and takes her truth and gives it to the air . <p> A dentistry student , poet , oud player , translator and community activist from Gaza , currently residing in Egypt , MariamAl-Khateeb spoke to Snigdhendu Bhattacharya about her life , art , and activism as Israel 's all-out war on Gaza crossed one year , claiming over 42,000 Palestinian lives while leveling cities and towns . <p> My primary identity is that I am a genocide survivor . This is the most important thing that the war has done to me . When I want to tell someone about me , the first thing that comes to my mind is that I 'm a genocide survivor . I prefer to say , ' I 'm a genocide survivor ' over saying ' I 'm a writer , a Palestinian writer , poet , student , worker , freelance journalist , or speaker ' . Everything does not have the same importance as your life . <p> Life has completely changed onwards October 7 , 2023 . Even after the genocide ends , our lives will never be the same . We will never live as normal people . This genocide will be in our genes . This genocide is in our blood , in our thinking , in our daily routines , in everything . It has affected the smallest things in our lives -- how we act , think and deal with life . <p> It 's really hard to consider genocide as a usual happening , to take it as something that will pass . No . Genocide is a hard reality that 's coming to us . It 's a hard reality unfolding in my city . I have lost my city . My city was killed . My city was starved . Every bad thing possible has happened to our city . <p> What were you engaged in when the Israeli offensive started ? <p> I was studying in my second year at my dental school at Al Azhar University . I was an intelligent student , in the sense that I was working , writing , learning to play oud and organising poetry events . But everything changed after October 7 . My college was bombed . My friend who was teaching me how to play oud lost his wife . Bombs took her away . The streets of Gaza , the flowers , the trees , the libraries , and humanity , everything bore signs of destruction . October 7 is the darkest day of my life because I ca n't wake up as a normal person since then . I ca n't handle my things with the same control anymore . I have become a lonely , genocide survivor . <p> Now , in Egypt , I am trying to start afresh . This is hard . Every Gazan has to start from zero -- they need to be born again to start their lives . Each student , each parent in Gaza needs to be reborn to start a new life . And it 's really hard because we start our lives under the rubble of our dreams . Our dreams are under the rubble of Gaza . We leave Gaza , but Gaza will never leave us . <p> My family is still stuck in Gaza , and they are dying , starving and breathing under bombs and rockets . But I 'm out to start from zero . I would have been in my third year of dental school if I were in Gaza . But now , I 'm in my first year at a dental school in Egypt . I have lost two years but that 's better than losing my life and more things like that . <p> How did the war impact your family and friends ? <p> Every family member had his or her own dreams and plans . My elder brother , Khalil , relocated to Egypt five years ago in search of jobs . When the bombardment started in October 2023 , my sister Marah was waiting for her high school to end so that she could go to the university to study engineering . My brother Zain-Al-Abedin wanted to excel as a chess player . My father wanted to start a new project . My mother , who is a worker , had her own dreams . But since October 7 , everything has been lost . There are no running schools or colleges in Gaza . They were intelligent and hard-working . But they now have nothing . Instead of being in schools or colleges , they queue up for bread and drinking water , sleep in tents , and get evacuated and evacuated . <p> This genocide is about killing machines . The pump rockets , the bombs and the rubble killed more than 27 of my friends and family . The Israeli occupation burned my grandmother in Al Shefa hospital . They killed my friends Mohammed and Mohammedani . They killed my friend Buthaina under the rubble of her house . They killed my friends Samah , Nadine and Youssef . They killed Tareq Mohammed . They killed Wafaa and Ismael . They killed a lot of my friends , and I really miss them . Also , they split up my friends . Some are outside Gaza , some in the tents and some under rubble . They split all friendships . I miss my friend . I do n't even know who 's alive and who 's dead . I can no longer go and hug them and feel safe . We ca n't see each other . <p> But it is important that we keep speaking clearly and aloud , our voices reach every nook and corner of the world . I love the sea . But the situation made me hate looking at the sea because , in Gaza , the seaside is full of tents and dead bodies . <p> Tell us a little more about how writing has helped you cope with the situation . <p> Writing gives me a feeling of being blessed . It makes me feel that I have a message to spread . I want to write to feel that I 'm free inside . I can talk with my mind , I can talk through papers , I can talk about my ideas and my hard feelings about what I have gone through . I can talk about everything . Everything that I ca n't discuss with others , I can discuss in my writing . <p> I have been writing since I was 10 years old . I grew up with the idea of writing . I started writing in Arabic but over the past two years , I have been associated with the We Are Not Numbers project . That 's when I started writing for English magazines . It 's something really beautiful -- that we are not numbers . We try to give voices to all Palestinian writers , give space to their personal stories , lend voice to their messages , and give strength to their writing . I work with the ' We Are Not Numbers ' project not because I 'm a writer , but because I have a message , I have a topic , because I need to talk , and I need to face my feelings , face this world , face everything , to write about everything in Gaza . <p> When I Left Gaza , I promised myself that I will never ever stop talking about Gaza , about the stories of Gaza , and about what 's happening in Gaza . I will never stop . <p> How does it feel to stay away from family , whose lives are at risk ? <p> I 'm the oldest student to move out of Gaza without my family . I made a hard decision . One day , I felt that I did n't want to be killed . I did n't want to lose the last hope in my life . I do n't want my dream to get under the rubble . I wanted to speak to the world about my dream , my story , and my friends ' dreams that were getting buried under the rubble . And I decided in November ( 2023 ) that I wanted to leave . I wanted to survive this genocide and speak to the world about how much we deserve life , how much we deserve learning , how much we deserve to make things that matter to the world and how knowledgeable we are . <p> So , I said to my father that I wanted to leave . I do feel guilty . I feel that I 'm selfish , I let my family die and moved out alone . I also tell myself that I 'm fighting for our future , our city , and our collective dreams . It started from my personal dream , but it has grown larger than that . This dream is surviving because I want to survive and unite with my city and family . <p> Leaving one 's home is a hard decision , especially when living under the shadows and sounds of the rockets , leaving your mother in tears , leaving your father 's voice . I could n't say goodbye to my family and friends , to my favorite places , to the things that I loved in Gaza . I had to rush to cross the border . I hugged my dad , and I saw his tears . I had to rush to go to the border crossing before it closed . Can you feel how I felt when I hugged my dad and saw him in tears , when I bade him goodbye , not really certain if I will ever see him ? I could n't say goodbye to my mother because it was just a really tough time . <p> I do n't know if I will see them ever . I 'm still their hope for a way out of the country . I do n't know if I can help the rest of the family cross the border , but funds are being raised . <p> However , Palestinian families , especially Gazan families , have become accustomed to this life . They prefer their children . They believe in the future . They trust in God . And they know the importance of science and studying around the world .
