<p> Dr Ghassan Abu Sittah who became the face of the resilience of Gaza in the face of relentless violence looks back on his experiences and how being exposed to a war-altered biosphere changes people 's well-being . <p> Dire Times : Doctors at Kemal Adwan Hospital in Gaza are forced to work in the dark due to the electricity crisis in Gaza City Photo : Getty Images <p> Dire Times : Doctors at Kemal Adwan Hospital in Gaza are forced to work in the dark due to the electricity crisis in Gaza City Photo : Getty Images <p> Dr Ghassan Abu Sittah , a British-Palestinian surgeon , is known to the world as the man standing behind a podium addressing the media surrounded by a pile of dead bodies on October 17 , 2023 , at al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza , soon after a deadly explosion at al-Ahli Hospital . The blast killed 471 people and injured 342 according to Gaza health officials . Dr Sittah called it a " massacre " and warned that more hospitals would be targeted . He had arrived in Gaza on October 9 to volunteer with M ? decins Sans Fronti ? res ( MSF ) , working at al-Ahli , al-Shifa and al-Awda hospitals . He was the doctor who revealed the practice of performing amputations in Gaza without anaesthesia , and became a key source of information on the war 's impact through his tweets . After returning to the UK , he was elected Rector of the University of Glasgow , continuing his advocacy against the ongoing genocide . He currently lives in Beirut , treating victims of the war in Lebanon . Dr Sittah spoke to Shahina K.K. about his experiences in Gaza and how the war-altered biosphere affects people 's well-being . Excerpts : <p> Q <p> In a previous interview , you said that every wound has a narrative on war . Can you tell us more about the politics of war wounds ? <p> A <p> The narrative of war is carried in the wounds it inflicts -- who caused them , who fought and all the stories tied to the conflict . These wounds stay with the afflicted for life . The injuries sustained by Iraqi and Iranian soldiers during the Iraq-Iran War of the early ' 80s remain . Even though Saddam is gone , Khomeini and Reagan are dead , and many who fought the war are no longer alive , the narrative of the wound persists . Sometimes , this narrative clashes with the current political ideology or discourse . Iraq and Iran are now allies , but the story of those wounds remains unchanged , outliving the political projects that caused the war . Similarly , the wounds of South Vietnamese soldiers who fought alongside Americans in the Vietnam War serve as a constant reminder of the conflict and its civil war component . <p> As power dynamics shift , ruling elites either celebrate or suppress these narratives , often finding them inconvenient to current political projects . This is why I say wounds act as a biological archive of the wars that caused them . <p> Q <p> How different is this idea of war from the one set by the Western world ? We were taught that wars were occasional , with peace in between . <p> A <p> The Western notion frames wars as temporal events , starting and ending at specific moments -- but this is far from reality . On the ground , the effects persist long after the official end . I am still treating victims of the recent war in Lebanon , as well as those from previous conflicts . Their wounds continue to need care . The idea of temporality pushed by the humanitarian sector -- where you arrive , address the war and then leave -- is misleading . Western narratives justify wars by claiming they begin and end cleanly , leaving no lasting impact . In truth , wars fundamentally alter the biosphere of those who live through them , causing injuries that endure . <p> Q <p> You have said that there is no such thing as an international community . Was that an expression of desperation ? <p> A <p> What we 've witnessed in Gaza -- the most televised genocide in human history -- proves it . People can see children being burned alive , mass killings and starvation , yet nothing is done . Western governments respond only by trying to silence systems like the International Criminal Court and officials highlighting the genocidal nature of this war . The so-called international community has always been a tool for policing countries in the Global South . <p> Q <p> Amidst the horrors , are there stories of hope , love and resilience you 'd like to share ? <p> A <p> Love and compassion stand as resistance against the machinery of death . Doctors remain dedicated to their patients , often refusing to leave hospitals . Families help each other , and in the aftermath of bombings , survivors dig through rubble to save lives . These are acts of rebellion against genocide . In Lebanon , I treated a two-year-old boy who lost an arm and his entire immediate family . His father 's aunt came to care for him , becoming his mother . Such acts of love remind us that humanity will endure . <p> Q <p> Our imagination of war from where we are is limited . As a doctor , can you share your thoughts on your experiences in Gaza ? <p> A <p> Each of us lives in a biosphere -- a system shaped by our biological , physical and social environment . Our health is determined by the interplay of these conditions . War profoundly disrupts this biosphere , creating a new one that reshapes health systems . Beyond the immediate harm of bombs , blasts and bullets , war damages water and sewage systems , spreads infectious diseases , impoverishes populations and tears apart communities , altering behaviour and health . The effects of war on health persist long after conflicts end , as the war-altered biosphere continues to shape people 's well-being . In regions like the Middle East , situated on a geopolitical fault line with ongoing and intermittent wars , these changes become deeply entrenched and multigenerational . The resulting biosphere of war can be compared to an endemic disease -- a persistent , geographically entrenched condition that continuously influences health in the region .
