<h> Words Of The Year 2024 : Here is a list of the 26 most heard and used words of 2024 , which provide a fascinating snapshot of the year that was . <p> Words Of The Year 2024 : As we bid farewell to 2024 , the year leaves behind a lexicon that reflects its pivotal events , cultural shifts , and influential figures . From technological advancements and political controversies to global conflicts and cultural phenomena , the words that dominated our conversations the past 12 months paint a vivid picture of the year that was . <p> Here is a list of the 26 most heard and used words of 2024 , arranged alphabetically to provide a structured yet fascinating snapshot of the year . From " Artificial Intelligence " shaping industries to " Donald Trump " remaining a polarising figure in global politics , from " M-pox " dominating health headlines to " Quiet Quitting " redefining workplace dynamics , these terms encapsulate the essence of 2024 . <p> This archive of 2024 's buzzwords , carefully curated by ABP LIVE , offers insights into the stories , trends , and people that defined an unforgettable year . <h> A : Artificial Intelligence <p> From AI on phones to AI for security , there was hardly a sector that was n't touched by this seemingly magical tech . Tech giants like Google and OpenAI went to war on who could bring out the biggest generative AI , phone makers like Samsung and Apple dived headlong into in-built assistants , and even the world 's first AI legislation was passed by the EU . Not to forget , there was an AI beauty pageant too . Safe to say , AI was the top flavour of 2024 . <h> B : Bangladesh <p> Bangladesh made global headlines this year when local protests against the government forced then prime minister Sheikh Hasina to leave the country on August 5 . She had been serving as the PM since 2009 , and had won in January the parliamentary elections boycotted by the opposition parties . Economist and Nobel Peace Prize winner Muhammad Yunus is now leading an interim government running the country . <h> C : Conflict <p> In 2024 , the world grappled with escalating turmoil as conflicts erupted , crises deepened , and climate-driven disasters surged . According to the UN , nearly 123 million people had been forced to flee their homes by mid-year due to conflict and persecution -- a number that has only grown with the intensification of violence in the Middle East and ongoing displacement in Sudan , Ukraine , the Democratic Republic of the Congo , Syria , and beyond . <h> D : Donald Trump <p> The comeback kid ( or septuagenarian ) did it again . Despite several federal indictments and a shaky first term , Trump is set to take oath as the 47th US President on January 20 , 2025 . Driven by a strong MAGA support on Elon Musk-owned X and even multiple " failed assassination attempts " during his campaigns , Trump edged over Democratic Kamala Harris , winning both the Electoral College and the popular vote . <h> E : Elon Musk <p> 2024 has clearly been Musk 's year . Look at his report card : SpaceX achieved Starship 's orbital velocity and captured a Super Heavy booster ( mid-air ) , Tesla advanced its Optimus 2 humanoid robot with a stunning live showcase , xAI raised $6 billion , and Neuralink made strides with its first human brain implant . If all that does n't impress you , Musk 's net worth surpassed $400 billion this year . Oh , and he is now in the US government as well . After helping Donald Trump taste victory , he will now co-lead the planned Department of Government Efficiency ( DOGE ) to help reduce expenditures . <h> F : Fake <p> What even is real anymore ? Ever since the onslaught of AI , deepfakes have taken over the Internet . While some video clips are harmless ( cats singing " APT. " ) , and some are concerning ( PM Modi dancing to songs ) , most of them are serious crimes ( actress Radhika Mandanna in objectionable clips ) . Even on X , we do n't know if a clip of speech by Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is genuine , or if a tweet by Donald Trump is real . Even governments are taking ethical use of AI seriously , bringing out G20 New Delhi Leaders ' Declaration to control and eliminate instances of deepfake . <h> G : GST ( on popcorn varieties ) <p> Late in 2024 , Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced something rather strange . If you buy a bag of non-branded popcorn ( with salt and/or spices ) , you have to pay 5% GST . If you buy a pre-packaged branded popcorn , your GST goes up to 12% . Now , if the popcorn is of the caramel kind , it 's not a salty snack . As a sugar confectionery , it will now attract 18% GST . This decision not only baffled citizens , it also triggered a memefest on social media <h> H : Hezbollah <p> Hezbollah was a focal point of global attention in 2024 due to its escalating involvement in the Israel-Hamas conflict and the subsequent war in Lebanon . Backed by Iran , Hezbollah intermittently launched missile strikes into Israel after the Gaza conflict began , prompting a significant military response . In late September , Israel initiated an eight-week air offensive targeting Hezbollah strongholds in southern Lebanon , the Bekaa Valley , and Beirut , marking a major escalation in regional tensions . The group hit headlines also after the assassination of its long-standing leader , Hassan Nasrallah , on September 27 , in a high-profile underground strike . Nasrallah 's death signalled a pivotal moment in the conflict , leading to intensified violence and geopolitical repercussions . <h> I : Israel <p> Israel continued to remain a central focus of global news in 2024 . Even as the Gaza war continued , with the conflict showing no signs of slowing , Israel 's geopolitical actions extended beyond its immediate conflicts , influencing broader regional and international dynamics . Israel 's military offensive against Hezbollah in Lebanon heightened tensions across the Middle East , drawing reactions from Iran , which backs Hezbollah , and other regional players . <h> J : Justice For RG Kar <p> In August 2024 , a 31-year-old woman doctor was raped and murdered at RG Kar Medical College in Kolkata . This led to a Domino effect that saw West Bengal 's medical fraternity take to intense protest ( including a 17-day hunger strike ) to bring women 's safety to the forefront . From demonstrations targeted at CM Mamata Banerjee 's resignation to " Reclaim The Night " protests at midnight across the country -- " Justice For RG Kar " became a call to action more than just a slogan . The state government introduced the Aparajita Woman and Child Bill , 2024 . The CBI is in charge of the probe at the time of writing , with one arrest under suspicion so far . <p> Junior doctors with other residents take out a rally to demand justice for the rape-murder victim , who was a medic at RG Kar Medical College and Hospital in Kolkata Photo : PTI <h> K : Khalistan <p> The Khalistan problem became a major headache for the Indian government in 2024 that even threatened to upend robust bilateral ties between India and the United States even as two-way relationship between India and Canada reached nadir over the alleged assassination of Khalistan activist Hardeep Singh Nijjar leading to a major diplomatic row . In October this year , owing to that row which began in 2023 , New Delhi recalled its envoy Sanjay K. Verma from Ottawa even as India complained that Canada did not produce any evidence that showed any linkage of Nijjar 's killing and the involvement of Indian officials . <h> L : LAC <p> The year 2024 closed on a cautiously optimistic note for India 's prolonged military standoff with China in the eastern Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control ( LAC ) . On October 21 , New Delhi announced a significant patrolling arrangement allowing troops from both sides to patrol critical areas in Demchok and the Depsang Plains . This breakthrough followed a landmark meeting between Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping during the BRICS Summit in Kazan , Russia -- their first bilateral interaction in five years . The patrolling agreement marks a continuation of the disengagement process that began in 2022 in the Galwan Valley , Gogra Hot Springs , and Pangong Lake areas . While challenges persist , the agreement underscored a tentative step toward de-escalating tensions in this strategic border region . <h> M : Mpox <p> In 2024 , Mpox re-emerged as a global health concern , with the World Health Organization ( WHO ) declaring a Public Health Emergency of International Concern ( PHEIC ) in mid-August due to a surge in cases across several African nations . The Democratic Republic of the Congo , Burundi , and Nigeria bore the brunt of the outbreak , reporting the highest case numbers . India too reported some cases . The zoonotic viral disease previously known as Monkeypox gets transmitted through prolonged close contact or exposure to contaminated items . <h> N : NEET <p> Uproar and anxiety filled students as the 2024 NEET-UG , conducted by premier agency NTA , involved multiple discrepancies , irregularities , and malpractices during the exam . Allegations of question paper leaks surfaced on May 5 , 2024 , with social media claims contradicting the NTA 's denial . In Patna , 13 arrests were made , who allegedly paid Rs 30-50 lakh to obtain the question paper beforehand . The exam results , declared on June 4 , 2024 , sparked further controversy due to an unusual increase in top rankers and impossible scores . The SC ultimately acknowledged that at least 155 students benefited from the paper leak but ruled out a large-scale leak and re-examination . <p> AISF activists during a protest march over alleged irregularities in NEET exam , among other issues , in Patna , in July 2024 Photo : PTI <h> O : Ozempic <p> Ozempic has become the ultimate cheat code for those who would rather conquer their cravings than a treadmill . The drug , originally designed to help diabetics manage blood sugar , found an unexpected fanbase among the rich and Insta-obsessed , who embraced it as a divine intervention against both excess weight and gym memberships . Even Elon Musk jumped on the bandwagon , hilariously dubbing himself " Ozempic Santa " in a Christmas post showing off his newfound slimness -- Santa belly not included . Ozempic does n't just reduce blood sugar ; it curbs hunger , slows digestion , and leaves you feeling full , all without breaking a sweat . But like most divine gifts , it 's reserved for the elite -- whether it 's to manage a life-threatening condition like diabetes or to shed a few pounds for that perfect selfie . The wallet does all the heavy lifting here ; the cost of the " miracle " drug may not be easy on everyone 's pocket . <h> P : Pager Attack <p> You might think pagers are " dinosaur " devices , and that only doctors use them in hospitals . But , in September , pagers were used to kill 40 and injure 3,000 in Lebanon . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu confirmed he approved the pager attacks . The explosions , attributed to Hezbollah operatives , were a retaliation to Israel 's military operation against the group . Hezbollah blamed Israel and vowed retaliation for the deadly blasts . <h> Q : Quiet Quitting <p> ' Quiet Hiring ' is a situation where your boss puts more work and responsibility on you without any hike or promotion . It seems such workers have found a way to retaliate : ' Quiet Quitting ' . Here , employees do the bare minimum , shirk away from extra responsibilities , and swiftly exit office once official work hours are over . With ' work-life ' balance a matter of contest this year , ' Quiet Quitting ' turned out to be the preferred solution for most workers with a low pay and lack of recognition . Remote works stress and changing generational values are also considered to be primary causes . <h> R : Radhika Merchant <p> In 2024 , Radhika Merchant captured national attention , securing her place as the eighth most searched person in India , thanks to her grand wedding to Anant Ambani , scion of the Reliance empire . Their July 12 nuptials were nothing short of a spectacle , drawing celebrities and eminent personalities from across the world . Months of pre-wedding festivities included a mehendi , haldi ceremony , a luxury European cruise , and a lavish three-day celebration in Jamnagar , culminating in a unique ' Samuh Vivah ' that drew widespread admiration . The sheer scale of the celebrations and Radhika 's emergence as a new member of the Ambani family made her a cultural phenomenon . <h> S : Sunita Williams <p> Sunita Williams , NASA astronaut and space veteran , has found herself in an extended cosmic layover that is turning into an interstellar marathon . What began in June 2024 as an eight-day test of Boeing 's Starliner spacecraft alongside fellow astronaut Butch Wilmore has stretched into an epic saga , thanks to glitches in the spacecraft that forced NASA to bring the Starliner back to Earth uncrewed . Initially slated to return in February 2025 via a SpaceX capsule , the two astronauts ' stay aboard the ISS now extends to at least late March 2025 -- because , naturally , space drama likes to keep us on the edge . Back on Earth , Sunita 's prolonged stay has turned into a content goldmine , with the media scrambling for fresh angles -- from " Will Sunita get osteoporosis in zero gravity ? " to " Why Sunita Williams is losing weight in space " -- to keep readers hooked . At this rate , we half expect Bollywood casting rumours for her inevitable biopic . Sunita , meanwhile , seems unfazed , proving yet again that she is not just orbiting the Earth -- she 's orbiting all our imaginations , one headline at a time . <h> T : Tata <p> In 2024 , the name of Ratan Tata was on every mind after the iconic business leader passed away at the age of 86 . The industrialist was known for modernising the Tata Group and putting it on the global map with acquisitions like Jaguar Land Rover and Corus Steel . While Ratan Tata was celebrated for his visionary leadership , beyond business his philanthropy , modest lifestyle , and love for dogs also captured imaginations , making ' Tata ' synonymous not just with industrial might but with compassion and humanity . <h> U : UFO <p> In 2024 , UFOs were back in the spotlight , proving once again that our fascination with extraterrestrial life is as eternal as the universe itself . As usual , most sightings are taking place in the US , from pilots spotting mysterious flying objects in Oregon sky to a traveller heading to JFK Airport in New York noticing supposed ' UFOs ' over New Jersey sky . Meanwhile , people are either confused or busy weaving conspiracy theories . The Pentagon did n't help matters , releasing yet another grainy video of " unidentified aerial phenomena " . While investigations are on in all sincerity , the big questions remain unanswered : Are aliens real ? Are they just bad at making first impressions ? Or are they avoiding Earth because of all the nonsense we 've got going on ? Whatever the truth , UFOs ensured 2024 was out of this world -- literally and metaphorically . <h> V : Vinesh Phogat <p> It was a year that Vinesh Phogat will never forget ! Disqualified from the Paris 2024 Olympics gold medal match and denied even a place near the podium , she faced one of the toughest challenges of her career . The nation sympathised with her as the rulebooks governing weight requirements in wrestling were examined and debated . Amidst this , public love and support for her took a new turn as she announced her entry into politics . It was a trial by fire when she decided to contest the Haryana elections on a Congress ticket . In her debut election , she triumphed , winning the Julana seat by defeating BJP 's Yogesh Kumar with a margin of over 6,015 votes . Yet , for the grappler , it was far from an easy victory . <h> W : Work-Life Balance <p> Work-life balance emerged as a defining buzzword in 2024 , sparking heated debates across boardrooms , social media platforms , and public discourse . From Infosys co-founder NR Narayana Murthy criticising the concept , harping on a 70-hour work week instead , to Swiggy Food Marketplace CEO Rohit Kapoor championing its importance , opinions on the topic revealed stark generational and ideological divides . Tragic incidents , such as the death of a young EY employee attributed to toxic work demands , amplified the urgency of the conversation , highlighting the dire consequences of unchecked " hustle culture " . Business leaders such as Elon Musk may advocate for the necessity of extreme effort , younger generations are pushing back . Surveys revealed that Gen Z workers now prioritise job satisfaction , growth opportunities , and holistic well-being over high salaries or traditional job stability . This generational shift underscores a broader cultural movement toward redefining success -- not as relentless toil , but as a harmonious integration of professional ambition and personal fulfillment . In 2024 , work-life balance was n't just a trend ; it became a rallying cry for a more humane and sustainable approach to work . <h> X : Disease ' X ' <p> In 2024 , Disease X became a global health concern , symbolising the looming threat of an unknown pathogen that could unleash the next pandemic . An outbreak was reported in the first week of December in the Democratic Republic of Congo , with the World Health Organization ( WHO ) recording over 400 cases and 30 deaths , and it has raised concerns that it could be an instance of Disease X. Coined by the WHO , the term represents a yet-to-be-identified disease with the potential to spread rapidly and wreak havoc on public health systems . The intense focus on Disease X this year stemmed from increasing zoonotic disease outbreaks , the impact of climate change on pathogen evolution , and heightened awareness after the Covid-19 pandemic . <h> Y : Yusuf Dikec <p> The Paris Olympics 2024 gave us several stars , from Sweden 's Armand Duplantis who broke pole vault records ( and melted hearts with an intense kiss with girlfriend during the Games ) to France 's L ? on Marchand who is touted by many as the next Michael Phelps . However , if the meme culture is to be believed , there is one athlete who shot his way into our hearts , just by being a " chill guy " . Turkey 's Yusuf Dike ? came ( casually ) , saw the target ( again , casually , without special eye gear like most other artists ) , and conquered ( casually winning Silver in 10m mixed routine ) . His ( seemingly ) casual shooting stance not only made him an overnight star , but was also copied by several other Olympians as well ( including Duplantis ) . <h> Z : Zakir Hussain <p> Ustadji has left the building . The son of tabla legend Alla Rakha , Hussain achieved more in 73 years than what musicians can only dream of . He won four Grammy awards . He was awarded the United States National Endowment for the Arts ' National Heritage Fellowship , the highest honour for traditional musicians . He was honoured with Sangeet Natak Akademi Award as well as the Sangeet Natak Akademi Fellowship , Ratna Sadsya . He showed how a tabla artist can sell out tickets to the biggest concerts around the world . But perhaps , most endearingly , he became a household favourite thanks to his now-iconic " Wah Ustad ! " in Brooke Bond Taj Mahal Tea commercials .
