<p> The ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas changed a lot of things , including an influx of labourers from India . Indian workers have replaced a large number of Palestinian workers . As per the latest report , approximately 16,000 Indians have entered Israel , replacing Palestinian workers in the last year . <p> Attracted by higher earnings , the construction sites , which Arabic-speaking workers dominated , have now been outnumbered by Hindi , Hebrew , and even Mandarin-speaking individuals , reported AFP . The attack marked the start of the deadliest war between Israel and Hamas in Gaza , eventually involving other Iran-backed groups , including Hezbollah in Lebanon and Houthi rebels in Yemen , with direct confrontations with Iran itself . <p> One of the Indian workers in Israel , Raju Nishad navigates the scaffolding , hammering blocks that will contribute to a new neighbourhood 's construction in Beer Yaakov , central Israel . <p> Nishad and other Indian workers , now commonplace at such construction sites , represent a significant shift in Israel 's building industry . Their presence is part of an Israeli government initiative to address a labour shortage caused by the absence of tens of thousands of Palestinian workers , barred from entering Israel . <p> Despite the risks , Nishad , 35 , saw no reason to avoid coming to Israel . " There 's nothing to be afraid of here , " he said , unfazed by the occasional air raid warnings that send workers to shelters . " Once the siren stops , we just resume our work . " <p> The high earnings in Israel , sometimes triple what workers could make back home , are a major draw . " I 'm saving for the future , planning to make wise investments and do something meaningful for my family , " Nishad explained . <p> Thousands more Indian workers are expected to come . <p> Indians have long worked in Israel , particularly as caregivers , diamond traders , and IT professionals . However , following the war 's escalation , the construction industry is now actively recruiting Indian workers . <p> Samir Khosla , chairman of Delhi-based Dynamic Staffing Services , has sent over 3,500 Indian workers to Israel since October 2023 . Khosla , whose company has placed over 500,000 Indian workers in more than 30 countries , sees Israel as a new and promising market . Responding to urgent calls for foreign labour after the war halted construction , Khosla noted , " We really had to move around and understand the needs , " adding that the strong India-Israel relationship made this partnership natural . He hopes to bring up to 10,000 Indian workers , citing a vast pool of skilled labour in India . <p> In Tel Aviv , Indian workers adapt to their new environment by combining construction expertise with a taste of home , cooking the spicy dishes they miss . Suresh Kumar Verma , 39 , another worker from Uttar Pradesh , highlighted the financial opportunities in Israel : " In a short time , one can earn more money . It 's important to work hard for the family 's future . " <p> Despite these efforts , Israeli researchers note that the current number of Indian construction workers falls short of replacing the Palestinian workforce . Before the war , approximately 80,000 Palestinians and 26,000 foreigners worked in construction . Today , the number of foreign workers stands at about 30,000 , significantly lower than pre-war levels . <p> Eyal Argov of the Bank of Israel observed that construction activity in late 2024 is roughly 25 per cent below pre-war levels . While this shortfall does not immediately affect housing availability , it could delay new projects . With Israel 's population growing by two per cent annually , these delays might lead to future housing shortages .
