<h> A Palestinian Year in Review : Genocide , Resistance and Unanswered Questions <h> Share : <p> The story of the Israeli war on Gaza can be epitomized in the story of the Israeli war on Beit Lahia , a small Palestinian town in the northern part of the Strip . <p> When Israel launched its ground operations in Gaza , Beit Lahia was already largely destroyed due to many days of relentless Israeli bombardment which killed thousands . <p> Still , the border Gaza town resisted , leading to a hermetic Israeli siege , which was never lifted , even when the Israeli military redeployed out of much of northern Gaza in January 2024 . <p> Beit Lahia is largely an isolated town , a short distance away from the fence separating besieged Gaza from Israel . It is surrounded mostly by agricultural areas that make it nearly impossible to defend . <p> Yet , a year of grisly Israeli war and genocide in Gaza did not end the fighting there . To the contrary , 2024 has ended where it started , with intense fighting on all fronts in Gaza , with Beit Lahia , a town that was supposedly ' conquered ' earlier , still leading the fight . <p> Beit Lahia is a microcosm of Israel 's failed war in the Strip , a bloody grind that has led nowhere , despite the massive destruction , the repeated ethnic cleansing of the population , the starvation and the genocide . Every day of Israel 's terrible war on the Palestinians serves as a reminder that there are no military solutions and that the Palestinian will can not be broken , no matter the cost or the sacrifice . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , however , remains unconvinced . He entered the new year with more promises of ' total victory ' , and ended it as a wanted criminal by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) . <p> The issuing of an arrest warrant for the Israeli leader was a reiteration of a similar position taken by the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) at the start of 2024 . <p> The ICJ 's position , however , was hardly as strong as many had hoped or wanted to believe . The world 's highest court had , on January 26 , ordered Israel " to take action to prevent acts of genocide " , but stopped short of ordering Israel to halt its war . <p> The Israeli objectives of the war remained unclear , although Israeli politicians provided clues as to what the war on Gaza was really all about . Last January , several Israeli ministers , including 12 from Netanyahu 's Likud party , took part in a conference calling for the resettlement of Gaza and the ethnic cleansing of Palestinians . " Without settlements , there is no security , " extremist Israeli minister of finance , Bezalel Smotrich , said . <p> For that to happen , the Palestinian people themselves , not merely those fighting on the ground , had to be tamed , broken and defeated . Thus , the ' flour massacres ' , a new Israeli war tactic that was centered around killing as many Palestinians as possible while waiting for the few aid trucks that were allowed to reach northern Gaza . <p> On February 29 , more than 100 Gazans were killed while queueing for aid . They were mowed down by Israeli soldiers , as they desperately tried to lay their hands on a loaf of bread , baby milk or a bottle of water . This scene was repeated , again and again in the north , but also in other parts of the Gaza Strip throughout the year . <p> The aim was to starve the Palestinians in the north so that they would be forced to flee to other parts of the Strip . Famine actualized as early as January , and many of those who tried to flee south were killed , anyway . <p> From the early days of the war , Israel understood that to ethnically cleanse Palestinians , they must target all aspects of life in the Strip . This includes hospitals , bakeries , markets , electric grids , water stations , and the like . <p> The Gaza hospitals , of course , received a large share of Israeli attacks . In March , once more , Israel attacked the Al-Shifa Medical Complex in Gaza City with greater ferocity than before . When it finally withdrew , on April 1 , the Israeli army destroyed the entire compound , leaving behind mass graves with hundreds of bodies , mostly medical staff , women and children . They even executed several patients . <p> Aside from a few statements of concern by western leaders , little was done to bring the genocide to an end . Only when seven international aid workers with the charity , the World Central Kitchen , were killed by Israel , a global outcry followed , leading to the first and only Israeli apology in the entire war . <p> Desperate to distract from its failure in Gaza , but also Lebanon , and keen on presenting the Israeli public with any kind of victory , the Israeli military began escalating its war beyond Gaza . This included the strike on the Iranian Embassy in Syria on April 1 . Despite repeated attempts , which included the assassination in Iran of the head of Hamas 's Political Bureau , Ismail Haniyeh , on July 31 , an all-out regional war has not yet come to pass . <p> Another escalation was taking place , this time not by Netanyahu but by millions of people around the world , demanding an end to the Israeli war . A focal point of the protests were student movements that spread across US campuses and , ultimately , worldwide . Instead of allowing free speech to flourish , however , America 's largest academic institutions resorted to the police , who violently shut down many of the protests , arresting hundreds of students , many of whom were not allowed to return to their colleges . <p> Meanwhile , the US continued to block international efforts aimed at producing a ceasefire resolution at the United Nations Security Council . Ultimately , on May 31 , US President Joe Biden delivered a speech conveying what he termed an " Israeli proposal " to end the war . After some delay , Hamas accepted the proposal , but Israel rejected it . In his rejection , Netanyahu referred to Biden 's speech as " incorrect " and " incomplete " . Strangely , but also unsurprisingly , the White House blamed the Palestinians for the failed initiative . <p> Losing faith in the American leadership , some European countries began changing their foreign policy doctrines on Palestine , with Ireland , Norway and Spain recognizing the State of Palestine on May 28 . The decisions were largely symbolic but indicated that western unity around Israel was faltering . <p> Israel remained unfazed and , despite international warnings , invaded the Rafah area in southern Gaza on May 7 , seizing control of the Philadelphi Corridor -- a buffer zone between Gaza and the Egyptian border that extends for 14 kilometers . <p> Netanyahu 's government insisted that only war can bring their captives back . There was very little success in that strategy , however . On June 8 , Israel , with logistical support from the US and other western countries managed to rescue four of its captives held in the Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza . To do so , Israel killed at least 276 Palestinians and wounded 800 more . <p> In August , another heart-wrenching massacre took place , this time in the Al-Tabaeen school in Gaza City , where 93 people , mostly women and children , were murdered in a single Israeli strike . According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights , women and children were the main victims of the Israeli genocide , accounting for 70 percent by November 8 . <p> An earlier report by the Lancet Medical Journal said that if the war stopped in July , " 186,000 or even more " Palestinians would have been killed . The war , however , went on . The rate of genocide in Gaza seemed to maintain the same killing ratio , despite the major regional developments including the mutual Iranian-Israeli tit-for-tat strikes and the major Israeli ground operation in Lebanon . <p> In October , Israel returned to the policies of targeting or besieging hospitals , killing doctors and other medical staff , and targeting aid and civil defense workers . Still , Israel would not achieve any of its strategic goals of the war . Even the killing of Hamas ' leader , Yahya Sinwar , in battle on October 16 would not , in any way , alter the course of the war . <p> Israel 's frustration grew by leaps and bounds throughout the year . Its desperate attempt to control the global narrative on the Gaza genocide largely failed . On July 19 , and after listening to the testimonies of over 50 countries , the ICJ issued a landmark ruling that " Israel 's continued presence in the Occupied Palestinian Territory is illegal . " <p> That ruling , which expressed international consensus on the matter , was translated on September 17 to a UN General Assembly resolution " demanding an end to Israel 's occupation of Palestine within the next twelve months " . <p> All of this effectively meant that Israel 's attempt at normalizing its occupation of Palestine , and its quest to illegally annex the West Bank was considered null and void by the international community . Israel , however , doubled down , taking its rage against West Bank Palestinians , who , too , were experiencing one of the worst Israeli pogroms in many years . <p> According to the Palestinian Health Ministry , by November 21 , at least 777 Palestinians have been killed since October 7 , 2023 , while thousands more were wounded and over 11,700 arrested . <p> To make matters worse , Smotrich called , on November 11 , for the full annexation of the West Bank . The call was made soon after the election of Donald Trump as the next US President , an event that initially inspired optimism amongst Israeli leaders , but later concerns that Trump may not serve the role of the savior for Israel after all . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> On November 21 , the ICC issued its historic ruling to arrest Netanyahu and his Defense Minister Yoav Gallant . The decision represented a measure of hope , however faint , that the world is finally ready to hold Israel accountable for its many crimes . <p> 2025 could , indeed , represent that watershed moment . This remains to be seen . However , as far as Palestinians are concerned , even with the failure of the international community to stop the genocide and reign in Israel , their steadfastness , sumoud , will remain strong until freedom is finally attained . <p> Ramzy Baroud is a journalist and the Editor of The Palestine Chronicle . He is the author of six books . His latest book , co-edited with Ilan Papp ? , is " Our Vision for Liberation : Engaged Palestinian Leaders and Intellectuals Speak out " . Dr. Baroud is a Non-resident Senior Research Fellow at the Center for Islam and Global Affairs ( CIGA ) . His website is www.ramzybaroud.net . <h> Related Posts <p> Palestinian Territory - Harrowing testimonies documenting serious crimes committed by the Israeli army against civilians during its storming of Kamal Adwan Hospital and the surrounding areas in northern Gaza were collected ... <p> Today is Vakkom Moulavi 's 151st Birth Anniversary Vakkom Moulavi ( 1873 -- 1932 ) , a visionary social reformer and intellectual from Kerala , engaged deeply with both local and global issues during the early twentieth ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
