<h> The year that was in international affairs and what to look forward to in 2025 <p> As 2024 comes to an end , there 's no denying that the year was full of developments that shook the world . From the theatres of conflict in Ukraine and West Asia to the far east ; from Donald Trump 's re-election as US President to Europe 's evolving security posture ; from developments in India 's neighbourhood to multiple elections across the globe . There were changes galore , portending more changes to come . <h> New Year Special <p> Here 's both a lookback at 2024 and what potentially awaits us in 2025 . Ukraine : The war in Ukraine saw very important shifts in momentum during the year . It 's clear that 2024 will go down as the year when Russian military technology was exposed . Notwithstanding Moscow unveiling the Oreshnik intermediate range ballistic missile -- which was really a cannibalised and re-branded version of another Russian missile -- Russia can no longer claim technical military superiority . Ukraine , meanwhile , stepped up its own defence production , including an impressive array of drones that has proved deadly on the battlefield.True , Russia has been making gains in eastern Ukraine in recent months . But those have come at a huge cost . In fact , Russia this year suffered around 4,27,000 casualties , including those killed and injured , taking overall Russian losses in the course of the full-scale war to nearly 7,90,000 . This is because Russia is making its gains through human-wave tactics , not bothering with casualties to its troops.What does 2025 hold ? All eyes on the incoming Trump presidency in the US . One can reasonably assume that US military support for Ukraine will slow in momentum in the coming year , if not fully stop . We still have no idea how Trump plans to end the war as he promised . But even Kyiv is preparing for potential negotiations to end the war on its terms . Towards that end , it will need global support for its territorial integrity , fair compensation and justice for Russian aggression , and a huge effort to rebuild Ukraine . The good thing is Ukraine has achieved subjecthood in the last two years . It can now use that to expand its global connections , reinvigorate the Ukrainian state , and build solid chains of cooperation and trade so that everyone has a stake in Ukraine 's future security . That process should begin in 2025 . <p> Israel and West Asia : The war in Gaza upended the order in West Asia this year . Hezbollah in Lebanon has taken a serious blow , Hamas in Gaza , though still fighting , is a much depleted force , Assad has been ousted in Syria , and Iran and Israel have traded blows to a status quo . Efforts are underway to end the war in Gaza , but negotiations are dragging on . But there are three clear takeaways from this conflict . First , Israel 's <p> Netanyahu has proved himself to be a political survivor through this conflict . He is like a cat with not nine but 12 lives . Heading the most right-wing government in Israel 's history , he has redrawn Israel 's red lines . However , this does n't solve Israel 's security issue . That even after 14 months of conflict Hamas is alive and kicking shows that the Palestinian group ca n't be eradicated as Netanyahu and his acolytes wish . Second , Iran 's axis of resistance has been eroded . But it too has n't gone away . The Houthis in Yemen are still firing missiles at Israel . So for long-term peace in the region , there has to be a negotiated settlement of the decades-old Israel-Palestine conflict . Without this the cycle of violence will only repeat itself . And third , Russia has taken a hit in the region as highlighted by Assad 's fall in Syria . Moscow paid the price of being bogged down in Ukraine . Hence , the longer the Ukraine war drags on , Russia is likely to lose elsewhere . Add to this unforeseen situations as with the recent downing of a civilian aircraft from Azerbaijan by Russian forces , which has strained Moscow-Baku relations . Therefore , 2025 will see the actors and stakeholders in West Asia seek a new equilibrium . And there are choices and dilemmas for each of them . Trump and China : This is another big one . Trump has threatened to slap an additional 10% tariff on Chinese imports , effectively heralding another round of trade war with global ramifications . Trump 's focus on taking on China works well with his politics and MAGA base . But the problem is his ' America First ' approach does n't even spare allies and friends . And that 's where Trump got it wrong in his first term . The tariffs against China did n't really work -- Washington 's trade deficit with Beijing only increased -- and US 's alliances came under serious strain.This time around China seems to be better prepared for Trump 's tariffs . As is EU . Strategically , China has already moved to try and mend ties with India . Nato nations , on the other hand , are boosting their own defence spends to counter any slack in American security commitments . And given the people Trump is surrounding himself with this time around , Washington could become even more unpredictable than Trump 1.0 . How Trump 2.0 pans out will be the defining feature of 2025 . The world has to buckle its seat-belt and hold on to its chair for this one.India 's neighbourhood : If New Delhi looks around its neighbourhood today , it will be clear that its ' neighbourhood first ' policy of Modi 1.0 has gone awry . Recent developments in Bangladesh have been a disaster . Pakistan remains a perennial problem . We have just about managed to rescue ties with the Maldives . Sri Lanka has a completely new dispensation , an unknown quantity . The situation in Myanmar has impacted India 's Northeast . Nepal-India relations are changing with each new dispensation in Kathmandu . And Afghanistan under Taliban has become a black hole . Surely , this is not the neighbourhood policy New Delhi had envisioned in 2014 . Thus , one foresees New Delhi trying to improve this situation in 2025 . It wo n't be easy , especially with Bangladesh which appears to be moving towards a compact with Pakistan . This in turn would mean that India has to prepare a three-front security strategy keeping in mind Pakistan , Bangladesh and China . That will be quite taxing on the state 's resources . Indian diplomacy and strategic community must rise to the challenge and fix India 's neighbourhood policy in the new year.World : What does all of this mean for the world ? Global affairs are certainly in a flux . Alliances and systems are under strain . And regional conflicts are popping up across continents . It might seem like the end of multilateralism and global cooperation . But there 's still hope . Despite all the turmoil , conflicts , negative social media and polarisation , humanity today is still in a better shape than it has ever been in human history . Technology has given us the power to reach out and connect like never before , even in the remotest parts of the world . We can empathise and help people in need . We can galvanise around important global issues that affect us all . All of these things are available to us . The reach of our digital hands is endless should we choose to use them in a positive direction . We have the tools to better humanity , stand up for universal rights and save the planet . What we need is the will . Governments will play their international cards according to their strategic interests . But we the people can do a lot of positive things on our own . That 's one lesson we should take into 2025 . Happy New Year everyone !
