<p> Hamas militants entered Israel killing approximately 1200 civilians and taking back many as hostages . <p> Photo : iStock <p> Hamas spent seven years hacking security cameras and gathering intelligence before its coordinated attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 , according to a report . During the assault , the group and its allies killed at least 1,200 people -- mostly civilians -- and kidnapped 251 . Israel 's retaliatory strikes killed over 45,000 Palestinians and displaced nearly the entire population in Gaza , as reported by the Gaza health ministry . <p> Documents seized during Israeli operations revealed that Hamas had been spying on kibbutzim ( community living areas ) , kindergartens , and health clinics for nearly 7 years . They reportedly obtained IP addresses and serial numbers of security cameras installed in the most affected areas . " We see a very , very accurate and very detailed intelligence from an army ... that collects intelligence on its targets for attack and is preparing files for attack , " said Shalom Ben Hanan , a former senior official of Israeli intelligence agency Shen Bet . <p> The operatives even had access to phone numbers of security guards stationed at the border . Reports suggest the hackers exploited civilians sharing device access codes on WhatsApp and Telegram . <p> The group tracked movements of senior Israeli officials , including Sdot Negev Regional Council 's Chief Tamir Idan and Sha'ar Hanegev Regional Council chair Ofir Libstein . Former Eshkol Regional Council head Gadi Yarkoni revealed he was a potential target but noted their information was outdated . " Apparently they had looked into this a long time ago or they did n't have new information , because I moved departments three years before ( the October 2023 attack ) , and they came to my old home , " he said . <p> Criticising the Israeli military 's preparedness , Yarkoni said , " They did n't give me any clue of any of this . I 'd be surprised if the ( Israeli military ) did n't know about it . "
