<h> Five more Palestinian detainees from Gaza Strip killed by Israel in period of 24 hours ; Euro-Med Monitor urges int'l action <h> Share : <p> Palestinian Territory -- Following the news that five more detainees from the Gaza Strip have been killed in a 24-hour period , Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor urges the United Nations to take swift action . The UN must send an international investigative mission to look into the grave crimes and violations that Palestinian prisoners and detainees endure in Israeli prisons and detention facilities . <p> Since the October 2023 start of Israel 's genocide against the Palestinian people in the Gaza Strip , the number of crimes involving premeditated killing , killing under torture , torture , ill-treatment , and enforced disappearances of Palestinian prisoners and detainees -- particularly those from the Strip -- has increased at an unprecedented rate in the prisons and detention facilities operated by the Israeli army and prison administration authorities . Given the methodical and pervasive way in which these crimes are committed in Israeli prisons and detention facilities , they can not be regarded as the isolated behaviours of individual perpetrators . <p> Three detainees from the Gaza and Northern Gaza governorates have been confirmed dead by Euro-Med Monitor . One of them , Mohammed Rashid Saeed Al-Akka ( 43 ) , was killed in the Negev Prison today ( Monday 30 December ) . He was arrested by Israeli forces in October 2023 at a military checkpoint on Salah Al-Din Street , south of Gaza City , while being forced to move from the Zeitoun neighbourhood to the southern Strip after his neighbourhood and the school-turned-shelter where he had sought safety were both destroyed . <p> The second detainee , Samir Mahmoud Al-Kahlout , was taken into custody by the Israeli army on 25 October 2024 , while he was being treated at Kamal Adwan Hospital . He died on 3 November 2024 , just nine days after being taken into custody -- the result of ongoing torture that was concealed until yesterday ( Sunday 29 December ) . <p> Ashraf Muhammad Fakhri Abd Abu Warda ( 51 ) , a resident of Jabalia , in the north of the Strip , was the third detainee . He was arrested on 20 November 2023 , while being forced to flee from Jabalia to the southern section of the Strip , and died on 29 December in Israel 's Soroka Hospital , two days after being moved from the Negev Prison to the hospital . Notably , his family has said that he had no health issues . <p> The fourth inmate was 58-year-old Zuhair Omar Al-Sharif , who had been in custody since 7 October 2023 . While he was employed in Israel , he was arrested by the occupation . Al-Sharif was married and had six children . Euro-Med Monitor notes that his family has said that he did not have any health issues . He was killed on 18 October 2023 . <p> The fifth victim was 57-year-old Muhammad Anwar Labad , who was arrested by the Israeli occupation army on 18 November 2024 , during his displacement from the north to the south alongside his family . He was married and had eight children . Before his arrest , he suffered from liver cirrhosis and diabetes . He died on 27 November 2024 . <p> The recent deaths of these detainees bring the total number of Palestinian prisoners and detainees killed in Israeli prisons and detention facilities since 7 October 2023 to over 54 , including 35 incarcerated individuals from the Gaza Strip . According to former detainees ' testimonies , the true number of victims could be more than twice as high . <p> Euro-Med Monitor stresses that , given the systematic and pervasive nature of these crimes and the complete immunity enjoyed by their perpetrators , whether at the judicial , political , military , or social levels in Israel , crimes committed in Israeli prisons and detention facilities can not be seen as isolated behaviours committed by individual " bad apples . " <p> In addition to the dozens of Palestinians who have suffered physical and psychological injuries with irreversible effects and are now disabled as a result of being subjected to one or more of the 40+ forms of torture and ill-treatment reported by survivors , dozens of prisoners and detainees in Israeli prisons have died in recent months due to harsh detention conditions , torture , and ill-treatment practices . These crimes frequently start at the time of arrest and continue throughout the investigation and detention phase , right up until the moment of release . <p> In addition to the unprecedented rise in direct and indirect killings of prisoners and detainees , the international community 's continued silence regarding the facts and documented reports of killing , torture , ill-treatment , and rape in Israeli prisons and detention centres , as well as the crime of genocide that has affected all Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and led to the killing and wounding of roughly 7% of them , has given Israel the go-ahead to continue committing these crimes and even intensify them . <p> In addition to being acts of genocide against the Palestinian people , the crimes committed by the Israeli army and other Israeli security forces against Palestinian prisoners and detainees from the Gaza Strip are also full-fledged war crimes and crimes against humanity . This is especially true given that the crimes are routinely carried out against Palestinians with the intention of destroying them as a people , including by killing them and causing them severe physical and psychological harm through torture , mistreatment , and sexual violence , including rape . <p> All nations and relevant international organisations must act swiftly and forcefully to prevent Israel 's systematic , pervasive crimes of killing , torture , and other grave violations against Palestinian prisoners and detainees to further intensify . These nations and relevant groups must also immediately and unconditionally free those who are arbitrarily detained , permit visits from qualified local and international organisations to all Israeli facilties , and allow victims to hire attorneys . <p> These crimes must be investigated by the International Criminal Court , and it is imperative that they be added to the list of charges brought against Israeli officials . <p> The UN Human Rights Council must fire Alice Gill Edwards , the Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel , inhuman , or degrading treatment or punishment , for her demonstrated inability to carry out her mandate , her bias , and her wilful failure to complete her assigned tasks , as she is clearly unable to effectively and impartially address the grave crimes that Palestinian prisoners and detainees endure . Additionally , a new Special Rapporteur must be appointed who is neutral , unbiased , and steadfastly committed to universal humanitarian principles , without discriminating against victims or aggressors based on their race , nationality , religion , or any other status . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> In order for the fact-finding and investigation committees and international courts to consider , investigate , and conduct trials regarding Israeli crimes , hold those responsible accountable , and compensate the victims in accordance with the rules of international law , the Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial , summary , or arbitrary executions , the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention , and the Working Group on Enforced or Involuntary Disappearances must perform prompt and thorough investigations into all crimes committed by the Israeli army in the Gaza Strip , communicate with the victims and their families , and submit reports on the findings to all pertinent parties . <p> Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor is a Geneva-based independent organization with regional offices across the MENA region and Europe <p> Occupied West Bank ( Quds News Network ) - Palestinian journalist Shaza al-Sabbagh was shot in the head and killed by Palestinian Authority ( P ) security forces on Saturday night during their ongoing raid ... <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
