<h> Jimmy Carter , Israel and the Apartheid Question <h> Share : <p> The late centenarian , Jimmy Carter , occupied a difficult position in the line of imperial magistrates we know as US Presidents . Coming to power in the aftermath of murderous US adventurism in Indochina and the debauching of the presidency by Richard Nixon ( " when the president does it , it means that it is not illegal " ) , he took an axe to the welfare state , nourished the strapping , dangerous creature that would become neoliberalism , and made foreign policy decisions of disastrous consequence , punctuated by such successes as normalising relations between Egypt and Israel . <p> This record was marked by the gold plating of human rights , intended as the acme of foreign policy but bound to be scratched . While Carter found it easy to niggle the Soviet Union about the mistreatment of its citizens , approaches varied depending on region and circumstance . His Central American record was more than patchy , finely characterised by aid to El Salvador 's military dictatorship . A plea penned by San Salvador archbishop ? scar Romero to Carter on February 17 , 1980 , asking that Washington cease such aid , fell on deaf ears . On March 24 , 1980 , Romero was slain during mass by gunmen trained by US personnel . <p> The subsequent period following his one term in office ( 1977-1981 ) could be seen as a lengthy phase of atonement , realised through the charitable ventures of the non-profit Carter Center and the award of the Nobel Peace Prize in 2002 . " Rejected by the voters in 1980 , " writes historian John Whiteclay Chambers II , " he was at best an average president ; yet Carter has emerged as perhaps America 's greatest ex-president with his strengths generally outweighing his weaknesses . " <p> Beyond his stint in office , the tongue worked more easily , and opinions expressed with greater ease . Over time , for instance , he frowned with matronly disapproval at Israel over its treatment of Palestinians . Having been central to creating the framework that led to the Egypt-Israel Peace Treaty of 1979 , for which he was admired by Israeli officials and diplomats , he came to be seen by critics as walking off the reservation in Palestine : Peace Not Apartheid . " Israel 's continued control and colonization of Palestinian land , " he wrote , " have been the primary obstacles to a comprehensive peace agreement in the Holy Land . " <p> The 2006 publication did what was then the unmentionable : relate two situations previously seen as non sequiturs in argument . Apartheid had been considered an exceptional racial experiment of separation imposed by a South African white supremacist government upon its non-white subjects . How could it be said that an enlightened Israel could be doing the same thing to its Palestinian subjects , especially in the West Bank ? From Carter 's viewpoint , such features as the building of the West Bank wall , ongoing expansion of Israel 's illegal settlements on occupied Palestinian territory , onerous impositions on Palestinian movement and the denial of direct access points , and the saturating presence of military checkpoints , yielded a clear enough answer . <p> From the groves of academe to chat shows and the think tank circuit , reaction to this prescient , albeit uneven work , was one of hysteria . A review in the Mediterranean Quarterly , to take one example of academic tittering , dismisses the use of " apartheid " as merely " one of the current themes of the anti-Israel propaganda machine . " <p> Fourteen members of the Carter Center advisory board resigned in a huff . " It seems you have turned to a world of advocacy , even malicious advocacy , " they scoldingly wrote in a letter to the former president . " We can no longer endorse your strident and uncompromising position . " <p> Deborah Lipstadt , currently President Joe Biden 's Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Antisemitism , condescendingly wrote that the book " ignores a legacy of mistreatment , expulsion and murder committed against Jews . It trivialises the murder of Israelis . " It wallowed in the Palestinian refugee experience , yet only made " two fleeting references to the Holocaust . " <p> The Holocaust , as with so many apologists for Israeli policies , is the crutch and excuse for bad behaviour . Privileged victimhood comes with its perks . If criticism is made of this credo , then the person must be antisemitic . Ditto if that same person makes any reference to funding lobbies and publicity relations attempting to silence dissent from the glossy Israeli narrative . This latter point was frequently made by the Anti-Defamation League , which attacked Carter 's book for propagating " myths like Jewish control of the government and media . " <p> Lipstadt 's reasoning is telling and finds hideous form in Israel 's current defence of its brutal policies against the Palestinians of Gaza and the West Bank . Before the International Court of Justice defending its position against claims of genocide made by South Africa , Israel 's legal representatives reasoned , in essence , that the country 's retaliation for being attacked on October 7 , 2023 by Hamas negated any accusation that its military methods could ever be genocidal . The shadow of the Holocaust was cast so long , it could exonerate the current practices that have left over 45,000 Palestinians dead and the processes of displacement and destruction more vigorous than ever . <p> Whatever the faults of his book , Carter 's overall sense that apartheid 's symptoms were present has stormed the citadels of legal and human rights debate . In this year 's advisory opinionsought by the UN General Assembly in 2023 , the ICJ found that the Israeli settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem , along with " the regime associated with them , have been established and are being maintained in violation of international law . " <p> This involved policies and practices of imposed separation between the Palestinian populace and Israeli settlers that had been " transferred " into the territories . Such a regime was physical and juridical , breaching Article 3 of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination ( CERD ) . The Convention expressly condemns both racial segregation and apartheid , with state parties undertaking to prevent , prohibit and eradicate such practices in territories under their control . <p> In Israel , the human rights activist organisation B'Tselem has explicitly accepted the premise , but gone further than Carter , whose concerns of developing apartheid only extended to Israeli treatment of Palestinians in the occupied territories . " The Israeli regime enacts in all the territory it controls ( Israeli sovereign territory , East Jerusalem , the West Bank , and the Gaza Strip ) an apartheid regime . " <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> In his last days , Carter did witness a change of heart from some former critics . Steve Berman , one of the resignations from the Carter Center in response to the book , opined in Forward that America 's Jewry " should apologize to Jimmy Carter , and thank him for everything he has done for us and the world . " Over time , Berman " came to realize that the Jewish state was indeed burying its head in the sand . Israel was not facing the demographic realities , and was fast becoming a state that could not be both democratic and Jewish . " He pondered Carter 's warning that Israel 's future lay in apartheid if its " leadership kept ignoring the general direction of the country . " How tides can change . <p> Dr. Binoy Kampmark was a Commonwealth Scholar at Selwyn College , Cambridge . He currently lectures at RMIT University . Email : email protected <h> Support Countercurrents <p> Countercurrents.org is on annual fundraising drive . CC is 100% reader supported . Kindly lend your helping hand to keep CC alive . Do n't wait for others to do the job for you . Please chip in with whatever you can .
