<p> There were many moments in the Georgia Democrat 's almost 14-minute speech that stuck out , but his warning about the Republican assault on voting rights resonated with me the most . It was a reminder , to anyone who needed it , that the GOP 's election subversion efforts surrounding Jan. 6 , 2021 , never actually ceased -- and that Georgians know this firsthand . <p> The day after my Jan. 5 election , Donald Trump instigated an insurrection . A violent assault on our nation 's capital and the peaceful transfer of power . All driven by the ' big lie . ' But behind the ' big lie ' was an even bigger lie . It is the lie that this increasingly diverse American electorate does not get to determine the future of this country . The lie and the logic of Jan. 6 is a sickness . It is a kind of cancer that then metastasized into dozens of voter suppression laws all across our country . And we must be vigilant tonight because these antidemocratic forces are at work right now in Georgia and all across our country , and the question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Donald Trump 's 2020 loss in Georgia , and his failed pressure campaign seeking to overturn the results , Georgia Republicans have instituted some of the strictest voter suppression measures in the nation . Along with that , as my colleague Lisa Rubin wrote for MaddowBlog on Tuesday , Trump loyalists who make up the majority of the Georgia State Election Board have disturbingly altered the electoral process in ways that will make it easier for right-wing election officials to delay certifying local election results should Trump lose in November . <p> Warnock 's warning sounded similar to things I 've heard and read from Georgia activists who have cautioned Democrats not to lose sight of the right-wing assault on voting rights and fair elections , even as the palpable vigor surrounding the Harris-Walz campaign and recent polling data have Democrats feeling better about their prospects for winning the state . <p> Georgia , after all , has become a testing ground for some of the Republican Party 's most illiberal experiments , as they try to grease the skids for Republican victories in November . It 's safe to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if polling data continues to show Vice President Kamala Harris with more support than Trump has in the state . And several states have followed in Georgia 's footsteps , passing a host of revanchist voter suppression policies of their own . <p> So I appreciated the senator 's balanced tone in his speech . He energized listeners with talk about all the things a Harris presidency might be able to achieve , such as expanded health care access , improved child care , reproductive rights and peace for children in Israel and the Gaza Strip . But he reminded them of the obstacles -- dubious , right-wing laws -- they 'll need to overcome to give Harris a chance . The Harris-Walz campaign seems to understand this , given recent reports that it has been staffing up its legal team to combat any election chicanery Republicans may try . And that 's good news . Because , as Warnock alluded , officers indeed quelled a violent insurrection Jan. 6 , 2021 . But the right-wing assault on democracy has n't died down since then .
