<p> The United States is said to have offered Israel " sensitive intelligence " on the whereabouts of senior Hamas leaders if it agrees to hold off on a long-promised military assault in Gaza 's southernmost city of Rafah . <p> Washington " is offering Israel valuable help if it holds back , including sensitive intelligence to help the Israeli military pinpoint the location of Hamas leaders and find the group 's hidden tunnels , " The Washington Post reported , quoting four unnamed sources . It has also offered to help put up large tent encampments for Palestinians evacuated from Rafah and to help in building infrastructure to provide humanitarian aid . <p> This report came after The Times of Israel on Friday reported that Sinwar is not hiding in Rafah , citing recent intelligence assessments that placed the Hamas leader in underground tunnels in the Khan Younis area . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has pledged to launch a major offensive in Rafah for months , arguing that the operation is essential for defeating Hamas , which has four of its remaining six active battalions located in the city . <p> On Friday , the White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a wide-scale military operation in the population centers the crowded city of the sort that Washington warned would lead him to halt weapons shipments to Israel . Last week , US President Joe Biden already withheld a shipment of high payload bombs amid fears they 'd be used in Rafah . <p> Israel 's security cabinet voted on Thursday to approve a measured expansion of the Rafah operation in what is aimed to remain within the scope of what Washington is willing to accept . The war in Gaza erupted with Hamas 's October 7 massacre , when Hamas members burst across the border into Israel by land , air and sea , killing some 1,200 people and seizing 252 hostages . Promising to eliminate Hamas , Israel launched a wide-scale military campaign in Gaza . Health authorities in Gaza say almost 35,000 people have been killed in the ensuing war . The IDF says it has killed over 13,000 operatives in Gaza .
