<h> Editorial : Boost to Palestinian cause <p> The overwhelming support at the United Nations for Palestine to become a full member of the world body is a heartening development in the long fight for justice to the troubled region . India too has joined an overwhelming number of nations in passing a resolution at the UN General Assembly ( UNGA ) in support of the Palestinian bid to become a full member -- a move that would effectively recognise a Palestinian state after the United States vetoed it at the UN Security Council last month . The resolution recommended that the Security Council " reconsider " the matter " favourably " . The 193-member UN Assembly adopted a resolution with 143 votes in favour and nine against -- including America and Israel -- while 25 countries abstained . The move signalled Israel 's growing global isolation amid alarm over the war in Gaza and the resultant humanitarian crisis . The development means that new privileges will be granted to the Palestinian Authority in its current capacity as a non-member observer state . The Palestinian state will no longer be on the fringes . It will be seated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and amendments . Palestinian representatives can also be elected as officers in the plenary and main committees of the UNGA . However , they will not have voting rights . This move is of immense symbolic value , but it does not alleviate the prolonged suffering of the Palestinian people . <p> The grant of full membership to Palestine should take place along with a ceasefire , a big increase in humanitarian aid , and the safe return of Israeli hostages . The international community , especially the Global South , can not afford the blowback that is emerging from the recurring bouts of conflict in the region . With its university campuses in turmoil , America should see which way the wind is blowing domestically as well . The Palestinian push for full UN membership comes nearly seven months into the war between Israel and Palestinian militants Hamas in the Gaza Strip , and as Israel is expanding settlements in the occupied West Bank , which the UN considers to be illegal . On its part , India has steadfastly stuck to its stand in favour of a two-state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condemned any terrorist attack , including the October 7 attack by Hamas , it has also called for a homeland for Palestinians . Irrespective of the nature of political dispensation at the Centre , India has always supported a negotiated two-state solution towards the establishment of a sovereign , independent and viable state of Palestine within secure and recognised borders , living side by side in peace with Israel . The situation in the Palestinian territories continues to be grim with over 34,000 people being killed since Israel launched its retaliatory military operation in response to the Hamas attack .
