<h> Editorial : Iran after Raisi <p> The sudden death of Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi in a helicopter crash is expected to exacerbate the tensions in an already volatile region following the recent tit-for-tat exchange of drone and missile strikes with the long-time foe Israel . The tragic end to Raisi 's career , marked by a brutal crackdown on anti-government protests , mass executions of regime opponents and strict implementation of dress code for women , is also bound to deepen the internal turmoil and trigger a succession battle in a country run by the ultra-conservative clerics . Raisi , a hardliner who became the President in 2021 , was widely seen as a contender to succeed the country 's ailing supreme spiritual leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei but faced internal opposition . Iranian law stipulates that if the President , who is number two in the hierarchy after the supreme leader , dies , power is transferred to the first Vice President and an election must be called within six months . Mohammad Mokhber , also a conservative politician who has been blamed in the past for Iran 's economic woes , has been chosen as the interim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has tried to reassure the shocked Iranians that there would be no disruption to state affairs , the potential power struggle within Iran will be keenly watched by the rest of the world , including India . The internal power struggle in the coming days could impact everything , be it the war in the Middle East or the price of oil . <p> Whoever assumes Raisi 's mantle inherits limited levers of power because the ultimate decision-making authority in the Islamic Republic lies with the Supreme Leader . Foreign policy , especially in the region , is the preserve of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ( IRGC ) who wield growing power . The potential successors include Sayyid Mojtaba Hosseini , the son of Khamenei . Given Iran 's growing importance in the geopolitics of the Middle East , its unrealised economic potential and the growing fragility of Khamenei , who has ruled Iran since 1989 , the international community would watch with keen interest the supreme leader 's next steps . Even though Khamenei has the final say on foreign policy and Iran 's nuclear programme , age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs younger leaders to steer the country out of myriad challenges . Raisi 's death comes weeks after Iran and Israel were involved in a direct confrontation . Iran has also been in the crosshairs of Israel over its support to Hamas , whose October 7 attack prompted a fierce Israeli retaliation that has ravaged Gaza . Tehran has been on American and Israeli scanners for decades for secretly enriching uranium to manufacture nuclear weapons . Israel has been trying to sabotage the alleged Iranian military nuclear weapons programme . Iranian nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh , who was working on the country 's nuclear programme , was assassinated near Tehran in 2020 . The Israeli government neither confirmed nor denied its involvement in the attack .
