<h> Hypocritical approach of International Community on atrocities <p> India and Pakistan have witnessed nearly 7 decades of military conflicts , border skirmishes with an undulating bilateral ties based on hate and rivalry . But more concerning is the position of minorities in Pakistan and POJK ( Pakistan Occupied Jammu and Kashmir ) . POJK residents are certainly passing through a significant turmoil with evident disparities in their standard of living aggravated by violent suppression of protests by Pakistani security forces . The violent uprisings in the POJK , euphemestically called the Azad Jammu and Kashmir by Pakistan , has left Pakistan in awe and shock . Whole of POJK is on the edge of with educational institutions closed , mobile and internet services snapped.The situation got quite alarming , further fueled by preemptive arrests of local leaders of POJK by Pakistani Police and Rangers in order to prevent the long march to the regional capital Muzaffarabad on 11th May 2024 . The indiscriminate firing by Pakistani rangers on peaceful demonstrators killed nearly half a dozen people and injured hundreds in different districts of POJK . But ironically , the Pak media and western media crusading against India 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atrocities . The current insurrection in POJK was fueled by widespread discontent over the basic existential issues and failure of the Pak Government to address these . Glaring examples being exorbitant high electricity bills from Kashmiris residing in POJK even though the electricity is produced in that region . The consequential frustration and desperation amongst the protesters resulting out of bias has led to total jeopardy . But ironically , in order to truly introspect into this , we need to dig deeper into the pages of history . In the erstwhile , undivided India , Pak Government , its Deep State , ISI &amp; Pakistani army had an eye on erstwhile princely State of Jammu &amp; Kashmir even though the then Maharaja Hari Singh of princely state had merged with Indian union through Instrument of accession signed on 26th October 1947 . Therefore , this POJK remained like an eerie injecture in the eyes of Pakistan . The Pakistanis were always in the mission of dominating the area and tried various permutations and combinations to have direct control on POJK . The administrative structure of the area consisting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Neelam valley Jhelumn valley Bagh Rawalakote , Haveli , Sudhnuti and three divisions namely Muzaffarabad , Poonch and Mirpur . The then Pakistani authorities established a government of state on 24 October 1947 that worked like a war council . The rules of basics were framed under which the authority was vested with President . The system , prevailed from 1947 to 1960 , the person holding the confidence of working committee of Muslim Conference was nominated as President of POJK . In 1960 , the Presidential election system through votes of basic democrats was introduced in which the POJK ( So called Azad Jammu and Kashmir council ) was formed . This council , which consists of 12 members elected by people of POJK and 12 from the refugees of erstwhile princely state of Jammu and Kashmir settled in Pakistan . In 1969 , a caretaker Government was inducted in the office . The major constitutional changes came in 1970 , where the system of adult franchise was adopted . The recurrent meddling was facilitated by POJK 's constitutional arrangement with Islamabad under the so-called Azad Jammu and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for region 's nominal self-governance , but its section 56 nullifies everything by providing blanket powers to Pakistani authorities to dismiss any elective government in POJK irrespective of support it enjoys in assembly . As per Human Rights watch report on POJK corps commander of Murree ironically summons the POJK President , Prime Minister and Local Government officials at regular intervals to outline military strategy and governance issues in the so-called autonomous region of POJK . This region has long been ignored , exploited , and looted and by Pak military dictatorship and successive governments . Total deliberate ignorance towards this region has resulted in total dearth of basic amenities and essential infrastructure like mobile connectivity , roads , health care and education . In fact , Pak . Government 's failure to address the basic needs of Kashmiris residing in POJK is not just a matter of poor governance but also a reflection of its colonial approach towards POJK ( so called autonomous region ) residents . This is not the first time , Pak army , its deep state and ISI engineered atrocities on Kashmiris residing in POJK @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against women , girls and men.The glaring example in history is the Infamous rape of Kashmiri women in Baramulla . In the year 1947 by Pakistani army in disguise of tribal invaders . Besides in Mirpur , after looting the bounty of cash , jewellery , the Hindu women were subjected to torture , rape and sold in brothels in Pak 's Rawalpindi area . Nearly 400 of them jumped into well to protect their honour . After illegally occupying the area of PoJK complete Hindu population was wiped out from the region . As per latest census report , there are nearly 100% Muslims in the area.Further Pak army and ISI has also committed atrocities in Balochistan . Their natural resources are looted . Besides the cases of forced disappearance and extra judicial killings in Balochistan are examples of gruesome acts . Moreover , the interference of the Pak army , its ISI and deep state along with terrorist organizations facilitating and fomenting trouble in the neighboring countries including India is also seen . In Jammu and Kashmir Pak army and ISI is pushing terrorists to achieve their ulterior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ top on their agenda . But more disheartening is the jingoistic and hypocritical approach by the international organizations and media towards all this wherein dreaded terrorists are protected by a nation by exercising Veto power in United Nation Security Council . The International community has adopted a deaf and dumb approach towards all this . The atrocities in POJK are overlooked whereas so called traders of peace promulgating and advocating the voice of terrorist incidents in Jammu and Kashmir . Even the so called preachers and leaders of particular community in India chose to remain mum rather than uttering words or condemning the attack on peaceful demonstrators in POJK . Beyond doubt it is evident , any act by India in Kashmir , on the same lines as in POJK would have garnered large scale hue and cry at international level including United Nation Security Council . This selective outrage by the international community is just not limited to our region but also was seen towards the Israel attack in Gaza . Moreso , the way the Muslim majority nations have shown solidarity with Palestinian people but have not shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Uyghurs Turkic Muslims in Xingjiang province clearly endorses the hypocrtical perceptions . Such examples are manifold in the world where nations have adopted coercion approach to influence the decisions of human right organisations.Even appeals of Secretary General of the United Nation Antonio Guterres for implementing decision of United Nation are not adhered to because of the influence and self interest of powerful nations . This precarious situation needs to be addressed with utmost sincerity in the interest of humanity around the globe . Hence the double standard approach adopted by international community needs to be shed off . These organizations need to have a balanced view on atrocities committed by nations on their own people . In fact human right cries do not arise from nowhere . The Government that fails to their legal obligations to protect human rights at home sow the seeds of discontent , instability and ultimately crisis . Left unchecked , the egregious actions of abusive government escalates cementing the belief that corruption , censorship , impunity and violence are the most effective ways to achieve their aims.Ignoring human rights violations carries a heavy cost and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opinion that in coming decades dynamics of the world will be subject to rapid alterations.Though it may be difficult to predict now , but looking at present situation one thing is sure that the world is undergoing transition from uni polar to multi polar system . In this paradigm shift the technology will have dominating role to play . Moreover , it will not remain the monopoly of few nations The countries possessing Revolutionary Technology with clear long term vision will not only emerge as important global players but also play major role in handling global issues . Therefore it is high time that the present leadership of nations around the globe should look into the atrocities committed by rogue nations toward their people seriously without any prejudice and evolve suitable strategy to deal with it so that no injustice is done with world community .
