<h> Assad 's fall after 24-year rule in Syria risks more Middle East chaos <p> AS Bashar Al-Assad fled to Moscow , the looters started raiding the presidential palace and people took the streets of Damascus to celebrate his demise . The Syrian president had tried to hang on until the bitter end , still desperately sending an SOS to anyone who would listen , including Donald Trump . The despot had run out of road . <p> The world is still grasping the speed of events in recent days , and the collapse of a ruling dynasty that laid waste to the country during a catastrophic civil war . But the implications are also quickly sinking in -- and not least the prospect of more upheaval and violence as groups tussle for control . <p> Assad had managed to endure the popular uprising against him for more than 13 years . But the message from his one-time allies and foes was clear : You 're on your own . Russia , which had saved his skin back in 2015 , only offered him sanctuary this time . Iran turned its back on him by saying in not so many words that he had brought it all on himself . <p> Multiple Arab and US officials told Bloomberg that a power vacuum could now be dangerous . Memories of Muammar Qaddafi 's Libya and Saddam Hussein in Iraq loom large in the region : In both countries , those entrenched rulers were swept aside in brief moments of euphoria , only for the countries to descend into deeper turmoil . <p> " Chaos is expected in transitions and so is factional -- even bloody -- competition , " said Bader Al-Saif , an assistant professor at Kuwait University and an associate fellow at Chatham House . " Syria has not been its normal self for over a decade now , divided into enclaves and spheres of influence on top of socioeconomic and political decay . " <p> The onset of Syria 's conflict in 2011 displaced millions of people , sparking a migrant crisis that still reverberates in European politics today . Its Middle East neighbors , meanwhile , are already grappling with the fallout from Israel 's war against Hamas in Gaza and fighting with Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> Russia has military bases in Syria and will seek to protect its interests . But the Kremlin is occupied by its war in Ukraine . Iran , which has traded direct attacks with Israel in recent months , is also weakened . Arab officials , though , do n't expect the Islamic Republic to give up its influence in Syria without a fight . <p> The pace of the events that unseated Assad after more than 50 years of his family in power was stunning . A little over a week ago , his survival seemed almost a foregone conclusion . Then insurgents led by the Islamist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham captured the crucial cities of Aleppo and Hama , before closing in on Homs and Damascus , the capital . <p> On Sunday morning , rebels seized control of the television station and hailed the " fall of the criminal Assad regime . " Assad decided to step down and left the country , Russia 's foreign ministry later said . <p> The rebel advance unwound a stalemate in Syria , which had seen Assad 's forces backed by Moscow and Tehran claw back control of most of the country , with the exception of a rebel stronghold in the northwest and a Kurdish stronghold in the northeast . <p> It unleashed a political situation in which much remains uncertain -- not least the nature of the new government forming in Damascus . It 's also unclear whether that leadership will be able to govern the war-torn country at all . <p> The mood reflected those concerns on Sunday night as a curfew was imposed and several buildings housing security agencies and the passport and immigration authority were consumed by flames , with locals speculating about Israeli strikes . <p> " The fear today is that all the factions are united against one enemy but they will eventually be consumed by infighting , " said Bahjat Hajjar , co-founder of an NGO called Madaniya who fled Damascus shortly after 2011 due to his opposition to the Assads . <p> Speaking at a conference in Bahrain on Sunday Anwar Gargash , adviser to United Arab Emirates President Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed , warned of threats to Syria 's territorial integrity , an ongoing " spiral of chaos and violence " in the Arab world , and the prospect of " extremism and terrorism . " Saudi Arabia , which is involved in efforts to shape the transition period in Syria , issued a statement on Sunday warning against " chaos and division . " <p> US President-elect Trump , meanwhile , made one thing clear : America wo n't intervene to stop that from happening . In a post on social media platform X on Saturday , Trump wrote , " Syria is a mess , but is not our friend . " <p> The US designates the rebel group HTS , which formed an alliance with al-Qaeda more than a decade ago , a terrorist organization . HTS has since sought to project itself as a force for unity , but many US and Middle Eastern officials are doubtful . <p> " The guys who are taking over are terrorists , but they 're sending some interesting messaging , " said Jason Greenblatt , a former Middle East envoy in Trump 's first administration . " If they realize Trump means business and is not going to tolerate that and is hopefully going to galvanize the region to fight against terrorism , they ought to figure out a way to comply . " <p> Still , the risks and opportunities presented by an unstable Syria have drawn in myriad foreign powers since 2011 and look likely to continue to do so . More than a decade of conflict has left between 300,000 to 500,000 people dead , decimated cities and pushed much of its population into poverty . The World Bank has estimated that Syria 's economy shrank by more than a half by 2020 from its prewar level of around $60 billion . <p> According to UNDP data , employment rose to nearly 50 percent as of 2020 and Syria 's human development index rolled back 35 years because of faltering education and health services . There were reports of looting following the declaration that Assad 's government had fallen . <p> Turkey is likely to seek to capitalize on opportunities created by Assad 's fall after 24 years to repatriate the millions of Syrian refugees living in Turkey . To that end , Ankara has urged a peaceful transition of power . <p> " We 've been working for the stability of Syria for a long time -- we are familiar with the actors , " Turkish foreign minister Hakan Fidan told media at a forum in Doha on Sunday . " We have to work together with Syrian people , not only Turkey but also regional actors , the international actors , to make sure that there is a good and smooth transition period . " <p> In another development , Israeli ground forces overtly crossed into Syrian territory for the first time since the 1973 October War , the New York Times reported , citing two Israeli officials . <p> That 's as Iran finds itself on the defensive . The same goes for Russia , which is now needed to preserve some stability without Assad , according to Elena Suponina , a Moscow-based Middle East expert . <p> " Syrian euphoria could help engender the kind of unity we need to see , " said Charles Lister , senior fellow and director of the Syria Program at the Middle East Institute . " But after 14 years of ferocious conflict and division , the hill ahead is steep . " With assistance from Onur Ant /Bloomberg
