<h> Israel 's Smotrich says Trump offers chance to overthrow Iran <p> Bezalel Smotrich , Israel 's finance minister and inner security cabinet member , said the inauguration of Donald Trump next month offers Israel a chance to pursue several strategic goals : overthrow the government of Iran , prevent the establishment of a Palestinian state , and stop the rebuilding of Lebanese villages along Israel 's border . <p> " We need to deal with the octopus head and eliminate the Iranian regime , " he said in an interview with Bloomberg , his first with an international news organization since taking office nearly two years ago . " We should join hands on this with the new Trump administration . The Western world can not afford a dictatorial regime which strives for nuclear weapons and threatens to destroy it . " <p> It 's unclear whether Trump would back such a move , especially if it entailed US military action . For all that the former president is staunchly pro-Israel and tightened sanctions against Tehran in his first term , his team has said he wo n't seek the Iranian government 's overthrow and will avoid another Middle Eastern war . <p> The interview took place before the fall of the Assad regime in Syria . Asked by phone on Monday about that , Smotrich said it should inspire the Iranian people to rise up and overthrow their government . <p> " My message to the Iranians is : break the barrier of fear , " he said . He went on to say , " The alternative is a war that will leave Israel no choice but to crush the Iranian economy , including the oil and energy facilities . " <p> While Smotrich is a key player in the government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , he 's more hawkish than the premier who has n't made such a threat . <p> On Israel 's $525-billion economy , Smotrich was bullish . Fourteen months into the war triggered by Hamas 's October 7 attacks , he said Israel 's economy remains strong , beyond expectations . He pushed back against other projections that 2025 wo n't reflect a robust rebound . <p> A West Bank settler who chairs the National Zionism party , Smotrich , 44 , is often paired with Itamar Ben Gvir as the religious nationalist anchors of Netanyahu 's coalition . He holds eight seats in parliament , enough to topple the government if he chooses . <p> Over 90 minutes last week in his defense ministry office -- he holds a second title as a minister there and oversees Jewish settlements in the West Bank -- Smotrich said the incoming Trump administration " understands the obligation to ensure the future existence of Israel " and that involves scrapping the idea of a two-state solution for Israelis and Palestinians . Trump himself has n't spoken about this recently and his likely approach is being fiercely debated . <p> A Palestinian state , he said , is not in the cards even as part of a normalization deal between Israel and Saudi Arabia . " If that 's a deal breaker , the deal will sink , " he said . <p> While Smotrich and Netanyahu 's differ on some things , they share a hawkish rejection of Palestinian statehood , as does a majority of the Israeli electorate since October 7 , 2023 . <p> Saudi Arabia and Israel were close to a US-led agreement before the war in Gaza . Since then , the kingdom 's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has said he wo n't recognize Israel unless it takes steps toward accepting Palestinian statehood . <p> On a ceasefire in Gaza , Smotrich , like Netanyahu , said Israel should n't allow the Palestinian Authority -- a secular rival to Hamas which runs parts of the West Bank -- to take control of any part of Gaza once fighting ends . And that , they agree , wo n't happen until Israel has destroyed Hamas as a governing body . <p> But even then , Smotrich says , " Israel will stay in Gaza for many years to assure its security just as we do in the West Bank . " Where Netanyahu stands on that is unclear . <p> Hamas killed 1,200 people and took 250 hostage when its fighters raided southern Israeli communities and a music festival . Israel 's subsequent air and ground offensive has killed more than 44,000 people , according to Gaza 's Hamas-run health ministry . <p> Discussing the ceasefire in Lebanon , which is now in the second week of a 60-day transition period , Smotrich said Israel will work to convince its allies to impose a ban on the rebuilding of houses destroyed in Lebanese villages along the border . <p> " The agreement says that Hezbollah ca n't rebuild its military infrastructure and that 's the reason we destroyed those houses , " he says . " Any structure used to conceal a tunnel shaft , a bunker or a missile is military infrastructure . " <p> As finance minister , Smotrich last week submitted the 2025 budget to Parliament for final approval . It totals 619 billion shekels with the largest outlay , 107 billion , being defense spending . That 's like last year but almost 70 percent higher than before the war . <p> To allow for this , a package of fiscal adjustments totaling around 37 billion shekels ( almost 2 percent of GDP ) , was put together and needs to be approved alongside the budget . It 's comprised mostly of higher taxes and curbs on civilian expenditures and Smotrich expressed confidence they 'd be approved . <p> " It 's important to me that our partners , investors in Israel and abroad , know our hands are firmly on the wheel , " he said . <p> Many outside are skeptical . The International Monetary Fund as well as banks and rating agencies project a higher deficit next year and a much lower growth projection than the finance ministry 's . <p> " They are misreading the Israeli economy , " insisted Smotrich . He noted that the shekel has strengthened by around 8 percent against the dollar as of Friday since the war started , making it the best performer in a basket of expanded major currencies tracked by Bloomberg . <p> He also noted that the stock market is doing well . This became apparent in the last few months , especially once a Lebanon ceasefire looked likely . Hi-tech funding in October came to $9 billion year-on-year , fourth only to Silicon Valley , New York City and Boston . <p> " The economy 's working much better than might have been expected , " he argued . <p> He said that the 160,000 Palestinian workers in Israel banned after the Hamas attack would n't be returning despite the view of many , including Israel 's central bank governor , Amir Yaron , that they should . In fact , it 's precisely because the economy needs such workers that some are skeptical of a very strong rebound . <p> " It will be a difficult year or two but eventually the construction sector will emerge with better building technologies and productivity , " he said . Bloomberg
