<h> Netanyahu set to take the witness stand in corruption trial amidst Gaza conflict <p> JERUSALEM -- Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is set to take to the witness stand Tuesday for the first time in his trial on corruption allegations , a pivotal point in the drawn-out proceedings that comes as the leader wages war in Gaza and faces an international arrest warrant for war crimes charges . <p> At home , Netanyahu is on trial for accusations of fraud , breach of trust and accepting bribes in three separate affairs . Netanyahu denies wrongdoing , but his appearance on the witness stand will be a low point in his decades-long political career , standing in contrast to the image of a sophisticated , respected leader he has tried to cultivate . <p> The trial will take up a chunk of Netanyahu 's time at a crucial point for Israel . While he makes his case for weeks from the stand , he will still be tasked with managing the war in Gaza , maintaining a fragile ceasefire with the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah and keeping tabs on threats from the wider Middle East , including Iran . <p> It will be the first time an Israeli prime minister has taken the stand as a criminal defendant , and Netanyahu has repeatedly sought to delay the proceedings , citing the ongoing Gaza war and security concerns . The judges ordered the trial to resume Tuesday , moving the proceedings to an underground chamber in a Tel Aviv court as a security precaution . <p> Netanyahu 's appearance in the courtroom will also draw attention to other legal issues in the Israeli leader 's orbit . Close advisers in his office are embroiled in a separate series of scandals surrounding leaked classified information and doctored documents . While Netanyahu is not suspected of direct involvement in those , they could weaken his public image . <p> Here is a look at the ongoing trial . <p> Where does Netanyahu 's trial stand ? <p> The trial , which began in 2020 , involves three separate cases in which prosecutors say Netanyahu exchanged regulatory favors with media titans for favorable press coverage and advanced the personal interests of a billionaire Hollywood producer in exchange for lavish gifts . <p> Prosecutors have called roughly 140 witnesses to the stand -- fewer than the 300 initially expected to testify . <p> Those witnesses have included some of Netanyahu 's closest former confidants who turned against him , as well as a former prime minister , former security chiefs and media personalities . Lawyers have submitted thousands of items of evidence -- recordings , police documents , text messages . <p> A new documentary , " The Bibi Files , " has shined new light on the cases by obtaining footage of Netanyahu being questioned by police , as well as interrogations of his wife and some key witnesses . In a glimpse of what can be expected in the courtroom , Netanyahu appears both combative and anxious at times , accusing police of unfairly picking on him and denigrating other witnesses as liars . <p> The prosecution called to the stand its final witness over the summer , bringing to an end three years of testimony and setting the stage for the defense to lay out its case , with Netanyahu its first witness . Netanyahu 's appearance will give Israelis a chance to see the long-serving Israeli leader answer to the charges before the three-judge panel . <p> What are some notable moments from Netanyahu 's trial ? <p> The prosecution has sought to portray Netanyahu as media-obsessed , to push its narrative that he would break the law for favorable coverage . <p> Witness accounts have shed light not only on the three cases but also on sensational details about Netanyahu 's character and his family 's reputation for living lavishly on the backs of taxpayers and wealthy supporters . <p> One former aide and a key prosecution witness called him a " control freak " over his image . Another witness described expensive gifts for Netanyahu and his wife . <p> Arnon Milchan , an Israeli producer of Hollywood blockbuster films such as " Pretty Woman , " took the stand last year by videoconference , describing how he routinely delivered tens of thousands of dollars of champagne , cigars and other gifts requested by the Israeli leader . <p> One key witness , a former top aide to Netanyahu , stunned prosecutors by backtracking from his earlier claims against the prime minister , opening the door for the defense to erode his credibility as a witness . The trial was jolted by Israeli media reports that police used sophisticated phone-hacking software to spy on this witness . <p> What happens next in Netanyahu 's trial ? <p> The prosecution formally rested its case in July , and the court recessed for the summer and fall . The defense has repeatedly asked for delays in Netanyahu 's testimony , which have mostly been denied . <p> Like other witnesses , Netanyahu will testify three days a week , for hours at a time , and his testimony is expected to last weeks . The defense will seek to depict Netanyahu as a law-abiding leader who was a victim of careless and biased police investigations . <p> Netanyahu 's critics have sought to draw a clear line between the cases and the war in Gaza . They say the allegations led Netanyahu to promote a contentious judicial overhaul plan last year that bitterly divided the country and created an image of weakness that encouraged the Oct. 7 Hamas attack that triggered the war . <p> Netanyahu 's critics , including families of hostages held by Hamas , now accuse him of dragging out the conflict -- and risking the lives of their loved ones -- to avoid an embarrassing investigation and new elections that could force him from power . <p> If he is eventually voted out of power , being away from the prime minister 's seat would make it harder for Netanyahu to rail against the justice system and delegitimize the verdict in the eyes of the public . <p> A verdict is n't expected until 2026 -- at least -- and then Netanyahu can choose to appeal to the Supreme Court . Israel 's courts are notoriously sluggish , and the case was further delayed last year when courts went on hiatus for two months after war broke out following Hamas ' October 7 attack . <p> Once the defense rests , each side will summarize their cases before judges convene to deliberate over Netanyahu 's fate .
