<p> French President Emmanuel Macron , left , hugs President-elect Donald Trump as he arrives at the Elysee Palace on Saturday , Dec. 7 , 2024 in Paris . <p> NEW YORK -- He 's making threats , traveling abroad and negotiating with world leaders . <p> Donald Trump has more than a month and a half to go before he 's sworn in for a second term . But the Republican president-elect is already moving aggressively not just to fill his Cabinet and outline policy goals , but also to achieve them . <p> Trump has threatened to impose a 25% tariff on goods from Canada and Mexico , prompting emergency calls and a visit from Canada 's prime minister that resulted in what Trump claimed were commitments from both US allies on new border security measures . <p> The incoming president has warned there will be " ALL HELL TO PAY " if Hamas does not release the hostages being held in Gaza before his inauguration on Jan. 20 , 2025 . <p> And this weekend , Trump returned to the global stage , joining a host of other foreign leaders for the reopening of the Notre Dame Cathedral five years after it was ravaged by a fire . There , he was welcomed like a sitting dignitary , with a prime seat next to French President Emmanuel Macron . <p> Absent in Paris : lame duck President Joe Biden , who has largely disappeared from headlines , except when he issued a pardon of his son , Hunter , who was facing sentencing for gun crimes and tax evasion . First lady Jill Biden attended in his place . <p> " I think you have seen more happen in the last two weeks than you 've seen in the last four years . And we 're not even there yet , " Trump said in an over-the-top boast at an awards ceremony Thursday night . <p> For all of Trump 's bold talk , though , it is unclear how many of his efforts will bear fruit . <p> Breaking precedent <p> The pre-inauguration threats and deal-making are highly unusual , like so much of what Trump does , said Julian Zelizer , a political historian at Princeton University . <p> " Transitions are always a little complicated in this way . Even though we talk about one president at a time , " he said , " the reality is one president plus . And that plus can act assertively sometimes . " <p> Zelizer said that is particularly true of Trump , who was president previously and already has relationships with many foreign leaders such as Macron , who invited both Trump and Biden to Paris this weekend as part of the Notre Dame celebration . <p> " Right now he 's sort of governing even though he 's not the president yet . He 's having these public meetings with foreign leaders , which are n't simply introductions . He 's staking out policy and negotiating things from drug trafficking to tariffs , " Zelizer said . <p> Foreign leader meetings <p> Trump had already met with several foreign leaders before this weekend 's trip . He hosted Argentinian President Javier Milei in Florida at his Mar-a-Lago club in November . After the tariff threat , Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau made a pilgrimage to Mar-a-Lago for a three-hour dinner meeting . Canadian officials later said the country is ready to make new investments in border security , with plans for more helicopters , drones and law enforcement officers . <p> Incoming Trump aides have also been meeting with their future foreign counterparts . <p> On Wednesday , several members of Trump 's team , including incoming national security adviser Mike Waltz , met with Andriy Yermak , a top aide to Zelenskyy , in Washington , as Ukraine tries to win support for its ongoing efforts to defend itself from Russian invasion , according to a person familiar with the meeting . Yermak also met with Trump officials in Florida , he wrote on X. <p> That comes after Trump 's incoming Middle East envoy , Steve Witkoff , traveled to Qatar and Israel for high-level talks about a cease-fire and hostage deal in Gaza , according to a US official familiar with the efforts , meeting with the prime ministers of both countries . The official was not authorized to publicly discuss the matter and spoke on condition of anonymity . <p> One president , two voices <p> There is no prohibition on incoming officials or nominees meeting with foreign officials , and it is common and fine for them to do so -- unless those meetings are designed to subvert or otherwise impact current US policy . <p> Trump aides were said to be especially cognizant of potential conflicts given their experience in 2016 , when interactions between Trump allies and Russian officials came under scrutiny . That included a phone call in which Trump 's incoming national security adviser , Michael Flynn , discussed new sanctions with Russia 's ambassador to the United States , suggesting things would improve after Trump became president . Flynn was later charged with lying to the FBI about the conversation . <p> Trump 's incoming press secretary Karoline Leavitt said that " all transition officials have followed applicable laws in their interactions with foreign nationals . " <p> She added : " World leaders recognize that President Trump is returning to power and will lead with strength to put the best interests of the United States of America first again . That is why many foreign leaders and officials have reached out to correspond with President Trump and his incoming team . " <p> Such efforts can nonetheless cause complications . <p> If , say , Biden is having productive conversations on a thorny foreign policy issue and Trump weighs in , that could make it harder for Biden " because people are hearing two different voices " that may be in conflict , Zelizer said . <p> Leaders like Russia 's Vladimir Putin and Netanyahu may also anticipate a more favorable incoming administration and wait Biden out , hoping for a better deal . <p> Coordination between incoming and outgoing administrations <p> Although there is no requirement that an incoming administration coordinate calls and meetings with foreign officials with the State Department or National Security Council , that has long been considered standard practice . <p> That is , in part , because transition teams , particularly in their early days and weeks , do not always have the latest information about the state of relations with foreign nations and may not have the resources , including interpretation and logistical ability , to handle such meetings efficiently . <p> It is unclear the level of State Department involvement , but the Biden and Trump teams say they have been talking , particularly on the Middle East , with the incoming and outgoing administrations having agreed to work together on efforts to free hostages who remain held in Gaza , according to a US official , who was not authorized to comment publicly about the sensitive talks and spoke on condition of anonymity . <p> That includes conversations between Witkoff and Biden 's foreign policy team as well as Waltz and Biden 's national security adviser Jake Sullivan . <p> Last month , Biden administration officials said they had kept Trump 's team closely apprised of efforts to broker a ceasefire deal between Israel and Hezbollah on the Israel-Lebanon border . <p> " I just want to be clear to all of our adversaries , they ca n't play the incoming Trump administration off of the Biden administration . I 'm regularly talking to the Biden people . And so , this is not a moment of opportunity or wedges for them , " Waltz said Friday in a Fox Business interview . <p> Sullivan echoed those comments at the Ronald Reagan National Defense Forum Saturday . <p> " It has been professional . It has been substantive . And frankly , it has been good , " he said of their coordination on national security issues . " Obviously we do n't see eye to eye on every issue , and that 's no secret to anybody , " he went on . <p> But he said both teams believe " it is our job on behalf of the American people to make sure this is a smooth transition , " particularly given the seriousness of issues like the war in Ukraine , conflicts in the Middle East and threats from China . <p> " The nature of the world we find ourselves in today only elevates our responsibility to be engaged , to talk regularly , to meet regularly , to be transparent , to share , and to make sure it 's an effective transition , " he said . <p> Taking credit already <p> Trump 's team , meanwhile , is already claiming credit for everything from gains in the stock and cryptocurrency markets to a decision by Walmart to roll back diversity , equity and inclusion policies Trump opposes . <p> " Promises Kept -- And President Trump Has n't Even Been Inaugurated Yet , " read one press release that claimed , in part , that both Canada and Mexico have already pledged " immediate action " to help " stem the flow of illegal immigration , human trafficking , and deadly drugs entering the United States . " <p> Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum has stopped short of saying Trump mischaracterized their call in late November . But she said Friday that Trump " has his own way of communicating , like when we had the phone call and he wrote that we were going to close the border . That was never talked about in the phone call . " <p> Earlier this week , Mexico carried out what it claimed was its largest seizure of fentanyl pills ever . Seizures over the summer had been as little as 50 grams per week , and after the Trump call , they seized more than a ton . <p> Biden , too , tried to take credit for the seizure in a statement Friday night .
