<h> Syria to South Korea : An age of uncertainty ? <p> Thanks brooooo . A dream has come true ! " replied my Syrian friend , just hours after the collapse of the Assad regime . A medical doctor who had helped countless refugees throughout the years under the auspices of the United Nations , he had spent years behind bars and had been subjected to unspeakable torture by the former regime . Throughout his 20s , he witnessed more horror and tragedy than most humans throughout their entire lives . But he is also a young and newlywed man brimming with hope for a better future -- for his once-beautiful country can , if given the chance , become great again . <p> The fall of the Assad regime has , predictably , generated mixed reactions . After all , the half-a-century-old Assad dynasty had generated a degree of stability and prosperity until the 2010 to 2011 Arab uprisings and , in more recent years , was the " known devil " for regional actors . <p> The new supremo of Syria , however , is Abu Mohammed al-Golani , a jihadist who spent time in the inner circles of al-Qaida before " moderating " his image and " nationalizing " his mission as the leader of the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) forces . Born as Ahmad al-Sharaa in Saudi Arabia to Syrian parents , he formerly led the al-Nusra front , the Syrian branch of al-Qaida , and displayed his independent streak by defying calls to be merged into what would later become the " Islamic State " under the leadership of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi . <p> Article continues after this advertisement <p> After years of frozen conflict , with both Russia and Iran effectively bailing out the Assad dynasty , the Syrian regime instantaneously crumbled in the face of al-Golani 's blitzkrieg offensive . With the Assad regime cut off from its bailiwick in Lattakia and Alawite coastal regions following the fall of Homs , the fall of Damascus became an inevitability . In just over a week , al-Golani beat even Taliban 's lightning record in toppling a foreign-backed regime . <p> " Syria deserves a governing system that is institutional , no one where a single ruler makes arbitrary decisions , " the former al-Qaida-affiliate leader told CNN last week . During his appearance at the landmark Umayyad Mosque in Damascus hours into the downfall of the Assad regime , al-Golani declared : " Our message to all the sects of Syria is that ... Syria is for everyone . " <p> As astute observers such as Charles Lister have argued , however , both al-Golani 's military victory and " moderated " image invite scrutiny . To begin with , the Assad regime -- notorious for its corruption , brutality , and narco-politics -- was thoroughly hollowed out after a decade of brutal civil war . It had little chance of long-term survival once its chief patrons , Russia and Iran , shifted their focus to other strategic fronts amid the ongoing conflicts from Ukraine to Gaza . <p> Article continues after this advertisement <p> Meanwhile , the HTS leadership , known for its iron-fist rule throughout its former territories , has every reason to present a more " moderate " image to both consolidate support in multi-sectarian Syria and crucially win international recognition despite its " terrorist " designation . <p> Article continues after this advertisement <p> As if the Syrian upheaval was n't historic enough , last week saw another surreal development : the declaration of martial law in one of the world 's most prosperous democracies . Confronting political sterility and collapsing approval ratings , President Yoon Suk-yeol went for the nuclear option , just to see his short-lived martial law stymied by fierce resistance from both the Parliament , including his own party mates as well as South Korea 's fearless civil society , who collectively resisted military forces until the president backed down . <p> Article continues after this advertisement <p> Not long after , South Korean prosecutors arrested former defense minister Kim Yong-hyun on charges of treason ; Yoon narrowly avoided impeachment while mulling potential resignation . In both Syria and South Korea , popular resistance prevailed against the forces of dictatorship . The path ahead , however , is filled with uncertainty . <p> Lest we forget , the past year was filled with countless shocks , including the victory of Donald Trump , the tit-for-tat missile exchanges between Middle East 's two most powerful nations , and the all-out political war between the House of Duterte and the House of Marcos . The old order -- along with its underlying assumptions -- is perishing , while a new order is yet to crystalize . But as the great Italian thinker Antonio Gramsci counseled : one should combine the " pessimism of the intellect , " namely taking into account hard facts and troubling imponderables with the " optimism of the will , " namely the courage to fight for freedom and a better tomorrow .
