<h> UN General Assembly calls for ' unconditional ' Gaza ceasefire <p> The UN General Assembly often finds itself taking up measures that can not get through the Security Council due to political concerns ( JOHN ANGELILLO ) ( JOHN ANGELILLO/POOL/AFP ) <p> The UN General Assembly on Wednesday overwhelmingly adopted a resolution calling for an immediate and unconditional ceasefire in Gaza , a symbolic gesture rejected by the United States and Israel . <p> The resolution -- adopted by a vote of 158-9 , with 13 abstentions -- urges " an immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire , " and " the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages " -- wording similar to a text vetoed by Washington in the Security Council last month . <p> At that time , Washington used its veto power on the Council -- as it has before -- to protect its ally Israel , which has been at war with Hamas in the Gaza Strip since the Palestinian militant group 's October 7 , 2023 attack . <p> It has insisted on the idea of making a ceasefire conditional on the release of all hostages in Gaza , saying otherwise that Hamas has no incentive to free those in captivity . <p> Deputy US Ambassador Robert Wood repeated that position Wednesday , saying it would be " shameful and wrong " to adopt the text . <p> Ahead of the vote , Israel 's UN envoy Danny Danon said : " The resolutions before the assembly today are beyond logic . ( ... ) The vote today is not a vote for compassion . It is a vote for complicity . " <p> The General Assembly often finds itself taking up measures that can not get through the Security Council , which has been largely paralyzed on hot-button issues such as Gaza and Ukraine due to internal politics , and this time is no different . <p> The resolution , which is non-binding , demands " immediate access " to widespread humanitarian aid for the citizens of Gaza , especially in the besieged north of the territory . <p> Dozens of representatives of UN member states addressed the Assembly before the vote to offer their support to the Palestinians . <p> " Gaza does n't exist anymore . It is destroyed , " said Slovenia 's UN envoy Samuel Zbogar . " History is the harshest critic of inaction . " <p> - ' Price of silence ' - <p> That criticism was echoed by Algeria 's deputy UN ambassador Nacim Gaouaoui , who said : " The price of silence and failure in the face of the Palestinian tragedy is a very heavy price , and it will be heavier tomorrow . " <p> Hamas 's October 2023 attack on southern Israel resulted in the deaths of 1,208 people , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally based on official figures . That count includes hostages who died or were killed while being held in Gaza . <p> Militants abducted 251 hostages , 96 of whom remain in Gaza , including 34 the Israeli military says are dead . <p> Israel 's retaliatory offensive in Gaza has killed at least 44,805 people , a majority of them civilians , according to data from the Hamas-run health ministry that is considered reliable by the United Nations . <p> " Gaza today is the bleeding heart of Palestine , " Palestinian UN Ambassador Riyad Mansour said last week during the first day of debate in the Assembly 's special session on the issue . <p> " The images of our children burning in tents , with no food in their bellies and no hopes and no horizon for the future , and after having endured pain and loss for more than a year , should haunt the conscience of the world and prompt action to end this nightmare , " he said , calling for an end to the " impunity . " <p> After Wednesday 's vote , he said " we will keep knocking on the doors of the Security Council and the General Assembly until we see an immediate and unconditional ceasefire put in place . " <p> The Gaza resolution calls on UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres to present " proposals on how the United Nations could help to advance accountability " by using existing mechanisms or creating new ones based on past experience . <p> The Assembly , for example , created an international mechanism to gather evidence of crimes committed in Syria starting from the outbreak of civil war in 2011 . <p> A second resolution calling on Israel to respect the mandate of the UN agency supporting Palestinian refugees ( UNRWA ) and allow it to continue its operations was passed Wednesday by a vote of 159-9 with 11 abstentions . <p> Israel has voted to ban the organization starting January 28 , after accusing some UNRWA employees of taking part in Hamas 's devastating attack . <p> abd/sst/jgc/nro/des <h> Latest stories <p> The Biden White House is working increasingly closely with officials from the incoming administration as it races to try to reach a ceasefire and hostage deal to halt the war in Gaza between Israel and Hamas before Donald Trump is inaugurated on January 20 , according to multiple people familiar with the discussions . <p> MOSCOW ( Reuters ) -Russia said on Wednesday that relations with Washington were so confrontational that Russian citizens should not visit the United States , Canada and some EU countries in coming weeks because they risked being " hunted " down by U.S. authorities . Russian and U.S. diplomats say the relationship is worse than at any time since the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis , when the two Cold War superpowers came closest to intentional nuclear war , due to a confrontation over the Ukraine war . " In the context of the increasing confrontation in Russian-American relations , which are teetering on the verge of rupture due to the fault of Washington , trips to the United States of America privately or out of official necessity are fraught with serious risks , " Maria Zakharova , a spokeswoman for the Russian Foreign Ministry , told a news briefing . <p> FBI Director Chris Wray on Wednesday announced he plans to steps down as President-elect Trump prepares to replace him once he takes office next month . In an announcement at an all-hands meeting of FBI employees at its Quantico , Virginia headquarters , Wray said he will leave office when President Biden leaves the White House . " The right thing for the ( FBI ) is for me to serve until the end of ... <p> Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Monday that Americans " are beginning to wake up to the real reality that tariffs on everything from Canada would make life a lot more expensive " and said he will retaliate if Donald Trump goes ahead with them . Speaking at an event put on by the Halifax Chamber of Commerce , Trudeau also said dealing with Trump will be " a little more challenging " than the last time because Trump 's team is coming in with a much clearer set of ideas of what they want to do right away than after his first election win in 2016 . The U.S. president-elect has threatened to impose a 25% tax on all products entering the U.S. from Canada and Mexico unless they stem the flow of migrants and drugs . <p> Philippine Vice-President Sara Duterte partied with journalists Wednesday as she thumbed her nose at an official inquiry into allegations she plotted to assassinate President Ferdinand Marcos , her estranged ally.Hosting what she called a " thanksgiving " lunch for scores of journalists at her office instead of meeting with government investigators , she accused the government of plotting to have her removed from office and charged in court . <p> Social media video surfaced Wednesday allegedly showing a warehouse in Syria stacked with captagon , an illicit drug that had transformed the country into a narco-state under former President Bashar al-Assad 's rule . <p> Lighting his pipe , the commander barely reacted to explosions in the distance as he explained how his men were dying , overwhelmed by Russian soldiers storming eastern Ukraine despite heavy losses.The number of Russian losses is believed to be much higher . <p> Moscow on Wednesday accused Kyiv of firing US-supplied ATACAMS missiles on a military airfield in its southern Rostov region and threatened to retaliate . Russian President Vladimir Putin said that Ukraine 's " destructive " approach made peace impossible . Russia on Wednesday vowed retribution against Ukraine , accusing Kyiv of firing Western-supplied missiles on a military airfield in its southern Rostov region.President Vladimir Putin has previously threatened to launch a hypersonic ballistic missi
