<h> Negative impact of Syria 's regime change <p> I sadly concur with the observation of some that the continuing existence of the so-called " state " of Israel can be attributed in great part to the division in the Muslim-Arab world . Another irrefutable reason is the betrayal of some of the key players in the region . <p> I am no fan of Bashar al-Assad , the former president of Syria who recently fled to Russia when rebels captured the capital city of Damascus . I am aware of his dictatorship , incompetence , idiocy , and human rights violations against his own people . Having said that , in the greater lens of international strategic politics , international relations , and the global march for a multipolar world , the fall of Assad and Damascus to former al-Qaida terrorists and the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria ( IS ) fighters who wreaked havoc in both Syria and Iraq , is undeniably a setback to the Axis of Resistance , a blow to the Palestinian cause , and a delay to the eventual death of the Zionist regime . <p> The treachery of Turkiye and its connivance with the Zionist and United States plotters will be remembered across the Muslim and Arab world as the greatest betrayal in modern history . <p> Article continues after this advertisement <p> Turkiye 's president , Recep Erdogan , will forever be tagged as the culprit and the big traitor in the Palestinians ' quest for an independent state . Russia and Iran will never forget this betrayal . This dastardly move by Ankara has planted the seed of a future conflict which is not only contemporary , but historical . <p> The debacle in Syria is a defeat for Iran and , to a certain extent , Russia . Only myopic freaks will fail to discern that the fiasco in Syria is an extension of the ongoing proxy war between Russia and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( Nato ) , the continuing genocide in Gaza , and the war of attrition in Lebanon . <p> The global cabal of the elite is fanatical in its dreams and illusion of inflicting a strategic defeat on Russia , and will do everything to realize their idiotic goal of achieving this , even to the point of using terrorists and IS/ISIL mass murderers . <p> Article continues after this advertisement <p> Syria is crucial and utterly important to Iran because it is its land bridge for the help , monies , weapons , and support to the Resistance forces in Lebanon and the Gaza Strip . Now that Syria has fallen to the Turkish-backed and Western plotters , Iran will have a hard time sending help to the Resistance . As far as Russia is concerned , what happened in Damascus is a setback in its foothold in the Middle East . <p> Article continues after this advertisement <p> The long-term effect is the weakening of Hezbollah and the further isolation of Palestinian fighters , both in the West Bank and in Gaza . The grim result : further delay to the Palestinians ' dream of a state of their own . <p> Article continues after this advertisement <p> The victory of Turkiye and the West in Syria is a gift to the Zionist regime . Not only does it give breathing space to Israel 's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu , but it also shows that the unipolar world headed by the US still has the muscle to flex its doomed vision of the globe . <p> Due to Syria 's importance in the world theater , Iran entered the Syrian civil war as early as 2011 , and even asked Hezbollah to join the fight . Russia entered the fray on Sept. 30 , 2015 . Because of this , the Syrian government survived . But it seems that Assad did not learn anything at all . In 2018 , both Iran and Russia asked Syria to retrain and reequip its military , an advice that Assad ignored . <p> Article continues after this advertisement <p> Now , both Russia and Israel are engaged in wars , against Ukraine-Nato and Iran , respectively . The conflict is an opening exploited to the maximum by the global elite . I 'd say both Russia and Iran are at fault in what happened at Damascus . If they were truly serious in their goal of a multipolar world , they should have thrown everything at the Syrian front . In their reluctance and inaction , they have unwittingly allowed the triumph of the West and provided some breathing room for Zionism . <p> I remain steadfast in my support of the Palestinian cause . Though its quest for a Palestinian state will be delayed , my faith in its eventual success will never waver .
