<h> Human rights : The cornerstone of strong and stable societies <p> This week , we celebrate the 76th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights ( UDHR ) , a document which sets out the global community 's desire for a society that values all individuals . <p> The UDHR has endured for 76 years , not out of a blind adherence to international obligations , but because signatories recognize that human rights are not just an end in themselves , but also the foundations of strong and stable societies . <p> Speaking on Human Rights Day this week , the United Kingdom 's Minister for Human Rights , Lord Collins of Highbury , reminded us that , fundamentally , human rights are about our inherent dignity . But he also noted that human rights , the rule of law and democratic governance are powerful enablers for the key missions of government . <p> In his speech , Lord Highbury set out the UK government 's five priorities on human rights . <p> First , we will focus on defending civic space and fundamental freedoms , because one of the most important ingredients of a healthy democracy is a vibrant civil society and it enables people to hold their governments to account . This will involve supporting human rights defenders and media freedom . <p> The second priority is upholding the rule of law . This includes compliance with International Humanitarian Law . And of course , we can not talk about that without mentioning Gaza , where the humanitarian situation is catastrophic and completely unacceptable . We will work tirelessly with international partners to bring about a ceasefire , release of hostages , get aid flowing and to create a safe and secure Israel alongside a viable and sovereign Palestinian state . <p> The third priority is to champion equal rights for all . Stalling progress on the rights of women , girls , LGBT+ people and those belonging to other marginalized groups is troubling . We will advocate for the rights and freedoms of women and girls , including their sexual and reproductive health and rights , at every opportunity . <p> The fourth priority is to support accountable , effective and inclusive institutions . We will strengthen institutions that contribute to peaceful , free and fair elections and work with partners to protect democratic processes and strengthen government legitimacy . <p> The final priority is to respond to the global challenges such as climate or technology by prioritizing human rights and governance principles . <p> As Lord Collins was making his speech in London , here in the Philippines , Executive Secretary Lucas Bersamin was launching the Philippines ' fourth Human Rights Action Plan ( PHRP4 ) -- the first in decades . It comes on the back of extensive consultations with civil society groups across the country . It is ambitious and comprehensive , and includes an important new " Nationwide Watch " -- an initiative for monitoring of the Plan intended to involve all stakeholders who participated in the drafting and consultation process . <p> The UK welcomes the PHRP4 and strong focus on human rights . Indeed , we believe that such plans are necessary to continue to shine a light on ongoing human rights challenges and set an ambitious agenda that a government can be accountable for . National Human Rights Plans also raise awareness on human rights and promote a culture of respect for human rights . As such , we were proud to contribute to the consultations in collaboration with the Commission on Human Rights , and we will proudly support the PHRP 's publication , dissemination and the development of monitoring and evaluation tools with the stakeholders . We will proudly work with the government and civil society partners to ensure that PHRP4 will be a living document -- one that responds to the lived realities of environmental and rights defenders , journalists , labor leaders and of every single Filipino . <p> And the UK will continue to work with the government of the Philippines and civil society partners to implement the plan . We already do so in a variety of ways . From working closely with law enforcement agencies to address online sexual abuse and exploitation of children and support victim survivors , all the way to supporting human rights defenders , environmental defenders , journalists and activists . We will work constructively with the Philippines to address reports of extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances . We will play our part to strengthen institutions that contribute to peaceful , free and fair elections , in particular in the BARMM . <p> Human rights are the cornerstone of our democracies and at the heart of the values we share with the Philippines . We know that strong political will is necessary to make progress . Together , we are determined to make that happen . <p> * * * <p> Laure Beaufils is the Ambassador of the United Kingdom to the Philippines . <p> Chery Tiggo survived a pesky Galeries Tower and escaped with a 30-28 , 20-25 , 19-25 , 25-16 , 15-8 victory yesterday to barge into the magic four in the Premier Volleyball League All-Filipino Conference at the PhilSports Arena . <p> Eastridge Primehomes softened Manila Southwoods final-day charge with balanced scoring to capture its first Fil Championship title and denied the latter a piece of history in the 74th Januarius Fil Am Invitational at the Baguio Country Club .
