<p> Terumi Tanaka , a representative of this year 's obel Peace Prize winner ihon Hidankyo , or the Japan Confederation of -- and H-Bomb Sufferers Organizations , bows after speaking during the obel Peace Prize ceremony at the City Hall in Oslo , orway on December 10 , 2024 . <p> OSLO , Norway -- A 92-year-old Japanese man who lived through the American atomic bombing of Nagasaki described on Tuesday the agony he witnessed in 1945 , including the charred corpses of his loved ones and the ruins of his city , as he accepted this year 's Nobel Peace Prize on his organization 's behalf . <p> The prize was awarded to Nihon Hidankyo , a grassroots movement of Japanese atomic bombing survivors who have worked for nearly 70 years to maintain a taboo around the use of nuclear weapons . The weapons have grown exponentially in power and number since being used for the first and only time in warfare by the United States on Nagasaki and Hiroshima in 1945 . The bombings pushed Japan to surrender to the Allies . They killed some 210,000 people by the end of 1945 , but the full death toll from radiation is certainly higher . <p> As the survivors reach the twilight of their lives , they are grappling with the fear that the taboo against using the weapons appears to be weakening . It was a concern expressed by the 92-year-old-survivor , Terumi Tanaka , who delivered the acceptance lecture in Oslo 's City Hall to an audience that included Norway 's royal family . <p> " The nuclear superpower Russia threatens to use nuclear weapons in its war against Ukraine , and a cabinet member of Israel , in the midst of its unrelenting attacks on Gaza in Palestine , even spoke of the possible use of nuclear arms , " Tanaka said . " I am infinitely saddened and angered that the nuclear taboo threatens to be broken . " <p> That concern drove the Norwegian Nobel Committee to award this year 's prize to the Japanese organization , though it had honored other nuclear non-proliferation work in the past . <p> J ? rgen Watne Frydnes , the chair of the committee , said in introducing the laureates that it was important to learn from their testimony as the nuclear dangers grow . <p> " None of the nine countries that possess nuclear weapons -- the United States , Russia , China , France , the United Kingdom , India , Pakistan , Israel and North Korea -- appear interested in nuclear disarmament and arms control at present , " he said . " On the contrary , they are modernizing and building up their nuclear arsenals . " <p> He said the Norwegian Nobel Committee was calling upon the five nuclear weapon states that have signed the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons -- the US , Russia , China , France and the UK -- to take seriously their obligations under the treaty , and said others must ratify it . <p> " It is naive to believe our civilization can survive a world order in which global security depends on nuclear weapons , " Frydnes said . " The world is not meant to be a prison in which we await collective annihilation . " <p> In his speech , Tanaka described the attack on Nagasaki on August 9 , 1945 , three days after the first bomb was dropped on Hiroshima.He recalled the buzzing sound of a bomber jet followed by a " bright , white light , " and then an intense shock wave . Three days later , he and his mother sought out loved ones who lived near the hypocenter . <p> " Many people who were badly injured or burned , but still alive , were left unattended , with no help whatsoever . I became almost devoid of emotion , somehow closing off my sense of humanity , and simply headed intently for my destination , " he said . <p> He found the charred body of an aunt , the body of her grandson , his grandfather on the brink of death with severe burns and another aunt who had been severely burned and died just before he arrived . In all , five family members were killed . <p> He described the efforts of survivors to use their experiences to try to abolish nuclear weapons for the sake of humanity , and to try to receive compensation from the Japanese state , which started the war , for their suffering . <p> " I hope that the belief that nuclear weapons can not -- and must not -- coexist with humanity will take firm hold among citizens of the nuclear weapon states and their allies , and that this will become a force for change in the nuclear policies of their governments , " he said .
