<h> In sin and error pining <p> It was at an early Christmas lunch when a friend asked if I thought that Vice President Sara Duterte would be impeached , with all the motions now on the table to that effect . I was n't expecting politics to be taken up over the merrymaking , but this is the Philippines where we breathe politics , so I obliged . <p> I said that while I certainly believed that the VP was fit to be impeached for all the obvious financial irregularities happening under her watch , I very much doubted that it was going to happen . And why not ? Because it was going to come down to the votes in the House and in the Senate , and while President BBM and his allies doubtlessly had the muscle to push the motion through , I just did n't see why they would . And again , why not ? You do n't think they can come up with the evidence to find her culpable for the misuse of hundreds of millions of public money in confidential funds ? They could , if they want to , I said -- but again , why would they ? <p> Think about it this way , I said . Impeachment is political , so the facts do n't really matter much , except for propaganda purposes -- especially with elections coming up in a few months . Do n't get me wrong -- there are people who take the process and its reasons seriously , as we all really should , because millions going to non-people like " Mary Grace Piattos , " " Chippy McDonald " and " Fernando Tempura " in the guise of " intelligence operations " insults our non-artificial intelligence . <p> VP Sara 's refusal to explain these strange endowments paints her further into a corner -- which , it seems , is exactly where she wants to be . When she says , " I 'll be at peace when I 'm impeached " and when her drumbeaters exclaim that the hearings are turning the Dutertes into " folk heroes , " then you know that she 's not going to get what she wants . <p> Why would PBBM let her go ? What would be in it for him ? He does n't need a functioning Vice President -- he never had one ; this VP ca n't point to a single memorable deed beyond publishing an expensive book . Cutting off his " UniTeam " partner and depriving her of her last official job would simply give her free rein to wreak more mayhem with no accountability to the government or the people . <p> Keeping her on the official payroll -- but fundamentally powerless -- would be the smarter thing . It was never in Sara 's nature to do a VP Leni and turn political Siberia into a veritable factory of good deeds . She 'll stew in the OVP , sans her confidential kitty , until she ca n't take it any longer and resigns , which could easily be spun into a form of surrender or an abandonment of her sworn duties . <p> The other reason , of course , is that while VP Sara is drawing fire , PBBM can enjoy some peace of mind , and make benign speeches at this and that forum with a heartfelt smile . He knows that he has benefited immensely from the odious alternative the Dutertes represent in the eyes of many Filipinos , even those who staunchly opposed his candidacy in 2022 . <p> The Dutertes have done Marcos Jr . the priceless favor of making him and whatever he does look good by comparison -- a difference he has substantively emphasized by rejecting his predecessor 's slavishly pro-China policy and ( despite reports of continued EJKs under his regime ) withdrawing Digong 's murderous tokhang campaign . He has had his missteps , like that bizarrely ill-conceived Maharlika Fund , but I have been hearing murmurs of approval from otherwise progressive friends -- albeit grudging and cautious -- for many of his positions , an unthinkable proposition just a year ago , when the wounds of 2022 were still fresh . <p> But with more than half his term yet ahead of him , there 's opportunity aplenty for unraveling and for even graver misdeeds . Even now , while we profess shock and dismay over the P500 million spent by the OVP in confidential and intelligence funds for 2023 , the House has given BBM a free pass on the even more staggering P4.57 billion his office disbursed for the same purposes that year . <p> And that 's why I think it 's wiser to keep the focus on the Dutertes and to keep the VP where you can see and hear her , flailing around and squealing like a stuck pig . The impeachment drama will play itself out in the New Year with more twists and turns than a telenovela , and then , for some reason , the votes will fall short , and the VP will be censured and chastised before being sent back to the pen . For what it 's worth , I do n't think impeachment is the proper penalty here ; criminal prosecution , conviction and punishment should be , but that 's a whole other game . <p> * * * <p> Christmas will soon be upon us -- my 70th , in my case , a milestone I never expected to reach given the many young deaths that marked my generation , but one I thankfully accept as the ultimate gift and blessing , no matter the turmoil in our world today . I personally have much to cheer about and be grateful for -- so why ca n't I be merrier ? <p> We associate Christmas with joy and new life , with the Christ child 's coming , but there is nothing to be jolly about where wanton greed and senseless death are concerned . <p> Everything today points to a headlong dive into a global cataclysm , a World War III that may not have a clear and time-stamped beginning like the invasion of Poland or the bombing of Pearl Harbor , but a prolonged and widespread series of provocative and catastrophic events occurring all over the planet -- Russian incursions into Eastern Europe , Chinese occupation of Southeast Asian waters , Israel 's pyrrhic extermination of its enemies , North Korea 's incessant saber-rattling and nuclear brinkmanship , America 's surrender of the asylum to the lunatics and the inexorable degradation of the environment -- all of which will come to a head . It will be horrific , but a side of me wonders if we need this cataclysm to remind us of our most basic values and virtues as humans , beyond ideology , religion , power and wealth . <p> The other week I had a reader , a pro-Israel partisan , writing me to contend that there was no one else to blame for all the dead children in Gaza but their parents who refused to stand up to Hamas . It saddened more than infuriated me to see that this is where all our presumably educated reasoning has come to -- a justification for the slaughter of innocents . I wanted to shake the man by the shoulders , across the internet , to awaken the terrified and hungry child in him . <p> Our world will become yet darker and more difficult before it comes to its senses , rediscovers the value of truth , beauty and courage , and pulls back from the brink of self-annihilation . Yes , I remain optimistic about the future of humanity , about a time when reason and justice will prevail , but I am quite sure I will not live to see this " new and glorious morn . " <p> Nearly two-thirds of people listed by Vice President Sara Duterte as recipients of her P500-million confidential funds in the Office of the Vice President have no birth certificates , indicating that all of them are fictitious like " Mary Grace Piattos " of the Department of Education . <p> It was at an early Christmas lunch when a friend asked if I thought that Vice President Sara Duterte would be impeached , with all the motions now on the table to that effect . I was n't expecting politics to be taken up over the merrymaking , but this is the Philippines where we breathe politics , so I obliged .
