<p> Anwar expressed confidence that Thaksin 's extensive experience as a statesman would provide valuable insight for Malaysia 's leadership of Asean in 2025 , according to a report published in The Star today . <p> " I have agreed to appoint ( Thaksin ) as my informal adviser on chairing Asean , with a team of members from Asean countries in an informal setup , " Anwar said during a press conference after welcoming Thai Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra at the Perdana Putra Complex . <p> Anwar added , " Thank you for agreeing to this because we need the benefit of the experience of such statesmen . " <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> The appointment was proposed by Malaysia and agreed upon by Thailand , Anwar confirmed . <p> He further added that Malaysia had also suggested forming an informal advisory group to support the Asean chair , which would include former Asean leaders like Thaksin and former Singapore Minister George Yeo , to provide expertise and ideas on Asean-related matters . <p> Personal photos of ousted Syrian President Bashar Assad have surfaced from his abandoned residences , sparking ridicule among Syrians who until days ago were persecuted for criticizing his carefully crafted public image . The intimate and candid photos , reportedly discovered in albums from Assad 's mansions in the hills of Damascus and Aleppo , offer a stark contrast to the polished , glamorous image that Assad and his father projected as they led Syria for half a century . Syrians have been fascinated by the background glimpses of a seemingly normal family that held the country in an iron grip and bombed some their fellow citizens regarded as a threat . <p> In the early years of Xi Jinping 's war on corruption , the Chinese leader consolidated control over the world 's largest military by taking down powerful generals from rival factions and replacing them with allies and proteges loyal to himself . <p> Canada 's Deputy Prime Minister Chrystia Freeland quit Monday in a surprise move after disagreeing with Justin Trudeau over US President-elect Donald Trump 's tariff threats.Trudeau flew to Florida last month to dine with Trump at the latter 's Mar-a-Lago resort and try to head off the tariff threat , but nothing yet indicates the US president-elect is changing his position . <p> More chairs were brought out and , alongside a side of lamb gently swaying from a hook outside the butcher 's next door , I met the leaders of a small , poor community near the city of Jableh . Like many in Jableh , they are Alawites , a minority from which the Assad family descends . For a large part of the civil war in Syria , which started in 2011 , they were closeted from much of the violence that swept across the country . <p> ANALYSIS : After reports that both Amazon and Meta are giving $1 million to Trump 's inauguration committee , Andrew Feinberg explains what might be motivating Trump 's former enemies in Big Tech to kiss the ring <p> WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) -President-elect Donald Trump said on Monday he had a " very good talk " with Israel 's prime minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , about the war in Gaza and reiterated his threat that " all hell is going to break out " if Hamas does not release its hostages by Jan. 20 , the day Trump takes office . " As you know , I gave a warning that if these hostages are n't back home by that date , all hell is going to break out , " he said during a press conference in Palm Beach , Florida . <p> When the 08.36 to Newcastle pulls out of Ashington station on Sunday , heralding the first passenger train on the Northumberland Line in more than 60 years , the people of north-east England would be forgiven for rubbing their eyes in disbelief .
