<h> Republicans push new deal to avert US government shutdown <p> Frankie TAGGART <p> 19 December 2024 at 3:47 pm*3-min read <p> Donald Trump ( left ) came out against the bill after Elon Musk spent a day attacking it on social media ( Kena Betancur ) ( Kena Betancur/AFP/AFP ) <p> Republicans in the US Congress agreed on a new funding package Thursday aimed at averting a holiday-season government shutdown , after an earlier bipartisan deal was derailed by President-elect Donald Trump and Elon Musk . <p> Trump threw his weight behind the latest proposal , which addresses objections to the mammoth package that prompted him and Musk , his incoming " efficiency czar , " to trash the previous version . <p> Democrats immediately dismissed the proposal , however , dashing hopes that they would give Republicans the votes they need in the House of Representatives to get the bill approved before departments begin winding up their operations on Saturday . <p> Earlier , Trump hailed the compromise deal between factions of his own party . <p> " SUCCESS in Washington ! Speaker Mike Johnson and the House have come to a very good Deal for the American People , " Trump posted on social media , celebrating the " American Relief Act of 2024 " and urging support from rank-and-file lawmakers . <p> With Democrats digging in their heels and insisting on the earlier agreed deal that Trump torpedoed , a shutdown looked almost certain -- closing all manner of federal agencies and potentially sending almost a million workers home without pay over Christmas . <p> Funding the government is always fraught and lawmakers are under pressure this time around because they failed to agree on full-year budgets for 2025 despite months of negotiations . <p> Party leaders had landed on a stopgap bill -- known as a " continuing resolution " ( CR ) -- to keep operations functioning through mid-March . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Major Trump donor and ally Musk spent much of Wednesday bombarding his 208 million followers on X with posts trashing the deal , and amplifying complaints from debt hawks in the House who balked at numerous expensive add-ons shoehorned into the package . <p> Twelve hours later , Trump , who appeared to be playing catch-up , began threatening the reelection prospects of Republicans thinking of supporting the package and demanding out of the blue that the bill increase or even scrap the country 's debt limit . <p> - Speaker under fire - <p> The new text keeps federal agencies running until mid-March , Trump said , and allows the government to keep borrowing without needing any new authorizations from Congress for two years , as well as earmarking $110 billion for disaster aid . <p> It usually takes weeks to negotiate and enact hikes in the federal borrowing cap , which since the 1940s has limited how much debt the country can rack up . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Government functions are due to begin winding up at midnight going into Saturday , but Trump 's latest announcement may not be enough to convince even his own lawmakers to give it the green light . <p> Republican House Speaker Johnson has been facing criticism from all sides for his handling of the negotiations and his gavel looks likely to be under threat when he stands for reelection in January . <p> The Louisiana congressman appeared to have misjudged his own members ' tolerance for the original CR 's spiraling costs , and for allowing himself to have been blindsided by Musk and Trump . <p> He invited a parade of disgruntled Republicans into his office at the Capitol Thursday as he explored the slimmed-down funding patch . <p> Democrats , who control the Senate , have little political incentive to help Republicans and Jeffries has insisted they will only vote for the agreed package , meaning Trump 's party will have to go it alone . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> This is something the fractious , divided party -- which can afford to lose only a handful of members in any House vote -- has not managed in any major bill in this Congress . <p> While voicing frustration over spending levels , Trump 's main objection was that Congress was leaving him to handle a debt-limit increase -- invariably a contentious , time-consuming fight -- rather than including it in the text . <p> " All Republicans , and even the Democrats , should do what is best for our Country , and vote ' YES ' for this Bill , TONIGHT ! " Trump posted . <p> ft/aha <h> Latest stories <p> Thousands of Amazon workers on Thursday launched what they called the " largest strike against Amazon in US history " seeking to maximize pressure on the retail behemoth at the height of the holiday shopping season.The company on Thursday accused the striking workers -- whom it said were " almost entirely outsiders " -- of intimidation . <p> India 's market regulator late on Wednesday issued tighter regulations for merchant bankers and initial public offerings ( IPOs ) by small businesses , mandating that entities listing should have been profitable in recent years . The Securities and Exchange Board of India 's ( SEBI ) tighter rules followed a boom in IPOs by small- and medium-sized firms , which are defined in the country as companies with an annual turnover of 50 million ( $589,157.15 ) to 2.5 billion Indian rupees ( $29.46 million ) . <p> Alleged Wisconsin school shooter Natalie " Samantha " Rupnow reportedly had a rocky home life , according to court records , which show she was raised by parents who divorced one another three times before she was 12 . Her mother , Mellissa Rupnow , was divorced from another man when she first married the alleged killer 's father in 2011 , according to court documents obtained by The Washington Post . ... <p> Congress raced to avert a government shutdown as soon as the weekend with a sprawling stopgap spending bill that includes billions in hurricane and farm aid , but the measure was thrown into doubt Wednesday when President-elect Donald Trump and first buddy Elon Musk threatened to derail it . The bipartisan deal centers around a continuing resolution to keep the government funded at a current ... <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Thursday voiced hope that President-elect Donald Trump will pick up his work to normalize ties between Saudi Arabia and Israel , acknowledging a historic deal will not happen under Joe Biden 's administration . " The work that we 've done on putting in place the elements of that deal , including what we and Saudi Arabia would do together , what they would do with Israel , all of that is now there , " Blinken said in an interview with MSNBC . " My hope is we 'll move as <p> US President-elect Donald Trump delivered a likely death blow to bipartisan congressional budget negotiations on Wednesday , rejecting the measure as full of giveaways to Democrats as billionaire ally Elon Musk whipped up outrage toward the bill and cheered on Republican lawmakers who announced their opposition . US President-elect Donald Trump urged Republican lawmakers Wednesday to scupper a cross-party deal to avert a fast-looming US government shutdown , as the White House accused him of " playi <p> Fifty-five US-bound migrants have died and 180 children have been abandoned this year while crossing the treacherous Darien jungle from Colombia , Panama 's President Jose Raul Mulino said Thursday.Mulino said that " 180 unaccompanied minors " have been abandoned in the Panamanian jungle this year and are now being looked after by child care institutions . <p> Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell held a briefing Wednesday afternoon as the central bank was set to cut interest rates for a third time . The decision came as inflation picked up slightly last month , but a booming November jobs report and turnarounds in consumer confidence may give the bank reason to delay future reductions in ... <p> UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said Thursday that there was a " flame of hope " in Syria following the fall of president Bashar al-Assad 's regime but warned of significant challenges ahead . " The Middle East is being consumed by many fires , but today , there is a flame of hope in Syria , and that flame must not be extinguished , " he said . <p> ( Reuters ) -Amazon.com will implement safety measures at all of its U.S. facilities to settle a federal agency 's claims that it failed to prevent workers from developing back problems and other ergonomic injuries , the agency said on Thursday . Amazon settled a series of complaints by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration involving 10 facilities across the country , which were set to go to trial before administrative judges next year , OSHA said in a release . The company will adopt measures such as adjustable height workstations , ergonomic mats , harnesses and job rotations at all of its fulfillment , sorting and delivery centers and establish a process to review and correct hazards identified by workers , OSHA said . <p> The UN General Assembly overwhelmingly approved a resolution on Thursday asking the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) to assess Israel 's obligations to assist Palestinians , amid accusations the Israeli government systematically hinders Gaza aid.Despite serious international concerns , Israeli lawmakers have passed laws to bar the UN 's Palestinian aid agency , UNRWA , from operating in Israel and east Jerusalem , while raising the prospect of similar measures against other aid agencies . <p> US President-elect Donald Trump urged Republican lawmakers Wednesday to scupper a cross-party deal to avert a fast-looming US government shutdown , as the White House accused him of " playing politics . " " President-elect Trump and Vice President-elect Vance ordered Republicans to shut down the government and they are threatening to do just that . "
