<h> US strikes Huthi targets in Yemen , hours after rebels hit Israel <p> Israeli emergency responders inspect a crater at the site where a projectile fired from Yemen landed in Tel Aviv ( Jack GUEZ ) ( Jack GUEZ/AFP/AFP ) <p> The United States on Saturday said it struck targets in Yemen 's rebel-held capital , hours after a Huthi rebel missile wounded people in Israel 's commercial hub Tel Aviv . <p> The missile , which wounded 16 people , was the second such attack in two days . <p> Among the targets of US forces was a rebel missile storage centre and a " command-and-control facility , " the US Central Command ( CENTCOM ) said in a statement . <p> American forces also shot down multiple Huthi drones and an anti-ship cruise missile over the Red Sea , it said , shortly after the rebels ' Al-Masirah TV channel reported that an " aggression " had targeted the Attan district of Sanaa , blaming Western forces . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> American and British forces have repeatedly struck rebel targets in Yemen this year in response to Huthi attacks on shipping in Red Sea-area waters vital to global trade . <p> Israel has also previously struck back , including against ports and energy facilities , after rebel attacks against its territory . <p> The Iran-backed Huthi rebels had claimed responsibility for the Saturday strike on Israel , saying they directed a ballistic missile at " a military target of the Israeli enemy " . <p> The Israeli military said it failed to intercept the missile , forcing many residents to leave their homes in the early hours . <p> Huthis have repeatedly launched missiles against Israel in solidarity with the Palestinians since the war in Gaza began more than a year ago . Most of them have been intercepted . <p> " One projectile launched from Yemen was identified and unsuccessful interception attempts were made , " after alert sirens sounded , the Israeli military said on its Telegram channel . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> In a later statement , the military said Israeli civilians had been " deliberately targeted " . <p> It stressed the country 's " aerial defence is not hermetic " so Israelis should follow security instructions . <p> " I was at home and heard a loud explosion . I immediately went to the scene and saw significant blast damage to nearby buildings , " medic Yosef Kourdi was quoted as saying in a statement released by Israel 's emergency medical service , Magen David Adom ( MDA ) . <p> " MDA teams provided medical care to 16 individuals who were mildly injured by glass shards from shattered windows in nearby buildings due to the impact of the strike , " the statement said . <p> France on Saturday connected its most powerful nuclear power reactor to the national electricity grid in what leaders hailed as a landmark moment despite years of delays , budget overruns and technical setbacks . " The last time a reactor started up in France was 25 years ago at Civaux 2 , " he said , referring to the Civaux power plant in southwestern France . <p> Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama said Saturday the government would shut down social network TikTok for at least a year from 2025 . " We are going to chase this thug out of our neighbourhood for one year " , Rama told a meeting with Albanian teachers , parents and psychologists in Tirana . <p> At least 38 people were killed in a bus crash in southeastern Brazil on Saturday , officials said , in what President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva called a " terrible tragedy . " Lula took to social media to offer his prayers for " the recovery of the survivors of this terrible tragedy . " <p> Hundreds of former Syrian soldiers on Saturday reported to the country 's new rulers for the first time since Bashar Assad was ousted to answer questions about whether they may have been involved in crimes against civilians in exchange for a promised amnesty and return to civilian life . The former soldiers trooped to what used to be the head office in Damascus of Assad 's Baath party that had ruled Syria for six decades . <p> CAIRO ( Reuters ) -The U.S. military said it conducted precision airstrikes on Saturday against a missile storage facility and a command-and-control facility operated by Iran-backed Houthis in Yemen 's capital , Sanaa . In a statement , the U.S. military 's Central Command said the strikes aimed to " disrupt and degrade Houthi operations , such as attacks against U.S. Navy warships and merchant vessels in the Southern Red Sea , Bab al-Mandeb , and Gulf of Aden " . The U.S. military also said it struck multiple Houthi one-way drones and an anti-ship cruise missile over the Red Sea . <p> Republican strategist Lauren Tomlinson and Democratic strategist Ashley Etienne discuss the fallout from the drama over the Republican-led House of Representatives voting to pass a spending bill just hours before a government shutdown . <p> After days of threats and demands , Donald Trump had little to show for it once lawmakers passed a budget deal in the early hours of Saturday , narrowly averting a pre-Christmas government shutdown . The president-elect successfully pushed House Republicans to jettison some spending , but he failed to achieve his central goal of raising the debt limit . <p> Investing.com -- The U.S. housing market is expected to see mild improvements in 2025 , but elevated mortgage rates and affordability challenges will continue to weigh on activity , according to a Bank of America report . <p> Investing.com -- The U.S. federal government 's $6.8 trillion spending in fiscal 2024 is unlikely to see significant cuts next year , despite calls for restraint , as structural and political obstacles remain , analysts say . <p> TikTok parent ByteDance has turned up the heat in the Chinese generative artificial intelligence ( GenAI ) market by slashing the price of a new AI model with " visual understanding " capabilities and launching a slew of product updates . The new model , part of the company 's popular Doubao family , was introduced at 0.003 yuan ( US$0.00041 ) per thousand token uses , Tan Dai , president of ByteDance 's Volcano Engine cloud unit , said at a corporate event on Wednesday . Tokens are the standard billing units <p> China 's super app WeChat , owned by Tencent Holdings , has added a gift-giving feature to its embedded e-commerce platform ahead of Christmas , allowing users to send presents to their friends . Shoppers can search for products by keywords . According to the official guidelines , all gifts available are priced 10,000 yuan ( US$1,375 ) or under , and they exclude jewellery and tutoring classes . After the sender completes payment , the recipient must accept the gift and submit a postal address within 24 hou <p> With its 0.04% gain Thursday , the Dow finally broke its 10-day losing streak , the worst since the 70s . But this week 's performance was yet another reminder of why the historically important index is now more historical than important . <p> Kyiv on Saturday staged a major drone attack on the Russian city of Kazan , 1,000 kilometres ( 620 miles ) from the frontier , the latest in a series of escalating aerial attacks in the nearly three-year conflict.The attack on Kazan comes a day after Russian strikes on the Ukrainian capital Kyiv killed one and wounded 13 , and after five were killed by a Ukrainian attack on the Russian border region of Kursk , where its troops have been staging an offensive since August . bur/gv <p> Washington is scrapping a long-standing reward for the arrest of Syria 's new leader , a senior U.S. diplomat said Friday , following " positive messages " from a first meeting that included a promise to fight terrorism.After the meeting , a statement from Syria 's new leaders said they wanted to contribute to regional peace . <p> Here 's the latest on the US central bank 's interest rate decision and a large contract snagged by a blue-chip engineering giant . The post Top Stock Market Highlights of the Week : US Federal Reserve , International Flight Routes and ST Engineering appeared first on The Smart Investor . <p> The Pakistani Taliban claimed a brazen overnight raid on an army outpost near the border with Afghanistan on Saturday , which intelligence officials said killed 16 soldiers and critically wounded five more.A second intelligence official also anonymously confirmed the toll of dead and wounded in the attack in the Makeen area of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province , 40 kilometres ( 24 miles ) from the Afghan border .
