<h> Bethlehem marks sombre Christmas under shadow of war <p> Christian Syrians lift crosses as they rally in Damascus to protest the burning of a Christmas tree near Hama ( Louai Beshara ) ( Louai Beshara/AFP/AFP ) <p> Christians gathered at the Church of the Nativity in the holy city of Bethlehem on Tuesday to mark a solemn Christmas overshadowed by war , as Pope Francis led mass in the Vatican . <p> In Bethlehem , in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , festive decorations were missing for a second consecutive year . <p> The crowd of several hundred paled in comparison to the throngs of tourists and pilgrims of Christmases past -- a reflection of the sombre mood as the war between Israel and Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip churns on . <p> At Manger Square , the heart of the Palestinian city dominated by the revered church that marks the site where Christians believe Jesus Christ was born , a group of scouts held a parade that broke the morning 's silence . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " Our children want to play and laugh , " read a sign carried by one of them , as his friends whistled and cheered . <p> Traditionally in Bethlehem , a grand Christmas tree would light up Manger Square , but local authorities opted against elaborate celebrations for a second year . <p> Prayers , including the church 's famed midnight mass , will still be held in the presence of the Catholic Church 's Latin patriarch , but the festivities will be of a more strictly religious nature . <p> The patriarch , Archbishop Pierbattista Pizzaballa , told a crowd in Bethlehem he had just returned from Gaza , where he " saw everything destroyed , poverty , disaster " . <p> " But I also saw life -- they do n't give up . So you should not giver up either . Never . " <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Despite the gloomy mood , some Christians in the Holy Land -- who number about 185,000 in Israel and 47,000 in the Palestinian territories -- were finding refuge in prayer . <p> " Christmas is a feast of faith ... We 're going to pray and ask God to end our suffering , " Salman said . <p> In a message to Christians all over the world , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu thanked them for supporting Israel 's fight against the " forces of evil " . <p> - Christians in Syria - <p> In war-ravaged Gaza , which is cut off from the West Bank by Israeli territory , hundreds of Christians gathered at a church to pray for an end to the war . <p> " This Christmas carries the stench of death and destruction , " said George al-Sayegh , who for weeks has sought refuge in the 12th-century Greek Orthodox Church of Saint Porphyrius in Gaza City . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " There is no joy , no festive spirit . We do n't even know who will survive until the next holiday . " <p> Elsewhere in the Middle East , hundreds of people took to the streets in Christian areas of Damascus to protest the burning of a Christmas tree in a Syrian town , just over two weeks after Islamist-led rebels ousted president Bashar al-Assad . <p> " If we 're not allowed to live our Christian faith in our country , as we used to , then we do n't belong here anymore , " said a demonstrator who gave his name as Georges . <p> Syria 's new rulers have vowed to protect the country 's religious minorities , including Christians . <p> But some Syrian Christians , including secular longtime opponents to Assad 's rule , fear the new leadership 's Islamist ideology will mean their community 's aspirations and those of other minorities will not be taken into account in the transition . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> - Tracking Santa - <p> In Germany , Christmas was overshadowed by a deadly attack at a market , prompting President Frank-Walter Steinmeier to issue a message of healing . <p> " Hatred and violence must not have the final word , " he said . <p> Pope Francis marked Christmas Eve on Tuesday with a special ceremony launching Jubilee 2025 , a year of Catholic celebrations set to draw more than 30 million pilgrims to Rome . <p> The pope , who in recent days has made strong remarks condemning Israel 's military actions in Gaza , opened the " Holy Door " of St Peter 's Basilica before presiding over the Christmas Eve mass . <p> Among the groups registered to participate in the Jubilee , which has the motto " Pilgrims of Hope " , is Italian LGBTQ group La Tenda di Gionata , reflecting the pope 's call for the Church to be open to all . <p> There were many moments of joy on Christmas Eve , as families around the world gathered for meals and gift-giving . <p> As an annual tradition of " tracking " Santa Claus swung into action , a US Air Force general said there was no need to worry that recent mystery drone sightings might affect deliveries . <p> General Gregory Guillot 's reassurances came as the joint US-Canadian North American Aerospace Defense Command reported that Santa and his reindeer were making stops across Asia , including Japan and North Korea . <p> " Of course we are concerned about drones and anything else in the air , " NORAD commander Guillot told Fox News . " But I do n't foresee any difficulty at all with drones for Santa this year . " <p> And in Paris , worshippers gathered at the Notre Dame cathedral for the first Christmas mass since its reopening following a devastating fire in 2019 . <p> " We got here early to attend 4:00 pm mass , and to get a good spot . It 's a superb monument , " said Julien Violle , a 40-year-old engineer who travelled to Paris from Switzerland along with his two children . <p> Notre Dame officially reopened on December 7 in a ceremony attended by world leaders , including incoming US President Donald Trump . <p> bur-ser/ami/jsa <h> Latest stories <p> Bethlehem marked another somber Christmas Eve on Tuesday in the traditional birthplace of Jesus under the shadow of war in Gaza . The excitement and cheer that typically descends on the West Bank during Christmas week were nowhere to be found . The festive lights and giant tree that normally decorate Manger Square were missing , as were the throngs of foreign tourists that usually fill the square . <p> Microsoft has been working on adding internal and third-party artificial intelligence models to power its flagship AI product Microsoft 365 Copilot , in a bid to diversify from the current underlying technology from OpenAI and reduce costs , sources familiar with the effort told Reuters . It is the latest effort by Microsoft , which is a major backer of OpenAI , to lessen its dependence on the AI startup - a departure from recent years when Microsoft touted its early access to OpenAI 's models . When Microsoft announced 365 Copilot in March 2023 , a major selling point was that it used OpenAI 's GPT-4 model . <p> Syria 's new leader Ahmed al-Sharaa held talks Monday with senior Arab diplomats expressing support for the Syrian people and discussing future cooperation , in the latest high-profile visits since Bashar al-Assad 's overthrow.Visiting Jordanian Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi expressed his country 's support for Syria 's reconstruction in a meeting with Sharaa on Monday , in the first trip to Syria by a senior Jordanian official since Assad was toppled . <p> A massacre of more than 200 people in Haiti this month followed a gang-ordered manhunt that saw victims , many of them elderly , pulled from their homes and shot or killed with machetes , the UN said Monday . " On the evening of December 6 , ( Micanor Altes ) ordered the members of his gang -- around 300 -- to carry out a brutal ' manhunt . ' <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's repeated support for TikTok has sparked speculation about potential solutions to prevent the app 's impending ban in the United States , though the path forward remains unclear.Even with Trump 's decisive election victory and incoming Republican-led Congress , acquiescing to the president-elect 's desire and preventing the ban faces significant hurdles . <p> US President-elect Donald Trump has threatened to demand control of the Panama Canal be returned to Washington , complaining of " unfair " treatment of American ships and hinting at China 's growing influence. - American enclave - Washington 's establishment of a " Canal Zone " -- an enclave with its own military bases , police and justice system -- gave rise to decades of demands by Panamanians to reunify the country and take control of the waterway . <p> Guatemalan authorities on Monday recovered several minors taken from a care center by members of an ultra-orthodox Jewish sect under investigation for alleged child sexual abuse.Some of the children were found the same day , and others were recovered by police and officials early Monday amid scuffles with adult sect members on a street in the capital , according to an AFP photographer . <p> The death toll from cyclone Chido in the French Indian Ocean territory of Mayotte has reached 39 , according to the latest count from the island 's prefect . " The work of identifying the victims of the cyclone continues , in coordination with local officials and associations , " the island 's prefect said . <p> The Indian rupee may open near its all-time low on Tuesday and continue to trade with a mild depreciation bias , pressured by a rise in U.S. bond yields , with traders expecting the domestic central bank to intervene to keep a lid on sharp declines . The domestic currency hit an all-time for the fifth consecutive trading session , inching past its previous record low of 85.10 hit on Friday . U.S. Treasury yields rose overnight , with the 10-year yield reaching its highest level in nearly seven months , after additional supply of debt at a time when many traders are inactive . <p> Former Metropolitan Police Department ( MPD ) Lt. Shane Lamond was convicted Monday of obstructing an investigation into the former Proud Boys national chair , Enrique Tarrio , just weeks before the Jan. 6 , 2021 , Capitol riot . U.S. District Court Judge Amy Berman Jackson found Lamond guilty on one count of obstructing justice and three counts of making false statements ... <p> " We all deserve better , and I know that together we can create it , " she tells fans The post Justin Baldoni 's ' Man Enough ' Podcast Co-Host Liz Plank Quits Amid Blake Lively Fallout appeared first on TheWrap . <p> It is especially surprising that one of the first federal agencies to come under scrutiny from the incoming administration is one that has returned billions of dollars to many of the same consumers who were counting on leaders in Washington to look out for their wallets . <p> A leading US government agency that tracks foreign disinformation has terminated its operations , the State Department said Tuesday , after Congress failed to extend its funding following years of Republican criticism . Its closing leaves the State Department without a dedicated office for tracking and countering disinformation from US rivals for the first time in eight years . <p> Investing.com -- MicroStrategy Incorporated ( NASDAQ:MSTR ) is asking shareholders to approve an increase in its authorized shares of class A common stock and preferred stock in order to raise funds to buy more bitcoin , according to its regulatory filing . <p> The Nativity Store in Manger Square in Bethlehem has sold handmade olive wood carvings and religious items to pilgrims visiting the Church of the Nativity , where Christianity holds Jesus was born , since 1927 . But as Bethlehem prepares to mark its second Christmas under the shadow of the war in Gaza , Manger Square is empty of tourists , and many stores and businesses are n't sure how much longer they can hold on . ( AP video shot by Imad Isseid ) <p> The holiday spirit was in overdrive at the Imart Terminal Mall in the Philippine province of Cavite on Sunday as last-minute Christmas shoppers stormed the mall in search of bargains . After hours of waiting outside , footage captured the doors opening as eager buyers flooded inside to grab anything they could get their hands on .
