<h> On Christmas Eve , Pope Francis launches holy Jubilee year <p> Pope Francis opened the " Holy Door " of St Peter 's Basilica on Christmas Eve on Tuesday , launching the Jubilee year of Catholic celebrations set to draw more than 30 million pilgrims to Rome . <p> The 88-year-old pontiff , who has recently been suffering from a cold , was pushed in a wheelchair up to the huge , ornate bronze door and knocked on it , before the doors opened . <p> In a ceremony watched on screens by thousands of faithful outside in St Peter 's Square , the Argentine pontiff went through the door followed by a procession , as the bells of the Vatican basilica rang out . <p> Over the next 12 months , Catholic pilgrims will pass through the door -- which is normally bricked up -- by tradition benefiting from a " plenary indulgence " , a type of forgiveness for their sins . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Pope Francis then presided over the Christmas Eve mass in St Peter 's , where he turned once again to the victims of war . <p> " We think of wars , of machine-gunned children , of bombs on schools and hospitals , " he said in his homily . <p> The pope had drawn an angry response from Israel at the weekend for condemning the " cruelty " of Israel 's strikes in Gaza that killed children . <p> He was due to deliver his traditional Christmas Day blessing , Urbi et Orbi ( to the city and the world ) , at midday on Wednesday . <p> - Rome facelift - <p> Some 700 security officers are being deployed around the Vatican and Rome for the Jubilee celebrations , with measures further tightened following Friday 's car-ramming attack on a Christmas market in Germany . <p> Much of Rome has also been given a facelift in preparation , with monuments such as the Trevi Fountain and the Ponte Sant'Angelo cleaned up and roads redesigned to improve the flow of traffic . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Many residents have questioned how the Eternal City -- where key sites are already overcrowded and public transport is unreliable -- will cope with millions more visitors next year . <p> Key Jubilee projects were only finished in the last few days after months of work that turned much of the city into a building site . <p> Inaugurating a new road tunnel at Piazza Pia next to the Vatican on Monday , Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni said it had taken a " little civil miracle " to get the project finished in time . <p> Over the course of the next few days , Holy Doors will be opened in Rome 's three major basilicas and in Catholic churches around the world . <p> On Thursday , Pope Francis will open a Holy Door at Rebibbia prison in Rome and preside over a mass in a show of support for the inmates . <p> - ' Profiteering , unfair debts ' - <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Organised by the Church every 25 years , the Jubilee is intended as a period of reflection and penance , and is marked by a long list of cultural and religious events , from masses to exhibitions , conferences and concerts . <p> " It 's my first time in Rome and for me , to be here at the Vatican , I feel already blessed , " said Lisbeth Dembele , a 52-year-old French tourist visiting St Peter 's Square earlier . <p> The Jubilee , whose motto this year is " Pilgrims of Hope " , is primarily aimed at the world 's almost 1.4 billion Catholics , but also aims to also reach a wider audience . <p> Traditions have evolved since the first such event back in 1300 , launched by Pope Boniface VIII . <p> This year , the Vatican has provided pilgrims with online registration and multilingual phone apps to navigate events . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Jubilee 2025 also has a mascot named Luce ( meaning Light in Latin ) inspired by Japanese anime cartoons . <p> The event will see groups from around the world come to Rome throughout 2025 , from sports and business figures to migrants , artists and young people . <p> Among the groups registered on the official site is Italian LGBTQ group La Tenda di Gionata , reflecting the pope 's call for the Church to be open to all . <p> In his homily , the pope said the Jubilee was a time for " spiritual renewal " and hope , including for " our mother Earth , disfigured by profiteering " and " for the poorer countries burdened beneath unfair debts " . <p> As well as the regular Jubilees every 25 years , the Church has organised extraordinary Jubilees , the most recent in 2016 . The next is in 2033 to commemorate the crucifixion of Jesus Christ . <p> cmk-sl/ar/giv <h> Latest stories <p> A leading US government agency that tracks foreign disinformation has terminated its operations , the State Department said Tuesday , after Congress failed to extend its funding following years of Republican criticism . Its closing leaves the State Department without a dedicated office for tracking and countering disinformation from US rivals for the first time in eight years . <p> STORY : : : File : : Dawn of Freedom OperationSyria 's de facto leader Ahmed al-Sharaa has reached an agreement with ex-rebel factions to dissolve all groups and merge under the defense ministry.That 's according to a statement from the new administration.Prime Minister Mohammed al-Bashir said last week that the ministry would be restructured using former rebel factions and officers who defected from Bashar al-Assad 's army. : : SANA HandoutSharaa will face the daunting task of trying to avoid clashes between the myriad groups.Syria 's historic ethnic and religious minorities include Muslim Kurds and Shi'ites - who feared during the civil war that any future Sunni Islamist rule would imperil their way of life ...... As well as Syriac , Greek and Armenian Orthodox Christians , and the Druze community. : : FileSharaa told Western officials visiting him that the Islamist Hayat Tahrir al-Sham group he heads , a former al Qaeda affiliate , would neither seek revenge against the former regime nor repress any religious minority. : : December 8 , 2024 : : December 7 , 2024Syrian rebels seized control of Damascus on December 8th , forcing Assad to flee after more than 13 years of civil war and ending his family 's decades-long rule . <p> Microsoft has been working on adding internal and third-party artificial intelligence models to power its flagship AI product Microsoft 365 Copilot , in a bid to diversify from the current underlying technology from OpenAI and reduce costs , sources familiar with the effort told Reuters . It is the latest effort by Microsoft , which is a major backer of OpenAI , to lessen its dependence on the AI startup - a departure from recent years when Microsoft touted its early access to OpenAI 's models . When Microsoft announced 365 Copilot in March 2023 , a major selling point was that it used OpenAI 's GPT-4 model . <p> A massacre of more than 200 people in Haiti this month followed a gang-ordered manhunt that saw victims , many of them elderly , pulled from their homes and shot or killed with machetes , the UN said Monday . " On the evening of December 6 , ( Micanor Altes ) ordered the members of his gang -- around 300 -- to carry out a brutal ' manhunt . ' <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's repeated support for TikTok has sparked speculation about potential solutions to prevent the app 's impending ban in the United States , though the path forward remains unclear.Even with Trump 's decisive election victory and incoming Republican-led Congress , acquiescing to the president-elect 's desire and preventing the ban faces significant hurdles . <p> Guatemalan authorities on Monday recovered several minors taken from a care center by members of an ultra-orthodox Jewish sect under investigation for alleged child sexual abuse.Some of the children were found the same day , and others were recovered by police and officials early Monday amid scuffles with adult sect members on a street in the capital , according to an AFP photographer . <p> Nearly 50,000 people in Canada died of an apparent opioid overdose from January 2016 to June 2024 , with fentanyl playing an increasingly prominent role in fatalities , the national health agency said Monday.Health Canada said that so far this year an average of 21 people have died each day from apparent an apparent opioid overdose , 72 percent of whom were males . <p> The Indian rupee may open near its all-time low on Tuesday and continue to trade with a mild depreciation bias , pressured by a rise in U.S. bond yields , with traders expecting the domestic central bank to intervene to keep a lid on sharp declines . The domestic currency hit an all-time for the fifth consecutive trading session , inching past its previous record low of 85.10 hit on Friday . U.S. Treasury yields rose overnight , with the 10-year yield reaching its highest level in nearly seven months , after additional supply of debt at a time when many traders are inactive . <p> The death toll from cyclone Chido in the French Indian Ocean territory of Mayotte has reached 39 , according to the latest count from the island 's prefect . " The work of identifying the victims of the cyclone continues , in coordination with local officials and associations , " the island 's prefect said . <p> Christians gathered at the Church of the Nativity in the holy city of Bethlehem on Tuesday to mark a solemn Christmas overshadowed by war , as Pope Francis led mass in the Vatican.Pope Francis marked Christmas Eve on Tuesday with a special ceremony launching Jubilee 2025 , a year of Catholic celebrations set to draw more than 30 million pilgrims to Rome . <p> Syria 's new leaders announced Tuesday that they had reached an agreement with the country 's rebel groups on their dissolution and integration under the defence ministry.The meeting between the rebel groups and Syria 's new leader Ahmed al-Sharaa " ended in an agreement on the dissolution of all the groups and their integration under the supervision of the ministry of defence " , said a statement carried by the SANA news agency and the authorities ' Telegram account . <p> Pope Francis kicked off the 2025 Holy Year on Tuesday , inaugurating a celebration of the Catholic Church that is expected to draw some 32 million pilgrims to Rome in a test of the pope 's stamina and the ability of the Eternal City to welcome them . From his wheelchair , Francis knocked a few times and the great Holy Door of St. Peter 's Basilica swung open . In his homily , Francis said the Holy Year is an opportunity to relieve the debt of poor countries and commit to protecting the planet . <p> A stockbroker who raped a woman after a drug and champagne-fuelled party in his City office has been jailed for six years . Daniel Green , 26 , snorted lines of cocaine during a boozy Friday night out after work , before pouncing on the woman as she slept under a desk . The attack happened in the early hours of May 16 last year , after Green and his stockbroker pals had been bar-hopping around the City with the victim and her friend . <p> The holiday spirit was in overdrive at the Imart Terminal Mall in the Philippine province of Cavite on Sunday as last-minute Christmas shoppers stormed the mall in search of bargains . After hours of waiting outside , footage captured the doors opening as eager buyers flooded inside to grab anything they could get their hands on . <p> Pulled from the mud as an infant after the devastating Indian Ocean tsunami in 2004 , and reunited with his parents following an emotional court battle , the boy once known as " Baby 81 " is now a 20-year-old dreaming of higher education . Jayarasa Abilash 's story symbolized that of the families torn apart by one of the worst natural calamities in modern history , but it also offered hope . More than 35,000 people in Sri Lanka were killed , with others missing . <p> A Cambodian real estate entrepreneur , whose high-profile killing of a young couple sparked public outrage , was sentenced Monday to 31 years in prison . The Phnom Penh Municipal Court said the sentence was the maximum for the crimes committed by Srey Sina , who was also ordered to pay more than $2 million in compensation to the victims ' families . Srey Sina , 51 , was found guilty of fatally shooting 27-year-old Long Lysong and his fianc ? e Khin Kanchana , 25 , on June 17 while intervening in a property dispute between neighbors in the capital , Phnom Penh . <p> When the Dalai Lama went to New York in June for knee surgery , his followers worried about his overall health and the future of Tibetan Buddhists without him . " According to my dream , I may live 110 years , " said the 89-year-old spiritual head of Tibetan Buddhists when asked about his health and how he was feeling . The knee too is improving , he said at his Himalayan residence in Dharamshala town in northern India after blessing more than 300 visitors from India and overseas at a regular audience .
