<h> Azerbaijani jet crashes in Kazakhstan , killing 38 <p> The Azerbaijan Airlines plane had 62 passengers and five crew on board ( Issa Tazhenbayev ) ( Issa Tazhenbayev/AFP/AFP ) <p> An Azerbaijan Airlines passenger jet crashed on Wednesday in western Kazakhstan after travelling far off course , killing 38 of the 67 people on board , officials said . <p> The Embraer 190 aircraft that was supposed to fly northwest from the Azerbaijani capital Baku to the city of Grozny in Chechnya in southern Russia , but instead flew across the Caspian Sea and went down near the city of Aktau in Kazakhstan . <p> The plane 's course on the Flight Radar website showed it flying away from its normal route , crossing the Caspian Sea and then circling over the area where it eventually crashed near Aktau , which is an oil and gas hub on the eastern shore of the sea . <p> A Kazakh woman told the local branch of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty ( RFE/RL ) said she was near where the plane crashed and rushed to the site to help survivors . <p> " They were covered in blood . They were crying . They were calling for help , " said the woman , who gave her name as Elmira . <p> She said they saved some teenagers . <p> " I 'll never forget their look , full of pain and despair , " said Elmira . " A girl pleaded : ' Save my mother , my mother is back there ' . " <p> The health ministry said a special flight was being sent from the Kazakh capital Astana with specialist doctors to treat the injured . <p> Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev declared Thursday a day of national mourning and cancelled a planned visit to Russia for an informal summit of leaders of the Commonwealth of Independent States ( CIS ) , a grouping of former Soviet nations . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Aliyev 's office said the president " ordered the prompt initiation of urgent measures to investigate the causes of the disaster " . <p> " I extend my condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in the crash ... and wish a speedy recovery to the injured , " Aliyev said in a social media post . <p> Russian President Vladimir Putin held a phone conversation with Aliyev and also " expressed his condolences in connection with the crash " , his spokesman Dmitry Peskov told a news conference . <p> A Russian emergency situations ministry had been sent to Aktau with medical personnel and other equipment , Putin said later as he opened the CIS leaders ' meeting in Saint Petersburg . <p> Azerbaijan 's first lady Mehriban Aliyeva , who is also the country 's first vice president , said she was " deeply saddened by the news of the tragic loss of lives in the plane crash near Aktau " . <p> " I extend my heartfelt condolences to the families and loved ones of the victims . Wishing them strength and patience ! I also wish a speedy recovery to the injured , " she said on Instagram . <p> Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov said on Telegram : " I express my condolences to the relatives of the passengers of the Azerbaijan Airlines jet who died . " <p> An Azerbaijan Airlines passenger jet with 67 people on board crashed near the city of Aktau in western Kazakhstan on Wednesday , local authorities said , adding that at least 29 survivors had been rescued . An Azerbaijani airliner with 67 people onboard crashed Wednesday near the Kazakhstani city of Aktau , killing 38 people and leaving 29 survivors , a Kazakh official said . Deputy Prime Minister Kanat Bozumbaev disclosed the figures while meeting with Azerbaijani officials , the Russian news agency I <p> As president-elect Donald Trump made his plans to deport millions of undocumented migrants known , Chinese border crossers began flooding group chats voicing fear that their stay in the US could be precariously short . " Once Trump gets in office , he 'll kick all of us out , " said one . A letter written by Chinese migrants , pledging to obey US laws and contribute to the country , began circulating soon after it was clear Trump had won . Those who signed the letter aim to present it to him on his inaugur <p> The tech industry is bracing for changes as President-elect Donald Trump returns to the White House in 2025 . Chamber of Progress CEO and founder Adam Kovacevic joins Brad Smith and Josh Lipton on Market Domination Overtime to discuss his tech industry outlook . " One of the , I think , good pieces of news is that President-elect Trump has appointed a number of people from the tech world , venture capitalists , people with tech experience to prominent positions , " Kovacevic says , noting that this is a " good sign " for the industry . He adds that Trump 's second term will likely lead to a shift in the US government 's attitude toward AI . The Biden administration 's " main approach to artificial intelligence was to say , ' This is an area where we ought to tread carefully , put up guardrails , and focus on safety , ' " Kovacevic says . " What I think you are going to see with Trump is a pivot from safety to really seeing AI as an economic asset for the United States , a national asset for the United States , where we should go out and beat other countries , particularly China in AI . " Watch the video above to hear more about the expected tech landscape in 2025 , including the possible TikTok ban , Big Tech execs courting Trump , Musk 's role in the US government , and more . To watch more expert insights and analysis on the latest market action , check out more Market Domination Overtime here . This post was written by Naomi Buchanan . <p> STORY : : : This video contains content some people may find distressing : : Eyewitness video shows a plane crashing in Kazakhstan : : December 25 , 2024 : : Aktau , Kazakhstan : : Kazakh authorities said 62 passengers and five crew were on board ; many are feared deadAn Embraer passenger plane flying from Azerbaijan to Russia crashed near the city of Aktau in Kazakhstan on Wednesday with 62 passengers and five crew on board , Kazakh authorities announced , saying that 28 people had survived.Reuters was able to verify the location of the video said to show the moment of the crash but not the date . However , information on FlightRadar24.com showed the flight last seen near Aktau airport on Wednesday ( December 25 ) . Kazakhstan 's emergencies ministry said in a statement that fire services had put out the blaze and that the survivors , including two children , were being treated at a nearby hospital . The bodies of the dead were being recovered.Azerbaijan Airlines said the Embraer 190 jet , with flight number J2-8243 , was flying from Baku to Grozny , capital of Russia 's Chechnya region , but had been forced to make an emergency landing around 1.8 miles ( 3 km ) from Aktau in Kazakhstan . The city is on the opposite shore of the Caspian Sea from Azerbaijan and Russia . <p> Pope Francis called Wednesday for " arms to be silenced " around the world in his Christmas address , appealing for peace in the Middle East , Ukraine and Sudan as he denounced the " extremely grave " humanitarian situation in Gaza.Francis extended his call for a silencing of arms to the whole Middle East and to Sudan , which has been ravaged by a ravaged by 20 months of brutal civil war where millions are under the threat of famine . <p> Santa Claus has no need to worry about recent mystery drone sightings over New Jersey , a US Air Force general said Tuesday , as an annual tradition of " tracking " Saint Nick swung into action.Santa 's journey this year comes after weeks of mysterious sightings of alleged drones in the US state of New Jersey , sparking worldwide curiosity even as many of the reported incidents were debunked . <p> Children are among 29 people rescued alive from the wreckage of a passenger plane that crashed in Kazakhstan on Christmas Day , killing 38 people . The Azerbaijan Airlines aircraft was carrying 67 people when it hit the ground near the city of Aktau , sending flames into the sky . The plane had been en route from Baku in Azerbaijan to Grozny in Russia , but was rerouted due to fog . <p> Emotional ceremonies were expected across Asia on Thursday to remember the 220,000 people who died two decades ago when a tsunami devastated coastal areas around the Indian Ocean , in one of the worst natural disasters in human history.A total of 226,408 people died as a result of the tsunami , according to EM-DAT , a recognised global disaster database . <p> Survivors and victims ' relatives will this week mark the 20th anniversary of the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami , which killed more than 220,000 people across more than a dozen countries.At the time of the earthquake , there was no warning system in place in the Indian Ocean . <p> At least 29 people survived after a plane crashed near the Kazakh city of Aktau on Wednesday . Dozens of others are feared dead . Eyewitness video shows dazed passengers emerging from the wreckage and others being pulled out .
