<h> Several wounded N.Korean soldiers died after being captured by Ukraine : Zelensky <p> Daria ANDRIIEVSKA <p> 27 December 2024 at 3:18 pm*3-min read <p> South Korea 's military believes that North Korea is seeking to modernise its conventional warfare capabilities through combat experience gained in the Russia-Ukraine war ( - ) ( -/Press service of the 24th mechanized brigade named after King Danylo/AFP ) <p> Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Friday that " several " wounded North Korean soldiers died after being captured by Ukrainian forces , as he accused Russia of throwing them into battle with " minimal protection " . <p> Ukraine and its western allies say North Korea has sent thousands of soldiers to support Russia 's army , in what is seen as a major escalation in the nearly three-year war following Moscow 's 2022 invasion . <p> " Today there were reports about several soldiers from North Korea . Our soldiers managed to take them prisoner . But they were very seriously wounded and could not be resuscitated , " Zelensky said in an evening address posted on social media . <p> South Korea 's spy agency said earlier on Friday that a North Korean soldier who was captured while fighting in Russia 's war against Ukraine had died of his wounds . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Zelensky did not specify how many North Koreans had died after being captured by Ukrainian troops . <p> Zelensky had earlier said that nearly 3,000 North Korean soldiers had been " killed or wounded " so far as they joined Russia 's forces in combat in its western Kursk border region , where Ukraine mounted a shock incursion in August . <p> South Korea 's intelligence service had previously put the number of killed or wounded North Koreans at 1,000 , saying the high casualty rate could be down to an unfamiliar battlefield environment and their lack of capability to counter drone attacks . <p> The White House on Friday confirmed the South Korean estimates , saying that Pyongyang 's troops were being sent to their deaths in futile attacks by generals who see them as " expendable " . <p> " We also have reports of North Korean soldiers taking their own lives rather than surrendering to Ukrainian forces , likely out of fear of reprisal against their families in North Korea in the event that they 're captured , " National Security Council spokesman John Kirby told reporters . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> - Putin message to Kim - <p> North Korea and Russia have strengthened their military ties since Moscow 's invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 . <p> A landmark defence pact between Pyongyang and Moscow signed in June came into force this month , with Russian President Vladimir Putin hailing it as a " breakthrough document " . <p> North Korean state media said Friday that Putin sent a New Year 's message to North Korean leader Kim Jong Un , saying : " The bilateral ties between our two countries have been elevated after our talks in June in Pyongyang . " <p> Seoul 's military believes that North Korea was seeking to modernise its conventional warfare capabilities through combat experience gained in the Russia-Ukraine war . <p> NATO chief Mark Rutte had also said that Moscow was providing support to Pyongyang 's missile and nuclear programmes in exchange for the troops . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> South Korea 's Joint Chiefs of Staff said Monday that Pyongyang is reportedly " preparing for the rotation or additional deployment of soldiers " and supplying " 240mm rocket launchers and 170mm self-propelled artillery " to the Russian army . <p> Pyongyang 's involvement in Russia 's war against Ukraine had prompted warnings from Seoul . <p> South Korea 's President Yoon Suk Yeol , currently suspended , said in November that Seoul was " not ruling out the possibility of providing weapons " to Kyiv , which would mark a major shift to a long-standing policy barring the sale of weapons to countries in active conflict . <p> hs/bjt/mlm/gv/rlp <h> Latest stories <p> A former Peruvian congressional official on Thursday denied having set up a prostitution ring in the legislature providing sexual favors to lawmakers in return for votes.He said he had no connection to sexual workers providing services to members of congress , " much less that these services have been used to generate votes in favor of a bill . " <p> The ongoing spread of bird flu in the United States has alarmed experts -- not just because of human cases causing severe illness , but also due to troubling new instances of infections in cats . A sample of the virus found in a critically ill patient in the United States has shown signs of mutating to better suit human airways , although there is no indication it has spread beyond that individual , authorities report . <p> U.S. officials have added a ninth telecommunications company to the list of entities compromised by a sweeping Chinese-linked cyberespionage operation known as Salt Typhoon , a top White House official said Friday . Anne Neuberger , the U.S. deputy national security advisor for cyber and emerging technology , told reporters on a call that the unnamed telecom was added to the list after the U.S. government shared guidance on how to detect and defend against the operation . The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency on Dec. 18 urged senior government and political figures to move mobile communications to end-to-end encrypted apps as a result of the Salt Typhoon campaign , which has targeted officials associated with the campaign of former Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris and President-elect Donald Trump and Vice President-elect JD Vance , according to reports . <p> China launched a new amphibious assault ship Friday , capable of launching fighter jets and designed to strengthen the navy 's combat ability in distant seas . The Sichuan , the first ship of the 076 type , is China 's largest such ship yet , displacing 40,000 tons and equipped with an electromagnetic catapult which will allow fighter jets to launch directly off its deck , according to the official Xinhua news agency . Developed by Chinese researchers , it 's also equipped with an " arrestor technology " which allows fighter jets to land on its deck . <p> Well , that did n't take long . The logic-twisting alliance between Silicon Valley 's new oligarchs and the home-spun patriotism at the heart of the Republican grassroots movement is shattering before our very eyes . MAGA stalwarts like Laura Loomer and Matt Gaetz are already turning their fire on the tech bros who helped bankroll Donald Trump 's comeback bid for the White House before he is even sworn in as president for a second time . <p> China 's foreign ministry on Thursday urged the Philippines to return to " peaceful development " , saying Manila 's decision to deploy a U.S. medium-range missile system in military exercises would only bring the risks of an arms race in the region . On Tuesday , Philippine Defence Minister Gilberto Teodoro said the Typhon 's deployment for joint exercises was " legitimate , legal and beyond reproach " . Army chief Roy Galido said on Monday that the Philippines was also planning to acquire its own mid-range missile system . <p> Israeli soldiers stormed and burned a hospital in isolated northern Gaza after forcibly removing staff and patients on Friday , Health Ministry officials said . The Israeli military said the hospital was being used by Hamas fighters as a base , although it did not provide evidence . Gaza 's Health Ministry said Israeli troops set fires in several parts of Kamal Adwan Hospital , including the lab and surgery department . <p> China 's leader Xi Jinping wants the recent spree of mass killings that shocked the country not to happen again . The attacks , where drivers mow down people on foot or knife-wielding assailants stab multiple victims , are not new in China . Local officials were quick to vow to examine all sorts of personal disputes that could trigger aggression , from marital troubles to disagreements over inheritance . <p> A manufacturing plant in Russia 's Tatarstan region has significantly scaled up its production of Iranian-designed drones , using a range of Chinese components , and recruiting a low-skilled workforce of Russian teenagers and African women , according to CNN analysis and Ukrainian defense intelligence sources . <p> Israeli air strikes hit Sanaa International Airport and other sites in Yemen on Thursday , killing three . The strikes , in response to Houthi attacks on Israel , also injured a plane 's crew member , said WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , who was at the airport . Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu said the strikes would continue " until the job is done " . Israeli air strikes pummelled Sanaa 's international airport and other targets in Yemen on Thursday , leaving three people dead , a day after the latest a
