<h> Israeli military says Gaza hospital chief held in raid <p> UN-marked vehicles are parked at the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahia in the northern Gaza Strip as medics evacuate injured people and cancer patients ( - ) ( -/AFP/AFP ) <p> Israel 's military on Saturday said a hospital director is being held as a suspected Hamas militant after a north Gaza raid the World Health Organization said left the area 's last major health facility emptied of patients and staff . <p> The military said the director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , Hossam Abu Safiyeh , is being held for questioning , on suspicion of " being a Hamas terrorist operative " , and that the raid is now over . <p> Gaza health officials and the WHO earlier Saturday said the raid forced the hospital in Beit Lahia out of service and led to Abu Safiyeh 's detention . <p> Also Saturday , the military said it intercepted two projectiles fired at Israel from northern Gaza , a rare attack more than 14 months into Israel 's war with the Palestinian militants , whose top leaders have been killed . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Since October 6 , Israeli operations in Gaza have focused on the north , where they say their land and air offensive aims to prevent Hamas from regrouping . <p> " The situation is catastrophic , " said Ammar al-Barsh , 50 , a resident of Jabalia , near Beit Lahia . " There is no medical service , no ambulances and no civil defence in the north . " <p> Israel 's military says it has killed hundreds of militants since October 6 , while rescuers in the area say thousands of civilians have died . <p> " Kamal Adwan is now empty , " the WHO said , adding that it was " appalled " by the raid which followed escalating restrictions and repeated attacks . <p> It was also the latest raid against a hospital during the war . <p> " The systematic dismantling of the health system and a siege for over 80 days on north Gaza puts the lives of the 75,000 Palestinians remaining in the area at risk , " the UN health agency said in a statement . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Israel 's military said it had " completed a targeted operation against a Hamas command centre in the Kamal Adwan Hospital " , leading to the detention of " over 240 terrorists in the area " . <p> - Told to strip - <p> Apart from detaining Abu Safiyeh , who is being questioned in Gaza , the military said it is holding " Hamas engineering and anti-tank missile operatives and approximately 15 terrorists who infiltrated Israel during the October 7th massacre " in 2023 . <p> WHO said the remaining 15 critical patients , 50 caregivers and 20 health workers were transferred on Friday to the nearby Indonesian Hospital , which it described as " destroyed and non-functional " . <p> It said WHO would undertake an urgent mission to the Indonesian Hospital on Sunday , partly to move the critical patients to Gaza City . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> WHO said initial reports indicated that some areas of the Kamal Adwan hospital were burnt and severely damaged during the raid . <p> Hamas-run Gaza 's health ministry earlier reported that several medical staff had been detained along with Abu Safiyeh . <p> One of the Gazans evacuated , who asked to be identified only as Mohammad for security reasons , told AFP some evacuees were told to strip . <p> " As we began to exit , the army asked all young men to take off their clothes and walk outside the hospital , " said Mohammad , whose brother was a patient there . <p> - ' Command and control centre ' - <p> Israeli military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Nadav Shoshani said this practice " is not a form of humiliation " but so troops can ensure " no one is booby-trapped or is carrying explosives or gun on them " . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Mohammad said : " They took tens of young men , as well as physicians and patients , to an unknown place ... The young men were interrogated . They were asked about resistance fighters , Hamas and weapons . " <p> Last Monday , Abu Safiyeh had accused Israel of targeting the hospital " with the intent to kill and forcibly displace the people inside " . <p> The military said it had identified Kamal Adwan as used by " terrorists ... for military operations in Jabalia " . <p> " This was a command and control centre that we understood was for many dozens of terrorists or a few hundreds , " Shoshani said . <p> Troops conducted " precise activities " inside the hospital and located and confiscated weapons , a military statement said . <p> Before beginning the raid , the military said it helped to evacuate 350 patients , caregivers and medical staff . <p> In a statement , Hamas dismissed as " lies " Israeli allegations that its operatives were at the hospital . <p> Gaza 's health ministry earlier quoted Abu Safiyeh as reporting " a large number of injuries among the medical team " . <p> The military has regularly accused Hamas of using hospitals as command centres . <p> WHO said another north Gaza hospital , Al-Awda in Jabalia , is " barely able to function , and severely damaged due to recent air strikes " . <p> Israel 's former defence minister Moshe Yaalon last month used Beit Lahia as an example when he accused the army of " ethnic cleansing " in Gaza , comments dismissed as " dishonest " by the Likud party to which he once belonged . <p> The Gaza war was triggered by the Hamas-led October 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel , which resulted in 1,208 deaths , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally of Israeli official figures . <p> Israel 's retaliatory military campaign has killed at least 45,484 people in Gaza , a majority of them civilians , according to figures from the Hamas-run territory 's health ministry that the UN considers reliable . <p> The body of Manmohan Singh , the former Indian prime minister whose death has sparked outpourings of grief at home and accolades from abroad , was cremated on Sunday on the banks of the Yamuna River in New Delhi with full state honours . The funeral was conducted in the Sikh tradition as priests chanted hymns , after Singh 's body , draped in the Indian flag , was carried through the capital on a flower-decked carriage pulled by a ceremonial army truck . Since Singh died on Thursday at 92 , many have taken up his comment near the end of his 10-year rule that " history will be kinder to me than the contemporary media " . <p> There was a record 18% rise in homelessness in the U.S. in the last year , driven by factors like unaffordable housing , high inflation , systemic racism , natural disasters and rising immigration , the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development said on Friday . The problem of homelessness has been getting worse in the U.S. , with commonplace sightings in many cities of destitute people living in the open , with tents pitched on city sidewalks . The previous such annual data released last year had shown a 12% rise in homelessness . <p> Hackers targeted around ten official websites in Italy on Saturday , including the websites of the Foreign Ministry and Milan 's two airports , putting them out of action temporarily , the country 's cyber security agency said . The pro-Russian hacker group Noname057(16) claimed the cyber attack on Telegram , saying Italy 's " Russophobes get a well deserved cyber response " . A spokesperson for Italy 's cyber security agency said it was plausible that the so-called " Distributed Denial of Service " ( DDoS ) attack could be linked to the pro-Russian group . <p> U.S. officials have added a ninth telecommunications company to the list of entities compromised by a sweeping Chinese-linked cyberespionage operation known as Salt Typhoon , a top White House official said Friday . Anne Neuberger , the U.S. deputy national security advisor for cyber and emerging technology , told reporters on a call that the unnamed telecom was added to the list after the U.S. government shared guidance on how to detect and defend against the operation . The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency on Dec. 18 urged senior government and political figures to move mobile communications to end-to-end encrypted apps as a result of the Salt Typhoon campaign , which has targeted officials associated with the campaign of former Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris and President-elect Donald Trump and Vice President-elect JD Vance , according to reports . <p> Hopes for a Santa Claus rally on Wall Street fell Friday as tech stocks slid lower , while a weaker yen lifted Japanese equities.Wall Street stocks have historically performed well around the year-end holidays in what is popularly known as a Santa Claus rally . <p> In a brief filed with the US Supreme Court on Friday , TikTok reiterated its position that a law requiring the Chinese-owned short video app to be banned by January 19 , 2025 , unless sold to a non-Chinese buyer , was unconstitutional and should be blocked . The argument by the platform was unexpectedly supported in its effort to pause the ban by US president-elect Donald Trump , who filed an amicus brief asking the court for a halt on the ban so he could officially take office and " resolve " the dispu <p> US president-elect Donald Trump on Friday filed an amicus brief with the US Supreme Court in TikTok 's legal case , urging the justices to temporarily halt a law requiring the popular app to be banned by January 19 unless it is sold to a non-Chinese buyer . Earlier on Friday , TikTok , owned by Chinese tech giant ByteDance , filed a brief with America 's highest court reiterating its position that the law was unconstitutional and should be overturned . Trump " takes no position on the underlying merits o <p> Investing.com -- Cryptocurrencies are poised to continue their momentum after nearly doubling total market cap in 2024 , but wider adoption in 2025 will depend on how effectively the crypto-friendly Trump administration can establish a clearer regulatory path for cryptocurrencies to thrive . <p> The top UN official for humanitarian aid in Yemen , who narrowly dodged an aerial bombing raid by Israel on Sanaa 's airport , denied Friday that the facility had any military purpose.Harneis said the airport is " absolutely vital " to continued humanitarian aid for Yemen . <p> Four districts in southern China on Friday formed a pilot framework under which connected cars will be mutually recognised , a mechanism designed to allow autonomous robotaxis to travel across cities . The Nansha district of Guangzhou , Shenzhen 's Qianhai and Bao'an districts , as well as Hengqin , an island co-administered by Zhuhai and Macau , agreed to the connected vehicle programme that will " mutually recognise qualifications , open roads ... and synergise regulation " to " further connect the Great <p> People around the world suffered an average of 41 extra days of dangerous heat this year because of human-caused climate change , according to a group of scientists who also said that climate change worsened much of the world 's damaging weather throughout 2024 . The analysis from World Weather Attribution and Climate Central researchers comes at the end of a year that shattered climate record after climate record as heat across the globe made 2024 likely to be its hottest ever measured and a slew of other fatal weather events spared few . " The finding is devastating but utterly unsurprising : Climate change did play a role , and often a major role in most of the events we studied , making heat , droughts , tropical cyclones and heavy rainfall more likely and more intense across the world , destroying lives and livelihoods of millions and often uncounted numbers of people , " Friederike Otto , the lead of World Weather Attribution and an Imperial College climate scientist , said during a media briefing on the scientists ' findings . <p> Israel 's army detained the director of one of northern Gaza ' s last functioning hospitals as overnight strikes elsewhere in the territory killed nine people , including children , Palestinian medical officials said Saturday . Israel 's military alleged that Hamas militants were using the facility and said over 240 people were detained . Gaza 's Health Ministry said Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , was arrested Friday along with dozens of other staff and taken to an interrogation center . <p> Vladimir Putin admitted Saturday Russian air defence was working when an Azerbaijani Airlines plane tried to land in Grozny before crashing , while stopping short of claiming responsibility . The Kremlin said Putin apologised to Azerbaijani leader Ilham Aliyev over the " tragic incident " in a phone call , but did not say Russian air defence shot the plane . <p> From tiny and impoverished Mayotte to oil-rich behemoth Saudi Arabia , prosperous European cities to overcrowded slums in Africa , nowhere was spared the devastating impact of supercharged climate disasters in 2024 . This year is the hottest in history , with record-breaking temperatures in the atmosphere and oceans acting like fuel for extreme weather around the world.World Weather Attribution , experts on how global warming influences extreme events , said nearly every disaster they analysed over th <p> Israeli troops raided and torched the Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza on Friday forcing staff and patients , some of whom had to be unhooked from oxygen , to move to other locations , the Gaza health ministry said . Israeli troops stormed one of the last hospitals operating in the northernmost part of Gaza on Friday , forcing many of the staff and patients out of the facility , the territory 's health ministry said.The Kamal Adwan Hospital has been hit multiple times over the past three months by
