<h> Silent night in Bethlehem <p> Bethlehem , the West Bank city where Jesus Christ was born , was uncharacteristically silent on Christmas Day . Gone was the usually bustling place filled with foreign tourists and pilgrims flocking to the Church of the Nativity . <p> In the past , the presence of busloads of tourists arriving from practically all directions brought a lively vibe that blended into the solemnity of one of Christianity 's most beloved places in the Holy Land . <p> The Associated Press ( AP ) reported that Bethlehem had its second subdued Christmas Eve following the Hamas ' attacks on Israel in 2023 , which ignited the war in Gaza and a wider conflagration that has engulfed southern Lebanon , Syria , and the Iran-backed Houthis in Yemen . <p> Article continues after this advertisement <p> " The excitement and cheer that typically descends on the West Bank during Christmas week were nowhere to be found . The festive lights and giant tree that normally decorate Manger Square were missing , as were the throngs of foreign tourists that usually fill the square , " the AP said . <p> It then described Palestinian scouts marching " silently through the streets , a departure from their usual raucous brass marching band . Security forces arranged barriers near the Church of the Nativity , built atop the spot where Jesus is believed to have been born . " <p> This scene is commonly associated with a funeral march rather than a Christmas parade . The absence of foreigners from Manger Square for the second year in a row has turned the old city into a ghost town , stealing the joys that come with the annual commemoration of the birth of our Messiah and Savior . <p> Article continues after this advertisement <p> Uneasy peace . It 's hard for me to envision something like this happening to Bethlehem , especially on Christmas in 2018 , when I first set foot in the ancient town where time seemed to stand still . <p> Article continues after this advertisement <p> Amid partitions that dotted the road system in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , our tour bus had to clear an Israeli checkpoint just to get to Bethlehem , a Palestinian town in the West Bank situated south of Jerusalem ( a 30-minute drive away ) . <p> Article continues after this advertisement <p> As the morning mist receded , we came to the Shepherds ' Field where , according to the Gospel of Luke , the angels declared the birth of Jesus to " shepherds living out in the fields nearby , keeping watch over their flocks at night " ( Luke 2:8 ) . <p> Further on the horizon , we could see the contours of a massive West Bank Wall , a security barrier that divides Israel and Palestine . <p> Article continues after this advertisement <p> Before our thoughts got lost in the intractable conflicts that the wall had evoked , our tour guide hastened us back into the minibus , which took us to the nearby Church of the Nativity and Manger Square fronting it . <p> The church was built on top of a grotto that marks the birthplace of Jesus . To reach the underground grotto , a rectangular cave beneath the mosaic-decorated altar , visitors have to scale down a narrow flight of steps that leads directly to the spot where Jesus was born . A 14-point silver star marks the spot . <p> " Fear not . " Despite the influx of tourists and pilgrims who visited the church that day , the noise was reduced to a hush when the crowds reached the grotto . <p> The solemn atmosphere then took us back to the reality of the first Christmas , when an angel appeared to the shepherds and announced , " Fear not , for behold , I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people . For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior , who is Christ the Lord . And this will be a sign for you : you will find a baby wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger " ( Luke 2:10-12 ) . <p> If we compare the good news of the first Christmas with the current reality in Israel , one ca n't miss the irony that this silence that has engulfed Bethlehem since Oct. 7 , 2023 is being secured at the cost of war . The ongoing war in Gaza has scared away tourists and pilgrims , forcing Bethlehem 's economy , which depends heavily on tourism and religious pilgrimage , into a standstill . <p> " We have no guests . Not one , " Reuters quoted Joey Canavati , owner of the Alexander Hotel , as saying . " This is the worst Christmas ever . Bethlehem is shut down for Christmas . No Christmas tree , no joy , no Christmas spirit , " said Canavati , who belongs to the fourth generation of a family that has lived in Bethlehem . <p> Canavati 's lamentation on Christmas echoes the cries of despair of people around the world living in troubled times , whether through wars , plagues , famines , or disasters . <p> But Christmas is about hope and new beginnings , a time for giving and showing empathy for those who are suffering and in need , as Jesus ' birth in a manger -- bereft of pomp and pageantry -- so vividly highlighted . <p> This hope , and the peace that results from empathy and understanding , may still hold the key to peace in Bethlehem , Palestine , Israel , Ukraine , and the rest of the world . <p> May Luke 's account of the first Christmas come true in our lives : " And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying , ' Glory to God in the highest , and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased ! ' " ( Luke 2:13-14 ) .
