<p> Israel 's raid on a major Gaza hospital and the arrest of its director over alleged links to Hamas have drawn global attention to the war-ravaged territory 's crumbling healthcare system . <p> For weeks , as fighting escalated around the Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza 's Beit Lahia area , its head Hossam Abu Safiyeh made desperate appeals to the international community to intervene and stop the violence " before it is too late " . <p> In the early hours of Friday , the Israeli military launched a major raid on the hospital , describing it as " one of the largest operations " it had conducted since the war in Gaza broke out in October last year . <p> The raid ended a day later , with the military announcing that it killed more than 20 militants and arrested over 240 , including Abu Safiyeh on suspicion of " being a Hamas operative " . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Since then , the whereabouts of the 51-year-old paediatrician have been unknown . <p> The World Health Organisation has said Kamal Adwan hospital has been out of service ever since , a massive blow to the healthcare system in northern Gaza , where tens of thousands live under ongoing Israeli bombardment . <p> His family believes he is being detained at the Sde Teiman military base in the Negev desert , near Gaza . <p> - ' Deadly attacks ' - <p> " This detention centre is notorious for the mistreatment of prisoners , " his son , Idris Abu Safiyeh , said in a video message on Monday evening . <p> " We have received testimonies from released detainees who reported that he was subjected to humiliation and abuse , " he said . " He was reportedly forced to strip " . <p> Despite repeated attempts by AFP , the Israeli military has declined to specify Abu Safiyeh 's location . It has also not responded to allegations of his abuse . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Several other medical staff of Kamal Adwan Hospital were detained in the raid as well . <p> " There is no justification for these arrests other than a desire to destroy the healthcare system , " Mahmud Bassal , spokesman for Gaza 's civil defence agency , told AFP . He described the situation as " catastrophic and tragic . " <p> On Tuesday , a United Nations report revealed that Israeli strikes on and near hospitals in Gaza have led to the near total collapse of the healthcare system in the Palestinian territory of 2.4 million people . <p> " Israel 's pattern of deadly attacks on and near hospitals in Gaza , and associated combat , pushed the healthcare system to the brink of total collapse , with catastrophic effect on Palestinians ' access to health and medical care , " the UN human rights office said in a statement . <p> - ' Hero in a white robe ' - <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Israeli officials have repeatedly accused Hamas of using the territory 's hospitals as command and control centres for launching attacks against Israeli forces . <p> Abu Safiyeh 's family has urged the international community to pressure Israel for his prompt release -- and their message has resonated . <p> The World Health Organisation led by its chief , Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , has called for the " immediate release " of the hospital director . <p> Rights group Amnesty International has echoed the call , saying Abu Safiyeh had been the " voice of Gaza 's decimated health sector " . <p> Healthcare professionals across the world have also urged for his release , rallying on social media under the hashtag #FreeDrHussamAbuSafiya . <p> He was praised as a " hero in a white robe " in several social media posts for continuing his work amid an intense Israeli military campaign in northern Gaza . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Since October 6 , Israeli forces have intensified their land and sea assault on northern Gaza , saying it was aimed at preventing Hamas from regrouping there . <p> According to the US-based NGO MedGlobal , which employs him , Abu Safiyeh lost a teenage son in an Israeli air strike in late October , while he himself was injured in the leg days later . <p> From a hospital bed , he , however , declared in a video that the injury would not deter him from fulfilling his mission , " whatever the cost " . <p> South Korean authorities began releasing the bodies of plane crash victims to families Tuesday , as investigators raced to determine why the Jeju Air Boeing 737-800 crash landed and burst into flames.US investigators , including from Boeing , arrived at the crash site in southwestern Muan , officials said , as South Korean authorities began assessing two black boxes retrieved from the burned-out wreckage of the aircraft . <p> The chief minister of India 's northeastern state of Manipur apologised on Tuesday for months of ethnic unrest that has killed at least 250 people and prompted criticism of Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's federal government . The strife between the majority Meitei and the tribal Kuki communities in the state of 3.2 million people broke out in May 2023 and has displaced 60,000 people . Despite peace efforts , many Kukis and Meiteis have moved out of ethnically mixed areas . <p> Israel 's devastating campaigns against Iran 's regional allies have severely weakened its arch-enemy 's ability to project its power , but Yemen 's Tehran-backed Huthi rebels remain a stubborn thorn in its side , analysts say . " Iran has been so severely weakened and so severely exposed as vulnerable that I think it makes an agreement between Israel and Saudi Arabia more likely , especially if there 's going to be some kind of ceasefire in Gaza , " he said . <p> Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov rejected proposals Monday floated by President-elect Trump 's allies to end the war in Ukraine , dealing a major setback for the incoming president 's hopes to freeze the conflict . In an interview with Russian state-run media outlet TASS , Lavrov said Moscow has " not received any official signals regarding a settlement in Ukraine " ... <p> President-elect Donald Trump shared a surprisingly sentimental tribute to former President Jimmy Carter after his passing Sunday at 100 -- just two months after mocking his predecessor at a campaign stop in Wisconsin . Taking to Truth Social , Trump wrote : " I just heard of the news about the passing of President Jimmy Carter . Those of us who have been fortunate to have served as President understand this is a very exclusive club , and only we can relate to the enormous responsibility of leading the Gr <p> California Gov . Gavin Newsom has riled up MAGA fans with his online support of President-elect Donald Trump . The Democrat voiced agreement with Trump and his DOGE co-head Elon Musk 's pro-H-1B stance , leaving some red voters swearing away from their party in fear that it was becoming too palatable for the liberals . While some appeared ready to take lighters their black and gold MAGA caps , others claimed that Newsom was purposefully stirring the pot and trying to alienate Republicans from their le <p> It 's an argument that reflects the difficulty of locating the current moment in Chinese economic history properly . It is significant that the overcapacity debate has come up at this moment , because it provides a kind of justification for industrial policy in the West and that 's also the dimension in which it seems to me quite problematic because it concerns the leading edge of technology . The new element of this argument is in green tech , and it 's just very difficult to even understand what we mean by the suggestion of , say , excess capacity in solar photovoltaics ( PV ) . <p> Elon Musk is reportedly staying in a cottage at President-elect Donald Trump 's estate that rents for $2,000 a day . The world 's richest man , who holds substantial government contracts and appears to have spent more than a quarter of a billion dollars to get Trump and his surrogates elected to office , has been a Trump tenant since the presidential election in November , according to the New York ... <p> Wearing a safety belt , helmet and work boots , Raju Nishad navigates the scaffolding , hammering blocks that will form part of a building in a new neighbourhood in central Israel 's town of Beer Yaakov.While he and other Indians working alongside him do not look out of place on the expansive construction site , they are relative newcomers to Israel 's building industry . <p> Some political leaders use religion , while others would do anything to stay in power . Professor Emeritus Datuk Dr Mohamed Ghouse Nasuruddin says Malaysia sorely needs leaders with integrity and uncompromised moral and ethical principles .
