<h> 2024 Philippine equities : A year of volatility <p> Philippine stocks ended 2024 virtually unchanged . The Philippine Stock Exchange Index ( PSEi ) closed at 6,528.79 last Dec. 27 , only up by 1.2 percent for the year . The flat performance masked a year of high volatility driven by Fed policy shifts , geopolitical tensions , and a market-moving US election . <h> A Roller-coaster ride <p> Early rally . The PSEi rose to 7,070 on April 2 from 6,450 at end-2023 . The Federal Reserve 's rate hike pause and projected cuts for 2024 , plus strong US growth and AI momentum , fueled the broadening rally . <p> Midyear slump . The momentum reversed in April as Middle East tensions rattled markets . Iran 's attack on Israel using drones and missiles , and ongoing conflicts in Gaza , Lebanon , and Yemen , heightened risk aversion . The index hit its year-low of 6,158 in July . <p> Powell-led rebound . The market rallied from its July low after Fed Chair Jerome Powell signaled the Fed 's first rate cut . This pivot sparked gains across ASEAN markets , following US stocks higher . The PSEI broke past 7,000 resistance , hitting 7,602 in October . <p> Trump shock . The rally ended after Trump 's victory , with the index falling to 6,528 to end the year , down over 1,000 points from its peak . Global investors shifted to US assets on Trump 's agenda , while his proposed trade policies sparked an outflow from emerging markets including the Philippines . <h> Monetary policy and peso <p> Philippine benchmark interest rates peaked at 6.5 percent this year before the BSP began its easing stance . The BSP delivered three consecutive quarter-point rate cuts during its August , October and December Monetary Board meetings , bringing the key rate down to 5.75 percent . Meanwhile , the peso weakened against the US dollar to close at 57.86 , down 5.97 percent for the year , mirroring the US dollar index 's 5.61 percent gain . The crucial support level at 59 held as the peso bounced back . <h> Foreign fund outflows <p> Overseas investors have pulled out about P12.9 billion from Philippine stocks this year through December . Bulk of the outflows came after Trump 's election with net foreign selling amounting to P20.5 billion in November and P6.1 billion in December . The strong dollar is attracting global fund managers , shifting funds out of EM and into US equities . <h> PSEi leaders <p> Among index issues , Converge ICT Solutions Inc. emerged as the best performer in 2024 , surging 92.6 percent on the back of a strong earnings rebound . The company resolved its receivable impairment issues , recalibrated postpaid plans , and grew enterprise services . <p> International Container Terminal Services Inc. rose 56.4 percent , driven by consistent earnings growth from higher volumes and yields despite global headwinds . These trends are expected to continue after the company secured tariff hikes across in various ports where it operates . <h> PLUS wins <p> Among non-index stocks , Digiplus Interactive Corp. , with the stock symbol PLUS , was a standout performer . The company 's 239 percent return , similar to outstanding gains of US tech stocks , reflected its dominant position in e-gaming , robust growth trajectory , aggressive game rollout , expansion into provincial markets , and global expansion plans . <h> Looking ahead <p> While the PSEi continued to struggle below pre-pandemic levels in 2024 , positive factors remain . The index trades at 10.4x forward earnings , or 28 percent discount to its five-year mean . Brent crude is down 5 percent for the year and 20 percent from their 2024 's peak . S&amp;P Global lifted Philippines ' credit outlook to positive . However , EM investors continue to face volatility in 2025 from persistent dollar strength , EM fund outflows , rising tariffs , trade tensions and ongoing geopolitical challenges . <p> We wish our investors and readers a healthy , joyful , and prosperous New Year ! <p> Philequity Management is the fund manager of the leading mutual funds in the Philippines . Visit www.philequity.net to learn more about Philequity 's managed funds or to view previous articles . For inquiries or to send feedback , please call ( 02 ) 8250-8700 or email email protected . <p> ABAP chairman Ricky Vargas was recently named to join a high-powered Board of the interim Asian Boxing that is affiliated with World Boxing , the international federation seeking to gain IOC recognition for the purpose of retaining the sport in the Olympics . <p> As St. Clare College stamped its class via record fashion in men 's basketball , the National Athletics Association of Schools , Colleges and Universities is gearing up for a 22nd season bigger and stronger than ever .
