<h> A Times investigation used aerial imagery and artificial intelligence to detect bomb craters that showed that one of Israel 's biggest bombs was used routinely in south Gaza . <p> This is an area in Gaza where , for weeks , civilians fled to find safety . explosions These are 2,000-pound bombs , one of the most destructive munitions in Western military arsenals . When a 2,000-pound bomb detonates , it unleashes a blast wave and metal fragments thousands of feet in every direction . non-English speech Sometimes , 2,000-pound bombs leave giant craters in the earth , like this strike in south Gaza in November . non-English speech non-English speech non-English speech non-English speech non-English speech non-English speech Munitions experts say 2,000-pound bombs are almost never used by the U.S. military anymore in densely populated areas . non-English speech Israel says it must destroy Hamas above and below ground to prevent terrorist attacks like Oct. 7 -- shouting -- and claims it 's taking extraordinary measures to protect civilians . But a Times investigation using aerial imagery and artificial intelligence found visual evidence suggesting Israel used these munitions in the area it designated safe for civilians at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dropped on a routine basis in south Gaza during the first six weeks of the war . And it suggests that even for those who followed every Israeli evacuation order and advisory , there was still no safety to be found in a war zone that 's more dangerous for civilians than any in recent history . Amplifying the danger are many factors . Hamas intentionally uses dense civilian areas to position military personnel and weapons . explosion Buried underground are vast tunnel networks used by Hamas fighters , but no bomb shelters for civilians . When the war started , Israel completely sealed off Gaza 's borders and claimed it was going to keep civilians out of the crossfire by establishing a safe zone and issuing evacuation orders . By air , phone -- non-English speech -- and social media , over a million people living in northern Gaza were told they must move to the south to be safe . " The I.D.F. is calling for the people of Gaza to evacuate to southern Gaza . " " To go south . " " South of this river @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own safety , move south . " But the evacuation routes and the safe zone were anything but safe . non-English speech How often the attacks were launched by Hamas is unclear . non-English speech But visual evidence indicates Israel was dropping 2,000-pound bombs in the area it was ordering civilians to go . The Times programmed an artificial intelligence tool to analyze satellite imagery of south Gaza to search for bomb craters . The A.I. tool detected over 1,600 possible craters . We manually reviewed each one to weed out the false positives , like shadows , water towers or bomb craters from a previous conflict . We measured the remaining craters to find ones that spanned roughly 40 feet across or more , which experts say are typically formed only by 2,000-pound bombs . Ultimately , we identified 208 of these craters in satellite imagery and drone footage , indicating 2,000-pound bombs posed a pervasive threat to civilians seeking safety across south Gaza . It 's likely that more of these bombs were used than what was captured in our reporting . Because of limited satellite imagery , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experts say that often , depending on the target , fuse and type of soil , a 2,000-pound bomb may not leave a crater at all . Even bomb craters that are visible from the sky do not convey the destruction unleashed on the ground . This crater in central Khan Younis was from an airstrike in October . shouting More than a dozen people were reportedly killed . Scores were injured or buried under the rubble . Hours later , Israel took responsibility , posting video of the strike and a photo of the alleged target -- a top Hamas official they said was key in planning the Oct. 7 attack . Israel has said it must take out Hamas leaders no matter where they 're hiding . " Our goal -- and we 're taking extraordinary efforts to achieve it -- is to minimize civilian casualties . This is our ethos . And here 's the problem : We 're faced with the most vicious kind of enemy , who not only attacks civilians , but commits the other war crime of deliberately hiding behind their civilians . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to questions about the use of 2,000-pound bombs in south Gaza , an Israeli military spokesman told The Times that Israel 's priority is destroying Hamas , and , quote , " questions of this kind will be looked into at a later stage . " They also said that , quote , " in stark contrast to Hamas 's intentional attacks , " the I.D.F. , quote , " follows international law and takes feasible precautions to mitigate civilian harm . " But the U.S. says Israel must do more to avoid civilian casualties . The Pentagon recently increased shipments of a smaller bomb called the GBU-39 , which U.S. officials say can strike underground targets and is better suited to urban environments like Gaza . The GBU-39 , one of the smallest bombs in Israel 's arsenal , has the explosive power of 37 pounds of TNT . Compare that to the Mark 84 , a 2,000-pound bomb which has 25 times more explosive power . When a GBU-39 detonates on impact , its blast wave can injure or kill people in open areas over 1,000 feet away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's blast wave stretches almost three times further . For both , even more danger comes from the fragmentation -- explosion -- the metal shards of the bomb casings that can shoot out hundreds of feet from the point of impact . shouting and sirens The GBU-39 is still deadly , but overall , it 's much less destructive . U.S. officials told The Times that the I.D.F. has many more 2,000-pound bombs in its arsenal . They said Israel is heavily relying on them because they 're more effective than the smaller bombs at destroying Hamas 's tunnel network as fast as possible . The officials also said that in the Gaza war , Israel has demonstrated a higher tolerance than the U.S. military for causing civilian casualties . But the U.S. has not stopped supplying weapons to Israel . Since the war in Gaza began , the U.S. has sent more than 5,000 2,000-pound bombs . non-English speech crying non-English speech In December , Israel announced it was expanding combat operations to south Gaza , and started issuing a new kind of evacuation order targeting neighborhoods , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Khan Younis . Hours later , 2,000-pound bombs were raining down . somber music playing explosions and glass shattering
