<p> Civil Society Organisations under the aegis of Coalition of Civil Society Organisations ( CCSO ) have called on the International Criminal Court , to intervene by investigating the death of over 500 Palestinians in a single Israeli strike at the Al-Ahli Arab hospital south of Gaza on Tuesday , 17th October , 2023 . <p> The CSOs described the attack as a crime against humanity calling on ICC to investigate and give appropriate sanction . The CSOs comprise of Work Bond International Network ( WIN ) , International Institute for Human Heritage ( IIHH ) , Center for Policy Intervention In Africa ( CEPIA ) , United Action for Democracy , Renaissance Group , Human Rights Monitoring Agenda ( HURMA ) , Centre for Human and Socio-Economic Rights and Frontline Socio-Economic Research Centre ( FSERC ) . <p> Addressing journalists during a joint press briefing in Lagos on Thursday , the CSOs noted that : " The massacre at the Al-Ahli Arab hospital targeted not just civilians taking shelter in the hospital but also medical staff who were treating patients , the sick and the injured who had gathered there in the hope of recovery or rescue ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Geneva Convention which prohibits ' reprisal attacks against the wounded , the sick and the shipwrecked , medical personnel and services , prisoners of war among others . <p> " The United Nations ( UN ) must prevail on Israel to halt its war crimes by calling for a ceasefire . It should as a matter of urgency reclaim the peace process and take it away from the monopoly of the United States and European Union . Other nations of the world from the Arab World to Turkey and China must invest in the peace process to end US monopoly . <p> " We demand affirmation of Nigeria 's commitment to the two-state solution not just by rhetoric but by practical steps which put existing relations with Israel on hold until Palestinians attained their independence . " We call on the world to rise in defense of justice and on the side of the oppressed . Palestinians are humans and they can not continue to be treated as non-humans. "
