<p> The latest data out of the US shows inflation is sticking around , which is leading investors to worry that regulators there will start raising rates again soon . Meanwhile , experts warn that if the Israel-Gaza war escalates it has the " potential to certainly derail markets " . Read all about it as it happens on our live blog . <p> The review was conducted after the Hunter Valley bus crash that killed 10 people earlier this year . The NSW government has vowed to implement all five of the recommendations made and will launch a new seatbelt safety campaign immediately . <p> One of Australia 's leading constitutional law experts believes the Voice referendum could be the last time Australians vote to change the constitution , after more than 12 months of campaigning from both sides of politics . <p> Shannon Fentiman told parliament the young woman attended the Rockhampton emergency department in early August for a forensic examination following the alleged rape but " did not receive the timely compassionate , trauma-informed care she was entitled to " . @ @ @ latest data out of the US shows inflation is sticking around , which is leading investors to worry that regulators there will start raising rates again soon . Meanwhile , experts warn that if the Israel-Gaza war escalates it has the " potential to certainly derail markets " . Read all about it as it happens on our live blog . <p> The review was conducted after the Hunter Valley bus crash that killed 10 people earlier this year . The NSW government has vowed to implement all five of the recommendations made and will launch a new seatbelt safety campaign immediately . <p> One of Australia 's leading constitutional law experts believes the Voice referendum could be the last time Australians vote to change the constitution , after more than 12 months of campaigning from both sides of politics . <p> Shannon Fentiman told parliament the young woman attended the Rockhampton emergency department in early August for a forensic examination following the alleged rape but " did not receive the timely compassionate , trauma-informed care she was entitled to " .
