Text ID: t032659
Group:   global_south_2024_12
File:    corpus/04_now_screened_iqr/global_south_2024_12/in/118418780.txt

Score (f5_pos): 20
Loading words (f5_pos), N=20: genocidal, genocide, humanity, perpetrate, court, crime, warrant, legal, mechanism, embargo, sanction, principle, criminal, international, displacement, independent, measure, starvation, safeguard, commit
<h> 70 thousand Palestinians trapped in northern Gaza face starvation , extermination in one of the largest genocidal campaigns in modern history <h> Share : <p> Palestinian Territory -- Nearly 70,000 Palestinians have been trapped for two months without access to food or medicine , as Israeli occupation forces continue to pursue them throughout the northern Gaza Strip . This ongoing situation has resulted in numerous deaths and forced displacements in what many consider one of the most horrific campaigns of genocide in modern history . <p> Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor has received alarming reports about the dire situation facing the nearly 70,000 Palestinians who are trapped in the northern Strip . This follows the displacement of more than 150,000 people by the Israeli army since the onset of its most recent military operation in the north on 5 October 2024 . Euro-Med Monitor notes that those who remain besieged are experiencing severe famine , as they have run out of all types of food and lack access to clean water . Many have gone days without eating or drinking anything . Meanwhile , Israeli bombings and other military operations continue , targeting shelters as well as what remains of previously destroyed homes . <p> The Israeli army has deliberately bombed homes where civilians sought refuge . The most recent incident occurred on Sunday , when the occupation army targeted the Labad family home in Beit Lahia , resulting in the killings of 25 family members . Just two days earlier , Israeli forces also bombed three residential buildings in Jabalia and Beit Lahia , which belonged to the Baba , Al-Araj , and Ahmad families . This attack killed more than 120 residents , leaving an unknown number of victims still trapped under the rubble . <p> No one can rescue those stuck under the rubble due to the Israeli bombings , as Israel has been blocking civil defense teams in the northern section of the Strip from operating for 41 days now . Consequently , the injured are slowly dying without medical assistance , as they can not be transported to hospitals , which are unable to function properly under such dire conditions and are frequently subjected to bombings . Furthermore , those who manage to survive their injuries and reach partially operational hospitals face the risk of being targeted by Israeli drones . Even if they do make it to a hospital , they may still die due to a lack of adequate treatment and insufficient medical personnel . <p> Numerous incidents have occurred in which Israel has used drones , including quadcopters , to target Palestinian civilians who were compelled to leave their homes or shelters in search of food or water . <p> The Israeli occupation army is committing severe crimes against civilians . Its attempts to completely eliminate the residents of the Jabalia refugee camp have included destroying homes using robots and booby-trapped barrels , in addition to dropping powerful American bombs . Despite Israeli forces ' awareness of the presence of residents in many of the homes and residential blocks , these sites are still being targeted . <p> The Israeli army has turned Jabalia Camp , the city of Jabalia , Beit Hanoun , and Beit Lahia into piles of rubble , devastation , and total destruction , by wrecking , demolishing , and burning homes and shelters , and targeting all aspects of Palestinian life . As a result , even if the Israeli army withdraws from these areas , it will be nearly impossible for Palestinian civilians to return and live there safely . <p> The world witnesses these horrific crimes , yet no serious action has been taken to stop what is now considered to be one of the largest genocidal campaigns and humanitarian tragedies in modern times . <p> This international disregard for the victims constitutes an indelible stain on the forehead of the international community , which continues to exclude Palestinians from the protection of international law and its executive mechanisms . These mechanisms have failed to be applied effectively , due to political biases and international pressure . This situation reflects a global hypocrisy regarding the principles that the international legal system is built upon , demonstrating shameful double standards and a blatant violation of justice and humanity . <p> The international community 's hesitation to take decisive action in response to Israel 's violations in the Gaza Strip , particularly in the Strip 's northern regions , makes it complicit in these crimes . This inaction serves as a tacit approval for Israel 's actions , allowing it to continue escalating its campaign of genocide , and demonstrates a shocking disregard for the lives and dignity of Palestinians . <p> Name : <p> Email : <p> It is imperative that the United Nations and the international community intervene immediately to protect 10s of thousands of residents of northern Gaza who are in imminent danger , plus stop the ongoing genocide being perpetrated by Israel across the entire Gaza Strip for the second consecutive year . Actions should include imposing sanctions on Israel , implementing a comprehensive arms embargo , holding the country accountable for its actions , and taking all necessary measures to safeguard Palestinian civilians . Additionally , the enforcement of the arrest warrants issued by the International Criminal Court against the Israeli Prime Minister and Minister of Defense must be prompt , ensuring their surrender to international justice . <p> Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor is a Geneva-based independent organization with regional offices across the MENA region and Europe <h> Related Posts <p> ( The Hague ) -- Member countries of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) should support the court against efforts to undermine its global mandate , Human Rights Watch said today . The annual session of the ICC 's ... <p> The arrest warrants by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant are a diplomatic disaster for Israel , reported The Economist , ...
