<h> Israel launches ground operation into central Gaza refugee camp <p> PTI Updated : June 05 , 2024 01:08 IST <p> Deir al-Balah ( Gaza Strip ) , Jun 4 ( AP ) The Israeli military said Tuesday that ground troops backed by airstrikes have launched an operation in central Gaza 's Bureij refugee camp . Local hospital officials say a strike on a home in the camp killed 11 Palestinians , including three children and one woman . A strike on another house in the neighbouring Maghazi refugee camp killed two men , according to officials at al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital in the nearby town of Deir al-Balah , where the casualties were taken . The extent of the Israeli incursion into Bureij camp was not immediately clear as of Tuesday evening . The military said in a statement that it was conducting " a precision operation " in the camp targeting Hamas positions . Israeli forces have been battling militants in parts of Gaza that the army said it wrested control of months ago -- potential signs of a simmering insurgency . The military waged an offensive earlier this year for several weeks in Bureij and several other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Jabaliya camp in northern Gaza last Friday after weeks of fighting caused widespread destruction . First responders have recovered the bodies of 360 people , mostly women and children , killed during the battles . Israel has also been expanding its nearly month-old ground offensive in Gaza 's southernmost city of Rafah . More than 1 million Palestinians have fled Rafah , mostly into tent camps that have arisen across central and southern Gaza . Refugee camps in Gaza originally housed Palestinians who were driven from their homes in what is now Israel in the 1948 war surrounding Israel 's founding . Over the decades since , they have been built up into crowded urban districts . <p> A PERMANENT CEASE-FIRE MUST BE PART OF ANY DEAL WITH ISRAEL , HAMAS OFFICIAL SAYS BEIRUT -- A senior official with the Palestinian militant group Hamas said it will not accept any deal with Israel that does not clearly lay out a permanent cease-fire and a full Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip . Osama Hamdan said Hamas has told mediators that it was " waiting for an Israeli response @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beirut , he said that Israel is seeking to bring the hostages held by Hamas out of Gaza , then resume the war there . Hamdan 's comments came days after a cease-fire proposal , announced by US President Joe Biden , offers the possibility of ending Israel 's war against Hamas , returning scores of hostages held by the militant group and quieting fighting on the northern border with Lebanon . A spokesman for the Foreign Ministry of Qatar said Tuesday that Qatar and the other mediators , Egypt and the US , were still waiting for a response from both Israel and Hamas to the proposal . Majid al-Ansari said " clear ideas " had been put to the two sides , but " we do not have clear positions on it from both sides . " The Qatari spokesman pointed to disputes within the Israeli government , where ultra-nationalist allies of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu have threatened to bring down the governing coalition if he signs onto a deal without destroying Hamas . Netanyahu says the deal includes provisions that ensure that goal -- although none were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " principles ( of the proposal ) bring together the demands of all parties " . Hamdan said Hamas described Biden 's announcement as " positive " . " We can not accept an agreement that does not guarantee and confirm a permanent cease-fire and full withdrawal from Gaza followed by an ( prisoners ) exchange , " Hamdan said . " This is what we want as Palestinians , and any Israel ideas that contradict this do not concern us and have no value . " Hamdan said that there are thousands of Palestinians held in Israeli jails adding that any deal should lead to their release . Around 80 hostages captured by Palestinian militants on Oct 7 are believed to still be alive in Gaza , alongside the remains of 43 others . <p> SENIOR BIDEN ADVISER HEADING TO MIDEAST THIS WEEK , US OFFICIAL SAYS WASHINGTON -- US President Joe Biden is dispatching a senior adviser , Brett McGurk , back to Mideast this week for talks on the hostage for truce negotiations between Israel and Hamas as well as to discuss about the situation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ US administration official . The official requested anonymity to discuss the yet to be publicly announced travels for McGurk , the White House Coordinator for the Middle East and North Africa . McGurk has been shuttling between Washington and Mideast capitals throughout the nearly eight-month Israel-Hamas war for talks with key regional stakeholders . This visit comes after a new cease-fire proposal was transmitted to Hamas last week . The Israeli plan could immediately bring home dozens of Israeli hostages , free Palestinian prisoners and perhaps even lead to an endgame in the war . White House national security spokesman John Kirby said Tuesday that Hamas has yet to offer its formal response to the proposal . McGurk is also expected to discuss Israel 's ongoing military operations in Rafah with regional leaders . Israel launched its ground assault into the city on May 6 , triggering an exodus of around 1 million Palestinians out of the city and throwing UN humanitarian operations based in the area into turmoil . Still , in the eyes of the Biden administration , it has yet to amount to a " major operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 100,000 Palestinians are still in the city of Rafah . <p> WHITE HOUSE ADVISER JAKE SULLIVAN MEETS WITH FAMILIES OF AMERICAN HOSTAGES IN GAZA , US OFFICIAL SAYS WASHINGTON -- White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan met on Tuesday with families of Americans that are being held hostage in Gaza , according to an administration official . The meeting comes as Biden is pressing Israel and Hamas officials to accept a three-phase hostage for truce deal and potentially end the eight-month war in Gaza . The official was not authorised to comment and spoke on the condition of anonymity . Israeli officials say about 80 people captured by militants in the Oct 7 attack are still alive and Hamas is holding the bodies of 43 others . Sullivan has periodically met and held calls with families of the American hostages throughout the nearly eight month crisis . President Joe Biden in an interview with Time magazine published Tuesday said that he still believes Americans being held are alive , but acknowledged that US officials " do n't have final proof on exactly who 's alive " . Hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside Israel 's Defence Ministry and military headquarters in central Tel Aviv late Monday , calling for a hostage release deal . Smaller protests took place across the country . <p> 360 BODIES RECOVERED FROM JABALIYA REFUGEE CAMP IN NORTHERN GAZA AFTER LATEST ISRAELI OFFENSIVE CAIRO -- A spokesman for Gaza 's civil defence says first responders recovered the bodies of 360 people , mostly women and children , killed in the urban refugee camp of Jabaliya during a three-week Israeli offensive there . Satellite photos showed extensive new damage in Jabaliya from the offensive , which ended with Israeli troops pulling out on Friday . The photos -- taken by Planet Labs PBC on May 8 before the assault and on June 1 -- showed that the camp 's main marketplace had been destroyed and in several places entire blocks had been wiped away . The Israeli military launched the assault on Jabaliya in early May , saying it was targeting Hamas militants who had regrouped there after repeated previous offensives in the densely built district . The military said the assault saw tough close-quarters fighting with Hamas militants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the operation 's end , the military said it had destroyed 10 km ( 6 miles ) of underground tunnels and other Hamas infrastructure . Troops also found the bodies of seven hostages . Mahmoud Bassal , spokesman for the Palestinian Civil Defence , said Tuesday that 360 bodies had been found so far buried under rubble or strewn in the streets . Some were retrieved while the offensive was ongoing and others after the Israeli withdrawal on Friday . He estimated around two-thirds of the bodies were women and children . Among them were 30 people killed from one extended family , the Asaliya , including 22 women and children , he told The Associated Press . He said the search for bodies was still underway . Jabaliya camp originally housed Palestinians who were driven from their homes in what is now Israel in the 1948 war surrounding Israel 's founding . Over the decades since , it has been built up into a crowded urban district . ( AP ) SCYSCY <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
