<h> Emerging Challenges in South China Sea <p> As China grows increasingly aggressive in its race for global hegemony and influence , and the United States ( US ) slowly plunges into the battle to prevent China 's rise , the world is watching the unfolding of this rivalry with unease . Although a few places have felt intense pressure from this alarming competition , the South China Sea ( SCS ) region is where a violent showdown looks increasingly probable . Unlike the war in Ukraine or Gaza , the US and China may start a direct war in the SCS . And amidst this multifaceted new Cold War 2.0 , Africa remains cautious . On 23 April , another skirmish took place between China and the Philippines when two Filipino patrol boats approached the shallow turquoise waters of a disputed shoal around 194 km west of the Philippine Islands province of Palawan . The patrol boats were there for an underwater survey near the disputed shoal claimed by both China and the Philippines , thus prompting a Chinese response . A Chinese coast guard , via radio , instructed them to leave the area and threatened hostile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guard damaged both the Philippine patrol boats by firing high-pressure water cannons at them . However , this was not the first time China 's assertion in this region has caused friction with other SCS neighbours , including Japan and South Korea . China has used an unconvincing U-shaped " nine-dash line " that crosses the exclusive economic zones , or EEZs , of Brunei , Indonesia , Malaysia , the Philippines , Taiwan , and Vietnam to demonstrate its claim in the region . Despite their low intrinsic value , the region lies along a vital trade and supply corridor that supports over US$3 trillion in yearly shipborne commerce . Oil , gas , and fishing sources abound in the area . Beijing has declined to acknowledge a 2016 decision from the Permanent Court of Arbitration that ruled Beijing 's broad claims invalid based on historical grounds . China and the Philippines have already fought many times over the Second Thomas Shoal and the Bashi Channel . China has become increasingly aggressive in the region in the last few years , putting regional stability at high risk . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ risk of any full-scale war . However , there are risks of casualties or even the vessel capsizing . Washington 's response to the upcoming crisis is still modest . US President Biden raised concerns about China 's actions in the SCS , including efforts to impede the Philippines from resupplying its forces on the fiercely disputed Second Thomas Shoal . The US has repeatedly warned China that it 's obligated to defend the Philippines , its oldest treaty ally in Asia , if Filipino forces , ships or aircraft come under an armed attack . The US also conducted Balikatan drills ( ' shoulder-to-shoulder ' in Tagalog ) with the Philippines with more than 16,000 American and Philippines military personnel . Indeed , its resources are thinly stretched , and Beijing seems to be moving ahead . To deter China by stepping up regional defence diplomacy , Washington is exploring the possibility of a security alliance with Japan , Australia , and the Philippines , tentatively called SQUAD . This is in addition to two other existing groupings in the region , " Quad " and " AUKUS , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the US . While AUKUS is a defence pact , Quad is simply a dialogue platform . Even while the socioeconomic repercussions of the Russia-Ukraine war have not yet wholly subsided in Africa , the ongoing skirmishes in the SCS represent another severe threat to the world economy , directly affecting several African nations . In addition , the SCS region represents a crucial geographic sweet spot for Africa as a source of trade and investment , translating into growth and development for many African economies . The crisis can potentially fuel price rise , particularly for oil-importing countries . The prospect of a consequential price rise of essential commodities will have enormous ramifications for domestic stability in most African countries . Furthermore , many African economies heavily rely on trade , investment , and aid from South and Southeast Asia , the crisis will significantly hamper the development and growth of the continent . There are also strategic lessons for Africa to learn from the conflict . China 's principal interest in Africa consists of protecting its BRI investments and ensuring steady trade flow . Africa is also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial growth and energy security . Therefore , securing stability in countries where China has invested is in China 's interest , just like keeping a stable relationship with China is in the interest of those investment-starved countries .
