<p> The forgotten Syrian civil war has again flared up with the spectacular capture of Aleppo by opposition forces . A complex set of circumstances created the right time for rebels to strike , plunging Syria into an uncertain future and catching President Bashar al-Assad by surprise . <p> The Syrian civil war has been largely forgotten in a new world defined by the Covid pandemic , the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the Gaza conflict . Now it is firmly back in the international spotlight . <h> Status quo before the attack on Aleppo <p> Let 's remember what was happening in Syria before the recent insurgency . <p> Russia and Iran had backed the Assad government , and its forces were in firm control of Syria 's largest cities , Aleppo ( the industrial hub and Syria 's second-largest city , with a population of 2 million ) , Damascus , Homs and Latakia , among others . <p> After the fall of Islamic State ( IS ) in 2019 , IS remnants and just about all jihadist groups and rebels , together with their families , gathered in the northwestern city of Idlib . This doubled its population to 2.7 million , making it Syria 's largest city . <p> Significantly , Idlib shares a large border with Turkey . Turkey has had a military presence in northeastern Syria and controlled a large territory during three successive military operations in 2017 , 2018 and 2019 . <p> Largely rural northeastern Syria , as well as the Kurdish and Arab majorities east of the Euphrates River , are controlled by the Kurdish People 's Protection Units ( YPG ) , who managed to fend off IS with US support . This region includes much of Syria 's oil and wheat production . <p> The status quo was cemented by a ceasefire agreement brokered by Russia and Turkey in 2020 . Now this has been disrupted with a surprise attack on Aleppo by a coalition of rebels and opposition forces . <h> Why did the insurgents attack Aleppo ? <p> The forces that participated in the Aleppo offensive are a coalition of various rebels and anti-Assad opposition groups centered in Idlib . The biggest block is Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , which splintered from Al-Qaeda in 2016 . <p> Pulling together such diverse groups into a coalition needs an facilitator . It seems Turkey has played this role . Taking advantage of the caretaker status of US politics after the elections , Turkey had the opportunity to give the go-ahead to the Aleppo offensive . <p> Russian preoccupation with the costly war in Ukraine is another contributing factor . Russia has been struggling to win the war for almost three years , with increasing casualties and cost . Russia is a major supplier of weapons to the Assad government . But just about all Russian military personnel -- and most importantly weapons -- were concentrated on the Ukraine front . <p> Russia 's distraction , and weakening support for the Assad government , partly explains the opportunity seized by the HTS and SNA coalitions . <p> Iran is another important supporter of the Assad government . It has been under increasing pressure from Israel and the US since October 7 for supporting Hamas and other anti-Israel political elements such as Yemen and Hezbollah in Lebanon . Israel has accused Iran of providing weapons to Hezbollah . <p> Added to this , Iran has had a series of political setbacks . In May 2024 , Iran lost its President Ebrahim Raisi in a helicopter crash . In July 2024 , Hamas political leader Ismail Haniyeh was assassinated in Tehran . Most recently there have been rumors that Iran 's Supreme Leader , Ali Khamenei , is seriously ill . <p> Iran 's focus on these factors may have diverted its attention from Syria , potentially weakening its support for the Assad government . <p> What seems to be the real driving force behind the Aleppo offensive is Hamas 's surprise attack on Israel on October 7 . That attack demonstrated how a well-coordinated and unified surprise operation could yield military results against a significantly stronger force . <p> It is highly likely that opposition groups in Syria used October 7 as a model and rallied to unite disparate groups under one goal : the capture of Aleppo . They took the opportunity caused by the key players in the Syrian conflict being distracted , striking when it was least expected . <h> What might happen now ? <p> After their spectacular success in capturing Aleppo , the anti-Assad forces ' morale is high . They will cement their hold in Aleppo . Rebels may even continue their offensive to Hama , the next large city south of Idlib . <p> Turkey will continue to supply the rebels with political support and supplies . Turkey aims to extend its influence in northern Syria through vassal groups of Sunni Muslims , the dominant orientation of Islam in Turkey . Its main objective is to limit and , if possible , reduce regions controlled by Kurdish YPG . Capturing Aleppo from the Assad government is a key step in this objective . <p> While Kurds are not happy with Turkey 's growing involvement in the Syrian civil war , they may prefer to deal with HTS than the Assad government . Kurdish militia have already announced they are withdrawing from Aleppo and will not contest rebels in the city . <h> Sign up for one of our free newsletters <p> The Daily ReportStart your day right with Asia Times ' top stories <p> AT Weekly ReportA weekly roundup of Asia Times ' most-read stories <p> Assad continues to receive vital , albeit weakened , support from Russia and Iran . Domestically , Assad enjoys backing from key constituencies , including the Shiite-Alawite population and secular-minded Syrians who oppose the establishment of a theocratic state . These groups provide Assad with a critical base of support , which reinforces his regime 's resilience in the face of opposition advances . <p> Assad is expected to intensify efforts to reclaim Aleppo . Even if he ultimately loses the city , he may use the battle as an opportunity to consolidate his hold over other key regions and fortify his power in the territories still under his control . <p> The Syrian civil war remains unresolved as the country fractures into three zones : Turkey-backed Sunni forces in the north , US-supported Kurdish forces in the northeast , and the Shiite-backed Assad government controlling the west and south . <p> Each faction , driven by international and local interests , continues to entrench its hold , deepening the divide and complicating prospects for peace . <p> Mehmet Ozalp is associate professor in Islamic Studies , director of The Centre for Islamic Studies and Civilization and Executive Member of Public and Contextual Theology , Charles Sturt University <h> Join the Conversation <p> This was never a " civil war " . That 's Western propaganda . It was always a regime change operation since 2011 . All the militants poured in from Turkey and Jordan , where Western intelligence agenices trained terrorists . The brutal sanctions on Syria imposed by the US are punishing the Syrian people in what can only be described as war crimes , for their refusal to surrender . Syria highlights once again , the monsters across the West and their system of oppression .
