<p> The surprise advance was led by members of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , fighting alongside Turkish-backed groups opposing the rule of President Bashar al-Assad . <p> While the offensive -- the most significant fighting in recent years -- may be the first time that many outside of Syria have heard of the Islamist group , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham has been growing in reputation and capabilities over a number of years . <p> It followed a significant shift in the group 's strategic operations that has seen it become less concerned with global jihad and more focused on attaining power in Syria . <h> Origins and ideology <p> Hayat Tahrir al-Sham has its roots in the early stages of the Syrian civil war , which began in 2011 as a popular uprising against the autocratic government of Assad . <p> The group originated as an offshoot of the Nusra Front , the official al-Qaida affiliate in Syria . Hayat Tahrir al-Sham was initially recognized for its combat effectiveness and its commitment to global jihadist ideology , or the establishment of strict Islamic rule across the Muslim world . <p> In a pivotal shift in 2016 under the leadership of Abu Mohammed al-Jawlani , the Nusra Front publicly cut ties with al-Qaida and adopted the new name Jabhat Fateh al-Sham , which means " Front for the Conquest of the Levant . " <p> The following year , it merged with several other factions in the Syrian war to become Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or the " Organization for the Liberation of the Levant . " <h> Latest stories <p> This rebranding aimed to move away from al-Qaida 's global jihadist agenda , which had limited the group 's appeal within Syria . It allowed Hayat Tahrir al-Sham to focus on issues specific to Syrians , such as local governance , economic issues and humanitarian aid . <p> Despite these changes , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham 's core ideology continues to be rooted in jihadism , with the primary objective of overthrowing the Assad government and establishing Islamic rule in Syria . <p> This strategic shift was partly born of pragmatism . To keep power over the territories it controlled , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham leaders concluded the group needed to minimize international opposition and effectively integrate into the broader Syrian revolutionary movement . <p> In other words , it needed to balance its radical Islamist origins with the demands of local governance and political engagement . <p> In an effort to further burnish its image , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham has ramped up its public relations efforts , both at home and abroad . For example , it has engaged with international media and humanitarian organizations to negotiate -- and film -- aid deliveries to the areas it governs . <p> These initiatives showcase a commitment to civilian welfare and distance the group from the violence typically associated with jihadist movements . <h> On the offensive again <p> The recent military offensive , during which Hayat Tahrir al-Sham-led rebels swiftly captured significant parts of Aleppo and pushed toward the city of Hama , marks another significant strategic pivot . It signals a revitalization of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham 's military objectives and its ability to adapt to changing circumstances . <p> Hayat Tahrir al-Sham 's thinking in launching an advance now has likely been influenced by a blend of regional and local dynamics . The Assad government 's increasing vulnerability has become evident of late , marked by economic deterioration and corruption . <p> Many areas in Syria remain only nominally under state control , and the central government is heavily reliant on support from allies such as Russia and Iran . These allies , however , have been preoccupied by their respective conflicts against Ukraine and Israel , potentially diluting their support for Syria . <p> Compounding Assad 's weakness is the diminishing capacities of Hezbollah and Iranian forces . Both have been crucial in propping up Assad throughout the civil war . But Israeli strikes in Lebanon , Syria and Iran have potentially weakened Hezbollah and Iran 's ability to support Syria . And this reduction in support may have tipped the military balance in the civil war toward opposition groups . <h> Sign up for one of our free newsletters <p> The Daily ReportStart your day right with Asia Times ' top stories <p> AT Weekly ReportA weekly roundup of Asia Times ' most-read stories <p> Moreover , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham and other rebel groups are facing a Syrian military hit by low morale , high desertion rates and inadequate military equipment . Disarray among government forces has made it difficult for Assad to respond effectively to the renewed assault by opposition forces . <p> In contrast , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham has bolstered its military capabilities . Having survived various military campaigns , the group has consolidated power and professionalized its forces . <p> Hayat Tahrir al-Sham has established a military academy , reorganized its units into a more conventional military structure , and created specialized forces adept at executing coordinated and strategic attacks -- as evidenced by the recent advance in Aleppo . <p> Moreover , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham has managed to gain some local support by positioning itself as a defender of Sunni Muslim interests . The inability to find a political solution to the Syrian crisis has only fueled local resentment to the Assad government , creating a supportive base for any force that actively opposes the regime . <p> With growing support on the ground , a more professional military and a political wing focused on governance , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham has evolved from a jihadist offshoot into a major player in Syria -- a development that has huge implications for the internal dynamics of the war-torn country . <h> Join the Conversation <p> Iran is in the throws of a strategic defeat . Lebanon went badly ; the Alawites look set to lose in Syria , -- Russia is too preoccupied elsewhere to do much ; and Iran herself is likely to be bashed when Trump ascends the throne , -- their air defences are ineffective . But all that is by-the-by . <p> The big news is the likely Hayat Tahrir al-Sham takeover in Syria . This will place Turkey and Gulf countries in a position to influence the new government . With Islamist roots it wo n't be friendly to Israel . Turkey is playing a long game here , its priority will be to get rid of the Kurdish autonomous region . The Gulf Arabs will be happy to subsidise the new Sunnite government . Washington will expect to control the situation by telling Turkey and the Gulf Arabs what is expected of them , except it might not work . The doings in Gaza lays heavy on the Arab collective conscience .
