<h> Assad 's fall in Syria exposes limits of China 's Middle East diplomacy <p> Chinese President Xi Jinping shakes hands with Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad in eastern Hangzhou city , in this handout picture released by Sana on September 22 , 2023 , Syria . SANA/Handout via REUTERS/File Photo <p> Just over a year ago , China gave Bashar al-Assad and his wife a warm welcome during their six-day visit to the country , offering the former Syrian leader a rare break from years of international isolation since the start of a civil war in 2011 . <p> As the couple attended the Asian Games , President Xi Jinping vowed to support Assad in " opposing external interference " and in Syria 's rebuilding , while his wife Asma was feted in Chinese media . <p> But the abrupt end to the rule of the authoritarian leader so explicitly backed by Xi only last year has dealt a blow to China 's diplomatic ambitions in the Middle East and exposed the limits of its strategy in the region , analysts say . A coalition of rebels seized Syria 's capital Damascus on Sunday after a lightning offensive that toppled Assad 's regime and ended his family 's 50-year dynasty . <p> " There 's been a lot of an exaggerated sense of China 's ability to shape political outcomes in the region , " said Jonathan Fulton , a nonresident senior fellow at the Atlantic Council . <p> While the collapse of the Assad regime was seen reducing the influence in the Arab world of his main backers , Iran and Russia , it was also a blow for China 's global ambitions , said Fulton . <p> " A lot of what ( China has ) been doing internationally has relied on support with those countries , and their inability to prop up their biggest partner in the Middle East says quite a lot about their ability to do much beyond the region . " <p> TACKLING HOTSPOTS <p> After China brokered a deal between long-time rivals Saudi Arabia and Iran in 2023 , Chinese media praised Beijing 's rising profile in a neighbourhood long dominated by Washington . <p> Wang Yi , China 's top diplomat , said the country would play a constructive role in handling global " hotspot issues " . China also brokered a truce between Fatah , Hamas and other rival Palestinian factions earlier this year and has made repeated calls for a ceasefire in Gaza . <p> But despite bringing Middle Eastern leaders to Beijing and rounds of " shuttle diplomacy " by its Middle Eastern envoy , Zhai Jun , in the months since , Palestinians have not formed a unity government and the conflict in Gaza continues . <p> " Assad 's sudden downfall is not a scenario Beijing wishes to see , " said Fan Hongda , a Middle East scholar at Shanghai International Studies University . " China prefers a more stable and independent Middle East , as chaos or a pro-American orientation in the region does not align with China 's interests . " <p> The response by China 's foreign ministry to Assad 's fall has been muted , focusing on the safety of Chinese nationals and calling for a " political solution " to restore stability in Syria as soon as possible . <p> Ministry of foreign affairs spokesperson , Mao Ning , on Monday appeared to leave an opening for engagement with the future government : " China 's friendly relations with Syria are for all Syrian people , " she said . <p> Chinese experts and diplomats say Beijing will now bide its time before recognising a new government in Damascus . <p> It could use its expertise and financial muscle to support reconstruction , they say , but its commitments are likely to be limited because China has sought to minimise financial risks overseas in recent years . <p> Syria joined China 's flagship Belt and Road Initiative in 2022 , but there have been no significant investments by Chinese firms since , partly due to sanctions . <p> China is " not really able to fundamentally replace the West either as an economic partner , or diplomatic or military force in the region , " said Bill Figueroa , assistant professor at the University of Groningen and an expert in China-Middle East relations . <p> " China in 2024 has way less money than China in 2013 -- 2014 , when the BRI was launched , " Figueroa said . There is " an obvious reassessment going on in the direction of safer investments and reducing China 's risks overall , " he added .
