<p> Timur was a Mongol Turkish conqueror , leading military campaigns throughout a large part of western Asia . In his expedition east , in what is now called Afghanistan , Timur horrifically constructed a tower made of living men . He heaped and cemented together the men with bricks and mortar . In Isfahan , a central city in Iran , Timur punished a revolt with a massacre . The heads of 70,000 people were built up into minarets . Photo : WorldAtlas.com <p> Too often in the West we suffer from dictator envy , feeling jealous and a bit afraid of the power and decisiveness of today 's autocracies such as Russia and China . This month should act as a corrective for such feelings , for it has been a terrible December for dictators . This does not mean that the liberal West has triumphed . But it does mean that our chances of competing with the autocrats are better than our melancholic form of self-flagellation has led us to believe . <p> No one need feel sorry for Bashar al-Assad and his family , and the fact that Syria 's brutal dictator has had to swap his palaces in Damascus for humbler premises in Moscow . Let us also not feel pity for President Vladimir Putin for having to act as host to this failed leader whose collapse has exposed Russia 's own weakness , potentially depriving it of its naval and air bases on the Mediterranean . <p> We also need feel no sorrow for the Ayatollahs and Revolutionary Guards of Iran , who this year have seen their allies in Gaza , Lebanon and now Syria all destroyed , and the weaknesses in Iran 's own defense systems cruelly exposed . Hamas in Gaza , Hezbollah in Lebanon and the Houthis in Yemen can be re-armed and re-born , but the strategy of using these militias to project Iranian power and undermine the Ayatollahs ' enemy , Israel , is in tatters . <p> We can feel pity for the estimated 12,000 North Korean soldiers who have been sent to fight alongside Russia 's weakened army , as they are now being targeted and many may soon be killed by long-range Ukrainian weaponry . But their dictator back home in Pyongyang deserves no pity for his strategy of supporting Russia . It has gained him some money and some missile technology , but little more . <h> Latest stories <p> Across the " Demilitarized Zone " that since 1953 has separated North and South Korea , President Kim Jong-un has watched his democratically elected counterpart , President Yoon Suk Yeol make a fool of himself on December 3 by attempting to use martial law to control an unfriendly parliament , but Kim has little to gloat about . President Yoon 's failed coup d'etat demonstrated the strength and resilience of South Korea 's democracy . <p> The big question is where these December disasters will leave the global axis connecting Russia , China , Iran and North Korea as opponents of the West . Three of the four have been aggressive breakers of international law , while the real superpower in the axis , China , has tried to present itself as a rising , peace-seeking nation that stands as an alternative to the declining , hypocritical United States . Anyone who stood in awe of China and its fellow-travellers as this year began should now have had their eyes opened to the much-less impressive reality . <p> Make no mistake : the West has plenty of problems too . Japan has a weak government ; Germany , a collapsed government ; France , no government ; and the United States has re-elected a president who holds America 's own allies in contempt and ( like the late Silvio Berlusconi ) prefers talking to Putin , Xi and Kim to having to deal with democratic governments . But with such weak opponents the West also has reason to feel optimistic about what could be achieved in 2025 . <p> The first opportunity concerns the war in Ukraine . In military terms , both the Ukrainian and the Russian forces are exhausted . During 2024 , both armies made gains : the Ukrainians took and held on to territory in Kursk , inside Russia ; the Russians moved slowly forward in the eastern region of Ukraine , but despite huge casualties have succeeded in occupying only a further 0.4% of Ukraine 's territory since January 1 . And now the weakness of both Russia and Iran has led to Assad 's fall in Syria . <p> This has greatly reduced President-elect Trump 's incentive to bully Ukraine into accepting Russia 's extravagant and unrealistic peace conditions . And it has greatly increased Putin 's incentive to weaken those conditions in the hope of avoiding further humiliations . Trump has the chance to begin his presidency by looking like a strong representative of the free world rather than someone begging autocrats for favours . <p> A ceasefire in the spring of 2025 could be in both sides ' interest . If Ukraine 's European allies , led by Poland , Germany , the UK , Sweden , Finland , and the Baltic States can agree to offer security guarantees and finance , which in Russia 's weakened state looks an easier task than before , there must be a good chance that President Volodymyr Zelenskyy will be able to find a deal that maintains his country 's sovereignty , democracy and European future . <p> The second opportunity , which is more one for Europe and Japan to exploit than Trump 's self-centered America , is to improve relations with the vast , and fast-growing , parts of the world that have preferred to avoid alignments either with China and its axis or with the West . Southeast Asia , the Gulf countries of the Middle East , Africa and Latin America have all avoided supporting the West over Ukraine while welcoming money from China and Russia but not domination . <h> Sign up for one of our free newsletters <p> The Daily ReportStart your day right with Asia Times ' top stories <p> AT Weekly ReportA weekly roundup of Asia Times ' most-read stories <p> The proven weakness of the anti-Western axis means that the attractiveness of China as an alternative global leader has diminished . China 's economy remains important but is now suffering from the sort of slow growth and debilitating deflation that made Japan stagnate during the 1990s . Countries of the so-called " Global South " will not want to antagonize China nor to lose its money , but they will be more open to alternative offers from the West . <p> Italy 's Mattei Plan for North Africa now stands a better chance of success , especially given the regime change under way in Syria , as does Japan 's effort to provide military aid and guidance in Southeast Asia . Russia 's weakness makes it more important than ever that Europe should promote its own values and influence in Eastern Europe and Central Asia , but now with a good chance of being taken seriously . Once a new government is in office after Germany 's February elections , this new agenda can take shape , hopefully with a new confidence about the strengths of the liberal West against these fragile autocrats . <p> First published in English on the substack Bill Emmott 's Global View , this is the English original of an article published in Italian December 16 by La Stampa . It is republished with permission . <h> Join the Conversation <p> Mister Bill , I think you are more then well paid by your masters for all this nonsense you are talking . And you are an intelligent man , but sold yourself to the higher bidder . And we know who is the higher bidder . Shame .
