<p> KOTA TINGGI , Johor : It was a memorable and significant occasion for the parishioners of the Church of St Elizabeth as they celebrated their parish 's 70th anniversary on November 16 . The festivities included the recitation of the Rosary , a Thanksgiving Mass , and a fellowship dinner . The milestone coincided with the parish feast day of St Elizabeth of Hungary , the patron saint of this 70-year-old community . <p> Bishop Bernard Paul presided over the Thanksgiving Mass as the main celebrant , joined by parish priest , Fr Martinian Lee , as concelebrant , with Deacon Steven Wong assisting . The church was filled with local parishioners and faithful who had travelled from Ulu Tiram , Kuala Lumpur , and other places to join the celebration . <p> Bishop Bernard reflected on the journey of the parish , saying , " Seventy years ago , someone began , and others continued -- that is how the Church grows . Thank God for seventy years of faithfulness , and let us pray for this parish to continue flourishing . Let St Elizabeth be your model -- caring for the poor and neighbours in need . " <p> He emphasised the parish 's welcoming spirit noting , " In this place , all are welcome -- whether from near or far -- as the parishioners of this church embrace everyone for the feast and 70th-anniversary celebrations . " <p> The bishop also highlighted a unique aspect of the parish , stating , " In the whole of Malaysia , this is the only church dedicated to St Elizabeth of Hungary . " <p> In his homily , Bishop Bernard addressed the pressing challenges faced by the world today , saying , " What 's in the headlines now ? Devastating floods , wars in Ukraine and Gaza , destruction , homelessness , and other calamities " <p> He noted that the Liturgical Year B is drawing to a close , with Year C beginning on the First Sunday of Advent . Reflecting on the Gospel reading about the end times , he remarked , " We see innocent lives lost to war and disease , resources wasted , and people struggling under the burden of long hours and relentless stress . Hearts are becoming indifferent , cold , and hard in these difficult times . " <p> Yet , Bishop Bernard reminded the faithful of God 's enduring presence : " Scripture assures us that God is always with those who love Him and keep Him at the centre of their lives . He sends His archangels to protect us and ' human angels ' like St Elizabeth of Hungary , who cared for the poor , sharing bread from her court to feed the hungry . " <p> He concluded with a message of hope , saying , " God brings life where there is death . He opens hearts where there is need . In every crisis , God sends people to uplift and support the poor . Let us be those human angels in our world today . <p> " Let this parish in Kota Tinggi , and everyone gathered here , pray for hearts filled with love and charity -- to care for others in need , for it is only love that can save us . Be angels . Touch lives and make the world a better place , whether at work , in your community , or at home . Be honest , be kind , and do good . This is my prayer for you : be God 's angel , caring for and loving the poor and those in need . <p> " As you receive Jesus into your heart during Communion , thank Him for coming into your life . Let the fire of His love burn brightly within you , just as it did for St Elizabeth of Hungary . Each week , strive to be charitable ; each week , share what you have with others . " <p> The prelate delivered his sermon in both English and Bahasa Malaysia , while Fr Martinian translated the bishop 's homily into Mandarin . <p> After Mass , Fr Martinian , who is also the parish priest of the Church of the Holy Family in Ulu Tiram , expressed his gratitude to all who attended . In his speech , he shared his mixed feelings , saying he wished the weekly congregation could be as large as it was that day . He encouraged everyone to pray for the parish 's growth , to reach out to others , and to invite them to attend weekly Mass . <p> Fr Martinian extended his heartfelt thanks to Bishop Bernard for making time in his busy schedule to preside over the feast day Mass . He also commended his parishioners and everyone who worked tirelessly in the weeks leading up to the event to ensure the feast and anniversary celebrations proceeded smoothly . Additionally , he thanked Fr Leo Arul for celebrating Mass on Nov 15 . Fr Martinian then invited everyone to adjourn to the adjacent parish community hall for a fellowship dinner . <p> During the celebration , a 10-minute video documenting the 70-year history of the parish was shown . The video traced the parish 's journey , from its humble beginnings as a wooden church in 1954 to the present brick structure completed in 1991 . It also highlighted the priests who had served the community since 1954 , the challenges and blessings the parish has faced , and the cherished memories shared by priests and parishioners over the past seven decades . <p> The highlight of the evening was the cutting of the anniversary cake by Bishop Bernard , Fr Martinian , Deacon Steven , and the parish lay leaders , assembled near the sanctuary area . The congregation joyfully sang " Happy Anniversary " before the cake was distributed to all during the dinner fellowship . <p> In conjunction with the 70th-anniversary celebrations , commemorative T-shirts were on sale . A beautifully decorated statue of St Elizabeth , adorned with flowers , which had been blessed earlier by Bishop Bernard , was placed on the right side of the church . Many parishioners visited the statue after Mass , seeking the saint 's intercession . <p> About St Elizabeth of HungarySt Elizabeth of Hungary , despite her noble status , chose to lead a life of austere simplicity , practising penance and dedicating herself to charitable works . After losing her husband , who died enroute to join the Sixth Crusade , she renounced worldly pleasures and became a tertiary of St Francis of Assisi . St Elizabeth established a hospital where she personally cared for the sick and the poor until her untimely death at the age of 24 on November 17 , 1231.
