<p> By Kielce Gussie " I hope that the glimmer of peace that has emerged can lead to a ceasefire on all other fronts , " Pope Francis stated after praying the Angelus on December 1st . He was referring to the ceasefire agreement reached between Hezbollah in Lebanon and Israel to end 13 months of fighting . <p> Building upon this , the Pope also challenged the Lebanese people to elect a president . " As soon as possible , " he encouraged , " so that institutions can return to normal functioning , proceed with the necessary reforms , and ensure the country remains an example of peaceful coexistence among different religions . " <p> However , both Israel and Hezbollah accuse the other of breaching the ceasefire agreement as there have been reports the Israeli air force struck a Hezbollah facility one day after the ceasefire was signed . <p> ' War offends God'Pope Francis continued to express his concern for other areas of the world in conflict , including Gaza , Syria , and Ukraine . He shared his deep concern for the release of Israeli hostages and petitioned once again that " humanitarian aid to the exhausted Palestinian population " be available . <p> Speaking of the approaching winter season , the Pope remembered " martyred Ukraine " in the midst of a conflict that has been raging for almost three years . He called the combination of war and cold temperatures " tragic " and underscored that for the millions of displaced people , winter will be difficult . Pope Francis renewed his challenge to the international community " and to every man and woman of good will , to do everything possible to stop this war and to promote dialogue , fraternity , and reconciliation . " <p> Peace is not the responsibility of a fewWith the start of Advent and the countdown to Christmas beginning , the Pope called to renew efforts to provide aid and hope to those living in war-torn countries . " The pursuit of peace is not the responsibility of a few but of all , " he stated , because if " desensitization and indifference to the horrors of war prevail , all of humanity is defeated . " <p> A milestone in South AmericaThe Pope also commemorated the 40th anniversary of the Treaty of Peace and Friendship between Argentina and Chile , which was signed on November 29 , 1984 . With Pope John Paul II , the Holy See 's mediation led to a descalation of a territorial dispute between the two countries . Pope Francis used this as an example that when " we renounce the use of arms and engage in dialogue , we are on the right path . " --Vatican News
