<p> Children welcome the Custos of the Holy Land , Father Francesco Patton , upon his entrance into Bethlehem on Nov. 30 , 2024 , for the beginning of Advent . Credit : Marinella Bandini <p> By Marinella BandiniFor the second consecutive year , Advent and Christmas in the Holy Land arrive at a time of war . <p> This past weekend , the people in the small town where Jesus was born welcomed the friars of the Custody of the Holy Land , led by the custos , Father Francesco Patton , as it is tradition for the custos to inaugurate the Advent celebrations . <p> While Bethlehem is not directly involved in the conflict , it continues to suffer under the weight of economic crisis , violence from Israeli settlers , and emigration . <p> The city is not as empty as it was a year ago , but the atmosphere feels even heavier : Fear and a lack of prospects suffocate the hope of the people here . In pharmacies , anti-anxiety medications are in high demand . <p> After more than a year , " we are still afraid the war might reach us here , " numerous people who did not want to be named told CNA . <p> There is little desire to celebrate , even though this year the Christian churches of the Holy Land have encouraged their faithful to display public signs of hope -- albeit with a sense of restraint . <p> " In these ways , we will echo the Christmas story itself , where the angels announced to the shepherds glad tidings of Christ 's birth in the midst of similarly dark times in our region , " the Patriarchs and Heads of the Churches in Jerusalem said in a statement released Nov. 22 . <p> This year , the custos ' entry was festive . It was a warm winter day , and the entire route along Star Street was filled with children joyfully welcoming him . <p> The road runs through the town center and leads to the Basilica of the Nativity , which , according to Christian tradition , was traveled by the Holy Family . A large contingent of scouts also led the procession . <p> At the same time , it was impossible to ignore the war . <p> The war that Israel is waging in Gaza and in Lebanon ( the latter of which now hangs on a fragile ceasefire ) is reflected in the signs held by children along Star Street during the procession : " From the bottom of my heart , peace in Gaza and Beirut , " " Peaceful solutions are always better , " " From the cradle of peace , peace to wounded Lebanon , " and " Together we can create change " are some of the words displayed on the signs . <p> Then there is the conflict that has been reignited in Syria . Six friars make up the custody 's community in Aleppo . They immediately decided to stay -- it is their vocation and mission , they said -- even as the situation is escalating : On Sunday , Dec. 1 , the Franciscan complex of the Terra Santa College in Aleppo was hit by a strike and severely damaged . No casualties were reported but panic has reportedly spread among the people . <p> Later that evening , the custos of the Holy Land released a declaration saying " our friars and the faithful of the parish are all well " and inviting everyone " to join us in prayer for peace in Syria , martyred by long years of war and violence . " <p> In St. Catherine Church , the Latin part of the complex , the custos venerated the relic of the Holy Cradle of the Child Jesus during the solemn celebration of first vespers of Sunday , marking the beginning of the Advent season and a new liturgical year . <p> The celebration culminated in a procession to the Nativity Grotto , where a 14-point silver star marks the spot where Jesus is believed to have been born . A few steps away is the manger in which Jesus was laid just after his birth . Here , the custos lit the first candle of the Advent wreath . <p> " In the Nativity scene , the angels sing outdoors and the star lights up the night . Our celebration should also have visible signs of hope , " the custos told CNA in an interview . <p> " I would like what shines to be the sense of solidarity , the ability for mutual hospitality , to forgive , and to offer reconciliation . I would like the meaning of Christmas to shine : that we are all loved by God and that the Child comes as God with us and our savior . " <p> On Dec. 1 , the Church of St. Catherine was filled with local worshippers for the celebration of the Mass of the first Sunday of Advent . The theme of hope was the focus of the custos ' homily . <p> " In the midst of life 's problems we must never despair or let ourselves be overcome by fear , and we must not turn in on ourselves but raise our gaze toward Jesus . Indeed , we need hope precisely when things are going wrong , when it seems to us that problems are without solution , that diseases are without the possibility of recovery , and that wars are endless , " he said. --CNA
