<p> DOHA : The ouster of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad , after rebel forces swept into Damascus this weekend , shattered Iran 's network of influence in the Middle East but Israel , the United States and Arab powers must now deal with the risk of instability and extremism from the mosaic of forces that replaces him . <p> Chief among the rebel forces that ended 50 years of brutal dynastic rule by Assad and his father was Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , a Sunni Muslim group previously affiliated with Al Qaeda that is designated as a terrorist organization by the U.S. and the U.N . <p> Western and Arab nations fear that the HTS-led rebel coalition may seek to replace Assad 's regime with a hardline Islamist government , or one less able or inclined to prevent the resurgence of radical forces , three diplomats and three analysts told Reuters . <p> " There is strong fear inside and outside the region of the power vacuum that Assad 's sudden collapse may cause , " said Abdelaziz al-Sager , director of the Gulf Research Center , a think tank focused on the Middle East . He cited the civil wars that followed the toppling of Iraqi president Saddam Hussein in 2003 and Libyan dictator Muammar Gaddafi in 2011 . <p> One senior Western diplomat in the region , who spoke on condition of anonymity , told Reuters that - with the rebel forces fragmented - there was no plan for how to rule Syria , a complex nation divided into various sects and ethnic groups , each with its own regional power base . <p> The senior diplomat expressed fears that lawlessness in Syria could allow the flourishing of extremist groups like Islamic State ( IS ) , which in 2014 swept through large swathes of Syria and Iraq and established an Islamic Caliphate before it was driven out by a US-led coalition by 2019 . <p> U.S. President Joe Biden on Sunday welcomed Assad 's toppling and said he should be " held accountable " for his despotic rule but he warned that his departure was a moment of " risk and uncertainty " . U.S. forces on Sunday conducted dozens of strikes within Syria against IS to prevent it reasserting itself . <p> The speed of Assad 's ouster , just two weeks since the rebel offensive began , took many in the White House by surprise . A senior U.S. official said Washington was now seeking ways to communicate with all the rebel groups , not just HTS . <p> So far , Washington had mostly thrown its support behind Syrian Kurdish groups , such as the Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) , whose areas of control are in northeast Syria . These groups , however , are in conflict with one of the main victorious rebels factions , the Syrian National Army ( SNA ) , backed by regional power broker , Turkey , which opposes Kurdish influence . <p> Assad 's allies , Tehran and Moscow , who propped up his rule for 13 years with military support , men and airpower , also face far-reaching implications from his precipitous downfall . <p> Moscow - which has given Assad and his family asylum - has two major military bases in Syria , its main footprint in the Middle East . Its naval base in Tartous on the Mediterranean has been a staging post to fly military contractors in and out of Africa . <p> For Tehran , its alliance with Assad - a member of the minority Alawite sect , an offshoot of Shi'ite Islam - was a cornerstone of its powerbase in a predominantly Sunni region wary of Shi'ite Iran . <p> Assad 's departure shattered a pivotal axis of influence , eroding Tehran 's ability to project power and sustain its network of militia groups across the Middle East , particularly to its ally Hezbollah in Lebanon . A senior Iranian official told Reuters on Monday it had opened a direct line of communication with the rebels in an attempt to " prevent a hostile trajectory " . <p> Israel 's year-long military campaign has already severely weakened the military power of Hezbollah and Palestinian group Hamas in Gaza . <p> Assad offered Iran a vital conduit for arms shipments to rebuild Hezbollah . Jonathan Panikoff , a former U.S. deputy national intelligence officer for the Middle East , said his ouster could make it more difficult for Hezbollah to rearm , increasing the prospects that a ceasefire with Israel agreed last month would hold . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu hailed the ousting of Assad as an " historic day " that followed the blows delivered by Israel against Iran and Hezbollah . He said he had ordered Israeli forces to seize areas along the bordering buffer zone to ensure Israel 's security . <p> Israeli forces carried out air strikes against suspected chemical weapons and missile sites on Monday to prevent them from falling into the hands of hostile actors , the foreign minister said . <p> Carmit Valensi , a senior researcher at the Institute for National Security Studies ( INSS ) , a think tank for Israeli security policy based in Tel Aviv , said that - despite the risk of a prolonged period of chaos and violence in Syria - Assad 's fall could benefit Israel . <p> " Despite concerns over the rise of extremist elements near the border and the lack of a clear authority in charge , the military capabilities of the rebels , in their various forms , are n't comparable to those of Iran and its proxies , " she said . <p> CALLS FOR NEW CONSTITUTION , ELECTIONS <p> Marwan al-Muasher , vice president for studies at the U.S.-based Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , said Assad 's exit could provide an opportunity for Syrians to establish an inclusive political governance through an orderly transition that avoided a power vacuum that would allow extremist groups to gain ascendancy . <p> Hadi Al-Bahra , the head of Syria 's main opposition abroad , told Reuters on the sidelines of the Doha Forum on Sunday that Syria should have an 18-month transition period to establish " a safe , neutral , and quiet environment " for free elections . <p> Al-Bahra , President of the Syrian National Coalition , said Syria should draft a constitution within six months , on which the first election would be a referendum . He said the opposition had asked state employees to report to work until the power transition , and assured them that they would not be harmed . <p> But Syria 's political opposition has little influence on the ground in Damascus , where armed groups hold sway , and many Syria watchers remain skeptic . <p> HTS ' leader , Abu Mohammed al-Golani , addressed huge crowds at the medieval Umayyad Mosque in central Damascus on Sunday , promising a new chapter for the region and that Syria would become " a beacon for the Islamic nation " . <p> There are , however , questions about whether Golani 's form of strict Islamist ideology would be accepted throughout Syria , a country where a moderate and liberal form of Islam prevails and with a mixed Christian , Alawite , Druze and Kurdish population . <p> Both Western and Middle Eastern officials expressed concern about the unity of Syria , with key territories , including those along borders with Iraq and Turkey , under the control of different sects and ethnic groups : these divisions , which were entrenched by a bloody 2011 uprising , present a growing threat to national stability . <p> The analysts and diplomats who spoke to Reuters warned of the risk of a free-for-all conflict - akin to the wake of the toppling of Gaddafi in Libya or Saddam in Iraq - in which armed groups from different Islamist , ethnic and ideological shades fight for supremacy over territory . Such a failed state in Syria would have a major impact on neighbors Lebanon , Turkey , Iraq and Jordan , they said . <p> RIVALRY AMONG REBELS <p> Syria 's opposition comprises a broad spectrum from moderate groups such as the SNA to jihadi elements within the HTS , each with its own vision for Syria 's future , ranging from secular democracy to Islamic governance . <p> " Each one of these rebel group is vying for supremacy ; each one wants to be in charge . Each one thinks they can be Bashar al-Assad , and each one has allegiance to a foreign party funding his group , " said al-Sager . " They will clash unless there is an effort by the UN and some regional countries with influence to unify them . " <p> Turkish-backed forces dominate in the north , while U.S.-aligned Kurdish groups , such as the Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) , hold sway in northeastern Syria . <p> In a sign of the tensions between the groups , the Turkey-backed SNA seized swathes of territory , including the city of Tel Refaat , from U.S.-backed Kurdish forces at the start of the recent offensive . On Sunday , a Turkish security source said the rebels entered the northern city of Manbij after pushing the Kurds back again . <p> Still , some analysts say that an orderly transition is possible , arguing that well-established government institutions in Damascus remain capable of carrying out duties . <p> They also point to the rebels ' experience of governing in enclaves across Syria that they have managed in some cases for more than a decade . The rebel alliance , led by HTS , made a point of offering clemency for members of the security forces when it seized Aleppo , Syria 's second-largest city , late last month and promised the sizeable minority populations that it would preserve their way of life . <p> But Hassan Hassan , an expert on Islamist groups in the Middle East based in Washington , said that concerns persisted among these minority groups now that the rebels had captured Damascus . <p> " There is uncertainty about what will happen next , particularly about religious influence and how ( Islamic ) laws may evolve , " he said .
