<p> RAMALLAH : Palestinian Prime Minister Mohammad Mustafa stated that the lack of international accountability for Israel allows it to continue its actions and crimes against the Palestinian people , the Palestine News and Information Agency ( WAFA ) reported . <p> This came during a meeting with the European Union Special Representative for the Middle East Peace Process , Sven Koopmans on Wednesday at the prime minister 's office in Ramallah . The meeting was attended by the European Union Representative to the State of Palestine , Alexandre Stutzmann . <p> Mustafa reiterated that implementing United Nations Security Council ( UNSC ) Resolution 2735 constitutes a roadmap to halt the aggression against the Palestinian people in the Gaza Strip , ensure the delivery of aid that meets the urgent humanitarian and relief needs of the region and initiate reconstruction . <p> He emphasised the need to unify the West Bank and Gaza Strip on the path toward ending the occupation and embodying an independent Palestinian state . <p> Highlighting Gaza 's integral role in the statehood project , Mustafa stated that the government is committed to managing Gaza alongside other Palestinian territories . <p> He noted that all relevant ministries have prepared plans to operate in Gaza once the aggression ceases , focusing on relief efforts , early recovery , reconstruction , economic revitalization and institutional unification . <p> He commended the European Union and its international partners for their pivotal role in supporting the realization of a Palestinian state . Mustafa stressed the importance of intensified efforts to establish a political pathway toward ending the occupation and embody the establishment of an independent Palestinian state <p> Additionally , Mustafa expressed gratitude to the EU and its institutions for providing emergency financial support to the government in 2024 . <p> He emphasised the necessity of securing a sustainable support package for the coming years to ensure continued progress .
