<p> SYRIA is the mother of all mysteries . Even the Romans could not figure out all the intrigues , plots , factions , coups and assassinations that were common there . Nor could they understand or deal with its hotbed of religions and weird sects . <p> Two thousand years later , not much has changed . Last week , irregular forces of a former al-Qaida outfit named Hayat Tahrir al-ham ( HTS ) appeared out of the countryside and seized Syria 's second most important city , Aleppo . <p> Syria 's dormant 14-year-old civil war suddenly went critical . A few days later , the newly re-emergent Tahrir stormed the important Syrian city of Hama . <p> In both cases , Syrian government forces of the ruling al-Assad family simply and inexplicably melted away after fighting the jihadists for 14 years . <p> I have a personal interest in this fight . In 2017 , my Eric S. Margolis Foundation to protect animals joined the Four Paws group out of Vienna to mount the daring rescue of an entire zoo in Aleppo . <p> The wretched animals there -- bears , tigers , lions , dogs and chimps -- had been trapped in the city 's private zoo by years of war . While they starved , the war between various jihadist factions and government troops raged as Aleppo , once Syria 's second city , was relentlessly reduced to rubble . <p> I also went to Hama while trying to visit the magnificent Crusader castle Krak des Chevaliers . There , the troops of president Hafez al-Assad ( father of the current ruler Bashar ) were slugging it out with jihadists . Tens of thousands died in the fighting . Much of Hama was also reduced to ruins . <p> A sizeable portion of Syria 's 23 million people are Alawites , a mysterious breakaway Muslim sect from the Shias that many majority Sunni Muslims call heretics . <p> Turkey 's minority Alevi Muslims are often confused with the Alawis , whom they brand as heretics . Poor Alawis flocked to the army where they eventually seized power , led by iron-fisted General Hafez al-Assad . <p> Lebanon 's Druze , a mysterious mountain sect , is sometimes close to the Alawites . Maronite Christians also are highly influential , so too are the Druze and Armenians . <p> Lebanon 's civil war , which I covered , ran from 1975 to 1990 until the Syrian army ended the bloody conflict . <p> As a veteran war correspondent , it seems to me that at least many foreign powers are now backing HTS . The US and Israel have been trying to overthrow the Assad regime since 2011 . <p> Israel wanted to cement its hold on the strategic Golan Heights that it captured from Syria . The US , which now occupies the oil-producing northeastern third of Syria , has at least 9,000 troops there and , with Israel , helps the jihadists while publicly denouncing them . <p> Turkey , whose leader hates Assad , is also highly active in Syria and is most likely providing logistic support to HTS and other jihadist groups while also battling leftist Kurdish groups . Add Russian air units near Latakia , occasional help from Hezbollah groups and minor operations from small Iranian forces . <p> In short , the evolving war in Syria looks increasingly like the awful , madhouse Thirty Years ' War in the 1600s . <p> Interestingly , Israel 's far-right coalition leaders keep referring to their ambition to " remake the face of the Mideast " . This obviously refers to genocide in Gaza , the open-air prison camp for Palestinians , who were driven in 1948 from their homes in what is today Galilee . ? <p> However , Israel 's expansionist hard right also has its gaze fixed on Lebanon around the Litani River , the region 's last remaining free water source . It has also long coveted southern Syria , including Damascus , and overthrowing President Bashar al-Assad , a staunch supporter of the Palestinians . <p> Remember also that large parts of Iraq are now occupied by US ground forces and air bases . So , a " new face " of the Levant may be emerging out of its current chaos .
