<p> Greetings dear Friends of MJD Two sides to the coin . Two sides to a story . The reported and the unreported . The " Israel-Palestine situation is complex , dangerous and tragic . Over 45,000 people have been killed since the October 7 , 2023 attack , 97 Israeli hostages are still missing , and the devastation in Gaza is estimated at over US$18 billion ( RM79 billion ) . " <p> But once the full details of the atrocities committed on Oct 7 were uncovered , Malaysian citizens , civil society groups and opposition political forces all expressed discomfort with the government 's position . <p> Tightening of media and freedom of the press or creating a safer digital environment , crackdown on online gambling and harmful media online content in this country ? <p> The National Service 3.0 is back , starting next month , tailored to Malaysia 's needs , it is said . Bank Negara Malaysia is still consulting on the proposed increase in medical insurance premium rates . Mental health issues in schools and institutions of higher learning ( IPT ) have increased twofold in 2023 . <p> The Notre-Dame de Paris cathedral officially reopened on Saturday , December 7 , after restoration ( it was devastated by a fire five years ago ) , with the assistance of specialists from China 's Emperor Qinshihuang 's Mausoleum Site Museum -- a clear example of what the world needs - reconcilers , restorers and healers , not divisive politicians . <p> Choosing Times : Viktor Frankl , when imprisoned in the horrific German concentration camp , saw and remembered men who walked through the huts , comforting others , giving away their last bit of bread and cheerfully encouraging the suffering . And he was moved to conclude : <p> " Everything was taken away from them , but the one thing they refused to have taken away ... THE FREEDOM TO CHOOSE ONE 's ATTITUDE IN ANY GIVEN SITUATION " . The freedom to choose our attitude is the last of our freedom . We can hold fast to it or give it away . This freedom makes us different . The saints and heroes had this . Reminds me of the candle in the dark . <p> " Attitude is a little thing that makes a big difference . " Winston Churchill A Thought For The Week : While travelling in Kenya , two college students met a refugee from Zimbabwe . He said that he had n't eaten anything in over three days and looked extremely skinny and unhealthy . Then , one of the travellers offered him the rest of the sandwich he was eating . The first thing the man said was , " We can share it . " <p> The lesson from the Zimbabwean : Just give me a little of what you can give . I do n't want to be full , just lessen my hunger . The poor and needy ask only for daily bread . <p> Announcements for the Week : <p> 1 . Msgr Peter Ng will celebrate his 25th Sacerdotal Anniversary at the Church of St Henry , Batu Pahat on December 27 at 6.00pm . <p> 2 . The Launch of the Jubilee Year 2025 , with the theme " Pilgrims of Hope " will take place at the Cathedral of the Sacred Heart on Sunday , December 29 at 10.30 am . All Masses on that Sunday are cancelled in South Johore Vicariate . <p> QnQ ? The Q asks : My moods get me down . Is there a way to rise above it ? <p> " The most important decision you make is to be in a good mood . " ( Voltaire ) . The operational word here is " decision " - to choose , to opt for regardless - which puts you in charge of your headspace . And that can positively change the trajectory of your day , every day . <p> So take a deep breath , meditate , pray , listen to music , take a nap , dance , sing , read an inspirational quote or simply stretch and smile ... there are many ways to choose to be in a good mood ! " I 'm pickin ' up good vibrations " , the Beach Boys sing . <p> See The Holy Spirit @ Work : " He pours light into our minds , arouses our desire and gives us strength ... As the soul is the life of the body , so the Holy Spirit is the life of our souls . " --St Peter Damian <p> Something To Tickle You : " I believe every one of us is born with a purpose . No matter who you are , what you do , or how far you think you have to go , you have been tapped by a force greater than yourself to step into your God-given calling . " --Oprah Winfrey
