Text ID: t023618
Group:   global_south_2024_12
File:    corpus/04_now_screened_iqr_cap/global_south_2024_12/in/119270869.txt

Score (f9_pos): 1
Loading words (f9_pos), N=1: indian
<p> A bag carried by Priyanka Gandhi in Parliament has placed her at the centre of a political debate . The bag , featuring the word ' Palestine ' and a watermelon symbol , became a flashpoint , attracting sharp criticism from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) and its supporters . If anything , it underscored and reaffirmed the persistent relevance and continuity of the Palestine issue in Indian domestic politics . However , anyone truly interested in understanding the ongoing relevance of Palestine in domestic politics must consider the current political dynamics surrounding it . Taking this approach reveals two key insights . <h> Also Read <p> First , it outlines the political mobilisation and legitimation in the routines of democratic politics . A political party 's position on Palestine can reveal its broader ideological inclinations and worldview . In this context , it ventures into the comparative realm of what each party represents . The BJP has long been pro-Israel , with its ideological alignment reflecting Zionist ethnic nationalism . <p> Relations with Israel Nonetheless , in recent years , under Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's leadership , India strategically decoupled its relations with Israel from the Israel-Palestine issue , adopting a more proactive stance towards strengthening ties with Israel . In 2017 , Modi became the first Indian Prime Minister to visit Israel , a historic move that was reciprocated by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's visit to Delhi in 2018 . The rapport between Modi and Netanyahu was evident throughout these exchanges , signalling a deepening of bilateral relations . <p> However , the parallel growth of public support for Israel under Modi 's administration has led to clashes with domestic political factions sympathetic to Palestine . Numerous arrests have been reported for individuals expressing support for Palestine , often justified under the pretext of national interest and security priorities , as exemplified by Yogi Adityanath 's proud statement that his State , Uttar Pradesh , has sent 5,600 youth to Israel for high-paying jobs . <p> While India 's foreign policy under Modi govt has become more pro-Israel , it has consistently upheld support for a two-State solution <p> Yet , while India 's foreign policy under the Modi government has become more pro-Israel , it has consistently upheld support for a two-State solution . It was only a month ago that India voted in favour of the UNGA resolution on Palestine , calling for an end to Israeli occupation . <p> Nehruvian Ideas As for the Congress , the party starting from Nehru has consistently supported Palestine while adopting a more pragmatic ap-proach towards Israel . Priyanka Gandhi 's moral stance on peace likely stems from this historical position as one of the principal legatees of the Congress and Nehruvian ideas . Gandhi had previously shared social media posts condemning Israel 's actions in Gaza , referring to them as a " horrific genocide . " <p> Recently , Abed Elrazeg Abu Jazer , Charge D'Affaires at the Palestinian Embassy in India , met with Priyanka Gandhi to congratulate her on her election victory in Wayanad , Kerala . How-ever , there is no reason to suggest that such symbolism and genuine support can not coexist with a strategic appeal to her constituency -- where a significant Muslim population supports Palestine -- reflecting both ideological consistency and political calculation that address her moral convictions alongside voter concerns . <p> Second , the irony of coalition politics has manifested in the form of an ontic discontinuity in the Modi government 's em-brace of Israel , which was solely shaped by Modi during his two previous terms in office . Only recently a coalition of leaders from various political parties gathered with Mohammad Makram Balawi , Secretary-General of the League of Parliamentarians for Al-Quds , a pro-Palestinian organisation , to voice their solidarity with the Palestinian cause . Notably , the Janata Dal ( United ) , a key ally in the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance ( NDA ) , was part of this coalition . Alongside leaders from the Congress , the Samajwadi Party ( SP ) and the Aam Aadmi Party ( AAP ) , the JD(U) condemned Israel 's actions as " Zionist aggression " and a " heinous genocide " of the Palestinian peo-ple . <p> Coalition Politics The JD(U) holds significant sway as a major member of the government coalition . Since Modi 's BJP lacks a sizable majority on its own , it must rely on the coalition of the NDA to advance its goals . Modi has already signalled considerable openness to ad-dressing criticism from coalition partners , as seen in the case of repealing the government 's attempt to bypass reservation policies in the recruitment of civil servants by the Union Public Service Commission ( UPSC ) . <p> In this instance , strong criticism from coalition partners prompted the Modi government to direct the Department of Personnel and Training ( DoPT ) to cancel an advertisement issued by the UPSC for the appointment of joint-secretary-level officers and other key positions through the lateral entry process . <p> In that context , JD(U) 's opposition to India supplying arms to Is-rael in the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict serves as an early indication that coalition politics will influence Indo-Israel relations . Some of the NDA allies are rooted in their regional political context , where they seek to project themselves as secular parties . If pro-Palestinian voices continue to gain momentum and support from coalition partners , it will impact the future trajectory of India 's relations with the country .
