@@118330184 <h> Four Palestinians killed in Israeli attack near Jenin in occupied West Bank <p> Attack on village of Sir brings Palestinian death toll in the territory to at least 790 since beginning of Gaza war . <p> Palestinians inspect a bullet-riddled car after an Israeli operation near the southern West Bank village of Sir , south of Jenin Jaafar Ashtiyeh/AFP <p> Published On 1 Dec 20241 Dec 2024 <p> At least four Palestinians have been killed in an Israeli operation in the occupied West Bank , according to authorities . <p> The attack occurred in the village of Sir near Jenin on Sunday , according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health . It said the killings were a result of " the occupation 's aggression " . Israel 's military also confirmed that four Palestinians were killed , describing them as " terrorists " . <p> The Palestine Red Crescent Society , meanwhile , reported that Israeli forces had been " preventing our teams from reaching the bombing site " . <p> Fares Irshaid , a resident of Sir , described the attack to the AFP news agency . <p> " In the morning , the planes came and started bombing this area , " Irshaid said . " Shortly after that , the army stormed the entire area . They declared it a closed military zone . " <p> " There was a group of young men , including my nephew and the son of our neighbours , and we do not know their fate , " he told the news agency . <p> Israel has not released the bodies of those killed although the military identified one of the dead as 31-year-old Wael Lahluh . <p> There has been a surge in Israeli military operations and violence by Israeli settlers in the occupied West Bank since the war in Gaza began on October 7 , 2023 . <p> At least 780 Palestinians have been killed in the West Bank , adding to the 44,429 Palestinians killed in Gaza since the outbreak of the war . <p> Israel said 24 Israelis have been killed in the West Bank during that period while Hamas 's attack on southern Israel on October 7 , 2023 , killed at least 1,139 people . <h> ' Drone attack ' <p> Speaking to Al Jazeera , Willem Marx , a journalist based in the West Bank , said Sunday 's operation was initially " a drone attack , using bullets against cars " . <p> " It seems the men inside the cars then fled on foot to a nearby agricultural storage space in quite a remote region just southeast of the city of Jenin , " he said . <p> He added the Israeli military has said those killed were reportedly responsible for several attacks on Israeli settlers . The military said Lahluh had killed a 23-year-old settler in August . <p> While Israeli settlements are illegal under international law and are seen as a major obstacle to a future Palestinian state , the government of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has continued their expansion . The military regularly intervenes to protect Israeli settlers . <p> The latest Israeli operation was carried out after Israel last month launched several raids in Jenin , killing nine people . <p> Two Palestinians , including a teenage boy , were also killed during an Israeli raid in the West Bank village of Yabad on November 24 , according to the Palestinian Authority . 
@@118331986 <p> The announcement comes as Trump aims to reshape Middle East diplomacy in his second term . <p> As President-elect Donald Trump continues to craft his second-term agenda , he announced a key advisor on Sunday that could impact his handling of affairs in the Middle East . <p> By tapping Lebanese American businessman Massad Boulos as his senior advisor on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs , Trump is bringing on board a key campaign surrogate whose son Michael is also married to his daughter Tiffany . <p> The president-elect -- who was able to exploit Democratic divisions over the war in Gaza and pry away some Muslim and Arab American voters from Vice President Kamala Harris in the general election -- reaffirmed on Sunday that he wants to form " tremendous new coalitions " with Arab Americans . <p> " Massad is a dealmaker , and an unwavering supporter of PEACE in the Middle East , " Trump wrote on his Truth Social platform . " He will be a strong advocate for the United States , and its interests , and I am pleased to have him on our team ! " <p> Trump 's selection of Boulos is a signal that he 'll seek his own diplomatic imprint in the Middle East , which for over a year has seen the war in Gaza become one of the most devastating and polarizing ongoing conflicts in the world , reverberating in Lebanon , Yemen , and now Syria . <p> Since the start of the Israel-Hamas war in October 2023 , over 40,000 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza , according to The Associated Press . <p> President Joe Biden 's handling of the conflict was a significant issue in the US presidential race , with Harris pledging that she and the president were working hard for a cease-fire agreement . But the conflict likely chipped away at Harris ' Arab American support , as well as that of some progressive Democrats who had long opposed both the war and American military aid to Israel . <p> During the 2024 campaign , Boulos traveled throughout Michigan to promote Trump 's candidacy among Arab American and Muslim voters , The New York Times reported . <p> " We do n't have to win over everybody , " Boulos told the newspaper shortly before the election . " There are some that strongly believe that they would n't vote for either of the major candidates . That 's fine with us. " 
@@118331988 <p> " I am proud to announce that Massad Boulos will serve as Senior Advisor to the President on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs , " the president-elect wrote on TRUTHSocial . " Massad is an accomplished lawyer and a highly respected leader in the business world , with extensive experience on the International scene . He has been a longtime proponent of Republican and Conservative values , an asset to my Campaign , and was instrumental in building tremendous new coalitions with the Arab American Community . Massad is a dealmaker , and an unwavering supporter of PEACE in the Middle East . He will be a strong advocate for the United States , and its interests , and I am pleased to have him on our team ! " <p> Boulos led efforts to engage the Arab American community , organizing dozens of meetings across Michigan and other areas with large Arab populations . <p> Some sessions also featured Richard Grenell , former acting director of national intelligence , who was well-regarded by those who met with him . <p> Trump campaign officials and supporters told Reuters that Boulos helped flip some of the 300,000 Arab Americans and Muslims in Michigan who largely backed Biden in 2020 but later grew frustrated with Biden 's policies in Israel , Gaza and Lebanon . <p> Dr. Massad Boulos , Tiffany Trump 's father-in-law , sits for a portrait at the Wall Street Hotel in New York on Sept. 4 , 2024 . <p> Boulos ' son , Michael , and Tiffany Trump were married in November 2022 at Mar-a-Lago . Trump revealed during a speech to the Detroit Economic Club in October that Tiffany is pregnant . <p> Boulos is a billionaire with extensive business connections to Nigeria . He was born in Lebanon but moved to Texas as a teenager . He attended the University of Houston and later became a U.S. citizen . <p> According to Reuters , Boulos ' father and grandfather were involved in Lebanese politics , and his father-in-law backed the Free Patriotic Movement , a Christian party affiliated with Hezbollah . <p> Eric Trump , his sister Tiffany Trump and her then-boyfriend Massad Boulos arrive for President Trump 's acceptance speech as the Republican presidential nominee on the South Lawn of the White House , Aug. 27 , 2020 . <p> Three sources told Reuters that Boulos ' appeal centers on his ability to engage with different factions within Lebanese politics , as he 's even maintained relations with Hezbollah , an Iranian-backed Shi'ite Muslim party and terrorist group that largely controls the parliament . Boulos is friends with Suleiman Frangieh , a Christian politician backed by Hezbollah for the presidency , and has been in communication with the Lebanese Forces Party , a Christian faction that staunchly opposes Hezbollah . <p> This is a developing story . Check back for updates . The Associated Press contributed to this report . 
@@118333984 <p> Click here to browse full transcripts of " Face the Nation with Margaret Brennan . " <p> MAJOR GARRETT : I 'm Major Garrett in Washington . <p> And this week on Face the Nation : President-elect Trump selects a -- quote -- " warrior " to lead the FBI and rattles top trading partners with threats of tariffs . <p> The drumbeat continues from Mar-a-Lago , as president-elect Trump announces plans to nominate loyalists who have more than once lashed out at the agencies they hope to lead . <p> We will hear from two senators who will be evaluating these Cabinet picks , Texas Republican Ted Cruz and California Democrat Alex Padilla . <p> Plus , as Americans kick off the busiest shopping season of the year , it 's crunch time for retailers and a window into the economy at large . Questions loom over the future of American consumers as the incoming president threatens across-the-board import tariffs . We will look at the impact with CBS News business analyst Jill Schlesinger . <p> Then , with just weeks to go until he leaves office , President Biden is notching a few hard-fought victories overseas , securing the release of Americans wrongfully held in China and a cease-fire deal between Israel and Hezbollah . Could a deal between Israel and Hamas be next ? <p> We will talk unfinished business with White House National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan . <p> Finally , a conversation with author and historian H.W. Brands . His latest book , " America First , " examines the debate over isolationism in America ahead of World War II . <p> It 's all just ahead on Face the Nation . <p> Good morning , everyone . Welcome to Face the Nation . <p> As we put the final touches on this long holiday weekend and the leftovers that go with it , the economy and border loom large as the nation and world anticipate a second Trump administration . Meanwhile , President Biden tries to secure last-minute diplomatic breakthroughs , Congress tackles unfinished business , and retailers slash prices to launch the holiday shopping season in this final month of 2024 . <p> But we begin this morning with the latest on the Trump transition with senior White House correspondent Weijia Jiang . <p> KASH PATEL ( Former Deputy Assistant to President Trump ) : I 'd shut down the FBI Hoover building on day one and reopening the next day as a museum of the deep state . <p> WEIJIA JIANG : Patel rose to prominence during Trump 's first term when he helped lead the charge against the DOJ 's investigation of Russia meddling in the 2016 election . <p> DONALD TRUMP ( Former President of the United States ( R ) and Current U.S. President-Elect ) : And Kash Patel is here , one of our real warriors . <p> ( CHEERING ) <p> WEIJIA JIANG : The current FBI director , Christopher Wray , who was appointed by Trump in 2017 , has three years left on a 10-year term . He would have to resign or be fired to create an opening . <p> The FBI says : " Director Wray 's focus remains on the men and women of the FBI , the people we do the work with and the people we do the work for . " <p> Trump also announced he has selected son-in-law Jared Kushner 's father , Charles Kushner , to serve as the next U.S. ambassador to France . Kushner was pardoned by Trump in 2020 after serving time in prison as part of a two-year sentence on federal criminal charges . <p> As Trump fills his administration , he 's also meeting with world leaders . <p> JUSTIN TRUDEAU ( Canadian Prime Minister ) : It was -- it was an excellent conversation . <p> WEIJIA JIANG : Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had dinner with Trump at Mar-a-Lago on Friday , then posted : " I look forward to the work we can do together again . " <p> But Trump 's threat to impose a 25 percent tariff on Canada and Mexico remains , unless , he says , the countries take action to stop migrants and drugs from entering the U.S. border . <p> ( End VT ) <p> WEIJIA JIANG : Both North American allies say they are preparing retaliatory tariffs on U.S. exports . <p> Now Trump has issued a new threat against a group of nine countries , including Brazil , Russia and China . He says , if they try to shy away from the U.S. dollar on international trade , he would impose a 100 percent tariff on their goods -- Major . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Weijia Jiang in Palm Beach , Florida , thank you . <p> We turn now to Texas Republican Senator Ted Cruz , who joins us this morning from Houston . <p> Senator , it 's good to see you . Good morning to you . <p> Let 's pick up this thread on tariffs . I remember covering your presidential campaign in 2016 , and you were a skeptic of tariffs then . I know the politics around tariffs have changed . President-elect Trump has done that . But have the economics changed ? <p> SENATOR TED CRUZ ( R-Texas ) : Well , I will tell you , what has n't changed is -- is the importance of leverage . <p> And I got to say , you look at the threat of tariffs against Mexico and Canada immediately has produced action . We 've seen the president of Mexico stand up and promise that she is going to work hand in hand with the president of the United States , President Trump , to secure the border . <p> I will tell you , representing Texas , we 've seen four years of an invasion at our southern border . Let me ask you , Major , why has n't Joe Biden done this ? Why has n't Joe Biden actually stood up and used leverage to secure the border ? <p> And the reason is , Joe Biden and the Democrats wanted this invasion to happen . And I got to say , this is a promise that I believe President Trump is going to deliver on and deliver quickly . We are going to secure the border . This is about using leverage to get Mexico and Canada to cooperate . <p> And I will tell you , Major , I think one of the very first bills we 're going to take up in the Senate , vote on , and I hope pass , is my legislation the Justice for Jocelyn Act that is a response to the horrific rape and murder of Jocelyn Nungaray , 12-year-old girl in Houston , Texas , killed by violent criminal illegal aliens released by Joe Biden and the Democrats . <p> This is a promise the president needs to deliver on , and I think he 's going to . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : So , when you think about tariffs and president-elect Trump , you do n't take them seriously as an economic matter ; you take them seriously only as a diplomatic lever ? <p> SENATOR TED CRUZ : Well , look , I think the president was explicit with Mexico and Canada . He said he will impose these tariffs unless they secure the border . <p> It was explicitly leverage . And , by the way , that is the same way that President Trump negotiated the remain-in-Mexico agreement . If you remember , during his first term , President Trump threatened tariffs against Mexico . And AMLO , then the president of Mexico , he was incredibly scared and concerned . He was scared of Trump , and he ended up signing the remain-in- Mexico agreement , which produced the lowest rate of illegal immigration in 45 years . <p> It was incredibly successful . What did Joe Biden the Democrats do when they came in ? The very first week in office , they ripped up that incredibly successful international agreement . I expect we will once again enter into remain-in-Mexico . <p> And we are going to see -- I 'm going to make a prediction right now . We will see the numbers plummet of illegal immigration coming into this country , not in a year , not in six months , but in January and February , because we will have a president who will vigorously enforce the law . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : On that point . Senator Cruz , you would concede , in the last three or four months , numbers have gone down already , have they not ? <p> SENATOR TED CRUZ : They have ticked down slightly . We have still seen over these four years the highest rate of illegal immigration in our nation 's history . Twelve million illegal immigrants have come into this country . <p> And I got to say , in a state like Texas , you want to see the consequences , this last election was an incredible landslide for President Trump . He won all seven of the swing states . And , in Texas , President Trump won Hispanic voters in Texas . I won Hispanic voters in Texas . I won statewide by a million votes , nine points . <p> And South Texas , the Rio Grande Valley , has literally spent over 100 years as a bright blue Democrat bastion . This cycle , South Texas flipped Republican . And it is amazing what having 12 million people invade your home can do to change people 's voting behavior . I think the president has a mandate to deliver on securing the border , and I look forward to working hand in hand with him to deliver on that promise . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Kash Patel suggested by President Trump as the new leader of the FBI , how enthusiastic are you about that ? <p> SENATOR TED CRUZ : Listen , I think Kash Patel is a very strong nominee . I think the entire slate of Cabinet nominees President Trump has put forward is very strong . <p> I believe every one of these Cabinet nominees is going to be confirmed by the Senate . I think Kash Patel is going to be confirmed by the Senate . You look at his background , he has a serious professional background . He was a prosecutor . He was a public defender . He was a senior intelligence staffer on Capitol Hill . He was a senior intelligence staffer in the White House . He was the chief of staff of the Department of Defense . <p> He was the deputy director of national intelligence . And I got to say , all of the weeping and gnashing of teeth , all of the people pulling their hair out are exactly the people who are dismayed about having a real reformer come into the FBI and clean out the corrupted partisans who sadly have burrowed into senior career positions at the FBI . <p> The FBI and the Department of Justice are two institutions incredibly important to the rule of law in the United States . I revere both . And one of the most tragic consequences of four years of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris is , both the DOJ and the FBI have been politicized and weaponized , and I think Kash Patel is a very strong nominee to take on the partisan corruption in the FBI . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : As you know , Senator , there is n't a vacancy at the top of the FBI . What should become of Christopher Wray , appointed by President Trump ? <p> SENATOR TED CRUZ : Well , I think he 'll make a choice . I think either he will resign or President Trump will fire him . But it 's no secret to anybody , including Chris Wray , that he is not going to continue to serve as the head of the FBI under Donald Trump . <p> Listen , if you look at James Comey and Chris Wray , there has never been a period in our nation 's history where the FBI has suffered a greater loss of respect , where more Americans doubt the fundamental integrity of the FBI . <p> And it 's because James Comey and Chris Wray presided over allowing the FBI to become a partisan cudgel to be used to target parents at school board meetings , to be used to target people who chose not to take the COVID vaccine , to be used to target President Trump and to target the political opponents of Joe Biden and the White House . <p> It is tragic . That is not what the FBI is for . That is not what the DOJ is for . And I got to say , Pam Bondi and Kash Patel , I think , together are a very strong slate of nominees to go and restore integrity to both institutions . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : How do you place that up against the prosecutions of Bob Menendez , a congressman , a Democrat from Texas , Hunter Biden ? Are those political prosecutions as well or not ? <p> SENATOR TED CRUZ : Well , first of all , let 's be clear . Bob Menendez was -- was literally caught with gold bars and a stack of cash with his fingerprints taking bribes , and it 's why Bob Menendez is not my colleague anymore . At that point , the evidence was overwhelming . <p> Look , Major , I wrote an entire book entitled " Justice Corrupted : How the Left Has Weaponized the Legal System . " And it broke down -- it started , sadly , under Barack Obama , where he began using the federal government to target his political opponents . <p> The book details how many of those partisans then burrowed in to senior career positions during the Trump administration . They waged war against President Trump during his first term . And now , under Joe Biden , they have been open and brazen , and I think it has done unbelievable damage to the integrity of the Department of Justice and the FBI . <p> I think Merrick Garland will go down in history as the most partisan attorney general our nation has ever seen . And I got to say , I hear regularly from -- from prosecutors , from FBI agents who are deeply dismayed about the institution they have devoted a lifetime working for , because , listen , I do n't want a Republican Department of Justice . <p> I do n't want a Democrat Department of Justice . I want a Department of Justice and an FBI that enforces the law regardless of party . And , sadly , we have n't seen that these last four years . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : What can you tell us about the three Americans released by China who are in San Antonio ? Have you been in touch with them ? And do you have any concerns about the contours of that swap ? <p> SENATOR TED CRUZ : Well , at this stage , we do n't know all of the details of the contours of the swap , but I will tell you , I am celebrating the return of three Americans , especially Mark Swidan . <p> Mark Swidan is a Texan from Houston . His mom , Katherine , is from Luling , Texas . I have talked with Katherine many times . I authored and passed a resolution in the Senate that passed unanimously calling for Mark Swidan 's return to America . He spent 12 years unjustly imprisoned in communist China . <p> I will tell you , I have raised it directly with the foreign minister of China . I have raised it with President Biden . I have raised it with Secretary of State Tony Blinken . <p> And I will give them credit on this . Tony Blinken , just two weeks ago was the most recent time I spoke with him about Mark Swidan , and the administration has pressed the Chinese government . And Mark Swidan is back home with his mother , who has prayed for him , who has loved -- loved him . <p> I want to say , Mark , welcome home . Katherine , congratulations . I told you this day would come . This is a time where all Texans and all Americans should be celebrating . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Very quickly , Senator Cruz , because I also know you care about the case of Austin Tice . <p> SENATOR TED CRUZ : Yes . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Do you have any sense that the rebel gains in Syria of the recent vintage will have any chance of unlocking Austin Tice 's freedom ? <p> Listen , there 's a combination of two things working . One , as Joe Biden is in the process of transitioning out , any -- any outgoing president is looking to try to get some final wins . I would encourage him and I 'm sure he is doing everything he can to bring Austin Tice home , to bring the hostages in Gaza home , both the Israelis and the Americans , bring them home in this window . <p> I also think President Trump coming into office on January 20 , the enemies of America , I think , are afraid of President Trump . That is a moment . I hope we have a moment right now that is very much like the end of the Jimmy Carter administration ... <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Yes . <p> SENATOR TED CRUZ : ... right before Ronald Reagan came in . And we saw , on January 20 , our hostages in Iran released , I think in significant part because the ayatollah was afraid of Reagan . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Yes , sir . <p> SENATOR TED CRUZ : I hope a similar dynamic is playing out . And if we can see more hostages come home , that would be cause for enormous celebration . <p> Let 's start with Kash Patel . Your reaction to that nomination or that suggested nomination from president-elect Trump ? <p> SENATOR ALEX PADILLA ( D-California ) : Well , good morning . Great to be with you . <p> And , look , the -- this announcement that Kash Patel is going to be nominated for a high-ranking position at the FBI , very key to the Department of Justice , raises a lot of the same questions that other announcements and other nominations raise . <p> Are they going to go in there and do the job of -- that the Department of Justice calls for to truly , truly be independent of the president of the United States , or is he going in there to do Trump 's bidding ? That 's the big question here . Is it a genuine , legitimate appointment or a political appointment to politicize the bureau and the Department in Trump 's -- in Trump 's favor ? <p> That 's just the beginning of the questions that we expect to raise in the con -- in the confirmation hearings that will begin in January . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Do you expect that the current FBI director , who has three years remaining , will just have to resign ? <p> SENATOR ALEX PADILLA : Well , that 's going to be a personal decision for Director Wray who , look , the public should remember , was a Trump appointee to begin with . <p> And so he 's got three years left . It 's up to him to resign or not . Your prior guest suggested that Trump may very well fire him , which is just par for the course . Anybody who recalls the first Trump administration recalls a whole lot of Cabinet officials being named , being confirmed , and being sold as the greatest thing since sliced bread . <p> And , as soon as they lose favor with Trump , as soon as they do n't do 100 percent of what he 's demanding , all of a sudden , you know , they 're fired , a lot of times by social media posts . And so who knows what Donald Trump is going to decide to do , whether it 's with Director Wray , Kash Patel or any of his other nominees this coming term . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : During the first Trump administration , California fashioned itself the resistance state . Some Democrats in the legislature have already begun to describe that as a cliche and say they do n't even know what that means anymore . <p> What does it mean ? <p> SENATOR ALEX PADILLA : Look , I think there 's a lot of reason for concern of the second Trump administration , if the first administration is any indicator . <p> I think , as the governor , as other legislative leaders and even the congressional delegation have said , if -- if , you know , the federal government will continue to support California in its leadership in so many policy areas , there 's a lot of good work to be done there . <p> But Donald Trump has made it no secret that he has it in for California , whether it 's the withholding of disaster funds , I mean , a lot of FEMA dollars that Donald Trump tried to keep from , not the state government of California , but from California families , simply because it 's a state that did not vote for him in the presidential election . We 're trying to inoculate ourselves from those types of threats . <p> There 's also a lot of good that -- that can be finalized before the end of the Biden administration , whether it 's Environmental Protection Agency waivers that will allow California to continue to grow our economy while tackling climate change aggressively , waivers at Health and Human Services that would give California a little bit of flexibility with our Medicare dollars to be able to also treat behavioral health issues , mental health issues of Californians , because when -- we know that treating the whole body is good for both physical and mental health . <p> We 're trying to make sure those waivers ... <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Where do those -- where -- where ... <p> SENATOR ALEX PADILLA : ... are locked in before the end of the Biden administration . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Where do you stand with the Biden administration on that , Senator ? Are they going to be responsive ? <p> SENATOR ALEX PADILLA : They 've been very encouraging that the technical work can and should be done before the end of the term . <p> But we 'll know it when there 's signatures on the documents that we need . But , again , these are just examples that we want to lock into place before President Trump comes into office , and then can use it either as a threat , as a punishment , or , as Senator Cruz mentioned in the prior segment , simply leverage to get other things he would want out of California . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : You know President elect Trump has promised mass deportations . You also know , in California , there is a state law that tells local law enforcement not to participate and cooperate with ICE agents in deportation or identification processes . <p> The incoming Trump administration border czar , Tom Homan , has said any law enforcement who do n't cooperate will be prosecuted under federal law . How is this going to be resolved ? <p> No state government , not Texas , not California , not any state in the nation , has a constitutional authority to impose federal immigration law . That is the responsibility of the federal government . Some states like Texas want to push the envelope and try to find a way to assist , but there 's no obligation to do so . <p> And that 's what California leaders and municipal leaders throughout the state are saying . You know , we 're not going to utilize state and local resources to do the federal government 's job for them , number one . I think there 's a long history of this being smart public safety policy as well . <p> California is the most populous state in the nation , the most diverse state in the nation , home to more immigrants than any state in the nation . And the last thing you want to do is have immigrants who are victims of crime afraid to come forward to report that crime . The last thing you want is immigrants who may be witnesses to crime to be afraid to come forward and share any information that they have in the investigation and prosecution of crimes . <p> That 's what we 're talking about here . Let the federal government do the federal government 's job , but have state and local officials do the state and local officials ' job . There does n't have to be a conflict , unless that 's what Trump wants . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : The governor has called a special session that will convene this week to set aside money to battle the Trump administration . <p> Will some of that money also be set aside to protect migrants and undocumented immigrants in California as they seek either legal advice or continued legal financial backing to support their efforts to stay within California and the United States ? <p> SENATOR ALEX PADILLA : Yes , again , if the first Trump administration is any indicator , we know that there will continue to be a lot of fear in communities and communities that deserve to know what their rights are and what their rights are -- are not . <p> And so , if it 's legal assistance , legal advice , legal support , that 's just the California way . We embrace our diversity . Our diversity is what has made our communities thrive and our economy thrive . And so we will assist families against the threats of the Trump administration . <p> If we wanted to sort of cut to the chase , you know , we 're hearing a lot of bombast from Trump and his allies about the biggest deportation operation in our country 's history , on the one hand , versus a -- maybe a focus on violent criminals on the other . <p> SENATOR ALEX PADILLA : ... than millions and millions of people being deported indiscriminately , not just tearing families apart , tearing communities apart ... <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Yes , Senator . <p> SENATOR ALEX PADILLA : ... but tremendous damage to our economy that that would create . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Senator Alex Padilla , Democrat from California , we thank you for your time this morning . <p> And we 'll be back right away with a lot more Face the Nation . I invite you to please stay with us . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Be sure to tune in to CBS News on January 20 for full coverage of Donald Trump 's inauguration here in Washington , D.C. You can watch live on CBS , on Paramount+ , or on our CBS News app . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MAJOR GARRETT : We will be right back with CBS News business analyst Jill Schlesinger , White House National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan , and author H.W. Brands . <p> Please stay with us . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Welcome back to FACE THE NATION . We 're joined now by CBS News business analyst Jill Schlesinger . She 's in Southampton , New York , this morning . <p> Jill , Senator Ted Cruz described tariffs and the threat thereof as leverage . But what I 'm curious about economically is , do retailers view it as only leverage , do consumers view it only as leverage , or are they beginning to change their behavior in anticipation ? <p> JILL SCHLESINGER : Well , let 's just talk about whether or not they 're going to change their behavior . We know that t here were some retailers who were sort of dangling this out around this holiday weekend , saying , oh , buy now because tariffs could make prices go up . I do n't know what the motivation of most people is when they shop , but I 'm not sure it 's tariffs . <p> What we do know about tariffs is , remember , this is a fee that is imposed on an imported good . The importing company , the U.S. company that takes that good in has to make a decision in that moment . And that company has to decide , are we going to eat it and maybe make less money this year , or are we going to pass it along to consumers . So , that is why consumers are a little unnerved by this , and businesses are as well , because they 're not really sure whether they can pass that along and have consumers pay that additional price . <p> What we know is , over the long term , in history , tariffs tend to increase the price of certain goods . It 's not necessarily across the board . But , you know , it is hard coming off of what we 've just come through in the last few years with this inflationary spike to imagine that consumers are just going to take it in stride . It is a real hard thing to imagine that any company or consumer is going to feel like they want to absorb higher prices at this point . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Jill , there was a tariff story in the first Trump administration . Do you foresee a deeper and different tariff story potentially in Trump 2.0 ? <p> JILL SCHLESINGER : Well , I think there 's two parts of that question , which is , we do n't know what these tariffs are . And as Senator Cruz said , this is a negotiation . So , we do n't know whether we 're going to land in that negotiation . But a big difference between where we are today and where we were back in 2017 and 2018 is , during the early Trump administration , what we had was incredibly low inflation . That was after the financial crisis . For all those years , inflation or prices only grew by about less than 2 percent a year . <p> Now , compare that with where we are now . We had inflation spike at a 40- year high of 9 percent in the summer of 2022 . Yes , that inflation rate has come down , but prices are still about 22 percent , 23 percent higher than they were just four or five years ago . So , the big difference between the first Trump administration and the second Trump administration is prices are already high , and there are many Americans who are struggling . <p> So , I think that that is the real fear among economists that I speak to . They 're worried that this is going to cause a real anxiety among consumers , and that consumers might pull back at a time where they - actually , the economy 's doing pretty well . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Talking about the economy doing well . You crunch a lot of numbers , Jill , and always break them down so easily for our audience . When you look at the data , what 's the best news you see and what 's the most worrisome sign ? <p> JILL SCHLESINGER : Well , the best news as - is that the labor market has grown really substantially and has kept up . So , I think that the labor market has been the driver of this economy . And it 's been pretty consistent . <p> The other part of the good news story is that the United States economy , more than any other developed nation , has come out of the Covid era and that post-Covid inflationary spike much stronger in a growth mode . So , we are seeing really good things from the labor market . We 're seeing things in the economy . We 're seeing that AI and technology is really in a boom period . These are all wonderful things . <p> So , what 's the downside here ? I hate to be a kill joy , but why not , I play one on Sunday mornings . And what I can see is that these tariffs could cause a problem for a lot of consumers who are already struggling , and also this idea that we are going to see the extension of the tax cuts from the first Trump administration in the individual tax code . There is a fear among some investors that while we may not have a crisis right now when it comes to the debt and the deficit , that the extension of those tax cuts could start to really unnerve financial markets . Not happened yet , but those are the two worrisome things , the tariffs and the debt and deficit . I think those are the two looming things . And , of course , all the things we ca n't contemplate right now . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : The three stock indexes have gone up pretty regularly since Election Day . Is that a methodical and well thought out reaction to an election or a kind of exuberance that may soon run its course ? <p> JILL SCHLESINGER : Time will tell . I think that the initial investor reaction was a second Trump presidency would mean a drop in the tax rates - or the extension of the tax cuts and those tax rates would basically be in place for another four years . So , we 'd have low taxes , which is good for especially the wealthier people out there . They love low taxes . And corporate taxes were already enshrined in the code . OK , so we have taxes staying low . That 's a big factor when you come - when it comes to investing . <p> The second part is the idea that a Trump administration would have a light regulatory touch . So , when you saw that first few trading - those first few trading days after the election , what went up a lot ? The most highly regulated industries . So , that could be energy , that could be banking , that could be other areas where you could really need an industrial companies where you need a lot of regulatory prominence in the working of your business . Lighter regulatory touch will mean that those businesses will do well . <p> OK , so is it exuberance or not ? Who knows ? I can only tell you that as someone who watches markets all the time , when everybody tells me that the sky is clear and the sun is shining and it 's rainbows and unicorns , the only thing I can remember is what my father used to say is , well , no one ever rings a bell at the top or at the bottom . So , if you 're an individual investor , do n't count on everything being great . There 's going to be a market slide . There is going to be a sell-off at some point . Do n't count on everything being great all the time . Stick to your game plan and only change that game plan , not when the administration changes , but when your own life changes . That 's it . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Breaking it down for us , as always , and beautifully so . Jill Schlesinger , thanks so very much . <p> And we 'll be right back . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MAJOR GARRETT : We ' are joined now by President Biden 's National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan . He is in New Castle , New Hampshire , this morning . <p> Jake , good morning . It 's good to see you . <p> The Hamas video release of Edan Alexander , I know the administration regards it as a cruel propagandistic maneuver , but do you detect anything tactical at all in the timing of the release of this video , Jake ? <p> And as far as this video , it is a cruel reminder of the barbarity and the brutality of Hamas , holding so many innocent people hostage , including Americans , including Edan . We were in touch with Edan 's family yesterday . I 'll be talking to the families of all of the American hostages , including Edan 's family , this week . <p> And I do think that Hamas is feeling the pressure . They 're feeling the pressure because one of their main partners in crime here , Hezbollah , has now cut a ceasefire deal and they thought that Hezbollah would be with them until the end . They 're feeling the pressure , of course , because their top leader , Sinwar , has been killed . So , they may be looking anew at the possibility of getting a ceasefire and hostage deal , and we are working actively with all of the key players in the region , including Israel and Turkey and Qatar and Egypt to try to bring that about . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : The fate of the hostages , of course , on the administration 's mind , on the minds of all Americans and all in the region . But also , Jake , I 'm sure you saw over the last couple of days the video from Gaza of Palestinians surging to try to get a loaf of bread , in some cases crushing one another unintentionally . All suggestions are that the humanitarian situation there is - if it already is n't past crisis stage , near famine crisis stage . <p> How much does that intensify the need to get this thing across , as you just said , the finish line ? <p> JAKE SULLIVAN : The humanitarian situation in Gaza is a crisis . You have too many people who are suffering from shortages of food , water , medicine , access to sanitation . Innocent people who deserve a measure of peace and deserve access to all of those life-saving supplies in abundance . The United States has been working , week in , week out , month in , month out , to open crossings , to move trucks , to insure that humanitarian aid gets in . And at critical moments , we have been able to intervene in ways that have staved off the worst case scenarios of famine . But it 's constantly stocking ( ph ) Gaza . And so more needs to be done to get aid in . <p> Now , part of the problem , as we 've seen just in the last 24 hours , is not actually moving aid from outside Gaza into Gaza , but moving it around Gaza once it 's inside . The U.N. , in fact , said it was suspending movement from certain areas of Gaza because of concerns about looting . These are all things that would be helped if there were a ceasefire in place . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Jake , is the probability of a ceasefire enhanced or undercut when someone such as South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham says , President- elect Trump wants a ceasefire before inauguration deal . Does that help you or hurt you ? <p> JAKE SULLIVAN : Look , I think the key actor right now holding the decision on the ceasefire is Hamas . And the key thing motivating Hamas is not American politics or the American presidential transition , it 's their determination about whether or not it makes sense for them at this point , after Hezbollah has abandoned them , after their leader has been killed , after their military formations have been degraded to finally say yes to a ceasefire and hostage deal . That 's going to be the telling thing more than anything that 's said back here . <p> But I will say this , there has been very good coordination between our team and the incoming team on all of the aspects of the crisis in the Middle East . We felt it was important that we be in touch with them , to keep them up to speed on what 's happening , because this handoff has got to be smooth . And they , in turn , have reciprocated by being open and transparent and working with us . This is how it should be in a transition . This is what we 're going to keep driving for , for every day that we have left in office . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Jake , I want to have a conversation with you about leverage as regards to the Israeli government . I want to play for you something that Maryland Democratic Senator Chris Van Hollen said on this program a week ago . <p> Let 's listen . <p> ( BEGIN VC ) <p> SENATOR CHRIS VAN HOLLEN ( D-MD ) : We 've seen this pattern where President Biden makes demands of Prime Minister Netanyahu , only to be ignored or slapped down entirely . And then President Biden sends more bombs and more money . That is not an effective use of leverage . <p> ( END VC ) <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Your response ? <p> JAKE SULLIVAN : First of all , I respect Senator Van Hollen . He knows these issues as well as any person in Washington , and he is passionate about them . <p> But , of course , we have a different perspective . We have , at various points over the course of this conflict , made asks of the Israelis consistent with our values and our interests . Have we gotten everything we 've asked for ? No . Have we seen a change in Israeli behavior with respect to the movement of humanitarian assistance , with respect to how they conducted certain military operations , including in places like Rafah ? Yes , we have . <p> And so , we do believe that we 've had a constructive engagement with the Israeli government and also been able to make a difference on the ground with respect to the flow of humanitarian aid . <p> In addition , we worked closely with the Israeli government to bring about a ceasefire in Lebanon . A ceasefire people said was n't possible until a new administration took office . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Jake , I want to take - turn your attention to Ukraine , where the Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy appeared to indicate in a recent interview that he could possibly be open to a peace settlement in which Russia retains the territory it has . Ukraine , meaning Kyiv , keeps all the rest , if that is swiftly brought under the umbrella of NATO . Is that the outline or the contours of something you believe the administration believes could be workable ? <p> JAKE SULLIVAN : Well , Major , I 'm sorry to disappoint you . I ca n't negotiate in public on your program , and I certainly ca n't negotiate on behalf of President Zelenskyy , who really should speak for himself when it comes to the destiny of his country . The future of Ukraine should be determined at the negotiating table by decisions of the Ukrainians , not imposed from the outside by the United States or anybody else . <p> I will say , though , that we have been engaging with the Ukrainians over the course of this year on how you marry the support we provided them for use on the battlefield with a diplomatic strategy for the negotiating table . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : And some recent decisions in the administration have been criticized by Republicans as setting the situation on fire , meaning ATACMS and anti-personnel mines . Those advocates for Ukraine say those decisions are way too late to change the battle space in any strategically important way . Where do you come down ? <p> JAKE SULLIVAN : Anti-personnel land mines , which are nonpersistent mines that shut off after two weeks so they do n't represent a long term threat to civilians , these could be helpful against the particular type of tactics that the Russian infantry is using right now in eastern Ukraine . So , he 's sending them . <p> The ATACMS permission into Russian territory , that was a decision he took after Russia escalated by introducing North Korean troops into this war , a foreign army into this war . So that was a responsible , coordinated step that we took with other allies to respond to that provocation , to that escalation by Russia . <p> The president has been clear all along , we are going to give Ukraine the tools it needs . We are also going to do what we can to put them in the best possible position on the battlefield so they 'll be in the best possible position at the negotiating table , and then this war will ultimately end in diplomacy . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan , thanks so much for your time . <p> And we 'll be right back with a lot more FACE THE NATION . <p> Please , stay with us . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Welcome back . <p> We turn now to author and historian H.W. Brands . He is the Jack S. Blanton senior chair at the University of Texas in Austin . And his latest book is " America First : Roosevelt vs . Lindbergh in the Shadow of War . " <p> He joins us this morning from Austin , Texas . <p> H.W. , it 's great to see you . <p> First of all , what does this America first clash then tell us if anything about today and references to America first ? <p> H.W. BRANDS ( Author , " America Frist : Roosevelt vs . Lindbergh in the Shadow of War " ) : The debate that I describe in the book is whether the United States should enter World War II . Between the time Germany started the war in September of 1939 and the United States entered the war in December of 1941 , that was the narrow focus of the debate . The larger question and the one that persists today is , what do Americans think their country 's role in the world ought to be ? Should the United States , must the United States take a leading role in the world ? Should the United States concern itself in conflicts among other nations that perhaps do n't directly address American interests ? This - this was the question then . It 's a question we 're dealing with again today . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : If you could , sketch out briefly Charles Lindbergh 's stature at the time this debate with Franklin Delano Roosevelt was engaged . <p> H.W. BRANDS : Lindbergh came to the attention of the American public , indeed to the world public , in 1927 when he flew a solo flight for the first time across the Atlantic Ocean . He became this national hero . He became a world celebrity for accomplishing this great technical feat , but it was also a feat of personal daring . <p> He was a darling of the United States , a darling in other countries . He was decorated by foreign governments . He became an early celebrity in an age when celebrity was first starting to take form . So , that was his position as of 1927 . <p> His celebrity took a different turn in the early 1930s when his and his wife 's infant son was kidnapped and murdered in what then was called the crime of the century , which gave rise to the trial of the century . And so , this golden boy , all of a sudden had a dark shadow cast across his life . And so he was , in some ways , this star-crossed hero at that point . <p> He continued to be influential in aeronautical engineering circles . He knew a lot about aircraft . But in the American mind he was this - he was this great celebrity . And many people were surprised actually that he did take a leading role in the debate over American policy because he was not a political figure , he eschewed politics . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : And in that debate with Roosevelt , did Roosevelt and his administration regard Charles Lindbergh as a potential political threat ? And if so , how did they deal with it ? <p> H.W. BRANDS : It 's a little bit hard to say . Franklin Roosevelt at some point decided that he wanted to run for a third term . This broke a long- standing , informal rule of American politics . And he knew that Republicans were constantly going up to Charles Lindbergh and saying , you could be president . You 'd be a great candidate . <p> Lindbergh 's father had been a congressman , but Lindbergh took from his father 's experience , which turned out badly because of his opposition to American policy during World War I , that he did n't want to have anything to do with politics or politicians . He considered politicians a bunch of liars , people who could not be trusted and he considered politics this low and sort of mean occupation that he wanted to have nothing to do with . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : When this debate began in 1931 , Lindbergh was in one place . When it ended in 1941 , he was in a different place in the public mind . Some accused him of being a Nazi sympathizer . Some editorialist described him as an anti-Semite . Where do you come down ? <p> H.W. BRANDS : The one thing I should say is that everybody who calls him an anti-Semite or a Nazi sympathizer , had political reasons for doing so because Lindbergh became the face of opposition to American intervention in the war . And it served his opponents ' purposes to paint him in this negative category . <p> In terms of his Nazi sympathy , he - there were American Nazis . There was an American Nazi party . They were clearly Nazi sympathizers . Lindbergh was not a member of the party . In fact , the America first committee , of which Lindbergh was a part , took pains to keep its distance from those . Lindbergh did not want Germany to win the war . His position was that the United States should not place its frontier of security in the middle of Europe the way Franklin Roosevelt and the interventionists appears to be doing . <p> But because he took that position - and it was a position the Germans supported . The Germans did n't want the United States to enter the war . There was this objective sense in which one could say that when Lindbergh gave a speech , it served the purposes of the German government . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : How about his appraisal of American Jews wanted to push America into the war and then exercising outsized influence culturally in our country ? <p> H.W. BRANDS : So , the charges of anti-Semitism against Lindbergh really are associated with a single speech he gave in the autumn of 1941 , in which he identified three groups that in his opinion were most influential in pushing the United States toward war . One was the British government . Britain was already at war , and he explained it was natural that they would try to get the United States involved in the war . The second group he said was American Jews . And he said , it 's perfectly understandable that they should want the United States to get into the war given what Hitler and the Nazis have done to their relatives , friends , co-religionists in Europe . And the third group was the Roosevelt administration . He was most critical of the Roosevelt administration because Lindbergh claimed that Roosevelt was using the excuse of the war to further his own political ambitions . <p> Now , merely for mentioning American Jews in the context of war policy , the sky fell down upon Lindbergh . Everybody who wanted to make sure that they were n't accused of anti-Semitism , everybody who opposed Lindbergh 's policy came down and pointed the finger of anti-Semitism at Lindbergh . <p> To what extent was Lindbergh actually an anti-Semite ? Well , I would - I would - I would - I would put him in the category of the sort of not in my country club kind of anti-Semite , which was extremely common in the United States at the time . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : Very quickly , H.W. , there 's a clash over information and disinformation . Both sides warn each other and the American public about that . Unspool that for us , if you could , real quick . <p> H.W. BRANDS : The British government and the germane government , the two antagonists in the war at that point , were both engaged in propaganda campaigns in the United States . And so , when the British government would plant editorials , features in American newspapers , often unknown to the reading public , then Lindbergh and his side would say , well , look what the British government is doing . When the German government would do something similar , then the Roosevelt administration would say , look at what the German government is doing . So , each side then , the governments of the two sides , they were doing their best to sway American public opinion because they realized that in the end it was American public opinion that had to be persuaded . <p> MAJOR GARRETT : H.W. - foreign interference in American public opinion then and now . <p> H.W. Brands , it 's been a pleasure . Thank you so much . <p> And we 'll be right back . <p> ( ANNOUNCEMENTS ) <p> MAJOR GARRETT : That 's it for us today . Want to thank you for watching . 
@@118337782 <h> When asked about the PM 's take on incentivizing emigration , Ben-Gvir said that where he once met resistance , he now sees more willingness . <p> National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir arrives for a court hearing at the Supreme Court in Jerusalem , on September 11 , 2024 ( photo credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been more receptive to the idea of incentivizing the emigration of Gazans from the Gaza Strip , National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir suggested in an interview on Army Radio Sunday . <p> " I want encouragement of emigration of Gazans out of the Gaza Strip . I think we need to allow them to emigrate at will , " he told Army Radio , adding that he was working to coordinate with Netanyahu on this . <p> When asked whether Netanyahu supports the idea of incentivizing emigration from Gaza , Ben-Gvir said some of his ideas that in the past had prompted resistance are now being met with openness . <p> Jewish settlement in the Gaza Strip would be " a welcome idea and the biggest punishment for what they did to us on October 7 , " he said . <p> " Remember that the only times we beat our enemies were when we took territory from them , and conquering the Gaza Strip is certainly an idea , but I must admit that I am not satisfied by it , " he added . The man least suited for the job . Minister of National Security Itamar Ben Gvir ( credit : Yonatan Zindel/Flash90 ) <h> Proposed methods to free hostages <p> Settlement is not enough without incentivizing emigration , and the time is now ripe , Ben-Gvir said . <p> The Palestinian Authority on Sunday condemned " Israeli racist calls to displace citizens from the Gaza Strip . " <p> In a post on X/Twitter , its Foreign Ministry wrote : " The ministry calls on the international community to respect its legal responsibilities towards protecting Palestinian prisoners . " <p> Ben-Gvir told Army Radio said he opposed the hostage deal being discussed because not all the hostages would be released , and a deal that would release all the hostages would require concessions he is not willing to support . <p> " I believe that a reckless deal that releases 1,000 Sinwars and stops the war does significant damage to the State of Israel , " and that is what a deal that would release all the hostages would do , Ben-Gvir said . <p> He said he has suggested several ideas to free the hostages , including totally stopping fuel from entering Gaza . Israel will be able to do this once President-elect Donald Trump enters office , he added . <p> Withholding humanitarian aid would create pressure for the release of the hostages , Ben-Gvir said . <p> When the Army Radio interviewer said the addition of the New Hope-United Right Party to the coalition meant Ben-Gvir could no longer bring it down , Ben-Gvir said he knows Netanyahu does not want Otzma Yehudit to leave the government . <p> Asked whether that meant he still thinks he has veto power , Ben-Gvir said Netanyahu understands politics . 
@@118337783 <p> THEN-US PRESIDENT Donald Trump hosts Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , as well as the foreign ministers of Bahrain ( left ) and the UAE , at the signing ceremony of the Abraham Accords on the South Lawn of the White House , September 15 , 2020. ( photo credit : TOM BRENNER/REUTERS ) <p> Many American Jews and a minority of Israeli Jews share deep concerns about a second Trump presidency : will it strengthen or weaken American democracy and its global standing , and which faction of Trump 's policy team will prevail -- the isolationist wing or the interventionist camp ? <p> This is not to say those same people did not have real concerns about the nature of a potential Harris administration , especially on the question of Israel . However , we are now after the election , and this question becomes academic . <p> The initial appointments that relate to national security and foreign relations look hawkish and are certainly filled with politicians known for their stridently positive opinions about Israel . Marco Rubio , the designated secretary of state , has been a powerful advocate for Israel for many years . <p> The ambassador designated to Israel is Mike Huckabee , a pastor and former Arkansas governor who has also been to Israel many times as a tour guide . Yanir Kozin , in an early interview on the IDF radio station , said he would welcome the annexation of Judea and Samaria , but that policy will be up to the president . <p> Kozin also interviewed former Efrat mayor Oded Revivi on the same topic , who also sounded a note of caution , having witnessed the prospect of annexation unravel in Washington , D.C. , in 2020 . Along with Mike Waltz as national security advisor and Pete Hegseth as defense secretary , this is a powerful pro-Israel group . PM Benjamin Netanyahu and his wife Sara meet Donald Trump at Mar-a-Lago , Florida , July 26 , 2024. ( credit : AMOS BEN-GERSHOM/GPO ) <h> Pro-Israel , but not the whole story <p> These appointments will definitely find favor with Israel 's right-wing government and public , and no doubt Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will be relieved not to be faced with a Harris administration . Even under Trump , the prospect of isolationist appointments representing the more hard-core America First agenda would have been a poor signal for Israel . <p> This though , is not the whole story . Opportunities lay ahead , but not without difficult political decisions . Jonathan Rynhold , professor of political science and expert on American-Israel relations , points out factors we should consider when looking at the strategic outlook given the coming change in administration . <p> The first point he makes is that the thread connecting his appointments thus far is the personal loyalty that he feels from the appointees . Just as in the first Trump administration , they will know as soon as that is not the case , they will be out on their ear . <p> This need for hyper-loyalty will likely apply to relations with Netanyahu too , who was in hot water with Trump in 2020 after congratulating President Biden on a victory that Trump has never accepted . <p> The second aspect that Rynhold points out is the transactional nature of Trump 's politics , which will include how he sees the region . If the target for Trump is a grand deal that includes Saudi Arabia , this will challenge some of the more optimistic assumptions being made by the far or hard-right sections of Netanyahu 's coalition . <p> The most obvious right-wing marker is Finance Minister and leader of the Religious Zionist Party Bezalel Smotrich , who tweeted on November 11 , within a week of Trump 's victory , " 2025 -- The year of sovereignty in Judea and Samaria . " <p> RYNHOLD ADDS that if Israel is offered a normalization deal with Saudi Arabia -- which includes the principle of a two-state solution ( even if far across the horizon ) and nearer-term commitments on the control of Gaza and the position of the Palestinian Authority -- Netanyahu may have a difficult decision to make , choosing between his commitments to Smotrich and their combined right-wing base and the potential diplomatic wrath of a president known for taking things personally . <p> In a recent interview in Makor Rishon , former Knesset speaker and current chair of the Knesset Foreign Affairs Committee , MK Yuli Edelstein expressed a similar concern . <p> " I spoke about sovereignty long before it was popular . " But he reflected that " there will be two problems : opposition from the Left , but also opposition from our own side . " And why would there be opposition from the right ? <p> " When we extend sovereignty to Ma'aleh Adumim and Gush Etzion as a first step , there will be those who rise up to shout , ' You have sold the Land of Israel . You have made concessions ! ' There is no such reality , wherein a Trump administration or indeed any other constellation that we will receive everything in one go . " <p> Edelstein knows what he 's talking about . When Trump offered Israel the possibility of annexation under the " Peace to Prosperity " plan in January 2020 , it was rejected by the settler movement leadership for exactly those reasons . It was not an immediate and full annexation and opened the real , if distant , possibility of some form of Palestinian sovereignty . <p> Shalom Lipner is a shrewd commentator with experience working with seven Israeli prime ministers . In Foreign Affairs he describes how the political challenges for Netanyahu are in direct tension with his diplomatic opportunities . <p> He predicts that " Netanyahu will have to read the tea leaves correctly . He needs to seize the moment and wind down Israel 's wars before they begin to cause more harm than good and -- no less fatefully -- create a rift with Trump . <p> If Netanyahu can stand up to his coalition partners , he might still be able to end the conflicts and leave Trump the clean desk he asked for . But time is short . " <p> This may demand uncharacteristically bold decision-making from Netanyahu . <p> It has always been my personal view that a one-sided annexation of Judea and Samaria would be a strategic disaster for Israel , taking it down the road of becoming a post-democratic country . This for me would be a betrayal of my Jewish and Zionist values . <p> A broad Middle Eastern coalition , building on the Abraham Accords , could offer an alternate route , a possibility that Hamas wanted to prevent at the cost of the destruction of much of Gaza following their heinous attack on October 7 . <p> Ironically , Trump 's and perhaps Netanyahu 's desire to secure their places in history books , as well as Netanyahu 's understanding of the positive geopolitical change a deal with Saudi Arabia would bring , might be just the circumstance that ends the fantasy of significant parts of the religious Right . <p> We may witness major developments in the Middle East under the Trump regime , and we should all hope , no matter our political views , that they lead to a secure future for Israel as a Jewish and democratic country . <p> The writer , a founding partner of Goldrock Capital , is the founder of The Institute for Jewish and Zionist Research . He is a former chairman of Gesher , World Bnei Akiva , and the Coalition for Haredi Employment . 
@@118337787 <h> Reporter 's notebook : I returned to The Jerusalem Post after being drafted for my second tour of duty in Gaza since the October 7 Massacre . Here 's my experience . <p> On Sunday , I returned to The Jerusalem Post after being drafted as an IDF reservist for almost 80 days for my second tour of duty in Gaza since the October 7 massacre . My anecdotal experience as an infantryman and perspective as a journalist in civilian life have given me a unique perspective on war issues , familiar and unexplored alike . <p> These ten takeaways from someone who has been in the mud of the battlefield should be considered by policymakers and citizens for whom much of the information about the war is second-hand or hearsay . <h> 1 . The IDF is winning , and needs to be allowed to win <p> Compared to their operations during my first tour at the end of 2023 , there is a sense that Hamas is collapsing . The terrorist organization once fielded ambush cells that conducted frequent hit-and-run anti-tank missile attacks and ambushes from a wide network of bunkers and tunnels for a guerilla defense-in-depth strategy . <p> Almost a year later , Hamas seems unable to operate on a strategic level , even from areas in which its battalions have remained structurally intact or reconstituted from degraded units . This is exemplified by Hamas 's inability to launch targeted reprisals for the death of military leaders or even attempt traditional attacks on Jewish holidays or the anniversaries of October 7 . <p> By and large , they do not operate at night or the light of day , clinging even closer to the low visibility of dawn and dusk , whereas their operatives would once openly operate in daylight hours due to being able to escape underground after an attack . It appears that their tunnel networks have been greatly compromised , as they have had to travel along roads and weave between buildings . <p> Their legitimate operations focus on improvised explosive devices and lone sniper attacks rather than using heavier munitions , but a greater focus has been filming any engagement so that they can edit the footage and claim to foreign supporters and Israeli citizens that they have destroyed Israeli vehicles . Stealing humanitarian aid was apparently not enough for some Hamas battalions , as in one case , they resorted to sending plainclothes operatives to loot food and supplies from abandoned IDF positions . <p> Their mortar bombs fall far less accurately than they once did , and we did not encounter any enemy drone activity . The Netzarim security corridor seems relatively safe , with paved roads and outposts enjoying electricity provided by power lines . <p> While many soldiers left Gaza positive about the IDF 's advancements , the path to victory is long , and the journey should not be confused with its destination . Many soldiers have mixed their sense of Hamas 's significant degradation with the feeling that the military is being held back from decisive action , entering and leaving areas to allow Hamas to retain territorial control . Michael Starr serving in Gaza in 2024. ( credit : Courtesy ) <h> 2 . Gaza has suffered heavy damage <p> The extent of the damage to infrastructure has n't been completely appreciated by the general public , and Israeli and international leaders will need to develop extensive plans to rebuild the territory . Whole neighborhoods have been leveled during direct combat , the search and destruction of tunnels and booby traps , and the establishment of defensible positions . <p> If buildings have not been damaged by their proximity to explosives or pocked by suppressive fire , they have had their outer walls shaved away to reveal the possible presence of terrorists . Concrete rubble and trash are strewn along wide fields in the Strip and will need to be collected and moved before some areas are traversable , let alone livable . The IDF will need to prepare to explain the extensive damage to civilian infrastructure . <h> 3 . Gaza was far from an ' open-air prison ' <p> One of the great shames about the extensive damage to Gazan infrastructure is that it was not the desolate " open-air prison " that it had been advertised as being in anti-Israel propaganda . While there certainly were residents living in desperate conditions , the houses , apartments , and villas that we cleared and took position in had a decent and even opulent quality of life . All the homes we saw had televisions , computers , refrigerators , decorations , and stores of food similar an Israeli suburb . <p> Our impression was not one of squalor but normal conditions . In rural areas , villas and mansions oversaw sweeping vineyards on one side and a view of the ocean on the other , and in urban areas , large schools , restaurants , and other facilities . The lost potential and degraded conditions in Gaza make Hamas 's decision to attack Israel and weaponize its territory - rather than develop what they held - even more of a shame . <h> 4 . Hamas weaponized Gaza <p> Much has been said about Hamas 's use of civilian shields to deter IDF operations -- a detained civilian told our troops that he was unable to travel from the north to the south along humanitarian corridors because he had to bribe Hamas operatives who were bent on keeping civilians around them as cover . Yet the civilians are just one aspect of Hamas turning Gaza into a weapon to try to destroy Israel . <p> Tunnel networks are not just placed around or under civilian objects ; terrorist infrastructure is integrated into civilian infrastructure in a way that makes the two indistinguishable . Civilian homes are turned into lookout and reconnaissance outposts , with members of families hired by terrorist organizations to provide intelligence , as was exemplified by the capture of spotters by a neighboring battalion . <p> Armories are hidden within houses to be accessed by plainclothes terrorists when they have the need to shed the veneer of being civilians . Tunnel entrances can be found on the first floor of apartment buildings , not just in their backyards . Other homes are booby-trapped , leading to widespread suspicion of each home being laced with explosives . With Gaza being weaponized in such a fashion , it has led military units to take precautions and actions that damage buildings and homes so that they can stay alive . <h> 5 . The IDF is not conducting a genocide <p> The purpose of our operations was not geared toward the elimination of Gazan civilians . There were never orders to kill civilians wantonly , and there were debates on whether we had enough information to use deadly force and when it was legitimate to open fire . Civilians were allowed to pass by our positions along humanitarian corridors unmolested . <p> These elements would not be found among a force that is devoted to mass murder or genocide . Civilian casualties are tragic , and unfortunately , they always occur in war , which is why such conflict should be avoided in the first place . <h> 6 . The IDF needs to restore discipline <p> While IDF soldiers are not engaged in mass war crimes or genocide , there is inappropriate and even criminal behavior . Other soldiers have shared with me stories of looting , and I had to stop someone who had been temporarily attached to our battalion from taking a necklace from a house . <p> While my battalion did not bring our cellphones into Gaza until our last week , when we were moved back to a rearguard outpost , we have seen the widespread use of phones by other neighboring units . <p> This is all the more shocking not just because posting on social media can be used by enemies to geo-locate positions and gather intelligence but also because the violent machismo and inappropriate fooling around in videos and photographs discredits the moral legitimacy of the military and create an overly relaxed and familiar environment that can get people killed . <p> While journalists have to answer to the IDF censor , it felt to many of us that the military has done little to crack down on soldiers who are acting as poor spokespeople , even documenting what appear to be crimes . Even small issues such as unsanctioned edgy uniform patches lead to a breakdown in discipline , which may lead to even greater behavior unbecoming of the IDF 's ethics . <p> The military leadership seems unwilling to deal with the overly involved families and loss of manpower that comes with disciplining inappropriate behavior. <h> 7 . Trust has been eroded in military leadership <p> The failures of the October 7 massacre have led to a distrust of the military brass among many soldiers and reservists I have spoken to . It has become a common refrain among the ranks to not trust anyone above the rank of a battalion commander . <p> High-ranking officers are viewed critically as out-of-touch " October 6 " officers who care more about the advancement of their careers through checking task boxes on their clipboards than actually changing the reality on the ground . <p> Reservists and mandatory soldiers alike are results-oriented , and if they feel that officers are more focused on satisfying their superiors than the realities on the ground , their orders will have less validity . The military brass , like the political leadership , needs to prove to their soldiers that their sacrifices for victory will not be in vain . <h> 8 . Reservists are frustrated with domestic squabbles <p> As the news broke that defense minister Yoav Gallant had been fired by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , fierce debate broke out in the company about the legitimacy of the move . While Netanyahu 's camp claimed that there were professional differences over strategy that could not be overcome and that the prosecution of the war required Gallant 's firing , too much suspicion and bad blood had been developed about political plays within the current government . <p> Many believe that the move was made to save the coalition because the haredi ( ultra-Orthodox ) parties threatened to leave because of Gallant 's work towards drafting haredi youth . Such suspicions have been informed by some politicians continuing to pursue their prior political interests , such as major judicial reform proponents calling to renew the process . <p> While soldiers are fighting and dying , they do n't feel that the politicians are with them and take the war seriously . This distrust extends to the opposition as well . With many of the same actors that were involved in the anti-reform camp pushing for hostage deals at varying costs , many soldiers have expressed to me that they ca n't help but wonder if they are motivated by the good of the nation or their own political agendas. <h> 9 . The IDF needs more soldiers <p> As the war and debate about who has been drafted continued , reservists have become increasingly frustrated that some demographic groups are benefiting from the blood and toil of reservists while not contributing to the endeavor themselves . My battalion deputy commander and company commander have become involved in movements calling for a more equal draft . <p> The need for an increased draft comes as current reservists face multiple tours and are pushed off retirement . Our battalion saw a drop off in reenlistment as some reservists had to deal with crumbling families , businesses , and health . Many reservists came despite these challenges -- the sacrifices that they have made are beyond just the risk of death and injury . <h> 10 . Soldiers deserve victory <p> The sacrifices that were made by reservists and mandatory soldiers were made under the implicit promise that they would be in exchange for victory . The state has to consider in its policies and strategic decisions not just the feelings of hostage families and residents who have to return home but also those who have willingly given everything for them and the state . <p> Reservists want a resolution to the problems that led to October 7 ; they do n't want this war to become yet another round in an ongoing conflict . While we will continue to fight for Israel , we do n't want to have to come back to Gaza and Lebanon in a few years ' time -- not just for our sake but also for that of all Israelis and Palestinians . 
@@118337789 <h> The Belgium-based Hind Rajab Foundation called for the arrest of three Nachal Brigade soldiers for alleged war crimes after they entered the Netherlands on Thursday . <p> DURING FIGHTING , a soldier communicates with other members of his unit. ( photo credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> Three soldiers became the latest targets of anti-Israel organizations seeking to doxx and level legal challenges against Israeli servicemen abroad . <p> The Belgium-based Hind Rajab Foundation ( HRF ) called for the arrest of three Nahal Brigade soldiers for alleged war crimes after they entered the Netherlands on Thursday . The March 30 Movement branch submitted a complaint the same day , charging that the Granite battalion soldiers had been involved in operations in which Gazan homes were burned and the Rafah crossing was damaged without any military necessity . <p> The disruption of the Rafah crossing constricted the flow of aid in an act of " weaponized famine , " the group said . <p> The three soldiers were named on social media , and their pictures were shared by the foundation . The doxxing came days after the group filed a complaint to the International Criminal Court against a soldier and called for his arrest while he was visiting the United Arab Emirates . <p> Many of the foundation 's accusations do not list specific actions by soldiers but place them within Gaza or the West Bank during operations . People take part in a protest in support of Palestinians in Gaza , as the conflict between Israel and Hamas continues , in Brussels , Belgium , November 11 , 2023. ( credit : REUTERS/YVES HERMAN ) <p> Other allegations and doxxing , such as those against an Israeli reservist officer who had to flee Cyprus in mid-November , are based on video and photographs posted by the soldiers on social media . Ynet reported that the officer coordinated his departure from the country with the Israeli Foreign Ministry after the HRF called on Cypriot officials to arrest him over two videos in which he allegedly burned and called to destroy Gazan civilian objects . <p> Following the November 21 ICC issuance of arrest warrants against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former defense minister Yoav Gallant , the foundation called on the international body to also issue warrants against 1,000 IDF soldiers listed in an October 8 dossier it filed to the ICC . <p> The HRF claimed that it had gathered 8,000 pieces of documentation detailing the destruction of infrastructure , occupation of civilian homes , looting , participating in a blockade of Gaza , and targeting civilians . The documentation reportedly included soldiers boasting " about their war crimes on social media , sharing photos and videos of their participation in the destruction and occupation of Palestinian homes and properties . " <p> Some of the soldiers had dual citizenship , including 12 French , 12 American , four Canadian , three British , and two Dutch citizens . <h> More than one group targeting Israeli soldiers <p> The HRF is not the only group doxxing IDF soldiers who have participated in the war . <p> The Israel Genocide Tracker X/Twitter account , which has over 160,000 followers , shares the names and pictures of soldiers who had allegedly been in Gaza . Many of those identified by the account are dual-nationals , such as an American-Israeli Golani Reconnaissance battalion sniper doxxed on Saturday . <p> " We firmly believe that every soldier who entered Gaza is complicit in the genocide , " the group said in a social media post last Monday , defending their operations from those arguing that the account 's posts interfered in ongoing legal and journalistic investigations . <p> " We will soon release comprehensive lists of soldiers ' names to support international legal actions . We are already collaborating with various human rights organizations that rely on our data to pursue justice . " <p> Telegram channels published a file allegedly containing the personal information of several thousand soldiers and security officials last Sunday . <p> The viability of the legal cases against these soldiers is unclear , according to legal experts , with the main objective being the intimidation of IDF soldiers . <h> Universal jurisdiction <p> NGO Monitor legal adviser Anne Herzberg said that it is difficult to know if individual cases are actionable without knowing their specifics , but there was concern that courts in countries with weak judicial systems and inadequate due process could be exploited , and warrants could be issued based on " flimsy evidence " and " no advance notice . " <p> " Anti-Israel NGOs have pushed universal jurisdiction cases against Israeli military and government officials for years as a complement to their lobbying for ICC proceedings , " said Herzberg . <p> " The shift by these groups to the targeting of thousands of lower-ranking dual-national Israelis has two purposes . First , these cases are about generating negative PR -- to internationally tarnish the IDF by delegitimizing and criminalizing IDF service . The second purpose is to deter dual nationals from serving in the IDF for fear they might be subject to criminal proceedings if they return to their countries of origin . <p> " This second purpose constitutes a military and national security threat and should be taken very seriously by both Israeli and Western officials . It should come as no surprise that several of these NGOs have links to the Muslim Brotherhood , Hamas , or other terror organizations . " <p> International Legal Forum CEO Arsen Ostrovsky said that these lawfare campaigns were " entirely without merit and no more than political stunts " but noted that " given the changing political climate and growing hostility against Israel in some parts of Europe , there is no guarantee that some countries will not entertain this charade in the future . " <p> " As a response to this growing threat , Israel should consider adopting a US-style American Service-Members ' Protection Act , which authorizes the use of all means necessary to secure the release of American soldiers and persons taken captive by , on behalf , or at the request of the International Criminal Court , in this case being equally applicable if IDF soldiers ( or former soldiers ) were detained on the instructions of the ICC and/or individual countries , " said Ostrovsky . <p> " The United States , which is currently putting a devastating sanctions framework together against the ICC over their issuing of arrest warrants against Prime Minister Netanyahu and Yoav Gallant , should sanction any country that not only seeks to apply the ICC warrants but takes individual actions to arrest IDF soldiers . <p> " And lastly , Israel should also make it a priority to sign bilateral immunity agreements with other countries , acknowledging the independence of Israel 's judicial system and undertaking not to arrest any IDF soldiers , whether current or former , thereby allowing Israelis the ability to travel freely , without fear of arrest . " 
@@118337791 <p> Hamas is open to a ceasefire agreement and may be more open to compromise than it has previously been , according to the Saudi-owned news outlet Asharq Al-Awsat on Sunday , citing Palestinian sources familiar with the matter . <p> The sources reportedly noted that the terror group had indicated it would accept a gradual withdrawal of Israeli troops from the Gaza Strip , including the Philadelphi and Netzarim corridors . <p> During the transition period , Hamas would also accept the Palestinian Authority 's control of the Rafah Crossing , the sources told the Saudi outlet . <p> However , Hamas reportedly conditioned such an agreement on the ability of residents of northern Gaza to return to their homes . <p> The sources further claimed that the terror group had agreed to the Palestinian Authority and Arab countries administering various sectors of the Gaza Strip . View of the Philadelphi Corridor between the southern Gaza Strip and Egypt , on July 15 , 2024. ( credit : Oren Cohen/Flash90 ) <h> ' Internal consensus for agreement ' <p> " There is an internal consensus to push for an agreement in Gaza , " the sources were cited as saying . <p> On Saturday , an Israeli official was cited by Walla as saying that Israel believed Hamas would agree to compromise on some subjects on which there had been a lack of agreement . <p> According to the official , the terror group 's release of the video showing hostage Edan Alexander was a positive sign from Hamas . <p> Further , a new proposal was on the table " to halt the fighting in Gaza for at least 60 days and allow Israel to maintain a military presence in the enclave , " The Wall Street Journal reported on Saturday , adding , " Hostages held in Gaza would begin to be freed after seven days . " <p> Last week , the New York Times reported that some leaders in Hamas were considering a Gaza hostage-ceasefire deal , in which the IDF would remain temporarily in the Philadelphi Corridor in the Gaza Strip . 
@@118337792 <h> There is finally more powerful counterpressure to get public decisions on the cases to show that the Israeli legal system takes its probes of its own soldiers seriously . <p> IDF soldiers are seen working as part of the Israeli military 's Gaza battlefield intelligence collection unit. ( photo credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> The IDF is expected to publish some results of its war crimes probes of its soldiers shortly , following the recent decision by the International Criminal Court to approve arrest warrants against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former defense minister Yoav Gallant . <p> Although some of the probes are already more than a year old and theoretically could have had a decision published earlier , there has been massive domestic political pressure against publicizing results related to alleged crimes by soldiers . <p> With Hamas 's October 7 , 2023 , slaughter of 1,200 Israelis , hostages still in the hands of Hamas , and soldiers getting killed in battle , it has been easier for the IDF legal division to carry out probes but delay reaching a final decision , which would go public and risk angering the military high command and the political class . <p> Even in the Sde Teiman cases , which are regarded by military prosecutors as more open-and-shut because they involved alleged abuse of a Palestinian detainee while in prison , not on the battlefield , the IDF legal division still has not publicized a decision . <p> In that particular case , dozens of soldiers either assaulted or interrupted the military police 's operation to arrest around 10 soldier suspects on July 29 , including soldiers suspected of sexual assault . THE INTERNATIONAL Criminal Court in The Hague . ( credit : PIROSCHKA VAN DE WOUW/REUTERS ) <p> The Jerusalem Post understands that the first pre-indictment hearing for one of the group of soldier suspects took place on November 5 or 7 . <p> Three weeks later , and around four months from when the cases opened , the IDF still has not indicted or closed those cases . <p> This is despite the Post 's understanding that the IDF legal division has opened around 85 criminal probes against its soldiers and , by August 6 , had at least 220 operational probes running , adding up to over 300 different categories of probes . This in itself was a big jump , as earlier in the summer , the IDF was closer to around 150 total probes . <h> The number spikes further <p> The number has jumped again in recent weeks , with the military opening around 16 new operational probes into air strikes on Palestinians in Jabalya during the spike in fighting in northern Gaza after that area had been relatively quiet for some months . <p> In the days after the ICC decision to issue arrest orders for Netanyahu and Gallant , there is finally more powerful counterpressure to get public decisions on the cases to show that the Israeli legal system takes its probes of its own soldiers seriously . <p> In fact , on the same day that the ICC Pre-Trial Chamber approved arrest warrants for only Netanyahu and Gallant , ICC Prosecutor Karim Khan openly threatened to seek more arrest warrants , including against Israeli soldiers , if Jerusalem is not seen as seriously probing its own soldiers ' alleged war crimes . <p> The idea is that only by Israel probing itself can it make such a case by the ICC itself redundant . <p> Incidentally , the record of the IDF is that it does sometimes indict soldiers for killing Palestinians against open-fire rules in the West Bank but has rarely carried out such prosecutions for killing Palestinians in Gaza . <p> Generally , the IDF high command and the military lawyers regard the Gaza battlefield as much more unpredictable and deadly for Israeli soldiers , whereas they view IDF soldiers in the West Bank as having dominating power that makes using less lethal measures more possible when restraining Palestinian attackers . <h> Some breathing room <p> That number jumped again in recent weeks , with the military opening around 16 new operational probes into air strikes on Jabalya during the spike in fighting in northern Gaza after that area had been relatively quiet for some months . <p> All of these probes have remained without decisions . <p> In the days after the ICC 's decision , there is finally more powerful counter-pressure to push out public decisions on the cases to show that the Israeli legal system takes its probes of its soldiers seriously . <p> In fact , on the same day that the ICC Pre-Trial Chamber approved arrest warrants for only Netanyahu and Gallant , ICC Prosecutor Karim Khan openly threatened to seek more arrest warrants , including against Israeli soldiers , if Jerusalem is not seen as seriously probing its own soldiers ' alleged war crimes . <p> The idea is that only by Israel probing itself can it make such a case by the ICC redundant . <p> Incidentally , the record of the IDF is that it does sometimes indict soldiers for killing Palestinians against open-fire rules in the West Bank but has rarely carried out such prosecutions for killing Palestinians in Gaza . <p> Generally , the IDF high command and military lawyers regard the Gaza battlefield as much more unpredictable and deadly for Israeli soldiers , whereas they view IDF soldiers in the West Bank as having dominating power that makes using less lethal measures more possible when restraining Palestinian attackers . <p> However , even a detailed analysis of evidence , which leads to closing a case of IDF soldiers killing Palestinians in Gaza , could potentially give the Jewish state breathing room . <p> After the 2014 Gaza conflict , Israel issued no fewer than five detailed reports , with each report addressing several or more cases , which likely helped convince the ICC to stay out of the conflict . <p> In contrast , IDF probes and their publication have been much slower this time around . <p> Though military legal sources have said that the war being longer and the sheer huge number of incidents and probes has slowed down decisions , whenever the ICC has moved forward against Israel , the IDF legal processes have also seemed to have jumped forward . <p> Shortly after Khan threatened Israel with deeper ICC involvement in May , IDF military advocate-general Maj.-Gen . Yifat Tomer Yerushalmi first announced that the military had opened around 70 criminal probes . <p> Despite the impression that the IDF legal division will make more of its probes and decisions in the near term than it might have absent the recent ICC decision , there are still no signs of any immediate decisions or publications . 
@@118337794 <h> The visit followed the release of a video showing Alexander held captive in Gaza , in which he spoke in a mixture of Hebrew and English . <p> President Isaac Herzog and First Lady Michal met with Yael Alexander , the mother of Israeli-American hostage Edan Alexander , the president 's spokesperson announced on Sunday . <p> The visit came after the release of a video showing Alexander held captive in Gaza , in which he spoke in a mixture of Hebrew and English . The video , titled " Soon ... Time is running out , " was published on Saturday on the Telegram channel of Hamas ' military wing , the Izzadin al-Qassam Brigades . <p> Herzog spoke with the Alexander family about Edan , who is held alongside 100 other hostages , and said it is time to finalize a deal and bring the hostages home now that an agreement has been reached with Lebanon . <p> " We are negotiating with a bitter and cruel enemy whose sole purpose in releasing this video was to try to break our spirit , " he said . " On the contrary -- I believe this video has strengthened us . My call to the entire world , to Israel 's leadership , and to all mediators is this : the time is now . We want Edan home . We want everyone home urgently . We cry out for this every single day -- now is the time to act . " <p> " This video is like a message from hell -- harsh and heartbreaking . When I saw it , I wept , but I also felt a glimmer of hope , " Herzog added . " There are negotiations taking place behind the scenes , and it can be done . Now is the opportunity to bring about a meaningful change that will lead to a deal to free the hostages . " President Herzog meets with mother of hotage Edan Alexander . ( credit : Koby Gideon ( GPO ) ) <h> ' You neglected us ' <p> In the video , Alexander introduces himself and states he has been a prisoner of Hamas for more than 420 days . <p> The video then switches to footage of Alexander covering his face with his hands and crying . Speaking in Hebrew , he gave a message to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> " I heard you speaking to the people of Israel on the news , and I am very disappointed , " he said . " I heard that you will give $5 million to whoever brings us back alive . The prime minister is supposed to protect his citizens and soldiers , and you neglected us . " <p> Alexander said the guards gave the hostages instructions in case the IDF reached them . <p> " The fear is at its peak , and we are dying a thousand times every day that passes , and no one feels for us , " he added . " The people of Israel : Do not neglect us . We want to return home with a full mind . Fear and isolation are killing us . Please do not forget us . It is unreasonable that we pay the price for a mistake made by the government . Please , people of Israel , go out to demonstrate every day and pressure the government . It is time to put an end to this nightmare . " <p> Speaking in English to US President-elect Donald Trump , Alexander said , " Please use your influence and the full power of the United States to negotiate for our freedom . Every day here feels like an eternity , and the pain from inside grows from day to day . Please do not make the mistake Biden has been doing . The weapons he has sent are now killing us , and the unlawful sieges are now starving us . I do not want to end up dead like my fellow US citizen Hersh Goldberg-Polin . " <p> The video concluded with Alexander telling his parents and grandparents to be strong and that it is only " a matter of time until this nightmare ends . " <h> Yael Alexander responds <p> " Edan -- his voice and the video replaying endlessly . You can see in the video that Edan is going through hell , " she said . " His eyes are crying out , full of sorrow , but it gave me so much strength -- Edan strengthened us with his call to us . " <p> " We released this video so that everyone can see -- Edan is alive , and many other hostages are alive , " she added . " It 's time to act and free them . " 
@@118337798 <h> 71% of Israelis back hostage deal to end Gaza war , N12 poll shows <h> New polls show growing Israeli support for a hostage deal , highlighting fears of sexual violence against captives . <p> Crowds at Agranat Square in Jerusalem calling to rescue the hostages and the country. ( photo credit : Yair Palti ) <p> A significant majority - 71% - of the Israeli public supports a hostage deal that would end the war in Gaza , a Channel 12 poll published Friday found . <p> Just 15% opposed such a deal , and 14% said they did not know how they felt about this deal , Channel 12 reported . <p> An October poll by Israel 's Association of Rape Crisis Centers , released last week , also looked at public attitudes towards a deal , finding that 93% of the public thinks the hostages are in danger of sexual violence and that 73% think that this should influence the decision to make a hostage deal . <p> These numbers differ from an August poll by the Hostage Family Forum that found that 59% of Israelis support a deal that would bring the hostages home while ending the war , and 33% opposed such a deal.DEMONSTRATORS PROTEST against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and for the release of Israelis held hostage in the Gaza Strip , outside IDF headquarters in Tel Aviv , earlier this week . Many adults will need to be in therapy for some time to cope with the effects of a long war , the writer predicts . ( credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/FLASH90 ) <h> More than half support settlements <p> The polls were conducted by different organizations and , therefore , are likely not directly comparable but potentially indicate shifting attitudes in Israeli society about a hostage deal that would end the war . <p> Channel 12 's poll also found that 51% of Israelis are against creating settlements in Gaza , while 33% are in favor . Some 16% do n't know . <p> When looking at Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's voters , some 57% are in favor of settling Gaza , while 24% are against it . 
@@118344798 <h> Follow Us <h> Israel-Hamas ceasefire now ' more likely , ' US security official says <p> Palestinians sit amid rubble at the site of an Israeli strike on a house , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , in Nuseirat in the central Gaza Strip , Dec. 1 , 2024 . <p> Share <p> Israel-Hamas ceasefire now ' more likely , ' US security official says <p> share <p> The chance for an end to more than a year of fighting between Israel and Hamas in Gaza and the release of about 100 hostages held by the militants is now " more likely " because of last week 's ceasefire reached by Israel with Hezbollah in Lebanon , a top U.S. national security official said Sunday . <p> The U.S. and other negotiators " may have a chance " to end 14 months of fighting in Gaza , White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan told CNN 's " State of the Union " show but declined to make a prediction , " because we 've come close before . " <p> Israel 's mostly ceremonial president , Isaac Herzog , said Sunday , " There are negotiations taking place behind the scenes , and it can be done . " <p> Sullivan told NBC 's " Meet the Press " show , " We are engaged deeply with the key players in the region , and there is activity even today . There will be further conversations and consultations , and our hope is that we can generate a ceasefire and hostage deal , but we 're not there yet . " <p> Sullivan spoke a day after Hamas released a videotape of one of the hostages , Israeli American Edan Alexander . Speaking under duress , Alexander blamed Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for the October 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack on Israel , saying , " The prime minister is supposed to protect his soldiers and citizens , and you abandoned us . " <p> Sullivan said the video was " a cruel reminder of Hamas ' brutality and of the fact that they are holding so many hostages from so many countries . " <p> Hamas triggered the war with Israel , killing about 1,200 people and capturing 250 hostages in the attack 14 months ago . Israel says that about a third of the remaining 100 or so hostages are believed to be dead . <p> In its counteroffensive , Israel has killed more than 44,000 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , which does not say how many of the dead were combatants . Israel , without providing evidence , says it has killed more than 17,000 militants . <p> Sullivan called the Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire , which has largely been holding steady , " a huge step forward in the Middle East ... the opportunity for people to ultimately be able to return to their homes in Israel and in Lebanon . " <p> He said the United States , France and other allies " are going to work together with the Lebanese Armed Forces through a mechanism to ensure that the ceasefire is implemented effectively . Our goal is to get through these first few days , critical days of a ceasefire , when it 's most fragile , have it take full hold , and then ultimately build on it so that it becomes the permanent ceasefire it 's intended to be . " <p> Whether the Israel-Hezbollah pact translates into a ceasefire in Gaza remains uncertain . <p> The United States , Qatar and Egypt have spent much of the past year trying to broker a ceasefire in Gaza and the release of the remaining hostages . But the talks have been stalemated , with Israel rejecting Hamas ' demand for a complete withdrawal from the territory and Israel demanding that any vestige of Hamas control in the narrow territory along the Mediterranean Sea be erased . <p> U.S. President-elect Donald Trump has vowed to end the wars in the Middle East , without saying how , and pushed Israel to end its fight against Hamas before he takes office January 20 . Trump , like Biden , has been a staunch defender of Israel 's prerogative to defend itself . <p> On the Gaza war front , the United Nations agency for Palestinian refugees said Sunday it is halting aid deliveries through the main cargo crossing into Gaza because of the threat of armed gangs who have looted recent convoys . It blamed the breakdown of law and order on Israeli policies . Israel had no immediate comment . <p> Philippe Lazzarini , the head of the U.N . Relief and Works Agency , the main aid provider in Gaza , said the route leading to the Kerem Shalom crossing is too dangerous on the Gaza side . Armed men looted nearly 100 trucks traveling on the route in mid-November , and he said gangs stole a smaller shipment Saturday . <p> Kerem Shalom is the only crossing between Israel and Gaza that is designed for cargo shipments and has been the main artery for aid deliveries since the Rafah crossing with Egypt was shut down in May . Last month , nearly two-thirds of all aid entering Gaza came through Kerem Shalom , and in previous months it accounted for an even larger amount , according to Israeli figures . <p> In a post on X , Lazzarini largely blamed Israel for the breakdown of humanitarian operations in Gaza , citing " political decisions to restrict the amounts of aid , " lack of safety on aid routes and Israel 's targeting of the Hamas-run police force , which had previously provided public security . <p> Meanwhile , Israeli strikes in Gaza killed at least six people overnight , including two young children , ages 6 and 8 , in the tent where their family was sheltering , medical officials said Sunday . <p> The strike in the Muwasi area , a sprawling tent camp housing hundreds of thousands of displaced people , also wounded the children 's mother and their 8-month-old sister , according to Nasser Hospital . <p> In still another Mideast conflict , the Syrian military rushed in reinforcements to push back insurgents from advancing farther after they seized Aleppo in a surprise offensive . <p> The insurgents look over most of the Syrian city Saturday and claimed to have entered the city of Hama . <p> Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi is traveling to the Syrian capital Damascus later Sunday . He told reporters that Tehran will back the Syrian government and army . <p> The swift insurgent offensive is an embarrassment for Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad and comes at a time when his allies -- Iran and its militant groups and Russia -- are preoccupied with their own conflicts . 
@@118364689 <h> As CEOs cut back on DEI and tell young workers to leave their politics at home , charitable giving , with an employer match , has emerged as a way for employees to bring their own values to work . <p> President-elect Donald Trump and his appointees are promising a war against woke , with employer diversity , equity and inclusion ( DEI ) efforts among their targets . At the same time , with job openings down nearly 40% from their 2022 peak , even unhappy employees are less likely to quit . So it 's no surprise that CEOs , who a few years ago embraced social justice in part to appease young subordinates , are now curtailing DEI programs , staying mum about causes , and demanding employees , too , keep their political views out of the workplace . Just last week , Walmart , the nation 's largest private employer , confirmed it was rolling back its DEI efforts . <p> But there 's a notable exception to this retreat : charitable giving . In recent years , even as contributions to the United Way have declined , a new type of giving platform has spread that empowers workers to pick their own charitable causes -- usually with an employer match . <p> " Everyone is looking for a way to keep all these young employees who now expect their employers to speak out happy , while not putting their organization at legal risk , " says Alison Taylor , a professor of corporate responsibility and business ethics at New York University 's Stern School of Business . " There is this overwhelming sense of caution among senior leaders and C-suite executives about not pissing anyone else off . " <p> In that context , she adds , " The pivot to giving employees more control over their donations is sensible . " <p> It 's also a way to accommodate Gen-Z and younger Millennials moved by the human suffering they see on social media and in the news , particularly in places like Gaza . <p> The dominant player in the giving platform space is Alberta , Calgary-based fintech Benevity , which in 2023 processed $3.2 billion of donations to 265,000 unique causes , from workers at such companies as Adobe , Cisco , Merck , Microsoft , Nike , UPS and Visa . ( That total , which was up 14% and is on track to grow again this year by double digits , includes employer matches of workers ' donations . While Benevity has multinational and non-U.S . companies as clients , 84% of 2023 contributions went to U.S. charities . ) <p> At our request , Jules Dorval , the social data science lead at Benevity , also drilled down on giving by young workers at the subset of 62 companies for which it has data on donors ' age . During the same two year period , the top recipients of money from workers under 30 skewed more heavily to relief groups , particularly international ones . Palestine Red Crescent Society-Al Bireh Branch ( serving both Gaza and the West Bank ) was No. 1 , Islamic Relief No. 3 , and Palestine Children 's Relief Fund No. 6 , compared to Nos. 11 , 14 and 17 , respectively , for workers of all ages at those same 62 companies . Rounding out the top 10 for under 30 givers : World Central Kitchen ( 2 ) , UNICEF ( 4 ) , Red Cross ( 5 ) , St. Jude 's ( 7 ) , Mercy Corps ( 8 ) , Doctors Without Borders ( 9 ) and Save The Children Federation ( 10 ) . <p> Medical Aid for Palestinians , a British non-profit providing healthcare services in Gaza and the West Bank , was the 11th most-donated-to charity for employees aged 30 or younger giving through Benevity , though it did n't break the top 200 charities for all workers . <p> New York City-based American Friends of Magen David Adom , which acts as Israel 's representative to the International Red Cross and provides disaster relief and emergency services to Israelis , ranked 18th in the top charities younger workers donated to , but just 78th for all employees -- further evidence that whatever their views on the Israel-Hamas conflict , the youngest workers are inclined to express them through charitable giving . <p> " I gave at the office " is a cliche born from a long tradition . In the late 1800s , local elites attempted to rationalize charitable giving by forming charitable societies to act as umbrella organizations that could weed out the undeserving from the deserving . Increased workplace charitable solicitations during World War II led to the first implementations of payroll deductions for donations . After the war , as other deductions for insurance , taxes and the like spread , so did the payroll giving model , with most of the money going to community chests like the now more than 1,100 U.S. chapters of the United Way Worldwide , which in turn directed the majority of their funds to a small group of big name , mainstream charities , including the YMCA , Red Cross and the Salvation Army . <p> At first , workers did n't have much choice about what their dollars supported , but under pressure from alternative giving campaigns , in 1990 United Way officially embraced the idea of allowing payroll donors to designate where their dollars would go -- even to organizations outside of United Way . Still , the percentage of workers participating in United Way campaigns continued to drop , with donations falling sharply during the Great Recession . <p> In the year ending in June 2024 , just $1 billion of the United Way 's $2.5 billion in private donations came from workplace contributions . <p> Now the spread of online giving platforms is breathing new life into the old tradition of workplace giving -- and turning it into an employee benefit , part of a broader package offered by companies to keep workers engaged and satisfied . Some 78% of employees who have workplace giving programs available say that their companies ' values align with their personal ones , compared to just 56% where workplace giving is n't offered , according to research by Artemis Strategy group for Fidelity Charitable , an affiliate of Fidelity Investments . ( In 2019 , Fidelity Charitable and the big employee benefits division of Fidelity Investments teamed up to start the Giving Marketplace , a competitor to Benevity . ) <p> Moreover , in the same Artemis survey of 1500 workers , 89% who have workplace giving programs available said they were satisfied with their current employer , 12 percentage points higher than the satisfaction rate for those without workplace giving schemes . Artemis ' findings do n't necessarily show that charitable giving is why more employees are satisfied , but it does suggest that it 's part of a benefits package found at happier workplaces . That 's something employers ca n't ignore , since according to Gallup , Millennial and Gen Z workers in particular report feeling more disengaged and stuck in their jobs these days -- a reflection of a tougher market for job-hunters that has transformed the " Big Quit " into the " The Great Stay . " <p> Further evidence that giving is now an employee benefit : 70% of employers who use Benevity match 100% of an employee 's contributions ( up to a set amount ) , Dorval reports . In total , he calculates , 65% of all dollars given through the platform get a match . Companies can also use the platform to track days off given to workers for volunteering , or even to make contributions to a worker 's charity account to reward them for volunteering on their own time . Workers can donate through payroll deduction , fund their giving with a credit card donation , or do both . Employees can designate in advance the charities their money will support or accumulate cash in a giving account , and then direct individual donations from that account -- just as someone would when using a donor-advised fund . ( Benevity uses a master donor-advised fund to hold all the donations . ) <p> The flexibility of the Benevity platform accommodates special fundraising drives and events like Giving Tuesday -- the Tuesday after Thanksgiving , Black Friday and Cyber Monday . Charities have pushed Giving Tuesday since 2012 as a way to goose donations at a time when Americans ' wallets are relatively open . During 2023 's Giving Tuesday , Benevity logged $150 million in donations made through its platform , a 22% increase from the year before . <p> Workplace giving is still just a drop in the charitable bucket -- but is growing faster than other giving channels .. The Blackbaud Giving Fund estimates $5 billion a year is given at U.S. workplaces . That 's just 1% of the $557 billion in total contributions made in the U.S. in 2023. according to Giving USA 's annual tally . But individual giving was up only 1.6% ( in nominal dollars , not inflation adjusted ones ) in 2023 , according to that report , compared to Benevity 's 14% increase . <p> By contrast , giving to donor-advised funds , run by community foundations and non-profit affiliates of such financial services powerhouses as Vanguard , Fidelity and Schwab , dropped a surprising 22% last year to $59 billion . ( To maximize their tax benefits , wealthy donors will typically contribute highly appreciated stock to DAFs in a lump when they have big gains , then dribble out contributions to specific operating charities over time . That can lead to more volatility from year to year . ) <p> While Benevity does provide U.S. workers the documentation needed to claim tax deductions , donations by rank and file workers are n't usually driven by tax considerations -- the 2017 Trump tax overhaul reduced the percentage of U.S. filers who itemize their deductions ( and thus can claim tax benefits ) to less than 8% . In fact , contributions to foreign charities are typically not deductible at all , but Benevity reports that 67% of its clients allow for international giving . ( Benevity has a roster of more than two million eligible organizations , though companies can exclude certain categories -- for example , religious organizations -- from their match . ) <p> Workplace giving now seems poised to expand further , even as DEI and social activism by CEOs shrink . A new survey of 219 big companies by Chief Executives for Corporate Purpose ( CECP ) found that between 2021 and 2023 , 53% decreased their own community investments ( which include direct cash gifts and donations of products and services , including employee time ) . At the same time , 94% of the companies ( up by four percentage points from 2021 ) offered some sort of charitable matching gift program to employees . Matching programs include year-round matches , matching during annual giving campaigns , donations to reward employees ' volunteer work and the fastest growing category , special drives for disaster relief . <p> Here 's the kicker : At companies responding to the CECP survey , only 20% of employees , on average , participated in their companies ' employer matches , up one percentage point from 2021 . Double Your Donation , which maintains a database of employers ' match programs for its clients ( who are charities ) , calculates 27 million workers now have match programs available and estimates they could be leaving $4 to $7 billion in matching money unclaimed annually . Room to grow . 
@@118365989 <p> Protesters hold up weapons as people , mainly Houthi supporters , rally to show support to Lebanon 's Hezbollah and Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , in Sanaa , Yemen , Nov. 29 , 2024 . <p> Khaled Abdullah/Reuters <p> Two U.S. Navy destroyers shot down incoming Houthi missiles and drones that were targeting three U.S.-flagged commercial ships that the destroyers were escorting in the Gulf of Aden , the U.S. military said . <p> There was no damage to the ships involved , the U.S. Central Command , or CENTCOM , said in a statement . There were no injuries , the statement said . <p> The destroyers , the USS Stockade and the USS O'Kane , shot down " a range " of Houthi-launched weapons while traveling through the gulf on Saturday and Sunday , CENTCOM said . <p> " These actions reflect the ongoing commitment of CENTCOM forces to protect U.S. personnel , regional partners , and international shipping , against attacks by Iran-backed Houthis , " the command said in a statement . <p> The Houthis began their campaign against shipping in response to Israel 's war in Gaza , launched after Hamas ' Oct. 7 attack into southern Israel . Houthi leaders have vowed to continue attacks until Israel ends its campaign in Gaza and withdraws from the territory . <p> The U.S. -- along with the U.K. -- first launched airstrikes against Houthi targets in Yemen in January 2024 , following several months of drone and missile attacks on shipping in the Red Sea , Gulf of Aden and Arabian Sea . Those strikes continued in November , officials said . 
@@118367084 <p> The year 2024 had us hugging our cookbooks . They brought us solace , nostalgia , inspiration , delight , reclamation , beauty and deliciousness when much of the rest of the world seemed to induce fear and uncertainty . <p> Our list of favorites for 2024 includes something for every kind of food book lover . <p> Recipes came from a tiny creek in the Appalachians and the rice terraces of Yunnan . Through them , authors gave voice to their ancestors , explored identity , put spins on centuries-old traditions , shared their love for Sicilian sweets , Chinese breakfasts , heirloom beans . <p> This year 's list also features fresh books from many Los Angeles authors . Cook vegetables better with Sarah Hymanson and Sara Kramer 's " Kismet , " or make saag paneer lasagna and green chutney pizza from " Amrikan " by food writer Khushbu Shah . " Wafu " is a California take on " Japanese-style " fusion , by way of cooking teacher Sonoko Sakai . Former L.A. Times cooking columnist Ben Mims dives deep into cookies from around the world . And Adrienne Borlongan , founder of Wanderlust Creamery , shows us exactly how to re-create her wildly wonderful flavors for ice cream . <p> After a seven-year break following the 2017 publication of her 11th cookbook , Joan Nathan emerged in 2024 with two new cookbooks , each a meaningful addition to the evolving story of food and identity . In " My Life in Recipes , " Nathan , as I wrote earlier this year , tells not only the story of how she became the world 's preeminent expert on Jewish food but also how her life and recipes reflect the ever-broadening tastes of the American palate and her lifelong search for what binds many disparate cultures together . More than 100 recipes , some updates of her classics and others she developed more recently , are woven into the memoir . In the brand-new " A Sweet Year , " organized with a chapter and overview for each Jewish holiday , Nathan has devised what should become a children 's cooking classic . With an inspired structure for teaching young cooks , each recipe specifies steps that can be done by the child alone , by the child with an adult and when the adult should take charge . And while there are fun kid-specific foods such as rainbow-colored challah and chicken schnitzel tenders , her book is full of recipes that cooks of any age would be proud to serve . -- Laurie Ochoa <p> Kiano Moju 's " AfriCali " cookbook shares her perspective as someone who was born to a Kenyan mother and a Nigerian father , grew up in the Bay Area ( with summers often spent visiting her Maasai family in Kenya ) and has since traveled all over the world . Family ties are celebrated with her mom 's steak and capers and a handful of recipes from her grandmother , including Koko 's pancakes and Koko 's cabbage . But more often , Moju demonstrates the universality of the cuisines that shaped her with dishes that merge influences , such as berbere-braised pork tacos and mango and ginger scones , a pastry she perfected during graduate school in London . A culinary producer turned recipe archivist through her Jikoni Archive nonprofit , Moju 's book also shares insight into the culinary history of Kenya , including the influence of Arab traders who settled along the Swahili Coast . You 'll learn how international dishes are reinterpreted in the East African country , such as biriyani that layers saucy chicken over saffron rice and chai masala that can be used to make tea or other dishes that call for ginger . -- Danielle Dorsey <p> For her debut cookbook , Khushbu Shah gathers recipes that blend traditional Indian dishes with the ingenuity of Indian mothers who substitute American grocery store items for hard-to-find ingredients . The resulting adaptations are delightful dishes of the diaspora that highlight the cuisine 's diversity . Named for the desi word used to describe something American , " Amrikan " contains recipes for green chutney pizza , saag paneer lasagna , tandoori chicken wings and masala deviled eggs . Former restaurant editor for Food &amp; Wine , Shah uses color and humor to create a delicious world with visual aids like a rainbow chart of the Amrikan pantry , a three-panel guide on basic dosa making and " objects of the diaspora bingo " ( Shoe pile by the door ? Check ! Yogurt container not filled with yogurt ? Check ! ) . I am obsessed with the photo of breakfast cereal chevvdo that uses Rice Chex , Kix and cornflakes in place of dried lentils and flattened rice , stored in a circular blue Danish butter cookie tin for true immigrant household authenticity . If you are a child of immigrants who ever asked your parents to please make a dish your friends would eat and got a little more than you bargained for , this book is for you . -- Sarah Mosqueda <p> Bestselling cookbook author and Food Network personality Ina Garten has popularized phrases like " How easy is that ? " and " Store-bought is fine , " making entertaining like a domestic goddess feel attainable rather than aspirational . Her latest release is n't a cookbook in the traditional sense ; it 's her long-awaited memoir , " Be Ready When the Luck Happens . " Her successful career is one she partly credits to luck , and fans get a deeper look at her life before she became the Barefoot Contessa and the skills she sharpened like a chef 's knife to get there . The few recipes included are choice ones that highlight memorable moments in her life : coq au vin , a classic French stew she had for the first time when she and her husband , Jeffrey , backpacked through Europe as newlyweds , for example . Or Emily Blunt 's English roasted potatoes , which the actress made with Garten on an episode of her television series " Cook Like a Pro . " This really is a memoir you can eat . How lucky is that ? -- S.M. <p> Steve Sando is the man behind Rancho Gordo , the heirloom bean company you have no doubt seen at your local gourmet market or on the menu of your favorite restaurant . Sando has made a career of saving , sourcing , growing and cooking with heirloom beans and has inspired chefs and home cooks to explore heirloom varietals too . " The Bean Book " contains 100 recipes for cooking all kinds of beans using multiple methods from oven to pressure cooker . There are recipes for bean salads , bean soups , baked beans and bean patties and fillings . A section at the back includes recipes for bean accompaniments , like " Steve 's skillet cornbread , " which according to Sando is the best friend a bowl of beans ever had , aside from the corn tortilla . Sando insists you use his simple " master recipe for pot beans " at least once . " With no stock or pork or much of anything , I think you 'll see that bones and stock are not necessary for good beans , " he writes . -- S.M. <p> " Deciding to write about my Palestinian cuisine and share family stories , as well as celebrate some of the wonderful artisans of Bethlehem , felt natural , " chef Fadi Kattan notes in the introduction to the cookbook he spent over two years documenting and compiling . He wanted the recipes -- framed by beautiful , sense-of-place landscapes and portraits conveyed in photographer Elias Halabi 's images -- to be extensions of the conversations he has with guests in his restaurants in London and Bethlehem . Kattan is especially adept at guiding readers into the flavors of the region with something as simple as eggs fried in samneh ( ghee ) with a sprinkle of lemony sumac for breakfast . He also showcases his own respectful creativity , as in a dish of roasted eggplant , bathed in tahini sauce and covered with fragrant herbs , that 's essentially deconstructed baba ghanoush . The subject also being the civic embodiment of Christmas , Kattan concludes the book with an essay about his family 's celebration traditions and instructions for his grandmother 's holiday spiced fruitcake . Kattan could not have known that the release of the book would coincide with a yearlong war that has decimated the nearby Gaza Strip and killed thousands of Palestinians , but in that context , these pages become even more poignant records of preservation and humanity . -- Bill Addison <p> " Bodega Bakes " is the sweets-centered cookbook from Dominican American pastry chef Paola Velez , who grew up in the Bronx and frequented her local bodega for treats that ranged from traditional Caribbean desserts to M&amp;Ms and Warheads . The recipes draw from these memories , often combining staple Afro-Latine ingredients with classic pastry recipes , such as caf ? Madeleines with t ? de hoja and sticky buns with ripe plantains that celebrity chef Guy Fieri hailed as the best he 's ever tasted . Velez , who during the pandemic co-founded Bakers Against Racism , a community of bakers who raised $2.5 million for social justice causes through decentralized bake sales , offers innovative recipes you wo n't find elsewhere ( see : moringa-soursop swirled cookies and tamarind pecan pie ) but are still approachable for home bakers who are just starting out , with many ingredients available at your local bodega or corner store . -- D.D . <p> Max Rocha serves my kind of aspirational food , the sort of meals I want to make daily -- not because the Irish-leaning dishes at London 's Caf ? Cecilia are ambitious and photo-worthy ( though many are also that ) , but because they strike my ideal balance of simplicity and comfort . Those seasonal soups and pastas and salads and custards are also a world away , but thanks to the chef-owner 's debut cookbook , I can now re-create a bit of his wildly popular restaurant and cafe at home . A childhood spent helping his mother and grandmother in the kitchen translated to a love of baking when Rocha pursued professional cooking later in life . The result ? A signature item at his own cafe that sings to his Irish roots and receives an entire chapter in the new book : Guinness soda bread , which can be enjoyed a la carte or with smoked mackerel p ? t ? or dressed crab or , when day-old , transformed into a Guinness treacle tart . Beyond the beloved bread , the cafe 's day-to-night history can be traced through the 100-plus recipes , from morning and afternoon treats such as cheese scones , potato rosti and sage-and-anchovy fritti ( another signature dish ) to a range of hearty braises and delightful champagne jellies studded with fresh raspberries . Use this book for everyday cooking or to host a pitch-perfect dinner party . -- Stephanie Breijo <p> From the first pages of Kristina Cho 's book , I felt a kinship with the author . Being both Chinese and Eastern European , I 'm often pulled in two directions . I too have been accused of not being " Chinese enough . " Cho 's experience is instantly relatable , whether you 're grappling with your own identity or not . Part cookbook and part autobiography , the recipes help weave the narrative of her experience as a first-generation American-born child of immigrants . This is Chinese food with a California slant , with plenty of substitutions and tips to make the food your own . Her cheesy chrysanthemum and mushroom pockets combine all the best parts of Chinese chive pockets and Hot Pockets . She makes rangoon with smoked mackerel and tosses kohlrabi and watermelon radishes in chili crunch . There are the more traditional recipes too , like steamed pork cake with chives and cilantro . And the overarching theme is one we could all use more of : You , whoever you are , are enough . -- Jenn Harris <p> There are so many ways to appreciate former L.A. Times cooking columnist Ben Mims ' magnum opus on the topic of cookies . With 400 recipes and matching images for many of them , the book covers more shapes and styles and levels of difficulty than a single mind could imagine , from the simplest shortbread to worthy projects like Algerian-Tunisian date-filled semolina cookies fried and rolled in honey syrup . It 's cookie tome as personality test : What draws us most tells us who we are . In that vein , Mims also uses the subject as a dive into history , tracing the origin of the cookie to Persia and organizing sections by global regions . Headnotes reveal the depth of his research . As one tiny example , he 'll lead bakers who find they enjoy the richness of sweetened condensed milk in Estonian cookies to Peruvian macaroons and Brazilian sequilhos that similarly feature the ingredient . Mims even tackles the " What is a cookie ? " question with a philosopher 's seriousness . Which is all to say : While the snickerdoodles are in the oven , you 'll likely lose yourself in the smart writing . -- B.A. <p> Tu ? Nguy ? n is known as Twaydabae to her hundreds of thousands of fans on social media . Her warm , vibrant personality and enthusiasm are palpable in each bubble-gum-pink page , in each recipe intro , smiling photo and illustration . This is Nguy ? n 's love letter to her Vietnamese heritage , with recognizable Vietnamese classic recipes and more modern takes she 's made all her own . Of course it makes sense to make birria tacos with the spicy Vietnamese beef stew bo kho , and to infuse a burger with the black pepper , onions and peppers of bo luc lac . You 'll find a chapter of Nguy ? n 's most internet-famous dishes , with a " viral fried rice " studded with lap cheong ; her chili oil noodles with lemongrass ; and a seafood boil with angel hair pasta . Keep this book around for midweek dinner ideas or a full blueprint for every dish you might want at your next dinner party . -- J.H. <p> For a blend of Italian baked goods old and new , " Dolci " ca n't be beat . That 's because author and first-gen Italian American Renato Poliafito channeled his heritage and his growing pains into a career and a new cookbook that seamlessly integrate Italian , American and Italian American techniques and flavors . The owner of New York 's Pasta Night and Ciao , Poliafito spent much of his adolescence torn between his upbringing in New York and familial visits to Sicily : seen as an Italian while in America , seen as an American while in Italy . In " Dolci " he provides traditional recipes ( bombolini , crostate , struffoli , cassata , gelati ) as well as many of his own inventions , reimagining the iconic Sicilian cuccidati cookies into scones , baking up a festive gingerbread take on amaretti , and glazing zeppole with a sweet-salty tahini sauce . But Poliafito 's " Dolci " is n't just about sweets . The baker also walks us through savory treats like sourdough focaccia and cacio e pepe arancini , as well as a handful of aperitivi , or spritz-like cocktails , for a bridging of cultures across any time of the day . -- S.B. <p> Arielle Johnson -- a food scientist who helped establish the fermentation lab at Noma in Copenhagen and an advisor to some of the world 's top chefs -- breaks down how we experience flavor . What we taste refers to salty , sour , sweet , bitter and umami -- that 's it , that 's all our tongues have receptors for . " Just about everything else is smell , " Johnson writes . The grassiness of herbs , the anisic notes of fennel , the marine flavors of seaweed , the tropical-ness of pineapple ... these come from molecules translated by our scent receptors . Johnson goes deep to explain the multidimensional sensations of flavor and how we can build on these to improve our cooking . Recipes are approachable , easy to follow and flavor-boosting , and the science behind them makes for a fascinating read . -- Betty Hallock <p> I appreciate the ethos of Georgina Hayden 's " Greekish , " a casual , I-do-what-works-for-me approach to cooking inspired by her Greek Cypriot heritage . It 's still a deep dive into the cuisines of Greece and Cyprus , with an acknowledgment of influences from the Jewish community in Thessaloniki , the Venetian occupation of Corfu and the neighboring countries of Bulgaria and Turkey . Recipes are clearly labeled as vegetarian , vegan and/or gluten-free , and chapter divisions are playful and useful , devoted to " things on sticks , " " everyday heroes " and " feasts . " Her many interpretations of baklava are reason enough to buy the book . Baklava buns are cinnamon buns reimagined with a tahini cream cheese frosting and ground cinnamon and toasted walnuts . There 's baklava ricotta semifreddo and baklava cake . The baklava cheesecake is a triumph , with a flaky filo crust and a smooth , creamy filling of feta , cream cheese and white chocolate . -- J.H. <p> This is a book for anyone who loves vegetables , and everyone who wants to be inspired to cook them in fresh and surprising ways . Sarah Hymanson and Sara Kramer are the two L.A. chefs behind Kismet restaurant in Los Feliz and the Kismet Rotisserie takeout shops ( where the tahini roasted cauliflower is as popular as the chicken ) . How is it that the duo can create seemingly simple dishes of mostly vegetables ( and a little meat too ) in smart , surprising ways with so much compelling , complex , zingy flavor ? Thoughtful , colorful , delicious recipes -- which often meet where sunny California and Eastern Mediterranean cooking intersect -- go a long way in showing us how . Bright salads ( a cucumber number they ca n't take off the menu ) , bold and zesty vegetables in surprising combinations ( grapefruit and spice-roasted tomatoes with feta ) and comforting one-pot meals ( a soup for breakfast , lunch or dinner ) make you want to rush to your nearest farmers market . -- B.H. <p> In the follow-up to their 2016 bestselling cookbook " Koreatown , " authors Deuki Hong and Matt Rodbard think even bigger . They expand beyond the flavors of the Korean American diaspora with " Koreaworld " and dig into Korean cuisine 's " global evolution " with recipes and interviews from home cooks , professional chefs and tastemakers around the world . Recipes for smoked giant short ribs and cabbage-and-persimmon kimchi and banana-milk cake and rose tteokbokki and knife-cut noodle soup with perilla-seed powder are interspersed with local profiles and lists of favorite dishes , making it an indispensable travelogue as well as a cookbook . They traverse Korea 's dense cityscapes and pastoral provinces and return to American Koreatowns to plumb the depths of food as culture , musing on where it 's been and where it 's heading . Photographer Alex Lau 's visual work jumps off the pages in candid moments and bright splashes of color , due in part to the fact that all of " Koreaworld 's " images were shot on-site in restaurants and taverns and bustling streets , matching the energy and motion of Hong and Rodbard 's words . -- S.B. <p> In her 100th cookbook , Martha Stewart shares 100 of her favorite recipes and an intimate glimpse into her personal life . Black-and-white photos of Stewart , her family and significant places and milestones over the years are peppered throughout the recipes . She writes like she 's regaling guests at a dinner party , sharing her family 's birthday cake traditions , revealing that Robert Redford was a regular at the Westport , Conn. , shop she opened after leaving her job on Wall Street and explaining why she always has a chicken-coop complex on any property she calls home . She shares the recipe for her mother 's pirogis , plump with silky potato in a brown butter sauce with fried sage . There 's her miso eggplant inspired by friend Nobu Matsuhisa . Each page is a reminder of why Stewart is the queen of entertaining , with a well-curated mix of recipes and tips that are approachable and aspirational. -- J.H. <p> This is a book designed to appeal to every diet and persuasion , whether you 've been plant-based for years or just starting to flirt with the idea . Joe Yonan introduces the basics , building the foundation for a myriad of meals that begin with nut , seed and oat milks , creams , yogurt and cheeses . The sheer number and variety of foods is astounding , with plant-based versions of every imaginable condiment , dressing and crisp represented and a total of more than 450 recipes . The most compelling dishes celebrate actual vegetables , like the whole roasted beets with mole ; huitlacoche and zucchini blossom tacos ; and squash and cabbage salad with roasted grapes and olives . But my favorite part of the book might be the guest essays , written by some of the brightest , most insightful food writers of our time . Nico Vera on decolonizing our diets feels especially relevant . -- J.H. <p> Chef Yotam Ottolenghi and his co-authors define comfort food as simultaneously nurturing , convenient , nostalgic and indulgent . That 's the best way to describe the recipes in " Ottolenghi Comfort : A Cookbook . " The Israeli-born British chef , restaurateur and author taps friends and contemporaries Helen Goh , Verena Lochmuller and Tara Wigley to join him in sharing recipes they turn to again and again . When Ottolenghi 's first cookbook debuted in 2008 , the shift in how cooks prepared and ate vegetables was widely regarded as the " Ottolenghi effect . " With this latest book , he 's poised to shift our viewpoint yet again , showing that comfort food is not necessarily culturally specific . The pages contain recipes for a spectrum of internationally influenced dishes such as German-style sausage rolls , lemongrass and galangal tuna curry and egg sambal " shakshuka . " I was delighted to find a recipe for tortang talong , a Filipino eggplant omelet , that was n't part of my childhood but is a favorite of my spouse who introduced me to the dish . Reimagined with ground lamb and harissa , this version feels like something new while still tasting like home . -- S.M. <p> Novelist and poet Crystal Wilkinson writes movingly about her Black Southern Appalachian foremothers , giving shape and voice to her family 's kitchen ghosts -- those who passed their rural Kentucky foodways from generation to generation . " These women , some of them dead for 200 years , still affect the ways in which I hold my hands , " she says . The memories are palpable : " She held long-necked yellow squash as gentle as babies . " The recipes , from matriarchs in a tiny corner of the hills of Casey County , are universally appealing : jam cake , a good pot of seasoned greens , chicken and dumplings , Benedictine sandwiches and chess pie . One of the suggestions for baking skillet cornbread is to line the bottom of the pan with sliced onions before pouring in the batter . So the result is an onion upside-down cornbread . Regarding pimento cheese , Wilkinson takes a hard line . " I prefer to mix by hand rather than in a food processor . To those who use that appliance ... I can hear my grandmother say , ' Whoever heard of such ? ' " -- B.H. <p> " Oh , that 's Richard Hart , " says Marcus , the pastry chef on FX 's " The Bear " portrayed by Lionel Boyce , when a colleague asks him about a picture taped to his workstation for inspiration . This is n't TV fiction : Hart was a chef in London , where he was born , before moving to the Bay Area and falling in love with bread baking . His job as the lead baker at Tartine led to opening Hart Bargeri in Copenhagen with Rene Redzepi ( with a bakery called Green Rhino soon to open in Mexico City ) . What makes this book different from others on bread baking , as Hart addresses immediately in the introduction , is that he 's " more of a sensualist than a scientist . " So while there can be no circumnavigating the necessary sourdough starters , the weighing of ingredients and the precision of recipes , something of Hart 's famous ebullience translates on the page . He is the guide who urges you to mix dough by hand , to inhale the aromas of bread through every step . And he is n't precious or limited about variations . He includes a cheese loaf inspired by his time baking at Wild Flour Bread in Freestone , Calif. -- the kind of indulgence , filled with pockets of cheddar and smoked Gouda , designed to be consumed whole before it even cools . -- B.A. <p> The comforting sopa de res , savory panes con pollo and other Salvadoran dishes featured in " The SalviSoul Cookbook " will entice any reader and likely raise childhood memories for those who are part of the Salvadoran diaspora . Vasquez 's cookbook , which debuted this spring , is the first Salvadoran cookbook to appear on a Big Five imprint . " SalviSoul " features 80 defining Salvadoran recipes -- with allowances for modifications , as many Salvadoran cooks in the U.S. for decades have had to resort to alternative ingredients -- and shares the compelling stories of the matriarchs behind them . For instance , there 's a recipe for rellenos de papa from Patricia De La Torre , a woman who feels that the L.A. earthquake she experienced on the day she met her future husband may actually have been a warning for the turbulent relationship to come . In an April interview with The Times , Vasquez said that writing a cookbook with stories was important to her because that 's how she came to understand her own Salvadoran upbringing . -- Cindy Carcamo <p> If you 're familiar with the menu at Crown Heights restaurant Agi 's Counter , then you know chef Jeremy Salamon spins fresh takes on Jewish and Eastern European classics such as palacsinta ( warm buttered crepes rolled with whipped farmers cheese ) , chicken liver mousse ( the secret ingredient is cream cheese ) and fluffy semolina dumplings showered with dill . In his first cookbook , Salamon says he 's layering his " cheffy instincts over centuries of traditions . ... I 'm reimagining those traditions with an eye toward seasonality , market ingredients and a touch of millennial flair . " That flair shows up in borscht fragrant with chamomile vinegar and bay leaves ; Persian cucumbers slathered with buttermilk ranch and grated horseradish ; and squash blossoms stuffed with k ? r ? z ? tt , also known as Hungarian pimento cheese . Two chapters are devoted to dessert -- one entirely for cakes . I 'm all in on pancake torte. -- B.H. <p> Given Sicily 's history , its cookies , cakes and pastries are some of the widest-ranging in flavor and provenance : the byproduct of an island visited and conquered by the Greeks , Phoenicians , Normans , Spaniards , Romans , Goths and more . Victoria Granof has spent years as a pastry chef , food stylist and semiprofessional Sicilian-sweets historian , uncovering her own heritage through this region 's worldly baked goods . In her latest she covers all manner of the varied treats found there , and in one of the most stylish releases of the year : Baskets brim with marzipan shaped into cherries and just-ripe oranges ; little almond cookies flavored with cherries , rose , saffron , lemon and ginger lie daintily on vintage dishes and lace doilies ; hands dunk sweet buns into bowls of cream and rip open fluffy doughnuts spilling with ricotta . But Granof 's " Sicily , My Sweet " is n't just aesthetically pleasing . The author delves into the traditions and superstitions of these items , and also provides guidance on building a Sicilian pantry , measuring by the eye and the hand ( as my own Italian American grandmother tended to do ) , and even how to make your own sambuca to wash it all down . -- S.B. <p> The creativity abounds in Matty Matheson 's latest , an ode to the simpler pleasures in life : soups , salads and sandwiches . In the third cookbook by the Canadian chef , internet personality and " The Bear " producer and actor , all three culinary subsets get some inspired -- and sometimes flat-out strange -- upgrades , like a single giant meatball floating in a tomato-y stew or a grilled cheese sandwich that oozes not only dairy but squash and bee pollen . There 's a shrimp burger , corn-and-maple soup and a fried-fish sandwich that gets ladled with clam chowder , but there are also straightforward classics of the three genres : gumbo , a wedge , a cheesesteak , a McRib riff , larb , crab congee and more . While I cooked my way through a few recipes I found some alterations were necessary , namely to my own tastes , but that 's by and large the crux of this cookbook : Matheson wants readers and home cooks to have fun with it , get weird and not take anything too seriously . That 's the joy of " Soups , Salads , Sandwiches " and what everyone 's favorite loud , tatted and endearingly chaotic chef calls " freewheeling cooking . " -- S.B. <p> L.A.-based Owen Han , creator of spectacularly successful sandwich content , wrote his first book , and it 's highly cookable . Yes , it 's all sandwiches -- who does n't love them ? -- that means his very broad definition ( some would argue too broad ) of what constitutes a sandwich ( tacos ? ) ends up serving many readers well . There are more recipes than you might expect . One highlight is his Italian nonna 's recipe for meatballs . I like her meatball-making method : Use bread soaked in milk instead of breadcrumbs , and poach them directly in the tomato sauce rather than pan-frying first . They turn out incredibly tender and flavorful . It 's the recipe that sold me on this book , whether you put them in a sandwich or not ( I have some in the freezer ready for spaghetti ) . I 've cooked other components for sandwiches ( the chile-marinated chicken for his O.G . Chicken Sandwich , for example ) , and even sans bread , they can be the start of an approachable weeknight dinner -- or , of course , the makings of your next favorite sandwich . -- B.H. <p> Wafu translates to " Japanese style " ; when it comes to cooking , that means hybrid dishes from other cuisines prepared with Japanese ingredients , flavors or techniques . Los Angeles-based cook and writer Sonoko Sakai delves into the transmutable character of this kind of fusion . Curry , croquettes , even ramen are national dishes that are the result of cultural intermingling . Sakai creates her own wafu recipes , including dashi cheese grits with miso honey butter , Japanese Italian wedding soup ( she adds soy sauce and sake to her meatballs ) , Caesar salad with aonori croutons and bonito flakes , eggplant katsu curry , fish and lotus chips with wasabi tartar sauce , and balsamic shio koji chicken . They reflect a foundation in Japanese cuisine , matched with international influences and her passion for California 's bounty -- citrus , persimmons , avocados , chiles and greens among them . Fresh and fun . -- B.H. <p> From a diverse collection of chefs , restaurateurs , journalists , farmers and food professionals , " When Southern Women Cook " explores the challenges and triumphs of the women who feed the American South . History is woven through recipes for North Carolina cheese biscuits and Texas breakfast tacos , while humor and cultural criticism find their way into hash browns that recall the version served at Waffle House restaurants . Dishes such as grilled ramps and gobi Manchurian remind readers of the culinary traditions that existed long before cuisine categorizations , as well as the international influences that are apparent in Southern cooking thanks to generations of migration and movement . Recipe instructions are clear and straightforward , allowing home chefs of any level to conquer Southern staples such as pimento cheese , fried catfish or fresh peach pie . -- D.D . <p> Adrienne Borlongan 's cookbook is like a textbook , with every morsel of information one might need to understand the science behind ice cream . Using her background in food science , the Wanderlust ice cream shop founder explains what it is and exactly why it tastes so good , then introduces you to flavors from all over the world . The salted kaya toast ice cream marries a custard made with pandan leaf and salted duck egg yolks with slices of milk bread to mimic the popular breakfast in Singapore . Kinako and Kyoho grape jelly is Borlongan 's answer to American peanut butter and jelly , with the malty , nutty tastes of roasted soybean flour and fruit jelly . By the end of the book I was inspired to create my own flavors based on my travels . But then I remembered how good the ube malted crunch is and made another batch of that instead . -- J.H. <p> Michael Zee -- the cookbook author behind the wildly popular Instagram account @symmetrybreakfast -- grew up in his Shanghainese grandfather 's Chinese restaurants in Liverpool , England . When he moved to China in 2017 , Zee set out to explore the craft of making breakfast , the most accessible meal of the day , all over the country . Recipes include morning soup , buns , noodles and dumplings in spectacular variety -- Jjidan hanbao pancakes stuffed with egg and pork and sprinkled with white pepper , fluffy Xinbonese bread , creamy Yunnan rice pudding . " If we consider the country a vast tapestry of flavor , texture and processes , " Zee writes , " then the meal of breakfast is an elemental thread in a story that is still being woven . " There 's no other book about Chinese food like this one . -- B.H. <p> Fans of Zaytinya have been waiting more than two decades for a cookbook . This year , Jos ? Andr ? s finally gave it to them . The celebrity chef 's celebrated , D.C.-founded restaurant pulls recipes and inspiration from the Middle East and the Mediterranean , and is famed for its mezze and grilled meats -- sometimes prepared traditionally , sometimes with haute flair . In the " Zaytinya " cookbook , Andr ? s and the restaurant 's chef Michael Costa deliver most of the signature items along with the stories behind them , and build your pantry from the ground up , with recipes for Lebanese seven spice , Yemeni seasoning blends , preserved lemons , harissa chile crisp and more . Then , of course , comes the rainbow of mezze , the array of stuffed vegetables , the bevy of hearty large-format meat dishes and the after-dinner sweets such as olive oil cake and Turkish ice cream . But it 's also a celebration of the region : Andr ? s pays equal homage to Lebanon , Turkey and Greece , even titling some items in multiple languages and providing cross-cultural context , a nod to ubiquity and cultural ties . " The meaning to me of culture is not something exclusive , but something inclusive , " he told The Times this year . " It 's not something that only belongs to you , but belongs to everybody . Culture to me is the perfect synonym for longer tables , for sharing . " -- S.B. <p> Betty Hallock is deputy Food editor at the Los Angeles Times . She has co-written four cookbooks , including " B ? co : Vivid Recipes from the Heart of Los Angeles , " " Am ? : A Modern Tex-Mex Kitchen " and " Baking at R ? publique . " She started her journalism career at the Wall Street Journal and Scientific American in New York , worked on the L.A. Times ' Business desk , and was interim food editor at Los Angeles Magazine . Hallock also helped launch a food and nutrition vertical for wellness app RoundGlass . She 's a graduate of UCLA and New York University . <p> Stephanie Breijo is a reporter for the Food section and the author of its weekly news column . Previously , she served as the restaurants and bars editor for Time Out Los Angeles , and prior to that , the award-winning food editor of Richmond magazine in Richmond , Va . Born and primarily raised in Los Angeles , she believes L.A. to be the finest food city in the country and might be biased on that count but does n't believe she 's wrong . <p> Danielle Dorsey is the assistant editor and writer of guides for the Food section . Previously , she was the senior West Coast editor at Thrillist , where she covered food , drink and travel across the California region . She grew up across San Diego and Riverside and has happily called Los Angeles home for more than 15 years . <p> Bill Addison is the restaurant critic of the Los Angeles Times . He is recipient of the 2023 Craig Claiborne Distinguished Restaurant Review Award from the James Beard Foundation , among numerous other accolades . Addison was previously national critic for Eater and held food critic positions at the San Francisco Chronicle , the Dallas Morning News and Atlanta magazine . <p> Sarah Mosqueda covers Orange County food , art and culture for TimesOC . She most recently worked as a staff writer in Food for the Los Angeles Times . She also has several years of experience in the restaurant industry , including as a proprietor . Mosqueda earned a bachelor 's degree in communications from Cal State Fullerton . <p> Cindy Carcamo is a staff writer in Food for the Los Angeles Times . She most recently covered immigration issues as a Metro reporter and , before that , served as Arizona bureau chief and national correspondent in the Southwest . A Los Angeles native , she has reported in Argentina , Guatemala , Honduras and Mexico , and is a former staff writer at the Orange County Register . 
@@118367698 <h> Getting physical mail , not scanned copies , is part of prison rehabilitation <h> An emeritus professor at DePaul makes a case against scanning prisoners ' mail . Others write about President Biden 's pardon of Hunter , Benjamin Netanyahu 's actions , professional sports displaying the flag and MAGA . <p> For the past 15 years I have been studying the work of Sister Helen Prejean , the social justice activist best known for her book " Dead Man Walking " and her fight against execution in the U.S.Because she has donated her papers to DePaul University , I have been able to read scores of communications in person . <p> All are fascinating . Some are to potentates -- presidents and governors , popes and bishops . Others are to celebrities and influencers . But most are to and from persons she accompanied as they waited for the justice system to decide their future . <p> Seen in their original , each card and each letter shows not only the respect with which they were infused but the degree to which they were prized . Cards , letters , clippings saved by those behind bars bear signs of having been read repeatedly -- words underlined , corners bent , paper worn thin from repeated touch . <p> SEND LETTERS TO : letters@suntimes.com . To be considered for publication , letters must include your full name , your neighborhood or hometown and a phone number for verification purposes . Letters should be a maximum of approximately 375 words . <p> I write of this today because several Illinois legislators are suggesting that Illinois intervene between our incarcerated citizens and their loved ones . " Mail scanning , " the concept being proposed , would have the Department of Corrections hire a for-profit company to seize correspondence sent to a correctional center , scan it onto copy paper or digitize it onto a screen , then destroy the original . <p> Ironically , this draconian approach is intended to address a problem only tangentially related -- an influx of contraband into prisons . Recent studies , being explained by other legislators , reveal that contraband is more often introduced by individuals who come and go , including staff , than by mail . Disrupting mail is not the solution . <p> Indeed , scanning would contravene one of IDOC 's most important roles : preparing persons to return to society . As James Swansey , policy manager at Restore Justice in Chicago , wrote of the supportive communication he received , " I would read and reread these letters from my grandmother , who passed away in the early years of my incarceration . She showed me nothing but support and encouragement in these letters , and I used them as motivation for years . " <p> The reflection affirms research that argues that those who experience humane care and retain connection with family throughout their incarceration are more likely to return home as caring citizens , not persons to be feared . <h> Upset by Biden ? Wait for Trump 's pardons <p> If you are outraged by Biden 's pardoning of his son , just wait until it is President-elect Donald Trump 's turn . <p> Melanie Wojtulewicz , West Lawn <h> Biden did right thing <p> To those wringing hands and gnashing teeth over the Hunter Biden pardon : Imagine for one minute what crimes Trump would excuse if any of his children were involved . <p> The younger Biden 's conviction and pending sentence were part of a clear political persecution and the elder did the right thing . <p> John Hankes , Streeterville <h> Shame on Biden <p> Despite stating that he would not interfere and pardon his son , President Joe Biden did . <p> Biden said the cases were a " miscarriage of justice . " Biden is blaming politics for his son being charged . Forget the fact that his son pleaded guilty . Hunter Biden was convicted of three felonies , one for buying a gun illegally . <p> Democrats are always blaming illegal guns as being the cause of violence , which they are . Hunter was convicted of buying a gun illegally and now he has been pardoned . How many similar cases will be up for review now that Biden has pardoned his son ? He 's pardoned because he is the president 's son , not because he is innocent . <p> Any wonder why so many voted Republican in the last election ? People are tired of the lies . <p> Janice Montgomery , Gage Park <h> Hunter is the ' nobody ' who is ' above the law ' <p> Many pundits and pols proclaimed that " nobody is above the law " in reference to Trump 's legal battles . Their mantra was underscored by President Biden 's public pledges not to pardon Hunter Biden 's crime convictions . Well , either the president lied , or Hunter is a " nobody " and above the law . <p> Mike Cook , Bourbonnais <h> ' Horrified ' by Netanyahu <p> I am repeatedly horrified by Benjamin Netanyahu and how he has abandoned the Jewish values I , and I 'm sure he , grew up with . The recent car bombing is just his latest attack on the wonderful World Central Kitchen . Even if it is true that one person in the car took part in the horrendous Oct. 7 attacks , why not just arrest him ? Why kill five people ? <p> It seems to me that Netanyahu is once again killing members of this organization to make it impossible for them to get personnel to feed the civilians in Gaza he seems to be determined to starve to death . Why are we continuing to support and supply him when he has ignored our warnings and deadlines ? Most Israelis do not support him , so why should we ? <p> Joyce Porter , Oak Park <h> Pro teams go too far with the flag <p> I heartily agree with letter writer Bob Chimis ( " Enough with giant U.S. flags at NFL games " ) that what he aptly calls " forced patriotism " devalues our genuine love of country . Whether it 's a military flyover or the unfurling of a ridiculously large flag at an NFL game , people should realize that it 's first and foremost a slick marketing move by professional sports teams and their owners to draw a direct connection between sports and patriotism . <p> Tom Conway , Forest Park <h> A Trump ' hoax ' ? <p> OK , MAGA . All the grocery prices will be very low . Gas prices will be like $2 a gallon . No more people in the country illegally . I ca n't wait . Or , is it all a hoax ? We will see . <p> The Bears ' interim head coach has a rare chance -- a five-game audition -- to become more than a long-shot candidate for the full-time job . But he 'll have to be more than a quarterback whisperer to do that . To win the interview , he 'll have to win games . <p> Three complaints were filed against Ronnie Reese in the year leading up to his termination , according to city personnel records , including one from a female staffer in the mayor 's press office who claimed Reese made her " severely uncomfortable . " <p> Warren said Monday that Poles would keep his job , be the ' point person ' for the team 's upcoming head coach search and , in case of a disagreement , have " final say " about whom they hire . So why was Warren the one who gave a 8-minute , 20-second opening statement ? 
@@118373194 <p> Neutra 's body was taken into Gaza , where it is still being held by Hamas . <h> Neutra 's family " deeply grieving and devastated " <p> Neutra , who grew up in Plainview , New York , deferred enrollment at SUNY Binghamton to join the IDF after attending a Jewish high school . His parents spoke out at a hostage remembrance and protest in Central Park just hours before his death was announced . <p> " We need to finish this war and bring cease-fire and get the hostages back , " his father Ronen Neutra said . <p> " The Neutra family is deeply grieving and devastated with the news . They are currently requesting the public who has been very supportive throughout this journey to please respect their privacy until they are formally ready to announce the next steps , " a family spokesperson said Monday . <p> Neutra " was serving as a tank commander in an Israel Defense Forces unit that was among the first to respond to Hamas 's campaign of cruelty -- risking his life to save the lives of others . A Long Island native , Omer planned to return to the United States for college . He dreamed of dedicating himself to building peace , " President Joe Biden said in a statement . <h> New York leaders react to Omer Neutra 's death <p> Town of Oyster Bay Supervisor Joseph Saladino said Monday flags would be flown at half-staff in Neutra 's honor . <p> " It is with deep sadness that we learn of the tragic loss of Omer Neutra , a beloved son of the Town of Oyster Bay and IDF soldier , who was killed by Hamas terrorists . This heartbreaking news is a profound reminder of the immense sacrifices made by individuals who stand in service to protect and defend democracy around the world , " Saladino 's statement read in part . " Our thoughts and prayers are with Omer 's family , friends , and all who loved him . This is a time of unbearable grief and a tragic loss for our entire town . " <p> New York Gov . Kathy Hochul ordered flags to half-staff statewide and said , " We pray that his body can be returned to his family , who have been speaking out for him &amp; all hostages since that horrific day . " <p> " For months we 've prayed for the safe return of Omer Neutra and all those kidnapped by Hamas on October 7th . This horrific news shakes all New Yorkers to our core , " Hochul said in a statement . " I 've met with Omer 's brave family and learned so much about this incredible young man . As we mourn this tragedy , let us continue to pray for the safe return of the remaining hostages , an end to the war without Hamas in power , and a lasting peace . " <p> The Wall of Hope in Plainview , New York displays pictures of hostages taken by Hamas , including Omer Neutra , who grew up in the community . CBS News New York <p> " On October 7th , he fiercely defended the communities near the Gaza border when Hamas terrorists attacked . For over a year , his parents lived in hope that their son was still alive . But today , their worst fears were confirmed . My heart breaks for them and their entire family as they face this unbearable loss . But I am also filled with pride in the life that Omer lived . His heroism and sacrifice will never be forgotten , and I will not rest until his body is returned home . May his memory be a blessing , " Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand 's statement said . <h> The wall of hope <p> After Neutra 's presumptive capture , the Mid-Island Y JCC in his hometown held weekly events and prayed that he and the 101 hostages would come home alive . <p> " We all woke up to the devastating news of the loss of Omer , that we 've kept in our hearts and prayers for so long now . I think it 's hit everybody the same . I burst out into tears when I saw it . I take a deep breath now to keep the tears . We all feel like we lost a son , a brother , a friend even if we did n't know him personally . He became the face of what 's going on in Israel , " said Mid-Island Y JCC CEO Rick Lewis . <p> The community 's wall of hope has been up for 422 days . It displays pictures of hostages they hoped would be seen alive again . <p> Gary Cellers , who updates the wall , prayed he would never have to add deceased stickers to the picture of Neutra . <p> " My heart aches for the Neutra family . My heart aches for all the hostage families , " said Cellers , facilities director at the Mid-Island Y JCC . 
@@118378283 <h> The Neutras wrote that Omer was deeply committed to both the people and land of Israel and immigrated to Israel out of that same deep commitment . <p> Orna and Ronen Neutra released their first statement on Monday afternoon , less than 12 hours after learning that Hamas killed their son Omer on October 7 before taking his body hostage in Gaza . <p> " Over the past 423 days -- nearly 14 months -- we have been working non-stop doing anything and everything possible to bring Omer home alive , " Omer 's parents wrote . <p> " It was an unimaginable nightmare to be acting based on the hope that he was alive , despite having little information or signs of life since he was seen on video being taken on October 7 . " <p> Orna and Ronen said their beloved son was a natural leader " who made others around him better with his warmth and ability to engage and encourage others to be their best . " <p> The Neutras wrote that Omer was deeply committed to both the people and land of Israel and immigrated to Israel out of that same deep commitment . Captain Omer Neutra ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <h> Long Island born and raised <p> Omer , who was born and raised on Long Island , New York , enlisted in the IDF following a gap year program in Israel after initially planning to return to the US to attend college . <p> " On the morning of Simchat Torah -- October 7th -- he and his team were the first in the line of fire -- operating in an isolated , disabled tank -- while attempting to defend the border and protect the local residents and workers under siege , " Orna and Ronen said . " We are so proud of how Omer fought to the end . " <p> Omer 's parents said they 're grateful their son " embraced and lived his life in line with the values on which we raised him " to protect the sanctity of life and understand their commitment to one another . <p> " But we never imagined in our worst nightmares that we would find ourselves spending this time continuing to fight for him in this way , " they said . <p> " In the 423 days since October 7 , we expected our leaders to demonstrate the same courage displayed so bravely by Omer and rise to the occasion on behalf of those who were killed and kidnapped , just as our beloved Omer showed until the very end , " the Neutras wrote . <p> While Orna and Ronen said they appreciate the support received from their communities in New York , Israel and around the world , the feeling on Monday was very difficult . <p> " The grief is heavy , " they said . " Sadly , time has run out to bring Omer home alive and words alone have no power to comfort . " <p> Leadership will only be revealed in actions and results going forward , the Neutras wrote . <p> " We call upon the Israeli government to work with President Biden and President-elect Trump , to use all of their leverage and resources to return all 101 hostages -- living and the deceased -- to their families as soon as possible . " 
@@118378284 <h> New intelligence information that came to light allowed a special military commission of rabbis , scientists , and lawyers to confirm his death . <p> Capt . Omer Neutra , 21 , died on October 7 of last year , and his body was taken by Hamas to the Gaza Strip , the IDF confirmed on Monday . <p> New intelligence information that came to light allowed a special military commission of rabbis , scientists , and lawyers to finally confirm his death around 14 months later , despite long-standing suspicions that he was dead . <p> Neutra was a lone soldier from New York , serving as a tank platoon commander in the 77th Battalion of the 7th Brigade . <p> He was abducted to the Gaza Strip on October 7 along with members of his tank crew . <p> Tank gunner Nimrod Cohen from Rehovot , who is currently held in Gaza , tank loader Oz Daniel from Kfar Saba , and driver Shaked Dahan from Afula , whom the IDF has confirmed as killed in Hamas captivity were among Neutra 's crew . Orna and Ronen Neutra , parents of Omer Neutra. ( credit : Hostages and Missing Families Forum ) <p> On Sunday , Neutra 's parents spoke with The Jerusalem Post about the possibility of a hostage deal during President-elect Donald Trump 's candidacy . <p> " We 're just hoping that he uses his leverage . You know , each side has their own leverages , " Orna Neutra , Omer 's mother , said , adding , " We 're hoping that the combined effort will finally make something move . " <p> " Omer loved sports , played soccer , basketball , and volleyball , and served as captain of his school 's sports teams , " the Hostages Families Forum said of him . <p> " His family and friends described him as a warm , optimistic , and people-loving person who ' lights up the room the moment he enters , ' " the forum added . <p> Neutra 's " bravery and sacrifice will never be forgotten , " Garin Tzabar , the program through which Neutra enlisted , said of him . <p> " We will continue to demand that Omer is brought home to be laid to rest in the land he fought to defend . Our thoughts and prayers are with his family , friends , and loved ones during this unimaginable time , " the program further noted . <h> Hostages currently held in Gaza captivity <p> Hamas is currently holding around 50 live and 50 dead hostages of the original 250 it kidnapped . <p> Around 80 were returned in a hostage deal in November 2023 , another eight were rescued , and many others were killed , or their bodies were recovered . 
@@118378290 <h> " If the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY , " Trump 's post said . <p> US PRESIDENT-ELECT Donald Trump meets with House Republicans on Capitol Hill in Washington , last week . It is difficult to tell how Trump will react if Israel will fail to end the current war on its various fronts by the time he enters office , says the writer. ( photo credit : BRIAN SNYDER/REUTERS ) <p> President-elect Donald Trump took to his platform Truth Social on Monday afternoon following the IDF 's confirmation that Hamas killed American-Israeli Omer Neutra on October 7 and has held his body hostage since . <p> Trump did not mention Neutra by name but wrote that " everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire World , in the Middle East - But it 's all talk and no action ! " <p> Trump continued , saying , " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity . " <p> Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the " long and storied History of the United States of America , " Trump wrote . <p> In the last two weeks , Biden administration officials confirmed they 've begun briefing the incoming Trump team on details of the Gaza hostage talks . <p> Biden said he himself briefed Trump on the negotiations during their meeting at the White House on November 13 . <p> A representative with the Trump team spoke on Saturday with Adi Alexander , father of American-Israeli hostage Edan , shortly after Hamas released a video revealing Edan is alive . <p> Trump 's team indicated that they were " shoulder-to-shoulder with the current administration to resolve the issue " and were working 24/7 , Adi told The Jerusalem Post on Sunday . <h> Getting things done <p> The Post also spoke with Omer 's parents on Sunday , and his mother Orna said Trump has a track record from his first administration of getting things done in the Middle East in a way that many other presidents were n't capable of . <p> A leader of the New York Hostage Families Forum told the Post that the families have spoken with some of Trump 's incoming appointed officials as well as members of their staff . <p> Organizers with the Families Forum are efforting as many meetings as possible between the hostage families and people within Trump 's orbit . <p> " The incoming team are saying very hopeful things , they 're saying that Trump wants a hostage deal and a ceasefire before the inauguration , " the leader told the Post on Sunday , echoing Trump 's post on Truth Social . <p> The Families Forum leader also said she knows that Trump knows the initial numbers he was given regarding how many hostages are presumed alive were not correct . <p> " Trump is the most important person , " she continued . " He 's the one that can get them out . He can put the needed pressure on Netanyahu to get a deal . " <p> The Hostage Families Forum praised Trump for his decisive message . <p> " The Hostage Families Forum extends its gratitude to President-elect Trump for his clear and uncompromising message , " the organization said in a statement . " It is now evident to all : the time has come . We must bring them home NOW . <p> " We call on both the current and incoming US administrations to act without delay and exhaust every opportunity to bring all the hostages home -- those alive for rehabilitation , and those murdered for proper burial . " 
@@118378292 <p> The storyline has been set since mid-September : Israel 's exploding beepers ( for which Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has taken credit ) flattened Hezbollah and paved the way for the IDF to crush the Lebanese terror group over the next month , leading to a ceasefire with far more favorable terms to Jerusalem than had been expected for most of the 14-month war . <p> But what if there was an entirely different storyline where Israel could have done even more to Hezbollah in the opening shot and much earlier , but did n't ? <p> While significant elements of the set narrative are true , in the shadows the Israeli intelligence community was at times dealing with a far more complex range of scenarios , including one where the exploding walkie-talkies might have caused far more damage to Hezbollah than the beepers ever could have . <p> In this other scenario -- in a maximum success scenario -- Israel 's intelligence services use of the walkie-talkies could have killed as many as 15,000 Hezbollah fighters in one fell swoop . This could have dwarfed the around 3,500 mostly Hezbollah terrorists who were ultimately wounded by the mix of the beepers first and walkie-talkies second on September 17-18 . <p> Some sources are saying that if the walkie-talkies had been activated on October 11 , 2023 , killing 15,000 Hezbollah fighters all in one fell swoop could have quickly ended the war in the North , kept Iran and the Houthis out of the war , and possibly even freaked Hamas out into cutting a more favorable deal with Israel in the South.One of the pagers that was thrown out before exploding , September 17 , 2024. ( credit : SECTION 27A COPYRIGHT ACT ) <h> Walkie-talkie plans <p> At some later date , historians will be exposed to all of the inner transcripts and communications of the top defense and political echelons regarding the war , and a more definitive conclusion will be reached about what was or was not possible on October 11 , 2023 . <p> But with significant limits still on what The Jerusalem Post can reveal at this juncture , sources have indicated that : 1 ) if the walkie-talkies had been activated on October 11 , 2023 , they would not have had anywhere near the maximum hoped impact under the specific existing circumstances ; 2 ) already three years earlier the walkie-talkies had been shifted from " Plan A " to " Plan B " ; and 3 ) given the full balance of the circumstances , the use of the beepers on September 17 , 2024 far exceeded the impact the walkie-talkies could have had in 2023 . <p> The story of the mass booby-trapped electronics started with the walkie-talkies and goes back to the decade before when the booby-traps were developed . <p> Updates were made along the way , but the most significant update was a few years ago when it was decided to push the beeper explosion program ahead of the walkie-talkie explosion program . <p> The idea was that the beepers would remain more reliably with Hezbollah forces at all times , even during peacetime or during times of low-grade conflict . <p> In contrast , the walkie-talkies could theoretically kill more Hezbollah fighters only if all the right military circumstances occurred at the same time . <p> It remains arguable whether Israel should have launched a major strike on Hezbollah on October 11 , 2023 , as the IDF high command and then-defense minister Yoav Gallant recommended at the time -- and there are two complex sides to that debate . <p> A successful massive strike then might have beaten Hezbollah much earlier and saved 80,000 northern residents from evacuating . But it also could have backfired and led to many more citizens and soldiers being killed than were killed when Jerusalem ordered the strike in September of this year . <p> Either way , the beeper explosions likely would have been the opening shot , and the walkie-talkies , which had already become Plan B some years earlier , would have been the secondary shot . <p> Another major issue that the Post can now shed greater light on is the circumstances of why the beeper explosions were activated on September 17 . <p> Back on September 22 , the Post already reported that conventional wisdom -- that the beepers were rushed to be activated on September 17 solely because they were about to be exposed by Hezbollah -- was wrong . <p> This wrongheaded narrative made sense with how surprised both the Israeli and Lebanese public seemed by the episode after Jerusalem had allowed Hezbollah to fire rockets on its northern front for 11 months without taking any consistent major steps to force a change beyond limited retaliations . <p> But the Post had learned that Israel had picked the timing carefully and not solely because of some sudden discovery by Hezbollah . <h> Netanyahu initiated major strike on September 12 <p> Now , the Post can disclose that Netanyahu had already decided to initiate a major strike on Hezbollah as of September 12 . <p> It is noteworthy that in the days leading up to the beeper explosions , both Netanyahu and Gallant made public statements about elevating the push to return northern residents to their homes to become one of the primary missions of the current war . <p> This came after Gallant declared Hamas 's last of 24 battalions in Rafah defeated on August 21 . <p> In other words , for the weeks and days leading up to the deeper explosions , Israel was shifting its ground and air forces heavily toward the northern border after having focused most of them on Gaza since October 2023 . <p> In this narrative , carefully timed exploding devices set the stage for sending Hezbollah reeling on its backheels , leading into the possibly even more significant attacks , which the IDF later admitted to . <p> Without beepers and cell phones to communicate , suddenly , Hezbollah Radwan special forces commander Ibrahim Aqil and around 20 of his top sub-commanders needed to meet in person to develop retaliation plans . <p> When they did a few days later , the IDF killed Aqil and somewhere between 13-15 other critical sub-commanders . This is not to say that Hezbollah never got close to exposing the beeper or walkie-talkie plots . <p> Sources have indicated that in September , and also at other earlier times , there were potential dangers of exposure to the booby-trapped devices ' plans . <p> Ultimately , it seems that at most , some renewed repeat concerns , but not necessarily at the level of a true crisis of exposure , of the program being exposed , which came up in mid-September , may have led to a decision to initiate the explosions and attacks a week or two earlier than they would have happened anyway . <p> This is not the same as the picture some have painted that the decision to stage a major attack on Hezbollah came almost accidentally after the beepers were allegedly on the verge of exposure for the first time . <p> Rather , as stated , Netanyahu made the decision days before any new danger of deeper exposure of the program had come up . 
@@118378294 <p> It is unclear if or when Israel will respond to the Yemen Houthi ballistic missile attack on Israel on Sunday , sources have told or indicated to The Jerusalem Post . <p> The ballistic missile was shot down outside of Israeli territory and no Israelis were killed or wounded directly from the missile , but some shrapnel did land in certain central areas and a small number of persons got injured rushing for shelter . <p> The missile set off warning sirens for almost all of the Center since it was unclear exactly where it might hit if it had penetrated the country 's air defense . <p> Because no one was killed or wounded ; because Israel is trying to wrap up a ceasefire with Hezbollah and is then hoping to wrap up a deal with Hamas ; because Yemen is more than 1,800 km. away ; and because some of Israel 's grand strategy for the region is waiting for US President-elect Donald Trump to enter the White House on January 20 , there are no signs whatsoever to date of an Israeli response . <p> If Yemen does not attack again , Israel might choose not to respond at all.Sirens across central Israel following missile launch from Yemen , 1 December 2024 ( credit : Tzofar ) <h> Compare and contrast <p> Unlike the other two instances when the Houthis attacked in July and September and top Israeli officials quickly vowed a response , here officials were largely silent . <p> In contrast , almost every significant official commented on the need to respond harshly to two mortars Hezbollah fired into the Golan Heights on Monday , which objectively speaking were far less threatening . <p> Moreover , the cost of shooting down ballistic missiles can be as high as $2 million to $3m. per interceptor when the Arrow 2 or 3 is used , given that the Iron Dome can not shoot down ballistic missiles . <p> On September 29 , the IDF undertook a massive strike against the Houthis , one that greatly exceeded the massive strike on Hodeidah in July , sources told the Post ahead of an IDF announcement about the attack . <p> Dozens of Israeli aircraft , including F-15I fighter planes , participated in the operation , striking 1,800 km. from Israeli territory after the Houthis fired three ballistic missiles on the Tel Aviv and central Israel areas earlier in September . <p> The IDF noted that the Houthis have cooperated with Iraqi militias , who are Iranian proxies , to attack . <p> Pressed , multiple military sources implied in September that Israel was still trying to avoid directly striking these militias . This is done to prevent unnecessarily complicating the situation in that country for the US , which Jerusalem hopes can maintain its influence there . <p> The military said it was impressive that the air force had managed such a large and complex operation while also attacking Israel 's adversaries in Lebanon , Gaza , the West Bank , and elsewhere -- all in the last 16 hours . <p> At the time , IAF Commander Maj.-Gen . Tomer Bar , IDF Chief of Staff Lt.-Gen . Herzi Halevi , and defense minister Yoav Gallant all congratulated the pilots and vowed that Israel 's long arm would strike any enemies who continued to harass the Jewish state . <p> The terror group has launched many ballistic missiles and drones at Eilat . In July , a drone from the Houthis killed a civilian in Tel Aviv . <p> This led to the first Israeli airstrikes in July targeting oil-refining facilities in Hodeidah , as well as Yemeni air force assets , to disrupt the transport of Iranian weapons to Yemen . Reports indicate that those strikes resulted in the deaths or injuries of dozens of people . <p> Until July , the IDF had outsourced responses to the Houthis to the US , which was fighting the group over various maritime aggression issues . However , after the Houthis killed a civilian in Tel Aviv , the Jewish state struck back directly for the first time . 
@@118378296 <h> The North over Gaza : Why settling in the Galilee must come first -- editorial <h> Strengthening the Galilee must be prioritized over Gaza to ensure long-term security , growth , and national resilience . <p> Smoke rise from a fire which broke out from missiles fired from Lebanon outside the northern Israeli city of Kiryat Shmona , October 22 , 2024. ( photo credit : AYAL MARGOLIN/FLASH90 ) <p> Diaspora Affairs Minister MK Amichai Chikli took the stage at Israel Hayom 's security conference in Jerusalem on Sunday with a bold declaration . <p> " Settling in the Galilee is far more urgent than settling in Gaza . " Speaking at the Bible Lands Museum , the Likud MK captivated the audience with his clear-eyed focus on rebuilding Israel 's northern communities , highlighting the stark challenges faced by towns along the Lebanese border . <p> His remarks stood in contrast to recent calls for resettling Gaza as a punitive measure , instead urging Israelis to prioritize strategic , demographic , and economic imperatives that directly impact the nation 's future . With the October 7 attacks still fresh in the national psyche , Chikli 's pragmatic vision demands our attention . <p> The Galilee , located along Israel 's northern border with Lebanon , has long been a critical region for national security . This became even more evident during the October 2024 escalation with Hezbollah , which followed the devastating Hamas attacks on southern Israel . <p> Border towns like Menara , Shtula , and Avivim faced significant challenges even before the war , including population decline and economic stagnation . These vulnerabilities were compounded by rocket attacks and infiltrations during the conflict , exposing the urgent need to strengthen these communities . A road blocked by the wall leads to settlements in the Upper Galilee ( credit : Gal Gabish ) <h> The Galilee is strategically vital <p> Strengthening the Galilee is not just about reinforcing the border ; it is about ensuring that Israel 's northern flank remains secure against one of its most formidable adversaries , Hezbollah , which continues to restock its arsenal that sat at over 150,000 rockets . Resilient and thriving communities in the Galilee act as a critical buffer zone , reducing the potential for territorial and demographic erosion in this strategically vital area . <p> The Galilee is home to a mixed Jewish and Arab population , with many areas having a Jewish minority . <p> This demographic reality highlights the importance of incentivizing Jewish families to settle in the region , preserving Israel 's vision as a Jewish and democratic state . The 2022 State of the Nation Report by the Taub Center highlighted that economic disparities between Israel 's central and peripheral regions , including the Galilee , have led to stagnation in population growth and economic development . <p> By channeling resources into developing the Galilee , Israel can address these disparities , offering incentives such as affordable housing , employment opportunities , and improved infrastructure . In contrast , resettling Gaza would require vast military and political investments , diverting resources from existing communities that need support . <p> The aftermath of the October 2024 war provides an opportunity to refocus national priorities . Just as Israel rebuilt its economy and infrastructure after the Second Lebanon War ( 2006 ) , it must now invest in regions like the Galilee , which were neglected even before the recent conflict . This is not just about recovery but about long-term growth and stability . <p> Communities along the Lebanese border were already in crisis before October 7 , with limited access to quality healthcare , education , and employment opportunities . For example , Menara saw a 15% decline in population between 2018 and 2023 as young families left in search of better prospects . Rebuilding and revitalizing these areas will not only strengthen Israel 's northern border but also create a sense of security and belonging for residents.Calls for resettling Gaza , such as those made by National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir , may resonate emotionally , but they prioritize symbolism over practicality . <p> Resettling Gaza would provoke international outrage , potentially reignite conflict with the Palestinians , and require a permanent military presence to sustain . The resources needed for such an undertaking would be better spent addressing the tangible needs of the Galilee , where settlement efforts align with Israel 's legal and strategic framework . <p> History can remind us of the importance of focusing on practical , achievable goals . The Zionist movement 's success in establishing thriving communities in the Negev and Galilee during the mid-20th century laid the foundation for Israel 's territorial integrity . <p> Finally , Israel 's leadership must embrace a vision for the Galilee as a national priority . This includes allocating significant resources for infrastructure development , creating incentives for young families to move to the region , and investing in industries that can drive economic growth . Programs that support agricultural innovation , eco-tourism , and hi-tech development in the Galilee can transform the region into a vibrant economic hub . <p> Strengthening the Galilee is not just a matter of regional development ; it is a national imperative . By focusing on this vital region , Israel can build a more robust , more secure , and more prosperous future for all its citizens . These words should guide us : The Galilee must come first . 
@@118378298 <h> " These are outright lies . IDF soldiers do not murder , and they do not carry out ethnic cleansing . Period , " Herzog said . <p> Israel 's President Isaac Herzog speaks during a swearing in ceremony for new chief rabbis at the President Residence in Jerusalem , November 4 , 2024. ( photo credit : Chaim Goldberg/Flash90 ) <p> Israel 's President Isaac Herzog addressed former Defense Minister Moshe Ya'alon 's claims that the IDF was ethnically cleansing Gaza , calling them " entirely disconnected from reality , " during a Monday event , the President 's Office said afterward . <p> Herzog 's comments came after Ya'alon stirred controversy in an interview with journalist Lucy Aharish on DemocratTV on Saturday , saying Israel was " being dragged into annexation and ethnic cleansing in the Gaza Strip . " <p> During a film premier event at Jerusalem 's Museum of Tolerance , Herzog commended the statements , emphasizing that " the IDF is a moral army that operates according to the strictest international legal standards and humanitarian norms , with every unit accompanied by meticulous legal counsel . " <p> " Time and again , we repel blood libels against us , including claims of genocide or ethnic cleansing allegedly carried out by the IDF , " he continued . <p> " These are outright lies . IDF soldiers do not murder , and they do not carry out ethnic cleansing . Period , " Herzog added . Moshe ' Bogie ' Ya'alon seen over an image of a Hezbollah flag and the Yarkon River ( illustrative ) ( credit : REUTERS/FLASH90 ) <h> IDF strongly rejects Yaalon 's claims <p> Earlier on Monday , the IDF spokesman also responded to Yaalon 's comments and rejected any claims of ethnic cleansing . <p> " The IDF acts in accordance with international law and evacuates a population in accordance with the operational need and temporarily , for its protection . The IDF rejects the serious claims of ethnic cleansing in the Gaza Strip , which harm the IDF and its soldiers , " the spokesman said . 
@@118379482 <p> Join Mashable as we look back at all the viral moments , movies , memes , dating trends , hyped up tech , scientific discoveries , and more that have delighted and amazed us in 2024 . <p> The internet moves fast , and we keep up with it , so you do n't have to . In this list , we sift through the metaphorical cream that rises to the top of the cultural cesspool we call the World Wide Web , recapping the tech flubs , film faves , and charming catchphrases that have defined 2024 so far . <h> Challengers <p> Credit : Amazon MGM Studios , Warner Bros . Pictures <p> The sizzling tensions of Luca Guadagnino 's Challengersinspired memes , breathless text posts , and horny fan edits of the three lead characters . Many of these edits used clips from the movie shot surreptitiously on mobile phones in dark theaters nationwide . As Mashable 's Elena Cavender noted , pirated clips are looked down on in some fan circles . Still , the online frenzy around Challengers made them fair game for fan editors who knew the people needed their tennis fantasy fix ASAP . <p> For the past year , we 've seen so much Taylor Swift on our feeds that she has become the moment . Her Eras Tour and relationship with footballer Travis Kelce -- both the talk of 2023 -- remained top of mind in 2024 as Swift played stadiums worldwide and managed to make it to her beau 's Super Bowl game on time . Then came the release of The Tortured Poet 's Department , a project fans expected would tear into her breakup with long-time partner Joe Alwyn . Instead , it seemed to primarily focus on her subsequent relationships with Matt Healy and Kelce , which sent listeners straight to their keyboards to discuss it all . <h> Pro-Palestine campus protests <p> Credit : Fatih Akta/Anadolu via Getty Images <p> Across the country , college students protesting the war in Gaza demanded that their universities divest from financial support of Israel . These protests , which included on-campus encampments and demonstrations , drew varied reactions from law enforcement . The Guardian reported that though " fewer than 20 " of the 533 campus demonstrations nationwide between April 18 and May 3 resulted in any serious interpersonal violence or property damage , there were at least 70 instances of forceful police intervention . One of those , at Columbia University , led to calls for President Minouche Shafik to step down after she allowed the NYPD to enter the Columbia campus and remove protestors . <h> Best Cyber Monday deals you can shop right now <p> Products available for purchase here through affiliate links are selected by our merchandising team . If you buy something through links on our site , Mashable may earn an affiliate commission . <h> " Would you rather be alone in the woods with a man or a bear ? " <p> This simple question , first shared on TikTok , opened a dialogue about gender-based sexual and physical violence : If left alone in the woods , would you feel safer being there with a man or a bear ? Women answered , overwhelmingly : the bear , adding comments like , " The worst thing the bear can do is kill me . " <h> Zendaya 's Dune : Part Two red carpet style <p> Credit : Wiktor Szymanowicz/Future Publishing via Getty Images <p> Zendaya and her longtime stylist , Law Roach , delivered incredible looks for the Dune : Part Two press tour , including a matching jumpsuit moment with co-star Timoth ? e Chalamet . But the ' fit that topped them all was a vintage Mugler chrome bodysuit with revealing cutouts . <h> Tween girls at Sephora <p> For about a month between January and February of this year , the internet had a lot to say about tween girls shopping at Sephora . TikTok videos purported to show display cases at the makeup store wrecked by overeager young women . However , the larger conversation revolved around whether young girls should be in the store at all -- and if the products they love from brands like Drunk Elephant , Glow Recipe , and Charlotte Tilbury are suitable for young skin . <h> " Who TF Did I Marry ? " <p> " Who TF Did I Marry ? " is an 8-hour video series that made creator Reesa Teesa the talk of the internet throughout February and March . The 52-part saga , posted to TikTok , details Teesa 's marriage to a " pathological liar " and " narcissist " whom she calls Legion . The New York Times dubbed the series a harbinger of " TikTok 's Midlife Crisis Era , " and Mashable 's Tim Marcin noted that people listened to it the same way they would a podcast . <h> Chappell Roan 's star-making ascent <p> Credit : Dania Maxwell / Los Angeles Times via Getty Images <p> The slow and steady rise of singer Chappell Roan was supercharged this year by her performances at Coachella , where her whimsical outfits , undeniable stage presence , and progressive pop proved to be a powerful combination . Her festival stages boosted her streaming numbers enough to earn her her first entry on the Billboard 100 with " Good Luck , Babe ! " <h> The rise ( and fail ) of AI <p> The meteoric rise of OpenAI in 2023 has upended content across the web in 2024 . We 're seeing the application of artificial intelligence across almost every major platform to varying degrees of effectiveness . In April , a screenshot of Google 's AI tool recommending readers put " glue on pizza " raised eyebrows and set tongues wagging on X. It was one of the most powerful indications that AI may not be ready for primetime and may misinform users across the internet . <h> The Willy Wonka Experience <p> An event in Glasgow billed as an immersive , experiential walk through Willy Wonka 's factory for families turned out to be more weird than wonderful . Customers paying more than $40 a ticket were treated to one bouncy castle , no chocolate , a single oompa loompa , and the " The Unknown , " a creepy new villain who " lives in the walls . " Guests were reimbursed , but the event 's fallout played out online as sleuths delighted in its sloppy , AI-generated marketing and actors hired by the production shared their takes on the disaster . <h> Stanley cups and the dangers of overconsumption <p> Credit : Matt Fowler KC via Shutterstock <p> The Stanley tumbler , a 40-ounce reusable stainless steel cup , is portable and durable and should reduce reliance on single-use plastics . Instead , it became a symbol of overconsumption earlier this year when people began sharing their enormous Stanley Cup collections , and videos surfaced of Stanley-seekers outrunning each other to nab a limited-edition Valentine 's Day colorway . <p> Mashable 's Christianna Silva broke down the FOMO , opining that " the frenzy for the tumblers points to a sensation becoming all too popular on TikTok : The app makes us feel insecure and uncertain of ourselves , and those very insecurities and uncertainties are being exploited for spending power . " <h> Jett and Pookie <p> Jett Puckett has a special nickname for his wife , Campbell . To him , she is " Pookie , " and she always looks " absolutely fire . " The couple 's TikTok content , featuring their date-night outfits and weekend outings , delighted viewers who especially loved listening to Jett wax poetic about Pookie 's appearance . Mashable 's Tim Marcin summed up the duo 's simple appeal : " Pookie is dressed up , and Jett compliments Pookie . " <h> Drake-Kendrick Lamar feud <p> Hip-hop feuds rarely reach the stratospheric drama of Tupac vs . Biggie or Jay-Z vs . Nas , but in 2024 , Kendrick Lamar and Drake gifted the internet with some jaw-dropping accusations -- which proved to be big business for livestreamers . <p> Mashable Top Stories <p> Stay connected with the hottest stories of the day and the latest entertainment news . <p> What started as Kendrick dismissing the idea of a " Big 3 " -- the long-standing rap triumvirate of him , Drake , and J. Cole -- ended with the Toronto rapper accusing Lamar of being a domestic abuser and not being the father of his kid . This then got flipped on Drake , with the Compton rapper alleging that Drake was a predator and a sex trafficker . <p> For weeks , it felt like the entire world had front-row seats to a rap beef that had jumped from a full-blown cultural phenomenon to something disturbingly personal . And despite some valid criticism about the escalation of this feud , you ca n't lie it was one of the wildest internet spectacles of the year , the likes of which ca n't be replicated . <h> brat summer <p> Credit : Will Heath/NBC via Getty Images <p> Charli XCX catapulted into the pop culture stratosphere with her seventh studio album , brat , a record that defined a movement as much as it dominated playlists . The album cover -- minimalist lime green with " brat " scrawled in stark black -- became an instant viral meme , a symbol of cheeky rebellion . Its cultural power only grew when the Harris campaign co-opted it during the 2024 presidential election , turning a pop aesthetic into a political statement . <p> Fueled by high-energy dance-pop and unapologetic lyrics , brat resonated as a battle cry for rebellious womanhood in a time of turmoil , with attacks on women 's bodily autonomy front and center in global discourse . What started as a musical era quickly became an aesthetic , embraced across social media and the streets , embodying defiance , femininity , and fun when it was most needed . <h> Raygun breaks the Paris Olympics <p> Credit : Rene Nijhuis/BSR Agency/Getty Images <p> The 2024 Summer Olympics in Paris delivered its fair share of viral moments , but none dominated the internet quite like Australian breakdancer Raygun -- though not for the reasons anyone hoped . Breaking made its long-anticipated Olympic debut , showcasing elite b-boys and b-girls from around the globe . Among them was 36-year-old Rachael Gunn , an Australian professor competing under the name Raygun , who quickly became the talk of the event . <p> Unfortunately , it was n't her skills that captured attention . Gunn failed to score a single point in her three one-on-one battles , delivering a performance so bizarrely offbeat that it became an instant meme . Clips of her routines flooded social media , sparking endless parodies and making her the unwitting face of Olympic failure . <h> " Very demure , very mindful " <p> It 's not every day that a 17-second TikTok transforms someone into a viral sensation , but that 's exactly what happened to Jools Lebron , now known as " TikTok 's resident fierce diva . " Their quick-hit videos on how to be " very demure " and " very mindful " at work , in life , and even in Las Vegas casinos struck a chord , blending humor and sass into an instant cultural moment . <p> The catchphrase exploded , becoming a go-to reference for celebrities , brands , and overly enthusiastic social media managers alike . At the time of writing , Lebron 's original video has racked up over 54 million views on TikTok , solidifying its status as a viral phenomenon -- and its creator as a bona fide internet icon . <h> Moo Deng mania <p> Credit : Lauren DeCicca/Getty Images <p> One of late 2024 's biggest celebrities is n't a pop star or actor -- it 's Moo Deng , a baby pygmy hippopotamus stealing hearts at the Khao Kheow Open Zoo in Si Racha , Chonburi , Thailand . This tiny queen rocketed to fame when the zoo posted a video of her waddling and splashing on Facebook , and the internet collectively lost its mind . <p> There 's not much more to say except , all hail Moo Deng . With her adorable chubby cheeks and playful antics , she became an instant viral sensation , cementing her status . <h> P Diddy 's allegations and arrest <p> Credit : Paras Griffin/Getty Images <p> The downfall of rap mogul Sean " Diddy " Combs became one of the internet 's biggest moments of 2024 , overshadowed only by the severity of the allegations against him . As shocking accusations surfaced against the Bad Boy Records founder , social media did what it does best : turned serious matters into viral chaos . <p> From tweets about Diddy 's infamous " all white " parties to TikToks riffing on the bizarrely excessive amounts of baby oil reportedly found in his mansion , the internet turned the scandal into an endless stream of memes . While the crimes alleged were far from funny , the digital response was a reminder of how unserious the internet can get . <h> The Substance <p> Coralie Fargeat 's The Substance joined the growing wave of films about women behaving badly , starring Demi Moore and Margaret Qualley in a darkly satirical tale of body horror . The story follows an aging A-lister who turns to a black-market drug to create a younger version of herself , offering a not-so-subtle critique of society 's -- and men 's -- obsession with punishing women for aging . <p> Its outrageous premise and over-the-top execution struck a chord online , earning the film a burst of quasi-virality in late September . Memes emanating from the movie did n't overstay their welcome either , thankfully respecting the balance unlike some . <h> Elon 's Big November <p> Credit : Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images <p> It was a banner month for the internet 's ( least ) favorite billionaire , Elon Musk . The Tesla and X owner made waves by dropping $200 million in a PAC to help fund Donald Trump 's successful bid for a second non-consecutive term as president . Musk 's investment paid off in the form of a controversial reward : he was named co-chair of the newly minted Department of Government Efficiency , or DOGE . <p> The name , a cheeky nod to Musk 's favorite cryptocurrency , belied the group 's actual role -- a powerless federal advisory body with zero authority to implement budget cuts . However , Musk 's new role came with a tangled web of ethical questions . Tesla and SpaceX rely heavily on federal contracts , creating a murky conflict of interest now that Musk has seemingly paid his way into being Trump 's " First Buddy . " <p> Because of this , a lot of the underbelly of what made early Twitter what it is today have flocked to Bluesky -- a decentralized social media initially funded by former Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey . <h> Timoth ? e Chalamet lookalike contest <p> Credit : Jeenah Moon for The Washington Post via Getty Images <p> Hosting spontaneous events in Central Park has become the latest trend . Remember the Cheeseball Man ? He does n't hold a candle to the thousands who gathered to see which skinny white boy would be crowned the ultimate " Timoth ? e Chalamet lookalike . " <p> This unlikely event inspired several other lookalike contests , such as the Dev Patel event in San Francisco and the Jeremy Allen White contest in Chicago . However , unlike those copycats , the Chalamet lookalike contest was actually attended by its namesake . <h> Wicked <p> Credit : Max Cisotti/Dave Benett/WireImage <p> To close out this year 's roundup of the best internet moments , we held some space for a film that truly soared : Wicked . The long-awaited movie adaptation of the iconic Broadway musical , starring Cynthia Erivo and Ariana Grande , finally hit theaters , and it 's already claiming its rightful place in the internet limelight . <p> Elizabeth is a digital culture reporter covering the internet 's influence on self-expression , fashion , and fandom . Her work explores how technology shapes our identities , communities , and emotions . Before joining Mashable , Elizabeth spent six years in tech . Her reporting can be found in Rolling Stone , The Guardian , TIME , and Teen Vogue . Follow her on Instagram here . <p> Chance Townsend <p> Assistant Editor , General Assignments <p> Currently residing in Chicago , Illinois , Chance Townsend is the General Assignments Editor at Mashable covering tech , video games , dating apps , digital culture , and whatever else comes his way . He has a Master 's in Journalism from the University of North Texas and is a proud orange cat father . His writing has also appeared in PC Mag and Mother Jones . <p> In his free time , he cooks , loves to sleep , and finds great enjoyment in Detroit sports . If you have any stories , tips , recipes , or wan na talk shop about the Lions/Tigers/Pistons/Red Wings you can reach him at email protected <p> This newsletter may contain advertising , deals , or affiliate links . Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time . 
@@118409089 <h> What we know <p> Syrian and Russian warplanes have launched " concentrated air and missile strikes " on the central province of Idlib , " killing and wounding dozens of terrorists and destroying their vehicles and weapons , " the Syrian Defense Ministry said today . <p> Israel launched its largest wave of airstrikes across Lebanon since agreeing to a ceasefire with Hezbollah last week , killing at least 11 people after the militant group fired a volley of projectiles yesterday . <p> President-elect Donald Trump said on social media that there will be " HELL TO PAY " unless the Israeli hostages still being held by Hamas in Gaza are freed before he takes office in January . <h> U.S. is ' deeply troubled ' over Israeli strike that killed aid worker <p> Abigail Williams <p> A representative for the State Department said the U.S. is " deeply troubled " and " outraged " after an Israeli strike killed Ahmad Faisal Isleem Al-Qadi , who was working with Save the Children in Gaza . <p> Vedant Patel , deputy spokesperson for the State Department , told reporters during today 's briefing that the U.S. urged Israel to " transparently investigate actions like these . " <p> " We condemn the intentional killing of aid workers anywhere , " Patel said . " As it relates to this particular incident , we have asked for additional information and I am not going to draw any conclusion until that has happened . " <p> Al-Qadi was killed Saturday , the same day Israel struck a convoy and killed three members of World Central Kitchen . Israel 's military alleged that one of the WCK workers was a Hamas operative who was targeted in the strike . <p> Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said today that the Islamic Republic would consider sending forces to Syria if asked to by the Syrian government , state news reported . <p> Araghchi made the comment during an interview with a Qatari media outlet and Tasnim News Agency , a state news outlet , later reported the headline . The Islamic Republic of Iran has backed Syrian President Bashar al-Assad throughout the civil war alongside Russia . <h> Funeral for IDF soldier presumed dead in Gaza to be held on Long Island <h> IDF says Israeli strike in Syria targeted Hezbollah operative <p> A Hezbollah commander was targeted in an Israeli strike in Damasus today , according to the Israel Defense Forces . <p> Salman Nemer Jamaa was in the country operating as Hezbollah 's representative to the Syrian Armed Forces , the IDF said . Israel accused Syria of enabling Hezbollah 's forces by allowing the Lebanon-based militant group to smuggle weapons through the country . <p> Hezbollah has fought on the ground in Syria in support of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad over the years . <p> The IDF said Jamaa was killed in the strike . Hezbollah has not publicly confirmed his death . <h> One killed in Israeli strike near Damascus Airport , state media reports <p> One person was killed in the attack , according to Syrian State News Radio SHAM FM , which reported that a car " believed to be Israeli " was " targeted . " <p> Damascus International Airport , 20 miles southeast of Damascus , the capital , is the largest airport in Syria . <h> Syria must hold talks with rebels , Turkey 's foreign minister says <p> Freddie Clayton <p> Syrian President Bashar al-Assad must reconcile with his own people and hold talks with the opposition , Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan has said . <p> After talks with Iranian counterpart Abbas Araghchi yesterday , Fidan said the pair have agreed to resume diplomatic efforts to help restore calm in Syria following last week 's surprise rebel offensive . <p> Turkey backs forces opposed to Assad , while Iran has thrown its support behind his government . <p> " Recent developments show once again that Damascus must reconcile with its own people and the legitimate opposition , " Fidan said at a joint news conference . " Turkey is ready to make all the necessary contribution toward this . " <h> Gaza has highest number of child amputees per capita in the world , UNRWA says <p> Freddie Clayton <p> Gaza is suffering from an " epidemic of traumatic injuries , " the commissioner general of the United Nations refugee agency wrote on X today . <p> The enclave now suffers from the " highest number of child amputees per capita in the world , " Phillipe Lazzarini said . <p> The World Health Organization estimates that " one in four people injured during the war sustained life-changing injuries &amp; will need rehabilitation services , including care for amputations &amp; spinal cords injuries , " he added . <h> Venezuela throws support behind Syria as leaders talk on phone <p> Ammar Cheikh Omar <p> Venezuelan President Nicol ? s Maduro has thrown his support behind Syria 's " government and people " during a phone call with President Bashar al-Assad , a statement from Assad 's office said on Telegram today . <p> It said the two leaders discussed " combating and defeating terrorism , " and that Maduro blamed the U.S. and the West for seeking to " weaken Syria " <p> Assad said " the fate of independent nations is to confront the schemes of the U.S. and the West against them . " <p> Israeli forces stormed the Turkish hospital in the occupied West Bank this morning and arrested its general manager and other citizens , the official Palestinian news agency WAFA reported today . <p> A " visitor " was shot inside the hospita , and Israeli forces arrested five medical personnel and assaulted the head of the emergency department , the agency reported . <p> An earlier report said that Israeli bombs killed two people after bombing a vehicle at the entrance of the hospital . <p> The Palestinian Health Ministry condemned the attack in a statement . It said Israeli forces had fired " bullets and bombs inside " inside the hospital and assaulted " staff and patients . " <p> NBC News has reached out to the IDF for comment . <h> Qatar says it is working with Turkey , other partners to end hostilities in Syria <p> Reuters <p> Qatar is working with Turkey and other partners in the region to bring solutions to end hostilities in Syria , Qatari Foreign Ministry spokesperson Majed Al-Ansari said in a press conference today . <p> When asked about reports in Iranian state media that Iran , Russia and Turkey would meet to discuss Syria at the Doha Forum foreign policy conference this weekend , Al-Ansari said he was not aware of any such plans , but that Qatar was always open . <h> Palestinians receive flour from aid distribution center <p> Will Clark <p> Palestinians gathered at a United Nations distribution center in Gaza 's southern city of Khan Younis to get their provisions of flour today . <h> Syrian militants welcome applications from defectors <p> The rebel group leading the offensive against Syria 's government announced today that it is " accepting applications " from defectors in the northern city of Aleppo . <p> Hayat Tahrir al-Sham said in a statement that anyone who has worked for Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad 's regime " is required to visit the designated police stations and bring their personal identification , weapons , and any other relevant materials . " <p> Defectors must do this " no later than Friday , " in order to obtain " temporary identification cards that would exempt them from legal prosecution and protect their rights , " the statement added . <h> Israeli strikes kill 11 in Lebanon as fire exchanges test ceasefire <p> Freddie Clayton <p> Israel said it struck targets in Lebanon after promising to retaliate for a Hezbollah attack on its positions in the disputed Shebaa farms area . <p> At least 10 people were killed by Israeli strikes on two southern villages , the Lebanese Health Ministry said on X this morning . Another person was killed in a separate strike . <p> Israel said there were no injuries in Hezbollah 's strikes , which came as both sides accused each other of violating last week 's ceasefire agreement . <p> Shebaa Farms is an enclave where the borders of Israel , Lebanon and Syria meet . Israel says it is part of the Golan Heights , which it captured from Syria in 1967 and has controlled since . <h> Syria and Russia strikes target rebel-controlled Idlib <p> Freddie Clayton <p> Syrian and Russian warplanes have launched " concentrated air and missile strikes " on the central Idlib province , " killing and wounding dozens of terrorists and destroying their vehicles and weapons , " the Syrian Defense Ministry said today . <p> Syrian forces are advancing in the countryside near Aleppo , Hama and Idlib as it seeks to secure territory claimed by rebel forces . <p> Yesterday , Russian airstrikes targeted a group of health centers and hospitals in the rebel-held city of Idlib in northwest Syria , according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights today . <h> Trump says ' hell to pay ' if hostages in Gaza not released <p> Freddie Clayton <p> President-elect Donald Trump said there will be " HELL TO PAY " unless the Israeli hostages still being held by Hamas in Gaza are freed before he takes office in January , in a social media post yesterday . <p> " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " he said in the post on Truth Social . <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody who has been hit in the long and stories history of the United States of America , " he added . <p> The conflict between Syrian regime and rebel forces risks spreading across the entire region , Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said following talks in Syria with President Bashar al-Assad . <p> " Conflict carries 100%-guaranteed spillover of terrorism to the whole neighborhood , " he said on X yesterday . " All agreed : NO ONE benefits from another war in Syria . " <p> Araghchi reiterated Iran 's support for the " Syrian people , Government and Army in their fight against terrorism . " <p> His comments came after Iran-backed militias based crossed into Syria from Iraq , to support Assad 's military , according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . <h> Syrian government launched wave of airstrikes , monitoring group says <p> Charlene Gubash <p> Reporting from Beirut <p> Fighter jets and helicopters carried out 45 airstrikes near the Syrian city of Hama last night as the Syrian government tried to block rebel groups from advancing in the region , according to a leading monitoring group . <p> The U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in an online update that the clashes between government and rebel forces were " the most violent " since the rebels launched their shock offensive last week <p> The government had " upset attempts " by rebels to advance into the town of Qala'at Madiq , but that rebels had take control of several villages in the northern Hama countryside , it added . 
@@118409481 <p> DUSSELDORF , GERMANY -- SEPTEMBER 15 : Meghan , Duchess of Sussex and Prince Harry , Duke of Sussex watch on during the Mixed Team Gold Medal match between Team Colombia and Team Poland during day six of the Invictus Games D ? sseldorf 2023 on September 15 , 2023 in Duesseldorf , Germany . ( Photo by Joern Pollex/Getty Images for Invictus Games D ? sseldorf 2023 ) <p> Newly released IRS documents show that the largest donation made by Prince Harry and Meghan Markle 's Archewell Foundation in 2023 was $250,000 to a new nonprofit launched last year by Ashley Biden , the daughter of President Joe Biden . <p> The nonprofit is the Pennsylvania-based Women 's Wellness Space , described as a " wellness center for women affected by trauma , " according to the foundation 's Impact Report , People reported . Its founder , Ashley Biden , is a social worker with experience working with formerly incarcerated women , according to the report . Her center " aims to offer a safe haven and community for women impacted by trauma , providing resources such as nutritious food , exercise , meditation and therapeutic interventions . " <p> The donation was hailed by supporters of the Duke and Duchess of Sussex , who say it benefits a good cause that aligns with Meghan 's philanthropic history , which has long focused on uplifting women and girls . <p> Ashley Biden welcomes her father , US President Joe Biden , to the stage on the first day of the Democratic National Convention ( DNC ) at the United Center in Chicago , Illinois , on August 19 , 2024 . Vice President Kamala Harris will formally accept the party 's nomination for president at the DNC which runs from August 19-22 in Chicago . ( Photo by Brendan SMIALOWSKI / AFP ) ( Photo by BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> However , the Biden connection has raised eyebrows -- and more -- among the couple 's critics . The right-wing Daily Mail argued that the couple insisted they would remain politically neutral ahead of the presidential election , while the Daily Beast pointed out that the Biden Administration has been accused of protecting the couple by not fulfilling a Freedom of Information request to release the duke 's immigration records . <p> The Heritage Foundation , the right-wing think tank which authored the controversial Project 2025 plan for the incoming Trump administration , sought Harry 's immigration records to find out if he had been honest about his past drug use when he applied for a visa . A federal judge ruled in September that Harry was entitled to privacy in the matter and his paperwork should not be released . <p> The news about this donation for Ashley Biden also comes as her father is under fire from various quarters , including legal experts and some Democrats , over his decision to grant a sweeping pardon to her older half-brother , Hunter Biden . Biden pardoned Hunter Biden for his convictions on tax and gun charges , as well as for any " offenses against the United States " committed over the past 11 years . <p> As for the Archewell Foundation 's other charitable news , their tax documents showed they garnered a $5 million donation from an unnamed individual and gave out a total of $1.3 million in grants to various organizations . <p> One beneficiary was ArtTogether , an Oakland nonprofit that provides art programs that foster a sense of community amongst refugee and immigrant populations . The $27,500 ArtTogether donation was made under the umbrella of the Archewell 's " Welcome Project , " which supports programming for women who have recently resettled from Afghanistan . Archewell said it supports 11 active Welcome Projects in the United States , which are " designed to foster a sense of belonging through activities including sewing , art , hiking , swimming , photography , storytelling and cooking . " <p> Other top Archewell beneficiaries include the NAACP and organizations that support community-based journalism and mental health services for aid workers in Israel , Gaza , Syria and Turkey . <p> However , the tax documents also show that the $1.3 million in grants constituted only 39% of total expenses for 2023 . The foundation spent far more in 2023 -- $1.9 million , or some 61% -- on salaries and compensation to executives and on a range of administrative costs , travel , events , legal services , advertising and payment to consultants . <p> Charity watchdog organizations use a variety of measures to rate the effectiveness of nonprofits , but often focus on " the program expense ratio , " according to Charity Watch . That is , the percentage of total expenses that an organization devotes to programs that benefit people or causes -- as opposed to the percentage spent on overhead , which includes management and fundraising . <p> " While administration expenses are necessary for efficient charity operations , organizations that grossly underspend on their programs and services will most likely not have as strong an impact on their charitable missions , " Charity Navigator also said in its 2024 Rating Methology Guide . <p> The Better Business Bureau has said that at least 65% of expenses should be for programs , while Charity Watch said that 75% is the ideal . In its rating methodology , Charity Navigator holds 70% as its ideal and wo n't give points to organizations if their program expense ratio is under 50% . <p> As for Ashley Biden 's program , the first daughter told Elle in 2023 that her wellness center takes her back to the Philadelphia area , where she earned her master 's in social work through the University of Pennsylvania , before taking jobs at the Delaware 's Department of Services for Children , Youth &amp; Their Families and Delaware Center for Justice . In the Elle interview , Ashley Biden said she imagined the center , which is operational , as providing " a drop-in space where women can eat a healthy meal , hit the treadmill or box , listen to guided meditation , and access therapies including EMDR and infrared saunas , which Ashley herself has found effective and wants to share with others . " 
@@118409499 <h> Why Syria Matters to the Kremlin <p> Rebel forces swept into Aleppo on Saturday , capturing the city center in a lightning three-day offensive that seemed to show the slackening of Moscow 's grip on Syria . The symbolism was impossible to ignore : The Syrian regime 's brutal reconquest of that very city in 2016 had demonstrated Russia 's military effectiveness . Now Vladimir Putin 's Russia is preoccupied with Ukraine , and Aleppo has slipped from regime control . <p> But Russia 's commitment to Syria has not actually wavered , and Russia is not really distracted . The advance of Syria 's rebels , led by the group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , reflects the degradation not of Russian attention but of the multinational ground forces supporting the regime of Bashar al-Assad . And Russia is not only not contemplating withdrawing from Syria -- it looks poised to double down on its investment there , even if it has to rely on Iranian-backed forces and the cooperation of regional powers to do so . <p> Syria is important to Moscow because intervening there in 2015 allowed Putin to reverse the narrative of Russian decline that had taken hold since the collapse of the Soviet Union . Russia would no longer be what then-President Barack Obama dismissed as a declining " regional power " -- it was to be a decisive great-power patron of the Assad regime , and as such , it would rewrite the playbook of outside intervention in the Middle East . American-led interventions , such as the invasion of Iraq and the NATO campaign in Libya , shattered states and bred chaos . Russia would have the opposite effect , preserving Syrian sovereignty and regional order . <p> To understand Russia 's military position in Syria , consider that when Moscow first intervened there , in September 2015 , it did so with a surprisingly light footprint and a long-term plan to modernize and strengthen the Syrian military . Moscow deployed just 2,500 to 4,500 personnel to Syria at any given time , focusing on air power , air defenses , and special forces , while relying on Iran and its proxies to supply ground forces . Operating from Khmeimim Air Base , Russian tactical aviation supported ground operations . Long-range bombers in Russia , along with cruise missiles on Russian warships in the Mediterranean , targeted positions deep inside Syria . Moscow also contributed advanced air-defense systems including S-400s , S-300s , and Pantsirs , along with electronic-warfare capabilities . <p> Moscow sent some special-operations units , military police , advisers , and artillery teams to Syria . But to retake territory from the rebels , it relied almost entirely on a network of Iranian-backed forces , including the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps , Iraqi Popular Mobilization Units , the Afghan Fatemiyoun , the Pakistani Zeinabiyoun , and Hezbollah . Ultimately , the Kremlin sought to build the Syrian Arab Army ( SAA ) into a professional fighting force capable of independently securing Assad 's rule , and so it poured resources into modernizing the SAA 's command structures , improving battlefield coordination , and equipping units with advanced Russian weaponry . <p> Russia 's approach appeared to be sustainable -- even in 2022 , when Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine , and adjusted its military presence in Syria accordingly . Moscow redeployed some aircraft and an S-300 air-defense system to Ukraine , but Khmeimim Air Base remained highly functional . More significant , the Kremlin drew down its minimal presence on the ground , relying more heavily than before on Iranian-backed forces , to whom it transferred some of its command posts . <p> The invasion of Ukraine also changed Moscow 's Middle East posture in another way . Since getting involved in Syria , Moscow had delicately balanced the claims of Iran and Israel . In 2018 , it agreed to hold Iranian forces about 50 miles off from the Golan Heights . The invasion of Ukraine began to shift this equilibrium , as Moscow 's reliance on Iranian drones for that war pushed it closer to Tehran 's " Axis of Resistance . " <p> None of this seemed like a major problem for Russia until Hamas attacked Israel on October 7 , 2023 . Then , as the conflict in Gaza spilled into the surrounding region , Israel escalated from targeting weapons depots in Syria to systematically eliminating high-value Iranian and Hezbollah assets and personnel there . Russia could no longer remain neutral regarding Israeli strikes while simultaneously deepening its reliance on Iranian-backed ground forces . The situation worsened as Israel 's Lebanon offensive degraded Hezbollah , which was , after all , one of the forces Moscow relied on to sustain the status quo in Syria . <p> The gaps in Moscow 's strategy have now become apparent . When HTS first struck Aleppo , the speed and surprise of the advance left Moscow little time to coordinate with ground forces or organize effective air support at the scale needed to counter such a major offensive . And the collapse of regime defenses revealed that Russia 's long-term strategy to professionalize Assad 's military had failed : At the Kuweires air base , Syrian forces surrendered without resisting . They abandoned valuable assets , including helicopters , aircraft , and advanced air-defense systems . <p> These setbacks will not drive Russia out of Syria , however . The Kremlin has too much at stake . It has already leveraged its Syrian intervention to rebuild its Middle Eastern influence , positioning itself as an essential mediator among Iran , Turkey , the Gulf states , the United States , and Israel . Moscow has also secured lucrative economic contracts for the reconstruction of Syria . <p> Given the stakes , Moscow will be compelled to adapt rather than withdraw . It will likely seek to strengthen military cooperation with Iran , including by finding a role for Iraqi militias and recruits in Syria . Reports indicate that this is already happening . Iran has also been recruiting on Telegram channels to replenish its Syrian brigades . These reinforcements may help offset Hezbollah 's losses , but they are unlikely to be as effective as the Russian- and Iranian-led campaign that carried out the Aleppo offensive in 2016 . <p> Russia will probably also try to negotiate with Turkey , which backs some of the rebel groups . Since Saturday , Moscow has uncharacteristically avoided criticizing Turkey over the rebels ' activities . This restraint suggests that Russia is preparing a diplomatic initiative -- perhaps one that allows Russia to maintain its presence in some parts of Syria while accommodating Turkish interests in the northwest . <p> Russia would n't be seeking such an arrangement if it were n't militarily weakened . Not only have Iranian proxy forces lost muscle ; Syrian opposition forces have gained it . They are much better equipped and coordinated than they were in 2015 . If they were to continue to Homs from their current position in Hama , they would effectively sever the Russian bases at Latakia and Tartus from Moscow 's modest deployments elsewhere in Syria . <p> As consuming as the war in Ukraine has been for Russia , the Kremlin does not see it as superseding its Middle East ambitions . That 's because Syria is not just a military outpost . It is a cornerstone of Russia 's claim to great-power status , a theater where it can demonstrate its diplomatic reach and its counternarrative to Western interventionism . This explains why Russia continues to invest in Syria even as it fights a costly war in Ukraine . Moscow may adjust its tactics , but abandoning Syria would mean surrendering something far more precious than territory : Russia 's hard-won position as an indispensable power broker in the Middle East . <h> About the Author <p> Nicole Grajewski is a fellow in the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and an Associate with the Project on Managing the Atom at the Harvard Kennedy School 's Belfer Center . She holds a PhD in International Relations from the University of Oxford and is the author of Russia and Iran : Partners in Defiance from Syria to Ukraine . 
@@118409784 <p> The Long Island family of slain Israeli-US soldier Omer Neutra delivered heartbreaking eulogies at his packed memorial Tuesday -- with his parents describing their hope when they thought he was still alive . <p> " For over a year now , we 've been breathing life into your being , my beautiful boy , with no physical sign back from you , " said Neutra 's weeping mom Orna -- who along with the rest of the world only just learned that her son had n't been taken hostage Oct. 7 , 2023 , and had instead been killed fighting that day . <p> " My beautiful son , my strong 6-foot-2 big , smiley boy . ... I pled for a sign of life . I did n't get any , " the mother said . <p> " We envisioned images of our reunion focusing on doing , on our fight for your release and for some clarity in the face of the unknown . <p> " And now things are clear , but not as we hoped , " the mom told the crowd of about 1,500 people packed the Midway Jewish Center in Syosset to remember Omer , 21 , a Plainview resident and Israel Defense Forces tank commander who was confirmed dead Monday after 432 days of hope that he had survived the attack and was still alive as a hostage . <p> Omer of Plainview , Long Island , served in the Israel Defense Force and went out to try and stop Hamas ' surprise invasion Oct. 7 , 2023 , when he was killed that day . AP <p> Neutra 's father , Ronen -- who helped hold weekly events in Central Park in Manhattan to keep alive hope for their son and the hostages -- said , " How do you speak about your son that you 've been fighting for for 14 months , hoping , praying , he survives the most horrible conditions on Earth , and yet you will get to see him . <p> Mom Ronen Neutra is comforted Rachel Goldberg-Polin , whose son was also kidnapped and killed by Hamas . REUTERS <p> Ronen said he was proud of his son 's decision to defer his acceptance to Binghamton University to join the IDF , as well as his unit 's decision to confront the Hamas terrorists invading Israel . <p> " On October 7 , they were the first responders to rush the border breach , not knowing the magnitude of the events , not knowing what they were about to face , " Ronen said of his son and other Israeli troops . <p> " We were so focused that we totally ignored other options , that Omer might have been killed during his battle , that he rushed with his team to protect the border with their tanks , with their bodies . <h> Thanks for signing up ! <p> Ronen and his wife described their oldest son as a man who balanced being a goofy and fun-loving guy with being a serious leader who was dedicated to whatever team he was on , be it a sports team or the IDF . <p> Orna said she was thankful for the past 14 months of support people from all over the world have shown her family as they waited in agony for any news about " our beautiful Omer , " whose tank was ambushed and burned by Hamas terrorists . <p> " I pray that beyond the grief , we will find some comfort in continuing to spread your light , " she said . " We will miss you forever and love you forever . " <p> About 1,500 people mourn and honor Neutra at the Midway Jewish Center in Syosset . James Messerschmidt <p> Neutra 's younger sibling , Daniel , echoed his parents ' grief as he lamented the fact that he will soon become older than his big brother and have to live a full life without him by his side . <p> " At least when I have to explain to my children and grandchildren who Omer was , I will have thousands of interviews , articles and documentaries to reference , " Daniel said of the countless stories written about his brother . <p> Omer 's family called on its supporters to continue their fight to save the remaining hostages who are still trapped in Gaza and also bring back the bodies of others , including their son . <p> " They did what they could , but they were taken hostage , and now it 's Israel 's turn to show its love and get him and all his team and everybody else back , " Omer 's dad said of the hostages . <p> Loved ones remembered Neutra as a goofy but serious young man who loved sports and his two nations . James Messerschmidt <p> After the Oct. 7 attack , the Neutras joined a close network of families advocating for their loved ones ' freedom , and they vowed to continue the fight to help their community . <p> " Every march , every rally , every trip to Washington or Jerusalem to fight for Omer 's rescue , it 's all too late for him . But it was not in vain , " Daniel said . <p> " Now everyone knows the Omer 's story , his sacrifice , his endless heart , and now his memory will live forever . ... The greatest honor we can give to him is to rescue the people he gave his life to protect , and must continue his life 's work and keep serving life , " he added . <p> Gov . Kathy Hochul , who ordered flags in the state be flown half-mast for Omer 's memorial , told reporters outside the gathering that she met with the slain New Yorker 's family shortly after the terrorist attack . <p> " I had a chance to meet his parents -- the most incredibly brave individuals I 've ever met . And their perseverance : traveling the nation , going to our nation 's capital , meeting us in Albany , meeting so many times at rallies and services in New York City , I felt I knew them so closely , " Hochul said . <p> " So our hearts are collectively ripped apart on this day , " she added , calling on Hamas to free the remaining hostages . " This has been a long , painful nightmare for so many , and it must end now . " <p> Nassau County Executive Bruce Blakeman also spoke after the memorial , touting the Neutra family 's strength in the face of tragedy . <p> " They did everything possible just on the belief and hope that he might be alive , and they are just an amazing family , " he said . " They have tremendous dignity , strength and courage . " 
@@118410092 <h> The Best Albums of 2024 <h> As cruelty reigned , the year 's top releases sought stability . <p> ByCraig Jenkins , a Vulture music critic who also covers TV , comedy , and video games <p> Photo-Illustration : Vulture <p> Photo-Illustration : Vulture <p> This year was one big stress test that presented artists with a choice : Face uncomfortable realities or serve distractions to the audience . Pop music turned inward and looked backward while hip-hop weathered court cases and incalculable losses . Country struggled to reconcile conservative interests with a much wider base of artists and listeners while rock and roll and dance music stretched past their boundaries , occasionally co-mingling . With a keen awareness of what lies on both ends of the spectrum of human kindness and cruelty , 2024 's best music documented an unbreakable will to keep pushing past the worst days to get to wherever the peaceful ones were hiding . <h> 10. <h> mediopicky , Bexaco y rico <p> The playful spirit of Dominican DJ and producer mediopicky shines through his records . September 's el precio de la yuca was a clever urbano concept album imagining a future podcast finding the record and unpacking it in real time . October yielded the more concise Bexaco y rico , which uses dembow as a launch pad into hyperspace . The frenetic " disilence " soars on clattering percussion and synths that conjure Sonic the Hedgehog levels of the mind . But the mixes slam just as hard when the tempos slow : " tu papi rico " pairs reggaeton brashness with industrial crunch , and , as " UniKorN " distorts gossamer bells , it raises discomfiting harmonics . Bexaco unfolds like a consequential club night . <h> 9 . <h> Various Artists , TRA ? ? ? ? ? A <p> The HIV/AIDS advocacy nonprofit Red Hot Organization is good for at least one **25;1131;TOOLONG benefit compilation per decade : 1993 's No Alternative housed a sought-after Nirvana B-side ; 2009 's Dark Was the Night tracked the aughts indie-rock explosion with Grizzly Bear and Bon Iver jams ; 2016 's Day of the Dead delivered five hours of jaw-dropping Grateful Dead reworks . This year 's TRA ? ? ? ? ? A gained steam after the untimely death of pop and dance-music impresario SOPHIE in 2021 as a celebration of trans and nonbinary musicians ' contributions to culture . Any stretch of track list is a joy : Beverly Glenn-Copeland is everywhere . Massachusetts folkie Anjimile joins Bartees Strange and Kara Jackson for a slick rendition of TV on the Radio 's " Wolf Like Me , " and then Laura Jane Grace tears into Jayne County 's " Surrender Your Gender " with Sonic Youth 's Lee Ranaldo in tow . Hunter Schafer reads Eileen Myles a few minutes after Julien Baker serves a bustling take on a ' 90s Belle and Sebastian classic . Like No Alternative , TRA ? ? ? ? ? A buries its trophy : The ' 93 Nirvana cut was a hidden track , and its successor seats the return of Sade at track 37 of 45 . " Young Lion " sees the quiet-storm icon apologizing to her son Izaak for not noticing and affirming his manhood sooner . The lineup is an embarrassment of riches , snaking through ambient , folk , and jazz songs where cishet , queer , trans , and nonbinary artists exchange ideas on art and personhood that our governments resist . <h> 8 . <h> Fontaines D.C. , Romance <p> Romance , the fourth studio album from erstwhile Dublin post-punk quintet Fontaines D.C. , is a lad-rock epiphany ambitious enough to incur the wrath of Oasis 's Liam Gallagher , who thinks " they look like a shit EMF . " Absurd press photos notwithstanding , Romance is the rare noisy streamlining of an acclaimed band 's sound that loses no ferocity from tightening up . The string-adorned , grungy straightforwardness of " Desire " might frustrate fans of 2020 's dour , taut " Love Is the Main Thing , " but the message of weathering insurmountable odds by closing ranks is still there . Building on the folkier and more reflective stretches of 2022 's Skinty Fia , Romance offers a bolder and more dynamic rendering of ideas animating Fontaines since the start . <h> 7 . <h> Rachel Chinouriri , What a Devastating Turn of Events <p> Croydon singer-songwriter Rachel Chinouriri was born in 1998 , but her debut album , What a Devastating Turn of Events , drips with nostalgia for the mid- ' 90s Cool Britannia she narrowly missed . Britpop 's blend of tart hooks and exploration of the failings of Thatcherism echo in the title track 's harrowing abortion rights yarn . The rest of the album paints a more fleshed-out picture of coming up in the shadow of Thom Yorke and Lily Allen and landing in the Olivia Rodrigo era of powerhouse vocalists making killer rock songs . " My Everything " is crushing , psychedelic break-up playlist platinum , and " The Hills " out-Weezers Van Weezer. <h> 6 . <h> MJ Lenderman , Manning Fireworks <p> Inching away from scrappy , craggy cosmic-rock tunes that pulled inspiration from forebears like Will Oldham and the late Jason Molina , North Carolina singer-guitarist MJ Lenderman arrives at a more crisp and clear sound on Manning Fireworks , his fourth studio album . Pitched between the country-tinged slacker rock of a Freedy Johnston and the reedy doom of Dinosaur Jr . ' s J. Mascis , Lenderman sings coolly of biding time and escaping a rut . " She 's Leaving You " sells shrugging motivation : " It falls apart / We all got work to do . " <h> 5 . <h> Mustafa , Dunya <p> The hushed folk tunes of Sudanese Canadian singer-songwriter Mustafa sit at a philosophical roundabout joining familial obligations , faith journeys , and inner-city struggles . Everything 's connected ; a breakdown in any lane creates a spiritual traffic jam . Following 2021 's curt , arresting When Smoke Rises , this year 's heftier Dunya tugs at the decade 's most disheartening threads . " What Happened , Mohamed ? " mourns a friendship ruined by growing neighborhood strife . " Gaza Is Calling " and " Beauty , end " speak to the all-too-common experience of bracing for the worst news of loved ones trapped in ethnic-cleansing operations across the globe . " You been on the phone for far too long , " the latter song frets knowingly . " It 's either someone 's coming back or someone is gone . " Dunya depicts the man 's mission to hold cherished people and traditions close while the larger facets of reality he ca n't control shake his foundations . <h> 4 . <h> Bilal , Adjust Brightness <p> After scoring a string of R&amp;B hits in the early aughts and returning for a formidable trio of 2010s albums , Soulquarian veteran Bilal Sayeed Oliver disappeared into travel and family life , taking up residence in Morocco for a time with his wife and her family . " Evr Chngin Nrml " from Adjust Brightness , his fifth album , pithily addresses a massive gap in his release calendar : " Fate would have me quarantine alone / And after that , I lost my phone . " The 1st Born Second singer has n't lost a step ; his instrument -- the closest thing to Prince 's in its delicate , purposeful fraying of gorgeous falsetto runs -- remains breathtaking in action . It 's softer than the sparse strings in the sultry " Tell Me " ; it 's a reverb- and phaser-soaked drone in " Quantum Universe . " Adjust Brightness reinstalls Bilal as a nexus joining jazz , funk , jungle , soul , and rock . <h> 3 . <h> Ka , The Thief Next to Jesus <p> News of the sudden death of 52-year-old Brooklyn rapper and firefighter Ka was devastating this fall . He 'd been a standard-bearer for chiseling out a career hour after moonlit hour . His records , terse and haunted , picked words and source materials carefully , like time and resources were of the essence . The Thief Next to Jesus , released in the last month of his life , is testament to monklike poise and pointedness . Prodding Black church history for a thematic concept and sorting convention for samples , Ka inspects generational trauma and resulting coping mechanisms . " Beautiful " is a rousing call-and-response with a choir : " Deeper speakin ' , need to be a beacon that 's ( Beautiful ) / In the darkest night , little starlight is ( Beautiful ) . " " Cross You Bear " recasts dogged independence as literal survivalism : " Discreet , not enough physique to have a leech latching on / For years only snacking on what I can catch in palm . " It all reads like a manifesto now . <h> 2 . <h> Mach-Hommy , #RichAxxHaitian <p> Like a folk hero or a problem-solving ronin , Mach-Hommy feels like he emerged as a fully formed concept , reincarnating something that 's always been there . On the East Coast rap mystic 's latest , revolutionary politics and blunted braggadocios mix in tracks decrying industry " bloodsuckers " with " avaricious hyper-capitalistic aims . " Leaning into points where his voice breaks while he raps , sings , and orates about phony rappers and Haitian liberation , Mach chops it up with Roc Marciano , Haitian Jack , Black Thought , and Georgia Anne Muldrow , sharing the pooled wisdom of intersecting perspectives . Melted sample loops are the lingua franca here , but the title track is your reminder that this is n't one of those underground rappers allergic to a slippery groove . <h> 1 . <h> The Cure , Songs of a Lost World <p> 2024 dealt endless invitations to moroseness and summoned our wild-haired crown prince of pain , the Cure 's Robert Smith . Songs of a Lost World , the band 's latest album , is a towering achievement , a perfect retrenchment in a year full of furtive attempts at similarly nostalgic measures , of artists rehashing past glories and hit songs liberally borrowing old licks . Reverting to a primal version of itself , the Cure retraces the steps leading up to our disconcerting present , wondering what went wrong . Smith , 65-year-old porcelain dramatist and too-patient pop genius , contends with the sense that the possibilities he dreamt of as a boy raised in the pride and promise of the space race have died on the vine . Everyone misses something : a friend , a loved one , a feeling of general stability , a faith in a brighter tomorrow . Lost World tussles dutifully with the nagging voice in the backs of our minds saying that belief in never-ending progress and exponential growth were grave miscalculations , when what we 've actually left for subsequent generations is a vast array of new ways to war and die . " All we will ever know is bitter ends , " the agonizing " Warsong " prophesizes . Majestic opener " Alone " raises a glass wearily : " And here is to love , to all the love / Falling out of our lives . " But catchy melodies and deep yearning tug against grief , suggesting that to live is to lose is to hurt and persevere . " I know , I know , " " And Nothing Is Forever " admits in a maelstrom of orchestration , " that my world has grown old / But it really does n't matter / If you say we 'll be together . " The new songs are thick but plush , intimidating but inviting , blustering but unhurried . It 's the best the Cure has sounded this century . <h> Other Album Highlights From This Year <p> Throughout the year , Vulture maintained a " Best Albums of the Year ( So Far ) " list . Some of those selections appear above in our top ten . Below , the rest of the albums that stood out this year , presented in order of release date . <h> Mount Eerie , Night Palace <p> In nearly 30 years of crafting gorgeous , scrappy independent records , Pacific Northwest singer-songwriter Phil Elverum has bushwhacked his way to a delightfully unpredictable catalogue . A new album could deliver a series of brittle folk-song fragments or miniature black-metal maelstroms . Night Palace , Elverum 's 11th as Mount Eerie , circles back to the vibrant balance of psych-folk and indie-rock he favored in his late- ' 90s Microphones project . " Wind &amp; Fog " and " Wind &amp; Fog , pt. 2 " , the album 's bifurcated centerpiece , captures the artist 's knack for designing a compelling sound sculpture and then bulldozing the entire scene : Drums clipping through a joyous , fuzzed-out din in the first half , " Wind " crashes into a droning coda that 's pitted and understated in all the places the front end had been triumphant . Eerie knows all your pressure points . <h> Tyler , the Creator , Chromakopia <p> On Chromakopia , rapper , producer , designer , and troublemaker emeritus Tyler , the Creator leads the charge for the generation of rap polymaths weaned on Ye and Pharrell records . Celebrated for the subtle storytelling flourishes undergirding his studio albums , Tyler takes a break from creating quirky characters to give his own family tree a shake . Between shocking personal revelations , examinations of the artist 's innermost fears , and carefree displays of affluence and mic technique , an image of reactionary modern masculinity emerges . In the process , Chromakopia strikes a smart if self-conscious balance between the softer songs that have turned into Tyler 's biggest hits and the rawness his Odd Future constituents crave . <h> Chat Pile , Cool World <p> " Remember , everyone bleeds , " Oklahoma miserabilist Raygun Busch howls in the middle of a maelstrom of grungy guitars in Cool World opener " I Am Dog Now . " Pondering a bleak year and the future it portends , noise-rock quartet Chat Pile responds with scabrous melodies and withering philosophical and political musings . Its subject matter may be uniformly grim -- " The New World " invokes Christopher Columbus in surveying the ceaselessly grisly cost of nation building -- but Cool World chases its prodding of our bloodiest tendencies with raucous grooves : " Dog " conjures math-metal legends like Botch , but the mournful " Shame " approaches shoegaze , and " Frownland " dabbles in n ? metal crunch while referencing Captain Beefheart . <h> William Basinski , September 23rd <p> Sixty-six-year-old minimalist composer William Basinksi , whose corroding 2002 Disintegration Loops captured the feeling of penitently watching an old world order die , released an archival 1982 recording this year documenting a piece he first conceptualized in his youth . September 23rd takes cues from King Crimson guitarist and delay-effect expert Robert Fripp , and the collage-like literary and visual art of poet William Burroughs . The 40-minute composition feeds desolate piano notes into echo effects that alter a sense of time and space . Listening feels like witnessing the birth of a new process . <h> Miranda Lambert , Postcards From Texas <p> Lindale singer-songwriter Miranda Lambert has spent the last five years tinkering with her approach to Texas country music . On 2019 's Wildcard , a playful and poppy instinct swirled underfoot , while 2021 's The Marfa Tapes and 2022 's Palomino paid homage to the state 's long history of understated rustic classics instead . This year 's Postcards From Texas makes a more deliberate theme of Lambert 's musings on home . Part Lone Star State travelog and part breakup album , Postcards salutes familiar towns and the bittersweet memories made in and around them . <h> Nil ? fer Yanya , My Method Actor <p> For My Method Actor , U.K. singer-songwriter and multi-instrumentalist Nil ? fer Yanya reconnected with collaborator Will Archer for a batch of upbeat rockers and delicate ballads couched in fuzzy guitar riffs and creative drum programming . Lead single " Like I Say ( I Runaway ) " is a calling card for the versatility on display ; it feels like a descendent of the crunch of ' 90s space-rock riffs but also the gauziness of a Frou-Frou in the aughts . But dig deeper for the stately , unhurried side B , where Actor stacks math-rock , folk , and hip-hop components like a triple scoop of ice cream systematically coating its waffle cone in a slick of sweet and complementary flavors . <h> Duster , In Dreams <p> In Dreams , the fifth full-length from San Jose slowcore luminaries Duster , drifts somewhere between the ominous crunch of ' 90s alt-rock and the somnambulant midwest indie rock that sprung up in conversation with it later in the decade . Bandmates Canaan Dove Amber and Clay Parton craft enticing grooves before methodically roughing them up : a swift rotary effect sweeps through glacial rocker " Aqua Tofana " like a blizzard , and a wall of tremolo fuzz juts up in the hushed " Baking Tapes , " dramatizing a verse about rising tension . Duster is enjoying a second chapter with the same batting average as the reconstituted American Football and Pedro the Lion . With just as much great post-reunion music as pre- , they return as purposeful explorers , taking a swing at the questions of how sleepy shoegaze can be and how an insular style and a skeleton crew manages to conjure such a sense of space and movement . <h> Cash Cobain , Play Cash Cobain <p> Part Sexy Drill Summer cash-out , part minimalist rapper/producer showcase , Play Cash Cobain , the debut studio album by New York 's " Fisherrr " king , further explores the Bronx star 's bespoke production where less self-certain auteurs nervously observe trends . Carefully blending sensual slick talk with toilet humor over his own candied , crumbly drill reductions , Cash exudes hard-won simplicity , an accessibility that does n't come at the cost of clever wordplay and intriguing sample choices . The fiercely local character of the production is bolstered by the ' 90s baby 's curiosity about the last three decades of hip-hop/R&amp;B fusions . Rapping over pieces of Tyrese and H-Town tracks , Cash revels in raunch the ' 90s crooners often left to the imagination ; the Drake-ish " Luv It " buries the album 's biggest hook underneath a mountain of reverb and a spatially uneven mix . Pushing drill to ambient territory in " Rump Punch " and the Teena Marie sampling " Slizzy Poetry ( Interlude ) , " Cash plays with convention but applies his own stamp . <h> Tinashe , Quantum Baby <p> Breezing through eight tracks in the time it takes to get from opening to closing credits in the average TV sitcom , Cali R&amp;B vet Tinashe 's Quantum Baby showcases the enduring gifts that yielded a hit in the salacious invitational " Nasty " a decade after " 2 On " touched the Hot 100 . Quantum surveys bedrooms and breakups via boldly skeletal beats and breathy innuendos , adapting delicately to the tone of the radio in the pared-down melodies of the uptempo trap banger " When I Get You Alone " and the drill and club music hybrid " Cross That Line . " Outside the careful concessions , she radiates consistency and ephemeral soul throughout this stream of yearning come-ons and exhausted reprisals . <h> DORIS , Ultimate Love Songs Collection <p> New Jersey -- based rapper , producer , and visual artist DORIS 's 50-track Ultimate Love Songs Collection delivers a noisy exception to the accepted wisdom that bloated track lists and overreliance on samples are scourges in modern hip-hop . This woolly batch of SoundCloud demos and loosies marries the winding , kaleidoscopic approach of rap music , before sample laws to the melody-forward tendencies of the cell-phone-as-sampler era . One song envisions Playboi Carti crushing it at a Smiths karaoke night , another suggests a lovestruck son of Madib 's cartoon-villain alter ego , Quasimoto , and another feels like an evil brother to the pitched-up R&amp;B of 4batz . Love Songs holds the hallmarks of an era of heterodox rap-hook writers , deep YouTube exploration , and DIY mash-ups and blends , but the loonier flips restore the ' 89 feeling of wondering whether an exciting piece of collagework will one day be sued out of existence . <h> David Lynch and Chrystabell , Cellophane Memories <p> Just asTwin Peaks turns your textbook rural-police procedural into a treatise on reality and personhood , and Dune ( 1984 ) makes a pageant of literal and philosophical ugliness out of a story about intergalactic greed , Cellophane Memories , the second album from interdisciplinary giant David Lynch and San Antonio singer-songwriter Chrystabell , recasts the old Hollywood glamor of her voice as spectral building block for droning sound sculptures.It 's a bolder work than its 2011 predecessor This Train , which felt spiritually indebted to Julee Cruise Roadhouse nights . Train was meat-and-potatoes ; this is characterful smoked jerky : tough , distinct flavor you do n't indulge in every day but wo n't quit chewing on when the need arises . <h> Wand , Vertigo <p> Cali psych-rock quartet Wand expands in a few directions at once on Vertigo , its sixth album . Eight tracks culled from extensive jamming have been whittled down into hearty exercises in patient instrumental interplay . " Hangman " and " Curtain Call " hinge on singer-guitarist Cory Hanson 's disembodied upper-register vocals and shimmering leads , which pair like a ' 60s blue-rock front man holding his own in a shoegaze unit ; " Smile " and " High Time " both uncork the bottled essence of ' 90s alternative rock , the former unfurling chugging , echo-drenched guitar lines that tap into the spirit of Billy Corgan and Noel Gallagher classics and the latter nudging Hanson 's voice into Thom Yorke territory . The three- and four-minute tracks land all their punches , and the six- and seven-minute workouts never lose steam . <h> Sturgill Simpson as Johnny Blue Skies , Passage Du Desir <p> Making good on a pledge to release just five proper studio albums under his government name , country troubadour Sturgill Simpson returned as Johnny Blue Skies for the summer 's surprise release Passage Du Desir . Unlike Garth Brooks 's Chris Gaines era , a brief vacation in mid- ' 90s butt-rock , Blue Skies does n't use the cover of an alter ego to try anything Simpson does n't care to put his name on . If anything , Desir is rifling through the artist 's colorful back pages . " Right Kind of Dream , " a New Wave love song , mines the same ' 80s rock impulses as 2019 's ZZ Top indebted Sound &amp; Fury , while the opener , " Swamp of Sadness , " navigates a shipwrecked distress reminiscent of 2014 's Metamodern Sounds in Country Music , and " If the Sun Never Rises Again " revisits the soul-man melisma of the funkier bits of 2016 's A Sailor 's Guide to Earth . Hitching on passing musical traditions like trains and meeting changes in genre and instrumentation with subtle shifts in his approach to vocals -- the twang in the pure country " Scooter Blues " softens in the psych-rock epic " Jupiter 's Faerie " -- Simpson serves a record that makes noble use of the preceding decade of wanderlust and refinement . <h> Zach Bryan , The Great American Bar Scene <p> Oklahoma singer-songwriter Zach Bryan writes tender tunes about the struggle to live a just and content life , fashioning fiercely independent and largely self-produced Americana music unburdened by the usual baggage carried by the genres he dabbles in . He writes affecting folk songs without falling prey to fedora-bro sentimentality , sweeping surveys of lives falling apart that seem allergic to heavy-handed messaging , and party songs acknowledging the fact that there 's something driving the characters to drink . The Great American Bar Scene , Bryan 's fifth studio album , blends its requisite elements smoothly but gets most of its mileage from his arrow-straight emotional candor , expressed most purely in deep cuts like " 28 , " a song inspired by a health scare Bryan 's dog suffered , and " Mechanical Bull , " a nostalgic thought spiral haunted by the inescapable sense that somewhere , closing time has been called on the world as we once knew it . <p> This EPoffers a second dip in the aqueous funk served by its predecessor , last year 's Fountain Baby . Thirty-year-old singer , rapper , and producer Amaarae 's acclaimed debut -- home to a Clipse sample and gauzy guitar licks -- was no fluke . The summer tributary EP pops with effervescent flows and cadences anchored in limber melodies . Ambitious in purview , roses zips halfway around the world from carnal afrobeats opener " sweeeet " to the closing remix of Fountain Baby 's " Disguise " with 6lack . " THUG ( Truly Humble Under God ) " is a showcase for Amaarae 's raps and R&amp;B runs whose drums arrive highlighting different accents than the ear expects . The EP hangs less sharp turns than Baby but still revels in a shapeshifting talent . That was the party ; this is the kickback . <h> NxWorries , Why Lawd ? <p> Eight years sinceYes Lawd ! , the left-field collaborative opus that affixed the kaleidoscopic structure and boom-bap ethos of MF DOOM and Madlib 's Madvillainy to gritty R&amp;B , NxWorries , the duo of California singer Anderson . Paak and Philadelphia producer Knxwledge , returns with Why Lawd ? Where the first album celebrated new love and good humor -- " I want you , so I 'll give up my side piece " -- the long-awaited follow-up catalogues the fallout from a divorce in a stream of distressed reflections about dating around again while missing someone . Navigating the darkest catacombs of the heart , . Paak and Knxwledge rifle through several beloved song archetypes : " Daydreaming " pipes in gated reverb and guitar solos like ' 80s Prince and Janet Jackson tracks , but " Battlefield " evokes D'Angelo 's collaborations with hip-hop artists as . Paak balances limber rhymes and tight vocal harmonies . In a landscape replete with the plasticine simulacra of old rap , funk , and soul , Why Lawd ? ' s rendering feels genuine and lived in . <h> Charli XCX , brat <p> Having spent the last few albums locating a workable balance between slick , mannered pop songwriting and cutting-edge dance music , hyper-pop luminary Charli XCX mixes the peanut butter with the chocolate on brat , her revelatory sixth album . Collaborating with a killer lineup of brilliant electronic music auteurs -- A. G. Cook ( Hannah Diamond , Caroline Polachek ) , El Guincho ( Rosal ? a , FKA Twigs ) , Gesaffelstein ( the Weeknd , Ye ) , Cirkut ( Katy Perry , Miley Cyrus ) -- Charli sings about overcoming anxiety , embracing thorny emotions , and most important , tearing the club up . Brat balances private soul-searching and public airing of grievances , offsetting the sonic and thematic coarseness of " Sympathy is a knife , " " Girl , so confusing , " and " Mean girls " with the aching tenderness of " So I " and " I might say something stupid " but making sure to slip in breezy party starters like " 360 " and " Club classics . " It manages a feat once thought impossible : successfully feeding the crusaders for 2017 's forward-thinking if abrasive Pop 2 , 2020 's suitably insular How I 'm Feeling Now , and 2022 's more mainstream Crash within the same brisk song cycle . <h> Pedro the Lion , Santa Cruz <p> Three albums into the edifying revival of his venerable Pacific Northwest indie-rock outfit Pedro the Lion , front man David Bazan continues to poke around his own past with the same pained earnestness seen in jarring old story songs like 2000 's " Eye on the Finish Line . " This year 's Santa Cruz follows 2022 's Havasu and 2019 's Phoenix in surveying the artist 's upbringing via concept albums named after cities he grew up in . Bazan sings wistfully of experiencing loss , grappling with the uprooted and peregrine feeling of moving repeatedly as a teen , and being pulled in different directions by faith , sexual desire , and a love of secular music . Santa Cruz 's tiny agonies manage a delicate balance between stately , shimmering guitar lines and plaintive synthesizer accompaniment while Bazan sings with a gusto that bests his finest performances . <h> Beak&gt; , &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; <p> After diving into atmospheric electronics on 2022 's graphic-novel soundtrack Kosmik Musik and exploring orchestral accompaniment on 2018 's &gt;&gt;&gt; , British experimental rock act Beak&gt; retreats to the original idea on &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; , its fourth album . The trio , built around Portishead 's Geoff Barrow on drums and vocals , thunders through snaking , unpredictable compositions without overdubs , drifting through crunchy , sinister prog riffs ; hypnotic odes to ' 70s German instrumental rock gods ; snappy post-punk tunes ; and creeping psych-rock odysseys with aplomb. &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; resembles a fruitful trip to the record store that yielded crisp vinyl copies of Can 's Ege Bamyasi , Pink Floyd 's A Saucerful of Secrets , and Uriah Heep 's Very ' Eavy ... Very ' Umble . <h> Vince Staples , Dark Times <p> A restless rhyme stylist , a talented actor , and a deadpanning humorist , Vince Staples keeps the listener guessing from one album to the next bypairing introspective verses with whatever glorious rackethe may be into that year , whether it 's crystallinesynth noise , meat-and-potatoes boom bap , or classic West Coast G-funk . Dark Times , Staples 's sixth studio album , maintains his streak of curt but impactful releases and blends the sleek , economic sound of 2021 's self-titled with the coarser storytelling of 2022 's Ramona Park Broke My Heart.Serving aching couplets over the aqueous sonics of " ? touff ? e " -- " Finding beauty in the darkness like Rembrandt / Everybody'gang , gang , gang'till it get bad " -- and " Freeman , " Staples ponders his history , motivations , and place in thecontinuumof hip-hop greats . <h> A.G. Cook , Britpop <p> Photo : ag-cook-britpop <p> HyperpoppioneerA.G . Cook thunders into a new chapter with Britpop , his third album.It 's the inaugural release on New Alias , which succeeds his half-venerated and half-reviled PC Music label , a home for the work of wise dance-music innovators like the late great SOPHIE.But it 's reinvention in name only : Fans of the producer'sepochal Hannah Diamond and Charli XCX gems will find miles of bubbly , inventive synth sounds amid the triple album 's odd soundscapes , particularly in " Lucifer " and the title track , on which Charli provides expectedly insouciant vocals . In a sedate second volume populated by folk ballads like " Greatly " and rockers like the fuzzy , flanging " Bewitched , " Britpop stages a further exploration into the heady textures and melodies explored noisily on Cook 's sprawling 2020 quintuple album , 7G . <h> Chief Keef , Almighty So 2 <p> In the 2010s , Chicago drill-rap pioneer Chief Keef made headlines as a buddinghitmakerwhose criminal record presented hip-hop elders with a **25;1158;TOOLONG worries about song lyrics inspiring real-world violence . In the ' 20s , we better understand Keef as a 28-year-old street-rap vet whose output dances between brutality , pain , and absurdity . Almighty So 2 , the long-awaited sequel for a mixtape from simpler times , documents the chest-beating of a man who has seen too much . The wounded , triumphant " Treat Myself " brims with spite for anyone who did n't believe in Keef , and in the abrasive " Jesus , " he 's playing the villain they all thought he was : " Do n't look up to Chief Sosa ; look up to Jesus Christ / All these two-liters , I need an endorsement with Sprite . " Anchoring these diabolical lyrical flightsis a collection of enticingly busy sound sculptures : trap drums , soul samples , ominous keys , and other melodic embellishments sparkling in the mix like the gilded garments gracing an irate monarch . Sour even in its most lavish productions , Keef will never let us forget he " come from a damn cubicle , " as the intermittently reflective and soulful " Drifting Away " reminds . <h> Claire Rousay , sentiment <p> Drifting through the psychedelic badlands adjoining Midwest emo and early post rock , sentiment -- the latest full-length album from prolific singer-songwriter and found-sound composer Claire Rousay -- surveys the numbness of depression with a mapmaker 's exhaustiveness . " Head " observes a relationship in disrepair , grappling wearily with a tendency to placate a lover 's mercurial moods while flowing almost imperceptibly from a creeping slowcore riff to a shimmering coda . Rousay calls this blend of crestfallen sentimentality and economic instrumentation " emo ambient , " and there 's a self-deprecating humor in the distinction , but the glum , glacial " asking for it " and " please 5 more minutes " wear their contrasts and anachronisms well . <h> Shabaka , Perceive Its Beauty , Acknowledge Its Grace <p> The British bandleader Shabaka Hutchings , formerly of Sons of Kemet and the Comet Is Coming , sets his signature saxophone aside on Perceive Its Beauty , Acknowledge Its Grace , his elegant solo album . Like Andre 3000 's New Blue Sun , Perceive honors the expressiveness of the flute and its many siblings while assembling a cast of characters that speaks to Hutchings 's prolificacy as front and side man : Andre , poet and musician Saul Williams , Armand Hammer rapper Elucid , experimental-music veteran Laraaji , and British singer-songwriter Lianne La Havas each make appearances . <h> 1010Benja , Ten Total <p> Ten Total , the electric debut album by Tulsa 's 1010Benja , wars with tradition in two ways : The 34-year-old rapper , singer , and producer juxtaposes motormouth sex raps and romantic Timberlake-isms early on as the coarse " Peacekeeper " and the warm " H2HAVEYOU " lay out a knack for playing into and against classic R&amp;B conventions . Elsewhere , in the windswept , upbeat " I Can , " you hear the preacher 's son bucking against the family worldview and carving his own spiritual path , finding use not in the organ reveries of gospel so much as the earnest emotionalism of church performance . The sensibility recalls another midwestern artist 's introduction : Chance the Rapper 's 10 Day . <h> Yung Lean and Bladee , Psykos <p> On their first full-length as a duo , Swedish rappers and longtime collaborators Yung Lean and Bladee poke around the historical antecedents to the maudlin cloud rap they 've explored alongside their respective Sad Boys and Drain Gang collectives . Sweet , downcast vocal performances vastly outnumber the raps , and there are punchy New Wave , goth-rock , folk , and grunge tunes where somber , gauzy trap productions once reigned . The creative wanderlust that drove Lean 's 2022 album , Stardust , and Bladee 's sprawling Cold Visions this year pave the way for a more confident and streamlined musical travelogue . <h> Kim Gordon , The Collective <p> The list of ingredients appears to spell chaos : shimmering guitars , grungy drum machines , a 70-year-old white woman . Luckily , the artist in residence is restless rock-and-roll lifer Kim Gordon , formerly of Sonic Youth and more recently of Glitterbust and Body/Head . The Collective , Gordon 's second solo album billed as such , revels in abrasive guitar noise and pummeling , programmed percussion . The sinister , suffocating " Shelf Warmer " and " The Candy House " gesture to southern rap , but the album is otherwise a reminder of the closeness of hip-hop and alt rock in the era where Sonic Youth and Cypress Hill collaborated . It 's also a wry meta-discussion about the machinery of cool . " So what if I like the big truck , " Gordon preens in " I 'm a Man . " The lurid " Psychedelic Orgasm " deals in disaffected people watching : " Driving down , sunset / Zombie meditation / Getting caffeinated . " The Collective does n't speak out in judgment of what it surveys but makes sure to relay a faint sense of the hollowness of our routines and the smallness of our dreams . <h> Ben Frost , Scope Neglect <p> It itches to categorize Scope Neglect , Australian composer Ben Frost 's sixth studio album , as extreme metal , though the parts are present in abundance . " The River of Light and Radiation " is , on paper , a djent tune that takes after the time-signature workouts from Swedish technical geniuses . But it 's not spiriting you across heady peaks to a rewarding resolution , drawing attention to a compositional resourcefulness , as is the tendency in that genre . Opener " Lamb Shift " picks over the parts of a riff that might do someone like Meshuggah justice if it would just quit falling apart long enough to loop ; " Turning the Prism " seems more interested in the ominously braying noise interrupting its main riff than offering the release the brain is trained to seek after the ear comes into contact with a heavily distorted guitar and a quick , threatening kick drum . Scope Neglect is exploring metal as scenery , as tonal palate . It 's saying plodding , icy stasis can be hellish , too . <h> Jahari Massamba Unit , YHWH Is Love <p> A genre-hopping mind-meld uniting a pair of storied indie-rap figureheads , YHWH Is Love , the second album from Madlib and Karriem Riggins 's Jahari Massamba Unit , is brimming with playful , mournful , wily , and beguiling compositions that play to the duo 's wide-ranging talents as beat-makers and collaborators for everyone from Doom and Dilla to Denzel Curry and Diana Krall . Love is rangy without being showy : The de facto theme song " JMU 's Voyage " is all bustling , muscular jazz-funk ; the simmering , sedate " ALL THINGS ... " opts for a more silent way . <h> ScHoolboy Q , Blue Lips <p> ScHoolboy Q plugs the gap Kendrick Lamar left in TDE 's A-list rap roster with Blue Lips , his sixth album . Five years after dividing the fandom with the adroitly mainstream ( if underrated ) CrasH Talk , Q turns in a more dynamic performance . He can be the devil on your shoulder instigating unrest in " Pop " or the determined son and father in " Germany 86 ' " or the hornball in " Love Birds " or the grieving friend in " Blueslides . " " I done lost out on so much shit tryna live to your standards , " he says in the latter , resolving to prioritize his well-being and follow his own compass . The choice works wonders for the craft . <h> Brittany Howard , What Now <p> A rock and soul historian whose guitar and vocal chops are as cold as her constellation of influences is vast , Brittany Howard serves another musicology lesson with What Now , a tour de force from the echoing , narcotic " Earth Sign " to the stately " Every Color in Blue . " Howard 's music dances deftly across decades : The motivational " Another Day " has New Power Generation airs ; the wistful " To Be Still " and " Red Flags " serve hazy soul jazz . What Now documents straining relations -- " I followed you and did n't look back / I did n't know love could feel like that / I ran right through them red flags " -- but colorful compositions and arrangements undercut the sadness in tracks like " The Power to Undo , " where the protagonist is begging a partner not to demolish everything they 've built accompanied by impossibly clattering drums and layer upon layer of gnarly fuzz . Brittany Howard is singing herself , and us , through it . <h> Mk.gee , Two Star &amp; the Dream Police <p> Two Star &amp; the Dream Police , the debut studio album from 26-year-old New Jersey singer-songwriter and guitar prodigy Mk.gee , marries evocative lyricism -- " What 's keeping you fenced off ? / And who 's got the power in your mind ? " -- and expressive playing , which communicates a firm grasp on rock canon but also the urge to subvert it . Highlights like the yearning " Candy " feel like conversations with the classics as much as adoring odes to their love interests . The production screams " Every Little Thing She Does Is Magic , " but the vocals owe less to Sting than the plaintive earnestness of Frank Ocean ; an unexpectedly skronky solo recalls Prince 's assault on the ideological partitions separating R&amp;B and rock in the ' 80s . Moments later , " I Want " drafts a rewrite of Ben E. King 's " Stand by Me " with a solo that ca n't easily be identified as a guitar . You might start to suspect he 's using snazzy effects pedals , but he is n't . <h> The Smile , Wall of Eyes <p> Having gelled during their extensive touring , Radiohead 's splinter cell the Smile -- comprising of OK Computer architects Thom Yorke and Jonny Greenwood and London jazz drummer Tom Skinner -- barrels into sophomore album Wall of Eyes touting denser , plusher compositions and a more wounded and introverted outlook . There are no searing indictments of political injustice this time from the erstwhile leftist-rock vanguard of the aughts . There is a subtle sensation of sliding into the too-hot bathwater of a trying time that could be a breakup or a death or a " dragnet " or whatever the listener needs to have a quick shudder about . 
@@118411697 <p> Umm Safa , Occupied West Bank -- Six-year-old Nasser Tanatra is scared of the rock-strewn hilltop where he used to play and pick flowers near his family home . <p> The boisterous child , the youngest of seven siblings , used to dash to the top of Jabal al-Ras with his 10-year-old sister Urood to gather wild sage and zaatar . <p> But in mid-September , about 20 Israeli settlers , protected by soldiers , erected tents and began living on the hilltop , about 50 metres ( 164ft ) from the family 's two-storey home . <p> Ever since , they have attacked and harassed the Tanatras and their neighbours in the Palestinian village of Umm Safa . At night the settlers fire bullets into the air and release aggressive dogs to roam outside villagers ' homes . From above , they flash bright lights onto the houses , blare music and sing loudly . <p> But the worst incident for the Tanatras occurred soon after the new settlers arrived . <p> The family was watching the evening news when soldiers launched tear gas and settlers shot live bullets towards their home . Although nobody was injured , during the more than hour-long attack , a terrified Nasser slipped away from his family in panic and darted outside . He then ran under gunfire to his grandmother 's house 100 metres ( 328ft ) away . He has been traumatised ever since . <p> Advertisement <p> " He says , ' Mama , I am scared to leave the house . I am scared to sleep . I am not hungry . I am scared to go outside . I am scared to go to school , ' " explained Nasser 's mother , Manal Tanatra , 40 , with a frown , as she helped a neighbour gather olives in late October . <p> " This is n't a life . It is n't . Our house , our land , we are surrounded and strangled and attacked , and even to harvest our olives is a danger . " <p> The annual olive harvest season in October and November is a time when Umm Safa 's families come together to pick olives from the same trees their ancestors cultivated . But the arrival of the outpost and the increasing settler violence have made harvesting an activity fraught with danger , and the villagers can never be sure how a day in the groves will unfold . <p> In past seasons , Nasser accompanied Manal to the groves to play . Since the attack , he has barely left home . <p> A view from the Tanatra family 's land Al Jazeera <h> ' During the day , we are strong ' <p> Umm Safa , a village of several hundred people about 12km ( 7.5 miles ) north of Ramallah , sits on a hillside above terraces of olive trees . <p> Since Israel 's war on Gaza started in October 2023 , the villagers , like other Palestinians across Area C -- the 60 percent of the occupied West Bank under full Israeli military control -- have endured escalating restrictions from the Israeli military and attacks from settlers . <p> In normal times , the Tanatra family home is alive with the conversations and laughter of Nasser and his six older sisters , aged between 10 and 20 . The family would play games together or , on special occasions , grill chicken or kebab outside . <p> Advertisement <p> These days , the house is quieter . The two eldest daughters , students at nearby Birzeit University , often stay on campus , due in part to the dangers on the roads from settlers and newly erected checkpoints where villagers describe being detained and even hit by soldiers . <p> Manal 's husband Saher used to work as a construction labourer in Israel and made about 6,000 shekels ( $1,650 ) a month . The 50-year-old would go to work and return home each day for the sunset prayer . After the war started , Saher , like other Palestinian labourers from the occupied West Bank , had his permit to enter and work inside Israel revoked . He now hustles to make ends meet , braving road closures , settler attacks and military checkpoints to provide for the family of nine as a taxi driver in Ramallah . He earns far less than he used to . <p> " The work is very light in the taxi , " said Saher . " Each day , I might get only 50 shekels ( $14 ) . But 50 shekels a day is better than nothing . " <p> These days , he is lucky to return home at all , and often stays in Birzeit with his oldest children due to the precarious conditions . When he does make it home , he parks his taxi a distance away from the house and the outpost above them to try to keep it safe . <p> After it gets dark , nobody in the family -- or the village -- dares to step outside , fearful that soldiers may carry out arrest raids or that the settlers may attack . <p> " During the day , we are strong , we are together , " said Manal as she took a break from olive picking . " But in the night , we are all hidden in our homes , messaging each other , sleepless , fearful and worried about the violence that is waiting for us outside . " <p> Manal sifts olives using the metal frame of an old fan Al Jazeera <h> Systematic violence <p> Advertisement <p> Located between the illegal Israeli settlements of Halamish and Ateret , the people of Umm Safa have endured stone-throwing and land grabs by settlers for years . <p> Then , after the 32-year-old Israeli settler Zvi Bar Yosef established his first outpost , Zvi 's Farm , in the area in 2019 , attacks against Palestinians escalated , often instigated by settlers grazing their herds on land belonging to the villages of Jibiya , Kobar , and Umm Safa . Villagers in the area report being assaulted by Bar Yosef and other settlers , at various times having teeth knocked out or being tied up , according to Israeli human rights group B'Tselem . In 2020 , Naji Tanatra , a distant cousin of Saher 's , survived a skull fracture from being attacked by several settlers after he tried to drive Bar Yosef 's livestock from private Palestinian groves in Umm Safa . <p> Bar Yosef 's encroachment on Umm Safa escalated in the summer of 2023 when he set up a new outpost as a grazing area near olive groves just below the village 's main street . After meeting resistance from villagers , dozens of settlers from the nearby settlements and outposts stormed through the village , setting homes and cars on fire . <p> In July 2023 , Israeli forces in separate incidents killed two villagers , Muhammad Bayed , 16 , and ' Abd al-Jawad Dar Saleh , 24 , amid demonstrations against the settler takeover of village land . <p> The pressure intensified in the past year after the Israeli military erected further checkpoints nearby and blocked the two main village entrances with iron gates and mounds of dirt , leaving only a single , circuitous route through adjacent villages for cars to enter and leave . <p> Advertisement <p> Then , beginning in September , Bar Yosef -- internationally sanctioned this year for inflicting violence on Palestinians and preventing them from accessing their land -- established the outpost on Jabal al-Ras . It includes two tents and a barn for his sheep and goats . Bulldozers operated by settlers spent weeks creating a road for the outpost before the settlers moved in . <p> The outpost also affects the children who attend the local school , near the Tanatra home . Marwan Sabah , head of the Umm Safa village council , described how settlers shout and stare at children as they make their way to and from school . In October , according to Sabah , settlers shot at schoolchildren who were taking a break from class one morning , after which the school sent the children home . <p> Bar Yosef did not respond to Al Jazeera 's request for comment . <p> Settler outposts take different forms . Some have mobile homes , others tents . Shepherding outposts , like the ones run by Bar Yosef , are a recent tactic that enables settlers to take as much land as possible with only a small number of people . Although illegal under Israeli and international law , outposts are in practice provided with round-the-clock military security . They are widely understood to be part of a larger effort by settlers and -- through demolitions , land policies and financial and security support of settlers -- the state to drive Palestinians out of lands in Area C and create contiguity between the settlements , rendering any future Palestinian state in the occupied West Bank impossible . <p> Saher ( L ) and Manal sit among the trees that have been in Saher 's family since his great-grandfather arrived in Umm Safa during the Nakba , or catastrophe , in 1948 . Al Jazeera <h> ' Baba and I are here to protect you ' <p> Advertisement <p> On a sunny day in late October , a week after Manal helped her neighbour pick olives , she and her daughter , 18-year-old Nagham , a physical therapy student , harvested olives on their family land . Manal 's sister-in-law , Abla , 37 , and her mother-in-law , Kifah , 61 , worked on a terrace above them . <p> At noon , Abla and Kifah climbed down to share a lunch of fresh vegetables , labneh , olives , bread and homemade olive oil with Manal and Nagham under the shade of a tree . <p> The four women were harvesting the 15 dunams ( 1.5 hectares ) and 150 olive trees that have been in the family since Saher 's great-grandfather came to Umm Safa . He was violently expelled from his village of Tantura during the Nakba , or catastrophe , in 1948 when Zionist troops forced at least 750,000 Palestinians from their homes and lands . <p> " Though Umm Safa is a small area , it 's filled with horror , " said Abla . " Filled with horror . You have the settlements of Ateret , Halamish ; Jabal Al-Ras is now a horrifying military zone . <p> " Everything is enclosed around us , and no one can come to the rescue no matter what happens . " <p> Since the outpost was established , Manal and her children nervously check the windows at night , watching for signs of the next attack . Often , they are the ones being watched . <p> " When I come to the house , the settlers watch me , " said Manal . " When I leave the house , they watch me . When we get in the car , we just look forward and drive straight -- straight ! And pray to God to keep us safe . " <p> In recent months , in addition to the shooting , settlers have stolen and killed livestock ; thrown rocks at homes ; destroyed water pipes , solar panels , fences and olive trees ; and torched cars . Saher once had to rush to move his taxi before settlers could set it on fire . On the evening of December 1 , settlers attacked villagers as they laid down a water line . They fired live bullets while soldiers with the Israeli army fired tear gas at people . <p> Meanwhile , military arrest raids are " continuous " according to Sabah , the village council head . He says they are designed to intimidate . " The purpose is to accept the new reality of settlers , " he explained , adding that two villagers are currently imprisoned . <p> Advertisement <p> People in the village now take turns to keep watch at night , letting others know about any incursions via WhatsApp . <p> Manal and Saher sometimes hear whimpers and cries from the rooms of their youngest children . The barking of the settlers ' dogs often keeps them awake at night but when they do sleep , they have nightmares about the settlers attacking . <p> " Do n't worry , Nasser , " Manal tells her son as she cradles him in her arms . " Baba and I are here to protect you . They wo n't come back . You are safe . <p> " In front of the settlers , I try not to show fear , " Manal said . " But at home , at night , when I hold my children -- I am afraid . " <p> Marwan Sabah , head of the Umm Safa village council , at a solidarity harvest Al Jazeera <h> ' They never stop ' <p> Sabah has spent this olive harvest season in the fields , on one phone call after another , coordinating movements among nervous villagers . <p> He says the harvest season is a cherished custom -- " part of our love and passion for the land " . <p> " We used to stay up late until the evening while we were harvesting the olives together , " Sabah explained . " But now , we live in a state of fear and terror . " <p> This year , Sabah says men go to harvest in tense groups while women and children have mostly stayed away from the fields . <p> The yearlong closure by the Israeli military of the two main village entrances has largely forced people to go to their olive groves by foot or by donkey , making harvesting more difficult and dangerous . According to Sabah , army restrictions and settler harassment prevented some families from reaching their groves and completing their harvest -- an economic lifeline for many who rely on the income from selling olive oil . <p> Advertisement <p> But the women in the Tanatra household and others from the wider family were determined to proceed with their harvest , despite the intimidation and attacks . One morning , Manal and Nagham wound effortlessly through the thick , thorny brush to reach their olive trees in the valley below . Kifah and Abla worked in the fields as did Manal 's other daughters , school permitting , while Saher took time off from driving the taxi . <p> Abla described how one day when they were making their way to their groves , settlers surrounded them with their dogs . Just the previous day , she explained , a settler on a tractor shot live bullets in their direction as they picked olives . " We live in fear , not knowing what will happen , " she said . <p> Another day , a settler entered the Tanatra family home with his dog . He fled when Saher returned from the fields . " We never leave any of the children alone in the house , " Manal explained . <p> In the early evenings before the sun sets , villagers return from the groves . On the main street of Umm Safa , they anxiously gather to discuss the latest army restrictions or settler incursions . <p> One evening , with a battery-powered , rake-like harvesting machine over one shoulder , 50-year-old Hassan Tanatra , a cousin of Saher 's , arrived on the main street . <p> " Two settlers stopped us on the street threatening us if we went to the harvest , " Hassan shared , upset . " Every day . Every day ! They never stop . " <p> Nagham stands on a tree to gather olives Al Jazeera <h> Season marked by violence <p> Israeli settler violence has increased in the occupied West Bank since the war in Gaza started , with more than 1,400 recorded incidents , more than 1,200 Palestinians forced from their homes and the expansion of illegal outposts and roads . <p> Since October 1 , the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( OCHA ) has documented at least 250 settler incidents directly related to the olive harvest , compared with about 90 incidents recorded during the 2023 harvest . In this recent period , at least 57 Palestinians were injured by Israeli settlers and 11 by Israeli forces while more than 2,800 olive trees and saplings were damaged or destroyed . <p> Throughout the olive harvest season , Palestinians have been prohibited by the Israeli military from accessing private Palestinian land located within declared settlement boundaries , as well as along the settler roads that cut through Palestinian villages like Umm Safa . Soldiers also often prevented Palestinians from harvesting olive groves across other land in Area C. <p> Advertisement <p> Even in locations where the Israeli military has given permission for families to harvest on specific days near declared settlement boundaries , there have been accounts of soldiers preventing harvesters from reaching their land , including by shooting tear gas and sound grenades , or settlers attacking Palestinians . On October 17 , in the village of Faqqua near Jenin , Hanan Abu Salami , 59 , was shot in the back and killed by an Israeli soldier while picking olives with her son after the family had received permission to harvest near the West Bank separation barrier . <p> Local village councils , together with Palestinian , Israeli and international activists , subsequently coordinated solidarity harvests at various hotspots , including along the settler road passing through Umm Safa . <p> People join the solidarity harvest in Umm Safa on October 23 Al Jazeera <p> " The attacks on the harvest this year , in cooperation between the army and Israeli settler militias , make it very clear that Israel is trying to shape a new status quo under which Palestinians ' access to their land will become even more limited than the catastrophe it 's been before , " said Jonathan Pollack , an Israeli activist and co-organiser of the Faz'a solidarity harvest campaign , which accompanied several dozen harvests this year . <p> " We are joined together to keep this land Palestinian as it is by legal deed and by right , " said Mohammad Fayed , a volunteer who came to Umm Safa from Ramallah for a solidarity harvest on October 23 . " We will support these people in any way we can and make sure the olive harvest is completed . " <p> Advertisement <p> " The settlers intend to displace the people of Umm Safa , " said Sabah at the solidarity harvest . " This is a message that we will remain steadfast and we will harvest our olives . We are rooted in this land until death . " <p> On the last day of Manal and Saher 's harvest , they share a meal with Saher 's brother 's family Al Jazeera <h> ' Today is beautiful ' <p> On the morning of October 31 , Manal rose early to prepare fresh bread with zaatar in the oven outside . It was the tenth and last day of their harvest . <p> Manal and Saher anticipated Nasser finally joining them as they completed the family harvest . " We want to finish it together , " she said . <p> A month and a half after the attack on their home , Nasser was starting to seem like his usual bubbly self again , running around and being the centre of attention . After not leaving the house for weeks , he had begun to venture outside and , after refusing , agreed to join his family in the groves . <p> Before breakfast , Nasser boasted with a giggle about how he would climb the olive trees like the Spiderman on his T-shirt . <p> But his worries still seeped through . " I hope the settlers do n't come and attack us again , " he said . " Last night I heard their dogs , and it was scary . " <p> After breakfast , Manal , Saher , two of their daughters and their son climbed down the hill towards their land . Saher carried a harvesting machine , and Nasser 's high-pitched jabbering punctuated the early morning sounds of chirping Palestine sunbirds and olive trees swaying in the breeze . <p> Nasser harvests olives with a plastic rake Al Jazeera <p> Abla and her husband , Omar , Saher 's brother , who were finishing their own harvest , worked just a few terrace levels above them with their young children . <p> Advertisement <p> From her sifting station on the ground , Manal gave instructions . Azeeza , 15 , placed the tarps below the trees so Saher could dislodge olives with the machine . Kifah gingerly picked up loose olives , while Manal sifted olives using a metal wire container to transfer to a bucket for Nagham to carry up the hill to pour into large sacks . Nasser pried a few olives loose with a plastic rake before his attention drifted to chasing his six-year-old cousin Ahmed around the trees . <p> For lunch , the extended family gathered to eat maqluba , the classic Palestinian dish of rice , chicken , and vegetables flipped upside down from a pot onto a large plate . As they sat together eating , chatting and laughing , the family for a moment was at ease . <p> Despite the threats , the Tanatras completed their harvest -- collecting about 100kg ( 220lbs ) of olives . <p> Manal remarked " how proud " she was of Nasser for overcoming his fears to join his family in the harvest . <p> " Nothing this year feels normal , " she said as her son darted past . " But today is beautiful . " 
@@118418483 <p> * Trump 's picks : Chad Chronister , a sheriff in Florida , withdrew his name Tuesday from consideration to lead the DEA just days after Trump announced him as the choice for the role . Separately , Trump 's transition team signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Justice Department , paving the way for the team to seek FBI background checks on appointees . <p> " There are allegations , and they have to be addressed so you do n't believe everything you read or see on the TV , " Cassidy said , adding , " clearly they have to be addressed . " <p> Asked by CNN what he wants to see from Hegseth in addressing the allegations , Cassidy said he wanted to speak generally and that " many people go through a rough period in their life , " adding " he may dispute the truth . That 's another thing . " <p> " Believe me , there are a lot of people around here whose character is assassinated and turns out maybe it should have been assassinated after all , " he said . <p> " I just learned in my years of living that there 's two sides of the story . Now it does n't mean that he 's right or wrong . It just means that I need to learn , and I 'm in the process of not judging somebody by what I read in the press , but by reading what I read in an FBI report , or learn in a conversation or otherwise have as a first hand bit of knowledge , as opposed to second hand or third hand , " he said . <p> Cassidy told CNN he thinks it would be good for all nominees to have a full FBI background check , explaining it helps the American people have " faith in the process . " <p> " If something comes up later , it would be terribly embarrassing to the Trump administration . And do n't want that to happen . So I just think it 's a good way to get things out in the beginning , to protect the person applying to keep the faith of the American people and to protect the future administration , " Cassidy said . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Hegseth set to talk to House GOP on Wednesday , source says <p> From CNN 's Sarah Ferris <p> Pete Hegseth , President-elect Donald Trump 's defense secretary pick , will meet with the Republican Study Committee in a closed-door meeting on Wednesday , according to a person familiar . <p> This comes as he holds a flurry of meetings among GOP senators , who will vote on whether to confirm him next year . <p> House members do not vote on nominees . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Jeffries sidesteps Hunter Biden pardon in statement <p> From CNN 's Sarah Ferris <p> House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries is pictured at the White House in Washington , DC , on January 17 . <p> Samuel Corum/Getty Images <p> House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries sidestepped the politically explosive issue of Biden 's recent presidential pardon issued for his son , Hunter , in a new statement . <p> Jeffries said in a vague statement that Biden " should exercise the high level of compassion he has consistently demonstrated throughout his life , including toward his son , and pardon on a case-by-case basis the working-class Americans in the federal prison system whose lives have been ruined by unjustly aggressive prosecutions for nonviolent offenses . " <p> Donald Trump 's pick to run the Pentagon , Pete Hegseth , has been in a series of meetings on Capitol Hill this week with the Republican senators who will decide his fate . <p> In a sign of how seriously the transition team is taking their concerns , Hegseth is expected to sit for an interview with Fox News tomorrow , two people familiar confirmed to CNN . It 's unclear if the interview is scheduled to air tomorrow as well . <p> The transition is hoping his answers will alleviate the concerns that several Republican senators have expressed . His interview is notable because most , if not all , of Trump 's Cabinet picks have been told to stay away from media appearances until after their confirmation process . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Hegseth faces a tough road to confirmation , multiple GOP senators say <p> From CNN 's Manu Raju <p> Pete Hegseth faces a tough road to win confirmation to lead the Pentagon amid Republican concerns about past allegations of misconduct and questions about whether he can do the job , according to multiple GOP senators . <p> Hegseth will need to limit defections to three GOP senators , assuming all Democrats vote against him . And there are more than three senators who are uncertain if they 'll back him . <p> It 's still possible that Hegseth could win over GOP senators skeptical about his nomination . But some senators say it could be a lift . <p> This all comes as the incoming chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee , Roger Wicker , told CNN that he expects to see a whistleblower report outlining allegations of misconduct during his time running a veterans group . The New Yorker this week detailed the allegations in the report . <p> " I 'm sure I 'll see it , " Wicker told CNN . <p> Democratic Sen. Tim Kaine , who sits on the Senate Armed Services Committee , bumped into Hegseth in the hall on Tuesday . <p> Kaine shook his hand and said they plan to meet next week or the following week . <p> " To have been nominated by President-Elect @realDonaldTrump to serve as Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration is the honor of a lifetime . Over the past several days , as the gravity of this very important responsibility set in , I 've concluded that I must respectfully withdraw from consideration . There is more work to be done for the citizens of Hillsborough County and a lot of initiatives I am committed to fulfilling . I sincerely appreciate the nomination , outpouring of support by the American people , and look forward to continuing my service as Sheriff of Hillsborough County , " Chronister posted on X. <h> Trump posts AI-generated image of himself with the Canadian flag after joking Canada should become 51st state <p> From CNN 's Kate Sullivan <p> President-elect Donald Trump posted an AI-generated image on social media of him standing next to a Canadian flag in the mountains after it was reported that Trump joked to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau that Canada should become a 51st state during their discussion on tariffs last Friday . <p> Trudeau visited Florida days after Trump promised massive hikes in tariffs on goods coming from Mexico and Canada starting on the first day of his administration and called for 25% tariff on all products sent to the US . <p> CNN previously reported that after Trudeau politely pushed back on how such tariffs would hurt the Canadian economy , Trump joked that maybe Canada should join the United States as a 51st state if that were the case , the sources said . <p> One source emphasized that the comment was meant to be a joke , and that the other dinner guests took it as one . <p> Defense lawyers for President-elect Donald Trump are using President Joe Biden 's pardon of his son Hunter to argue that Trump 's conviction in Manhattan hush money case should be dismissed . <p> " Yesterday in issuing a 10-year pardon to Hunter Biden that covers any and all crimes whether charged or uncharged , President Biden asserted that his son was ' selectively , and unfairly prosecuted ' and ' treated differently , ' " Trump lawyers wrote in a motion filed Monday . <p> Trump lawyers -- Todd Blanche and Emil Bove , who he has picked for top Justice Department posts in his new administration -- argue these comments amount to a condemnation of Biden 's own Justice Department and then argue that New York District Attorney Alvin Bragg has engaged in the same kind of " political theater . " <p> Judge Juan Merchan indefinitely postponed Trump 's sentencing in the case after Trump won re-election . Trump 's lawyers also want the conviction dismissed , but the district attorney 's office said it will oppose any effort to toss the case . <p> Trump 's lawyers have argued Trump is protected by presidential immunity and also argued the case was politically motivated , but the arguments about Hunter Biden are the first time Biden 's decision has been used to boost Trump 's arguments . <p> Republican Sen. Susan Collins of Maine said she believes President-elect Donald Trump 's defense secretary pick , Pete Hegseth , needs to go through the full congressional vetting process , including a FBI background check , before he is confirmed . <p> " As I 've repeatedly said to you , I believe that we need an FBI background check to evaluate the allegations , " she told CNN on Tuesday , also adding that Hegseth should also complete the usual questionnaire about his background and participate in a public hearing . <p> CNN has reported that Trump 's transition team is ? bypassing traditional FBI background checks for at least some of his Cabinet picks . <p> Hegseth has continued making his rounds on Capitol Hill this week , meeting with several GOP senators and dodging questions from reporters about the multiple misconduct allegations against him . <p> Sen. Kevin Cramer of North Dakota said " of course " the allegations are " concerning , " but he said he 's looking forward to meeting with Hegseth because " I 'm interested in who Pete Hegseth is today and who he is going forward . " <p> Asked if the standards have changed since John Tower was rejected by the Senate to serve as defense secretary in 1989 over similar allegations of womanizing and drunkenness , Cramer said : " I do n't think there 's much question that the tolerance for certain things has changed . " <p> Cramer said he would like to see an FBI background check or " something similar , " including a review by " private entities , " and also noted that committees have " a lot of the same investigative authorities " to vet nominees . <p> Pressed if he 's leaning yes on confirming Hegseth , Cramer responded : " Yeah , I am . I give him the benefit of the doubt , " saying he 's talked to Hegseth once and will " spend a good deal of time with him " when they meet in person . <p> Cramer was asked again later about how he views the allegations against Hegseth , to which he responded : " As long as they 're just allegations , and again , that they remain in the past , but he can ... he has to convince me of that , but I 'm open to being convinced . " <p> Link Copied ! <h> GOP Sen. Joni Ernst says she will have a " frank and thorough conversation " with Hegseth <p> From CNN 's Ted Barrett <p> Sen. Joni Ernst , a Republican from Iowa and member of the Senate Armed Services Committee who has battled against sexual assault in the military , said she will have a " really frank and thorough " discussion with defense secretary nominee Pete Hegseth when she meets with him in the coming days . <p> Asked if she could support Hegseth with all the allegations swirling around him , she said : " I 'm just looking forward to visiting later this week and we 'll see what he has to say . We 're just going to have a really frank and thorough conversation . " <p> Asked what she thought about the material she has been reading about Hegseth 's alleged behavior , she said : " We 'll talk about it in our meeting . " <p> Link Copied ! <h> Trump transition team enters into agreement with Justice Department <p> In this 2020 photo , a woman walks past the US Department of Justice in Washington , DC . <p> Al Drago/Reuters <p> The Trump-Vance Transition team has formally entered into a memorandum of understanding ( MOU ) with the Department of Justice , according a statement from Susie Wiles , President-elect Donald Trump 's chief of staff . <p> This agreement outlines the terms of cooperation between the transition team and the DOJ , marking a significant step in the preparation of the incoming administration . <p> The memorandum also paves the way for the Trump team to seek FBI background checks on Trump 's appointees . <p> " This allows the transition team to submit names for background checks and security clearances , " the transition team 's statement read . <p> CNN previously reported that the transition team was using private companies to conduct vetting of potential candidates and not going through traditional FBI screenings for at least some of its nominees . It is still unclear how many of Trump 's Cabinet picks will be submitted for FBI background checks going forward . <p> The move comes after complaints from GOP senators that the delay in signing the memorandum could delay the confirmation process of Trump 's nominees . <p> " This agreement with the Department of Justice will ensure President Trump and his team are ready on Day 1 to begin enacting the America First Agenda that an overwhelming majority of our nation supported on Election Day , " Wiles said . <p> In addition , the MOU grants the transition team enhanced access to critical information from federal agencies , allowing for more effective preparation as they take on the challenges and responsibilities of governing . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Graham calls articles about Hegseth accusations disturbing , and says his confirmation will be difficult <p> From CNN 's Danya Gainor <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's nominee to be Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth leaves a meeting with Sen. Tommy Tuberville on Capitol Hill on December 2 , in Washington , DC . <p> Andrew Harnik/Getty Images <p> GOP Sen. Lindsey Graham called some of the recent articles detailing accusations against Department of Defense pick Pete Hegseth " disturbing , " saying his confirmation is " going to be difficult . " <p> " Some of these articles are very disturbing . He , you know , obviously has a chance to defend himself here . But you know , some of this stuff is -- it 's going to be difficult . You know , time will tell , " Graham said , adding that he likes Hegseth and has " known him for a very , very long time . " <p> " Leadership comes from the top . And I want to make sure that every young woman who joins the military feels welcomed and respected , " he said . <p> When asked if he thought the accusations might cause trouble , Graham said he wants to " make sure that we have good order and discipline . " <p> " I mean , some of the things have to be addressed and we 'll see . I mean , what we want to do is make sure that we have good order and discipline . I 've been in the military for over 30 years . I was a military lawyer , prosecutor , defense attorney and a judge for a short period of time , good order and discipline is important , " Graham said . <p> GOP Sen. John Kennedy told reporters Tuesday that President-elect Donald Trump 's Cabinet picks should receive background checks , and that " I would prefer to have the FBI perform them . " <p> Kennedy immediately hedged that stance by praising congressional committee staff and equating their work to the work of the FBI . <p> " It 's not a black or white issue . Keep in mind that we have excellent staffs on our committees , and we have excellent investigators . And many of those staffs and investigators , most of them , in fact , work with the FBI in terms of doing their work . So it 's sort of a joint effort , " Kennedy said . <p> While the Louisiana Republican said he did n't have a meeting scheduled with Department of Defense pick Pete Hegseth to talk about his nomination and the allegations that surround him , Kennedy said : " I want to know if they 're true , and I want to hear his side of the story , and he 's going to have to address them . " <p> " I have read all the articles , I have seen all the allegations , and Mr. Hegseth is going to have to address them , " he said . <p> When asked about The New York Times reporting on an email Hegseth 's mother reportedly sent to her son in 2018 sharply criticizing his treatment of women , Kennedy said : " Of all the allegations I 've seen that 's probably the most serious . " <p> " Now I do n't know . I have n't seen the emails . I have n't -- I do n't know if they 're accurate . I do n't know if there were emails . Once again , just because you read it on the internet does n't mean it 's true , " Kennedy said . <p> Trump 's team has been in discussions for days with French President Emmanuel Macron 's office regarding the visit , and the US president-elect was invited by the French government to attend the reopening , sources familiar with the plans told CNN . <h> Trump called into the Senate GOP retreat , senator says <p> From CNN 's Ted Barrett <p> President-elect Donald Trump called into the Senate GOP retreat , according to Sen. John Cornyn . <p> " It was mainly just all congratulatory of all the new people and saying , ' looking forward to working together , we got a great opportunity . ' It was not a lot of specifics , " Cornyn said , who added that Trump did not talk about his agenda for the new Congress . <p> House Speaker Mike Johnson attended the meeting , a source familiar tells CNN , signaling how House and Senate Republicans are looking to hit the ground running on a number of issues at the start of the new Congress . <p> Democratic Rep. Sean Casten took a key step on the House floor to force a vote over a resolution to release the House Ethics Committee report into allegations of misconduct by former congressman Matt Gaetz , who was Donald Trump 's former pick for attorney general . <p> Democrats attempted to force a vote over the issue before the Thanksgiving recess break , but the procedural move stalled out , which is why Casten is bringing it back up again now . <p> The move today is expected to force a floor vote within two legislative days over the resolution . The House could hold a vote to table -- or block -- the resolution , hold a vote to refer it to committee , or hold an up or down vote on the merits . <p> Republicans and Democrats alike doubt that enough GOP members will buck House Speaker Mike Johnson 's wishes on the matter and therefore believe the report would not be released in this way . Johnson has said he does not think the report should be released , arguing against it because Gaetz is no longer a member of the House and the ethics panel no longer has jurisdiction over him . <p> Casten called up a privileged resolution on the floor that directs the ethics panel to immediately release its report into the allegations against Gaetz . Gaetz has denied any wrongdoing . <p> More on DOGE : Trump had proposed the creation of a government efficiency commission as part of a slate of new economic plans that he unveiled in early September . <p> He has tapped both Musk and Ramaswamy to lead DOGE . <p> On the campaign trail , Trump pointed to his proposed government efficiency commission as a way to reduce government spending . " As the first order of business , this commission will develop an action plan to totally eliminate fraud and improper payments within six months , " he said in September . " This will save trillions of dollars . " <p> It 's important to note that while Trump has promised that the initiative will make " drastic changes , " Musk and Ramaswamy will not have any direct power to make spending cuts , regulatory changes or other moves . The group will exist outside of the government and will likely serve to make recommendations to the White House for the president 's annual budget , which outlines the president 's vision but Congress is not required to follow . <p> Trump received strong supportin Miami-Dade County during the election , particularly in the city of Hialeah , which is predominantly made up of Hispanic or Latino residents . In 2020 , Trump lost the county to Joe Biden , 46% to 53% . Four years later , he carried it with 55% of the vote . <p> Cabrera 's post features a photo of Trump signing the plaque for " President Donald J. Trump Avenue . " <p> President Donald J. Trump Avenue is official in Miami-Dade County ! <p> Today , we ratified the City of Hialeah 's initiative to honor President Trump 's legacy of championing freedom and opportunity by co-designating Palm Avenue -- a vital artery in our community -- as " President Donald J .... **26;1779;TOOLONG <h> Rep. Moskowitz becomes first Democrat to join DOGE caucus <p> From CNN 's Annie Grayer <p> Rep. Jared Moskowitz listens during a hearing on March 19 in Washington , DC . <p> Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images <p> Florida Rep. Jared Moskowitz is the first Democrat to join the caucus supporting President-elect Donald Trump 's Department of Government Efficiency , a sign that efforts to cut the federal government could have bipartisan support . <p> Moskowitz , who wants to work on making the Secret Service and FEMA independent federal agencies that report directly to the White House , is n't the only Democrat showing support for DOGE . Sen. Bernie Sanders , an Independent from Vermont who caucuses with the Democrats , posted " Elon Musk is right " and said he supports efforts to overhaul spending at the Pentagon . <p> The glimmers of Democratic support for the broader effort suggest that DOGE , led by Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy , could create rare instances of bipartisanship between unlikely pairings on Capitol Hill . <p> Moskowitz will join a caucus led by GOP Rep. Aaron Bean , of Florida , and Rep. Pete Sessions , of Texas . Separate from their caucus , Georgia Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene will chair an Oversight subcommittee created to work with DOGE . <p> Musk and Ramaswamy will speak to Republican House and Senate members on Thursday afternoon , according to a notice distributed by Speaker Mike Johnson 's office on Tuesday . <p> Link Copied ! <h> During GOP conference meeting , Thune vows Senate will vote on Fridays early next year to confirm Trump Cabinet <p> From CNN 's Lauren Fox <p> Senate Minority Whip John Thune speaks to reporters following a news conference following the weekly Senate Republican policy luncheon at the US Capitol on November 19 in Washington , DC . <p> Andrew Harnik/Getty Images <p> During a closed-door GOP conference meeting on the 2025 agenda , incoming Republican leader John Thune laid out an ambitious portrait of how he sees the first few months of the Trump administration playing out -- and President-elect Donald Trump called in . <p> During the meeting , a source familiar said Thune warned members that the Senate will vote on Fridays early next year to get Trump 's Cabinet confirmed , a major departure from how the Senate has operated for years where lawmakers often depart Thursday afternoon . Thune also warned that he 's committed to canceling recess and weekends when necessary to fill Trump 's administration . <p> Thune told members that unlike the era of Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer , when a single vote might be held open for hours , he will pledge to make voting more efficient where a single vote wo n't be held open endlessly . <p> Thune also said he is looking to have a targeted piece of legislation in the first 30 days that could include key priorities of Trump 's , like the border , energy priorities and defense . That package would use a budget process known as reconciliation that allows the Senate Republicans to pass a bill with a simple majority vote . <p> That is intended to give Republicans more time to iron out a larger tax package that would use the same reconciliation process . <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's promise to impose stiff tariffs against America 's three biggest trading partners is widely expected to push prices higher -- which would set the stage for the Federal Reserve to stop cutting interest rates and possibly raise them instead . <p> Fed Chair Jerome Powell said in a recent speech in Dallas that it is still too early to consider how Trump 's tariff plans would affect the US economy . Campaign rhetoric is one thing , but enacted policy is another . Trump , however , says he wo n't waste any time , threatening last week to slap 25% tariffs on Mexico and Canada and an additional 10% duty on Chinese goods on the first day of his second term on January 20 . <p> Trump 's tariffs would almost certainly push up prices for imported goods like avocados , cars and tequila . That would affect about $1.5 trillion of goods that flow throughout North America , according to an estimate from the International Monetary Fund . <p> Fed officials will eventually develop economic models of how the US economy could perform under different tariff scenarios . Two potential developments they 'll consider will be whether retaliatory tariffs emerge from Trump 's plans , if enacted , and if Americans believe inflation will pick up . <p> That 's precisely what the Fed did in 2018 when the first Trump administration went on a tariff spree , slapping duties on foreign goods ranging from solar panels to washing machines . <p> In one scenario , assuming retaliation against a 15% universal tariff , the Fed deemed it best to raise rates if Americans also expected inflation to pick up . That was the formula for the Fed to raise rates : a trade war and spooked consumers , according to a declassified 2018 Fed document detailing policy alternatives known as the " tealbook . " <h> Analysis : Some of Trump 's Cabinet picks will meet with senators today . Here 's more on the confirmation process <p> From CNN 's Zachary B. Wolf <p> For all the drama generated every four years by Cabinet appointments , defeat of a nominee by a vote in the Senate is extremely rare . <p> Rather than face the humiliation of a rejection vote in the Senate , Cabinet nominees are more frequentlywithdrawn when it becomes clear they can not be confirmed . <p> Every recent president since Bill Clinton has withdrawn at least one of their initial nominees . Clinton 's initial nominee to be attorney general , Zoe Baird , withdrew her nomination after admitting she employed undocumented immigrants to watch her child . <p> Here 's more about the confirmation process : <p> What is the Cabinet ? Presidents lead the federal government with the help of a group of close advisers and the heads of federal agencies like the Department of Justice and the Pentagon . Some members of the Cabinet , like vice president and White House chief of staff , do not need Senate approval . But most of them do . <p> Some roles , like US ambassador to the United Nations or CIA director , have been at the Cabinet level in some administrations but not all . The current Cabinet , under President Joe Biden , has 26 members . <p> The Senate 's role : Article II is the section of the Constitution that deals with the executive branch . In Section II , it makes clear that while the president is the executive , he hires certain positions spelled out in the Constitution and others established by law with the " advice and consent " of senators . If the Senate is in recess , the president can make temporary appointments . <p> Timeline of nomination process : In modern times , a president-elect nominates his picks for top officials ASAP after winning the election . Planning should ideally begin before Election Day . <p> Oversight committees in the Senate can conduct confirmation hearings before Inauguration Day on January 20 . They can refer nominees to the full Senateor quick votes when the new president takes the oath of office . But things frequently take a lot longer . <p> A nomination takes longer than it used to . Even after Democratic senators pushed through changes to the rules in 2013 to remove the filibuster from confirmation of administration officials , the two parties have gotten more adversarial about the process . <h> Wall Street is n't buying Trump 's deportation threats <p> From CNN 's Matt Egan <p> President-elect Donald Trump has promised to expel millions of undocumented people as part of the biggest deportation program in American history . But Wall Street does n't believe the looming immigration crackdown will live up to Trump 's campaign trail hype . <p> Although investors expect immigration will slow significantly during Trump 's second administration , just 6% of investors expect net immigration will turn negative under Trump , according to a Goldman Sachs survey released Sunday . <p> Wall Street is betting that , even with Trump 's promised crackdown , more people will enter the United States than are deported from it . That would come as a relief to the business owners who warn that wide-scale deportations of millions of people , as Trump has repeatedly promised to enact , will starve them of workers and lift prices on consumers . <p> The findings underscore the reality that deportations will likely be slowed by legal obstacles and logistical constraints , not to mention the economic risk of causing worker shortages at farms , construction sites and elsewhere . <p> Nearly half of the investors anticipate annual immigration will average between 500,000 and 1 million under Trump , according to Goldman Sachs . That would be down from the recent annualized rate of about 1.75 million and the peak of 3 million last year . <p> The president has some authority to control immigration by executive action , but those orders lack the scope and permanence of legislation . Although the House of Representatives and Senate will be under Republican control next year , the party 's margins will be narrow , which could make legislating -- particularly on a hot-button topic like immigration -- potentially difficult . <p> Few foreign leaders did more to woo Trump when he was the 45th president . Macron treated him with such deference at a Bastille Day parade on the Champs- ? lys ? es that Trump came home wanting a military parade of his own -- on July Fourth . <p> As Trump prepares to become the 47th president , Macron has surpassed himself , inviting Trump to attend the year 's most vaunted opening -- the unveiling of the newly restored Notre Dame Cathedral five years after a savage fire . <p> Putting Trump at the center of the star-studded VIP event , which will mark his big return to the global stage , says everything about the power fast flowing back to the president-elect six weeks before he begins his second term . <p> Trump is n't waiting until January to launch his new foreign policy -- he 's already threatened a trade war with Canada and Mexico and showed who is boss when Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau rushed to Florida to appease him last week . And on Monday , he warned that there will be " ALL HELL TO PAY " in the Middle East if Hamas does n't release hostages in Gaza before Inauguration Day . <p> Trump 's starring role in Paris will also mark a poignant contrast with Joe Biden 's increasingly ignominious long goodbye . The president came under fierce criticism Monday , even from within his own party , after he pardoned his son Hunter , undercutting a core principle of his term -- that everyone is equal before the law . <h> Trump joked to Trudeau that Canada should become a 51st state during a discussion on tariffs <p> From CNN 's Kristen Holmes <p> President-elect Donald Trump joked to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau that Canada should become a 51st state during a discussion on tariffs over dinner Trump 's Mar-a-Lago club last Friday , two sources briefed on the conversation told CNN . <p> Trudeau 's impromptu trip to Florida came just days after Trump promised massive hikes in tariffs on goods coming from Mexico and Canada starting on the first day of his administration , specifically calling for a 25% tariff on all products sent to the US , a version of which Trump mentioned during the dinner . After what was described as polite pushback on the matter from Trudeau on how such tariffs would hurt the Canadian economy , Trump joked that if that were the case , maybe Canada should join the United States as a 51st state , the sources said . One source emphasized that the comment was meant to be a joke , and that the other dinner guests took it as one . <p> The mention of becoming a 51st state was first reported by Fox News Digital . <p> Trudeau 's chief of staff Katie Telford and Canadian Minister of Public Safety Dominic LeBlanc were also in attendance . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Analysis : Harris campaign could n't escape this one core dynamic of American politics <p> From CNN 's Ron Brownstein <p> Top advisers to Vice President Kamala Harris ' 2024 presidential campaign said that they could not overcome the gap of voters who were dissatisfied with the Biden administration and those who viewed Donald Trump 's first term positively , according to CNN political analyst Ron Brownstein . <p> " Donald Trump is anything but a normal candidate , but if you look at the exit polls and vote casts and the election results it 's pretty clear that the voters essentially treated him as a normal candidate , " he said . <p> Brownstein explained that , in a sense , Trump became a normal candidate due to voters becoming dissatisfied with the state of the country and the incumbent president . " The natural hydraulics of American politics is that most voters turn to the out party and that 's what we saw , " he said . <h> Schumer is unanimously elected as Senate Democratic leader <p> New York Sen. Chuck Schumer has been unanimously elected as the Democratic leader for the 5th straight Congress , according to a Senate Democratic leadership aide . <p> The entire leadership team was unanimously elected by the Senate Democratic Conference . <p> " I am honored and humbled to be chosen by my colleagues to continue leading Senate Democrats during this crucial period for our country . Our caucus has led the way in passing historic legislation that has improved the lives of millions of Americans and we remain laser focused on addressing the most pressing challenges facing our country , " Schumer said in a statement . <p> With just weeks until a December 20 spending deadline , negotiators in the House and Senate are trying to find a path forward on yet another short-term spending bill to run into next year -- a move that will force incoming President Donald Trump to contend with a funding battle in his first months of his presidency and smack dab in the middle of what is expected to be a contentious confirmation season . <p> The length of that bill as well as what else is included in it is still an active discussion , sources tell CNN . <p> Negotiators are upbeat at the moment about their ability to meet the deadline ahead of the holidays , with Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer saying yesterday on the floor talks were on track , and one aide telling CNN the talks included the " usual squabbling but nothing that will jeopardize a deadline . " <p> House Speaker Mike Johnson has previously floated to his conference that his preference would be to kick another spending fight into March of next year , weeks after a speaker election on the floor . <p> Doing so would help protect the speaker from a right flank that loathes an end-of-year mega spending bill , known as an omnibus . For now , negotiators are trying to nail down an agreement on what else will be included in the package . <p> A top target : A disaster aid package to help areas ravaged by hurricanes this fall -- and how big that package will be remains an active discussion . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Trump attorney general pick Pam Bondi back on the Hill today , source says <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's pick for Attorney General Pam Bondi will be back on Capitol Hill today meeting with critical Republican senators who sit on the Senate Judiciary Committee , a source familiar with the matter tells CNN . <p> Yesterday , Bondi met with Sens . Chuck Grassley and Lindsey Graham . Grassley , who will chair the Senate Judiciary Committee next Congress , promised to " move swiftly " on Bondi 's nomination at the beginning of the new year . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Democratic Rep. Crockett defends Biden 's pardon <p> From CNN 's Rashard Rose <p> Rep. Jasmine Crockett speaks during a press conference in Washington , DC , in February . <p> Samuel Corum/Getty Images <p> Democratic Rep. Jasmine Crockett of Texas defended President Joe Biden 's decision to pardon his son Hunter Biden , saying it was " the right move . " <p> " I ca n't tell you why he did it . I can tell you that at the time that he said it though he was , number one , the Democratic nominee to go after a second term . And circumstances have changed , " Crockett told CNN 's Laura Coates on Monday night . <p> Biden announced Sunday that he had pardoned Hunter Biden , who faced sentencing this month for federal tax and gun convictions , marking a reversal of his previous position as he prepares to leave office . <p> " Not only is it that we lost , but we now know that we have someone who is a convicted criminal that is going into the White House and seemingly is surrounding himself with questionable figures and the retribution that he 's talked about seeking on the trail . You know , I think that the president is taking him at his word , and he 's decided that he is going to protect his only son , and honestly , I think that it was the right move , " Crockett said <p> CNNhas reported that Biden 's decision to pardon Hunter has left some Democrats fuming , as he repeatedly and unequivocally claimed that he would never take that step . <p> " I ca n't say why my colleagues are acting the way that they are . I can say that the American people are tired of us bringing a butter knife to a real fight , a real war . And the reality is that , you know , a lot of my colleagues , even if they are lawyers , they 've never practiced law , they 've never actually been in a courtroom , " Crockett said of some Democrats who are critical of Biden . <p> " I need people to really recognize that we are living in some different times . And I applaud the president , because the American people have been so upset with Democrats not fighting back and not fighting with the same tools that the Republicans have been fighting with . " <p> Link Copied ! <h> Trump adviser says there are no concerns about Hegseth within transition team <p> From CNN 's Liz Brown-Kaiser <p> Pete Hegseth speaks to reporters as he leaves the Russell Senate Office Building in Washington , DC , on November 21 . <p> " So when it comes to Pete Hegseth , there are n't any concerns and we feel very good about his positioning for being confirmed by the Senate , " Miller told CNN 's Kasie Hunt . <p> He continued : " Now , we have to take the process very seriously . This is one of the rare times where you 're going to hear me say that the process when it comes this is very important , and that 's because the Senate takes it so serious to go and have the one-on-one meetings , to have these confirmation hearings , to give senators the chance to kick the tires and get some of these questions answered on their own . " <p> Miller -- acknowledging a story from The New York Times about an email sent from Hegseth 's mother to her son -- argued that family conversations can be " very tough " and pointed out that Hegseth 's mother apologized for her previous criticism of her son 's treatment of women . <p> The Trump senior adviser also called reporting from The New Yorker about Hegseth being pushed out as the head of two veterans ' advocacy organizations " innuendo and gossip . " <p> Pressed by Hunt on the details of that story , Miller responded he would disagree with those characterizations of Hegseth and stressed that Hegseth will ultimately come across as a great person to lead the Pentagon . <p> " Pete Hegseth is someone who 's been shot at in combat , " Miller said . " That 's exactly the type of person that we want leading the DoD before any commitment is made to put our troops in harm 's way . " <p> Link Copied ! <h> These are Trump 's most recent picks for his administration <p> From CNN staff <p> President-elect Donald Trump has announced additional picks for key positions in his administration over the weekend into Monday . <p> Here are the latest : <p> Trump said Saturday night he plans to nominate firebrand loyalist Kash Patelto serve as FBI director . Putting him in charge of the FBI would require forcing out current director Christopher Wray , who was appointed by Trump , before his term expires -- prompting bipartisan criticism . <p> Also on Saturday , Trump named real estate developerCharles Kushner to serve as the next US ambassador to France . Kushner is the father of Jared Kushner , who is married to Trump 's daughter Ivanka , and was pardoned by Trump in 2020 following a 2005 conviction on federal charges . <p> On Sunday , he selected billionaire Massad Boulos to serve as his senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . Boulos is the father-in-law of the president-elect 's daughter , Tiffany , and was heavily involved in campaigning for Trump in Muslim American communities in battleground states . <p> Trump announced on Monday that investment banker Warren Stephens is his choice to be ambassador to the United Kingdom . <h> Recap of the widespread reaction to Biden pardoning his son , Hunter <p> From CNN staff <p> President Joe Biden walks with his son Hunter Biden toward Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House in July . <p> Susan Walsh/AP <p> Donald Trump is continuing to prepare for his return to the White House , naming some new picks over the past few days for his administration . But most of the focus so far this week has been on President Joe Biden pardoning of his son Hunter Biden . You can read the official document here . <p> What happened : In announcing the decision Sunday evening , Biden said his son was " selectively , and unfairly , prosecuted . " The pardon sparked widespread reactions , including criticism from Democratic lawmakers and allies -- and Trump slammed it as a " miscarriage of Justice . " The decision means that Hunter Biden wo n't be sentenced for his crimes , and it eliminates any chance that he 'll be sent to prison , which was a possibility . <p> Pushback from prosecutor : Special counsel David Weiss ' office , which prosecuted Hunter Biden , pushed back against Biden 's characterization in a court filing Monday , saying there was no evidence that the president 's son was a victim of vindictive prosecution . In pardoning his son , Biden bypassed the Justice Department 's Office of the Pardon Attorney , sources said . <p> Reactions : Biden 's decision came after he repeatedly said he would not pardon Hunter Biden -- leaving many allies frustrated . White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said the president would not have pardoned Hunter had Kamala Harris won the 2024 election -- before immediately walking back her statement . Two other presidents have pardoned family members , including Trump . 
@@118426099 <p> Israel bans UNRWA , as Palestinians face losing schools , clinics , other aidIsrael is severing ties with the main United Nations agency that provides aid to Palestinians . With the focus largely on Gaza , the move also threatens key services in the occupied West Bank . <p> A teacher leads a class at a school for girls administered by the main U.N . agency for Palestinian aid , UNRWA , in Qalandia refugee camp , near Ramallah , in the West Bank on Nov. 14 . Afif H. Amireh for NPR hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Afif H. Amireh for NPR <p> RAMALLAH , West Bank -- In a classroom near the Israeli-occupied West Bank town of Ramallah , first-graders enthusiastically call out their Arabic ABCs as a teacher prompts them from a chart on the wall . <p> About 600girls up to ninth gradeattend this elementary/preparatory school , located inside the Qalandia refugee camp . It is one of about 100 schools -- with a total of 45,000 students -- in the West Bank and East Jerusalem that are operated by UNRWA , the United Nations agency that provides aid to Palestinian refugees . <p> " The students here suffer from many pressures in life , both social and economic , " says principal Rana Nabhan . <p> Sponsor Message <p> Nabhan explains that without schools like this , which allow students to attend for free , many of the girls would receive no education at all . The other options are simply too expensive for refugee families . <p> Schoolgirls at an UNRWA school in Qalandia , in the West Bank , on Nov. 14 . Afif H. Amireh for NPR hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Afif H. Amireh for NPR <p> But new legislation requiring Israel to cut ties with UNRWA has thrown the future of Qalandia and the agency 's other schools into doubt . A question mark also hangs over dozens of UNRWA-operated health clinics and the wide-ranging social services the agency provides , not only in the West Bank and East Jerusalem , but also in war-torn Gaza . Without the cooperation of Israel that has existed since UNRWA 's inception some 75 years ago , many fear the agency can not continue functioning , as supplies and staff are halted at Israeli checkpoints . <h> As Israel slams UNRWA , the agency defends its work <p> UNRWA 's original mandate was to provide aid for the approximately 750,000 Palestinians displaced during the creation of the modern state of Israel in 1948 . Refugee status has been passed down through generations and allows the descendants to continue receiving services from the agency . UNRWA later took on responsibility for helping hundreds of thousands more displaced from the 1967 Six-Day War . Now about 5.9 million refugees are eligible for UNRWA services not only in Gaza and the West Bank , but also Jordan , Lebanon and Syria . <p> UNRWA staff and security walk along the street in Qalandia on Nov. 14 . Afif H. Amireh for NPR hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Afif H. Amireh for NPR <p> People walk past an UNRWA building in Am'ari , east of the city of Ramallah , in the West Bank on Nov. 13 . Afif H. Amireh for NPR hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Afif H. Amireh for NPR <p> The push to bar UNRWA gained renewed momentum after Israeli officials accused UNRWA staff of involvement in the Hamas-led attack on Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , according to Israel 's government . The U.N . agency said it would investigate the claim and swiftly dismissed a dozen workers . But Israel has not provided evidence supporting the allegation of larger participation of UNRWA staff . <p> Speaking to an advisory committee in Geneva last week , UNRWA Commissioner-General Philippe Lazzarini said the agency has been the target of a " global disinformation campaign " led by Israel that is " premised on the misguided belief that if UNRWA disappears , so will the issue of Palestine refugees . " <p> He said UNRWA 's critics were justifying their attacks by accusing the group of collusion with and infiltration by Hamas . Pointing to a U.N . review that he said " found that the agency has a more robust approach to neutrality than comparable entities , " Lazzarini said : " While we do not operate in a zero-risk environment , we take a zero-tolerance approach to any proven breaches . " <p> Students participate in class in an UNRWA girls school in Qalandia on Nov. 14 . Afif H. Amireh for NPR hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Afif H. Amireh for NPR <p> Boaz Bismuth , a member of the Israeli parliament from the governing Likud party , alleges there is evidence there are " hundreds of UNRWA agents who belong to Hamas , " but would not say what the proof is . <p> Bismuth , who sponsored one of the two anti-UNRWA bills , says Israel or some other aid organization will step in to fill the void left by the agency . <p> However , Paul Spiegel , director of the Center for Humanitarian Health at Johns Hopkins University , says , " I have seen no concrete plan " to take over from UNRWA . <p> Spiegel is concerned that the situation will deteriorate after Jan. 28 , when the ban goes into effect , because it 's almost impossible for another agency to step in and quickly assume the role that UNRWA has played for so long . " UNRWA has had years to establish logistics and ... people in the field . You ca n't just replace that overnight , " he says . <p> Sponsor Message <h> Thousands to go without school <p> Not far from the Qalandia girls school , 15- to 18-year-olds at an UNRWA vocational school are learning diesel mechanics and construction-related skills to prepare them for jobs such as electrician and plumber . <p> Nooreddin Saba'e , 18 , is focused on a project board that simulates a bathroom installation -- running wire between circuit breakers , outlets and switches . He says the free tuition that the UNRWA center provides was a big factor in him enrolling here . <p> " They ca n't cut off UNRWA . If they do , a lot of students wo n't be able to keep learning , " he says . " It will make getting this education really difficult . " <p> An UNRWA vocational training center in Qalandia prepares students for work as electricians , plumbers and other fields . Afif H. Amireh for NPR hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Afif H. Amireh for NPR <p> Job skills like these are especially important right now . Since the start of the war in Gaza , unemployment in the West Bank has skyrocketed , going from 12.9% before the conflict to 32% , according to U.N . data . What 's more , UNRWA is the second-largest employer in the West Bank after the Palestinian Authority , so the agency 's collapse would throw even more people out of work . <p> No one can predict with certainty how events will unfold on the ground starting Jan. 28 . Amid the ongoing war in Gaza , humanitarian aid groups are grappling with the immense challenge of meeting even a fraction of the urgent needs of a population devastated by more than 13 months of Israel 's bombardment and tight restriction on the flow of aid into the enclave . Meanwhile , in the West Bank and East Jerusalem , the key issue is whether Israel 's severing of ties with UNRWA would lead to the rapid collapse of the agency 's operations or result in a more gradual strangulation of its efforts . <p> In his remarks in Geneva , Lazzarini warned that Israel 's ban would have " catastrophic consequences " for UNRWA 's operations in Gaza and the West Bank . " In the West Bank , UNRWA 's collapse would deprive at least 50,000 children of education , and half a million Palestine refugees of primary health care , " he said . <p> Sponsor Message <p> Speaking with NPR , Jonathan Fowler , a spokesman for UNRWA , acknowledges , " we 're in a very nebulous situation . " He says if UNRWA is pushed out of the picture , Israel would be responsible for the Palestinians refugees currently under the agency 's charge . " Under international humanitarian law , it is incumbent upon an occupying power to look after the well-being of a population under occupation , " he says . <h> Public health could suffer <p> The Qalandia Camp Health Clinic is another UNRWA-run facility . It sees a few hundred patients a day and the tiny waiting room is normally crowded . Itaf Shada , 60 , sits patiently waiting to be called for her appointment . She 's a widow and has a litany of health issues -- diabetes , high blood pressure , osteoporosis . <p> " I 've got no money . I 've got nobody to take care of me , " she says . <p> Shada has been receiving services from UNRWA for 23 years and insists that if not for this clinic , she would be dead . " For poor people like us , UNRWA is like an artery . It 's what keeps us alive . " <p> Seated near Shada is Hiam Hawarin , who is holding her 7-month-old daughter . The baby looks small for her age -- just 9 pounds , her mother says -- and she 's losing weight . " She has a cough , " she says . " She was born with only one kidney . " <p> Hawarin , 33 , reveals that she is n't actually a refugee . But she 's come to the clinic in desperation hoping to get seen by a doctor . " My husband used to work in Israel , but he lost his job . And we lost our insurance , " she says . <p> Majida Nasr is a physician who worked in this clinic for more than 25years . Today , she 's training student doctors . 
@@118430893 <p> The injury has led to controversy over the NFL rules meant to avoid brain injuries . <p> The NFL released a fiery statement against a Houston Texans player who caused a concussion and then blamed Islamophobia and racism for some of the outrage over the hit . <p> Texans linebacker Azeez Al-Shaair crashed into Trevor Lawrence as the Jacksonville Jaguars quarterback began to slide after a running play in the second quarter of the game Sunday . Lawrence 's head slammed into the ground , and he immediately exhibited what appeared to be an involuntary " fencing posture " indicating a traumatic brain injury . <p> ' Your lack of sportsmanship and respect for the game of football and all those who play , coach , and enjoy watching it , is troubling . ' <p> The injury to Lawrence led to a large brawl between Texans and Jaguars players on the field . Lawrence was diagnosed with a concussion and entered into concussion protocol . The team 's coach said the team has not yet determined if the quarterback would return for any games or just sit out the rest of the season if he clears the protocol before season 's end . <p> On Tuesday Jon Runyan , the vice president of policy and rules administration for the NFL , issued a letter condemning Al-Shaair for several violations of player safety rules . <p> " Video shows you striking the head/neck area of Jaguars ' quarterback Trevor Lawrence after he clearly goes down in a feet-first slide , " Runyan wrote . " You led with your forearm and helmet and delivered a forceful blow to the head/neck area of your opponent when you had time and space to avoid such contact . " <p> In an attempt to lessen the chances of brain injuries occurring , the NFL forbids players from hitting quarterbacks while they are running if they slide to stop and also forbids unnecessary hits to the head . Some have criticized the new rules as too restrictive and difficult for defenders to observe . <p> " Your lack of sportsmanship and respect for the game of football and all those who play , coach , and enjoy watching it , is troubling and does not reflect the core values of the NFL , " Runyan added . <p> ' You do n't know my heart nor my character which I do n't need to prove to any of you . ' <p> On Monday , Al-Shaair released a statement apologizing to Lawrence and saying he did not intend to harm him . <p> " I 've always played the game as hard as I could . Never with the intent to harm anyone and anybody that knows me knows that . My goal is to hit you as hard as I can then I pray you 're still able to get up and play the next play , " he wrote . <p> " I genuinely did n't see Lawrence sliding until it was too late , " he added . " And it all happens in the blink of an eye . To Trevor i sic genuinely apologize to you for what ended up happening . " <p> He also criticized some fans for sending him what he said were racist and Islamophobic insults over the incident . <p> " To the rest of the people who I 've been called every single name in the book from reporters with their hands ready for a story to find their villain , to racist and Islamophobic fans and people , you do n't know my heart nor my character which I do n't need to prove to any of you , " he added . " God knows my intentions and anyone who has been a teammate or friend of mine knows my heart . " <p> Al-Shaair had used the " My Cause , My Cleats " NFL charity campaign to show his support for Palestinians and to criticize Israel for its military operation in the Gaza Strip . <p> " All Praise to Allah , " he wrote . <p> Lawrence also issued a brief statement on Sunday . <p> " Thank you to everyone who has reached out / been praying for me . I 'm home and feeling better . Means a lot , thank you all , " he wrote . <p> The Texans will face the Miami Dolphins , the Kansas City Chiefs , and the Baltimore Ravens without Al-Shaair . <p> Like Blaze News ? Bypass the censors , sign up for our newsletters , and get stories like this direct to your inbox . Sign up here ! 
@@118454197 <p> Israeli forces in Gaza have deployed quadcopter drones , playing the sounds of crying babies and distressed women , to draw Palestinians out of their homes in open areas where they can be targeted . " In mid-April , we were informed that Israeli quadcopters were emitting bizarre sounds , including baby sounds or women screaming , " Maha Hussaini , Euro-Med Human Rights monitor , told Al Jazeera . <p> " I went personally to Nuseirat and I interviewed several Palestinians separately and the testimonies were almost identical , " she said . <p> The drones were " playing sounds of screaming women " to " lure citizens out of their homes and to find someone to shoot , " she said . This was confirmed by the hospital reports . <p> " Quadcopters were emitting baby sounds , playing sounds of screaming women . " <p> Palestinians in Gaza say Israel has been using small quadcopter drones , equipped with loudspeakers , to lure them out of their homes and then shoot them . **37;1405;TOOLONG <p> " There were cases of people getting injured by these quad captors after going out to figure out what was the sound to try to help , " she said . <p> Nuseirat resident Mohammad Nabhan recalled hearing a woman shouting " help " alongside the cries of a baby . On realising that the sounds emanated from a quadcopter , Mr Nabhan warned his cousin , " Do n't fall for it ; it 's a sound system . " Abu Anas Al-Shahrour , a neighbour , heard the cries of distress and went out to help but was shot in the head . <p> Other incidents across Gaza , in Khan Younis , and the occupied West Bank , included recordings of a child crying , " I want my mother , " and threats warning Palestinians " will die " if they resist . <p> Quadcopters , remote-controlled drones , have been extensively used by Israeli forces since the escalation of hostilities on October 7 . These devices have been utilised for surveillance , individual targeting , and crowd dispersal . In January , witnesses reported quadcopters opening fire on hundreds of civilians who had gathered to collect food on al-Rasheed Street in Gaza City . <p> The drones ' sound systems have also broadcast Hebrew and Arabic songs , sounds of tank movements , and even the familiar calls of local vendors . <p> The Health Ministry in Gaza has reported nearly 45,000 deaths and the entire population has been displaced amid relentless Israeli bombardment . Civilians are facing acute shortages of food , water , and medical supplies . Hospitals , schools , and homes lie in ruins , and the potential spread of disease in overcrowded shelters looms large . <p> This method of psychological warfare has drawn sharp criticism from human rights groups . The " General 's Plan " , allegedly aiming to depopulate northern Gaza under the guise of fighting Hamas , has been labelled a war crime by the ICC , leading to the issuance of an arrest warrant for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. 
@@118454391 <p> Svirsky , 38 , was kidnapped from Kibbutz Be'eri , where he was visiting his parents , during the Oct. 7 , 2023 , massacre . Both his parents were murdered after the terrorists swept through the community , and their corpses were identified days after their son went missing . <p> Svirsky 's body was returned to Israel as part of an operation by the Israeli Defense Forces ( IDF ) to recover the remains of captives killed in Gaza . <p> Itai Svirsky , 38 , is believed to have been executed by his Hamas captors . AP <p> " The Kidnapped and Missing Persons team in the IDF Human Resources Division , responsible for supporting the families of the kidnapped , worked closely with the Institute for Forensic Medicine and the Israel Police to identify his remains , " the Israeli military said in a statement , according to the Jerusalem Post . <p> Svirsky was last seen alive in a series of videos the terrorists released in January , which showed him along with since-free hostage Noa Argamani -- whose kidnapping on the back of a motorcycle became one of the enduring symbols of Oct. 7 's horrors -- and Yossi Sharabi , who is believed to have been killed during an IDF airstrike . <p> Svirsky and the hostages were filmed pleading with the Israeli government to secure their release -- before concluding by telling the Israeli people " Your government is lying " in a coerced statement . <p> It is unclear when those clips were taken , or whether Svirsky was still alive at the time . <p> The three had been held together during their captivity , Argamani confirmed after her release in June . <p> " Dear Itai , during our shared stay in captivity , we imagined thousands of situations together , how we would return to Israel together , how we would meet for coffee after everything was over and laugh about it all . <p> " We never thought for a moment that you would return to Israel like this , as a corpse , " Argamani wrote in a social media post after his body was returned . <p> Svirsky was last seen alive in a video released by Hamas in January . It is unclear when the video was taken <p> " Thank you for every moment of our shared time together . You were my friend ; you were my big brother in this dark place . You taught me so many things that I will take with me no matter where I go . Now , you will receive a proper burial in Israel . Rest in peace . " <p> Svirsky 's death was announced in a Hamas-released video on Jan. 15 , where a still-captive Argmanani claimed he was killed in an airstrike shortly after Sharabi was killed . <p> But the IDF maintains that story was concocted by the terror group , and that Svirsky was actually shot dead in captivity , the Jerusalem Post reported . <p> At least 100 hostages remain in captivity nearly 14 months since the attack . 
@@118455385 <h> A US official confirmed that Trump 's team has been in touch with Middle East officials . <p> Donald Trump 's incoming Middle East envoy has traveled to Qatar and Israel to kick-start the U.S. president-elect 's diplomatic push to reach a Gaza ceasefire and hostage release deal before he takes office on Jan 20 , a source briefed on the talks told Reuters . <p> rump administration is expanding the authority of immigration officers to deport migrants without requiring them to appear before judges ahead of deportation . ( REUTERS Photo ) <p> The meetings signal that the Gulf state of Qatar has resumed its role as a key mediator after suspending its role last month , the source said . <p> The Gulf country had worked alongside the U.S. and Egypt for months on fruitless indirect talks that have not achieved a lasting ceasefire between Israel and militant group Hamas in Gaza or the release of dozens of Israeli hostages held in the enclave . <p> The source added that Hamas negotiators would likely return to the Qatari capital Doha to facilitate a fresh round of talks " soon " . <p> A U.S. official confirmed that Trump 's team has been in touch with Middle East officials . <p> " They are supportive of a Gaza ceasefire deal , " the official told Reuters . <p> Trump 's transition team and representatives for Witkoff did not immediately respond to a request for comment the meetings . <p> The White House National Security Council did not immediately respond to questions on whether they were aware of Witkoff 's trips in recent weeks to Qatar and Israel . <p> Trump said on Monday there would be " hell to pay " in the Middle East if hostages held in the Gaza Strip were not released prior to his Jan. 20 inauguration <p> Witkoff , a real estate investor and Trump campaign donor with business ties to Qatar and other Gulf states , but no prior diplomatic experience , met Sheikh Mohammed , who also serves as foreign minister , in Doha on Nov 22 . <p> " Both agreed a Gaza ceasefire is needed before Trump 's inauguration so that once the Trump administration takes office it can move onto other issues , like stabilizing Gaza and the region , " said the source , who had been briefed on meetings between Witkoff , Qatar and Israel and spoke on the condition of anonymity . <p> Qatar 's foreign ministry did not respond to Reuters ' request for confirmation or comment . <p> Witkoff met Netanyahu in Israel the next day . The Israeli prime minister 's office did not immediately respond to Reuters ' request for comment . <p> He " spoke with them about Team Trump 's efforts to try and broker the deal before inauguration , " the official said . <p> Sheikh Mohammed traveled to Vienna on Nov 24 to meet the director of Israel 's Mossad spy agency David Barnea , who has led Israel 's talks with Qatar over the last 14 months . <p> " There are plans for a subsequent round of indirect talks between Israel and Hamas to take place potentially in Doha soon , but no specific date has been set , " the source said . <p> " Hamas ' negotiating team are likely to return to Doha to facilitate such talks . " <p> Qatar had been a key mediator of the indirect talks between Israel and Hamas until it announced last month it was suspending its role until they the two parties show " willingness and seriousness " to resume talks . 
@@118456982 <h> The U.S. is still the world 's most diverse and innovative economy ; and Donald Trump proved in his first term that he is no isolationist <p> In the aftermath of Donald Trump 's resounding victory in the U.S. presidential elections , with a stunning Electoral College triumph of 312 votes to 226 , the Indian commentariat appears to be divided between those lamenting the demise of Liberal America and those celebrating the rise of a right-wing transactional leader who might be " good for India " . Both sides , however , appear to think that the America , over which Mr Trump will preside , has given one more sign of its irresistible decline , as the world becomes increasingly multi-polar and China continues its inexorable rise . For them , Mr. Trump 's victory merely sets the seal on an America more divided against itself , more insular , more xenophobic , more racist and misogynist and less inclined to engage with the world than at any time since the Second World War . <h> The core elements are still strong <p> I am not prepared to write America off quite so quickly . For one thing , the fundamental elements of American global power remain unchallenged . It is still the world 's largest , most diverse and most innovative economy . Its military budget dwarfs those of the rest of the planet 's countries combined . It has a remarkable level of energy security , with its own domestic sources of oil , gas , solar and wind power , and seems to be gradually expanding its nuclear capacity as well . Its labour force may have priced itself out of the manufacturing business but American labour productivity and its talent for business and entrepreneurship remain incomparable . Its capital markets are thriving and stable , defying every doomsday prediction since the Great Depression . It has more billionaires than in any country on earth ; the U.S. dollar remains the world 's benchmark currency ; and the average working American is still better off than the average worker almost anywhere else in the world . <p> It is still a land that wields an unparalleled influence over global culture -- as the home of Coca-Cola , Starbucks , Levi 's , McDonald 's , Disney , Hollywood , CNN , Google , Microsoft , and Nvidia , it sets the global cultural agenda in ways that no one else comes remotely close to approaching . The " unipolar moment " that lasted from roughly 1990 to 2010 may have passed , but these factors mean that whatever degree of multi-polarity may be dawning , it is very much amongst second-order powers jostling for space with each other , rather than truly competing with the United States for global dominance . <p> It is of course true that the couple of decades of absolute dominance -- politically , militarily , economically , and technologically -- of the world by the United States of America have passed . This was an era in which Washington faced no near-term rivals for global power and influence , and one in which the defining feature of international politics was that America held sway over world affairs , and usually had its way . But in the last decade or so , it has become clear that the U.S. was no longer going to be uncontested in any of these domains . The first , largest , tallest , biggest everything -- from skyscrapers to planes -- used to be in America . That is no longer the case . <p> There are also the undoubted weaknesses with which America is now reckoning . Its industrial base has been weakened by decades of over-reliance on imports from China . Its public debt is out of control and is expected to rise to 122% of GDP by 2034 . It is already the case that America spends more on public debt interest than on defence , even though its defence budget is larger than that of the rest of the world combined . Its public , as the recent election showed , is increasingly resentful of the country 's own globalist elites , has rejected cosmopolitanism and multiculturalism , and wants to return to a more insular and arguably xenophobic insularity . Its appetite for global adventure has shrunk dramatically and might increasingly prompt American administrations to withdraw from their current engagements across the world and cease to make the major efforts required to manage and defuse international conflicts . <h> The rise of China <p> And then there is China . Roughly around the 2008-09 financial crisis , pundits recognised that there had emerged on the global scene the spectre of Beijing . China 's " peaceful rise " for the last quarter of a century , fuelled by American investment in its industries and burgeoning export trade for its manufactures , has culminated in its supplanting the U.S. as a manufacturing and industrial power , rivalling it in economic size and exceeding its surpluses , as well as challenging it in new cutting-edge technologies such as 5G . Under the assertive autocracy of Xi Jinping , China has emerged , after decades of uncontested U.S. hegemony , as the other aspiring hegemon -- and it has the resources to make the Americans sweat . No wonder many American thinkers have called for policymakers to evolve a comprehensive strategy to counter China , much as George Kennan 's famous " Long Telegram " from Moscow in 1946 led to the birth of the " containment strategy " that hemmed in the Soviet Union . <p> Such a strategy , by definition , will require the U.S. to stay engaged , if only to preserve its dominance in world affairs . Mr. Trump 's first term demonstrated that he was no isolationist . His initiatives in promoting a " grand bargain " involving the U.S. , Israel , Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates and other moderate West Asian powers , did indicate a willingness to pursue a new regional compact that would isolate Islamic extremists . ( The " I2U2 " among Israel , India , the U.S. and the UAE , which was part of this vision , has been rendered dormant by the Gaza conflict , but will certainly be revived once that war is brought to an end . ) His withdrawal from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action ( JCPoA ) /nuclear agreement with Iran , his imposition of extremely rigorous sanctions on that country , and the American assassination of Iran 's intelligence chief , Qasem Soleimani , suggest a willingness to be belligerent in pursuing adversaries deemed to be hostile . <p> Mr. Trump has made it clear , especially through the trade war he launched against China , that a United States led by him will not permit Beijing to establish itself as the unchallenged Asian hegemon . To this end , Mr. Trump is likely to prioritise strengthening the Quad ( India , Australia , Japan , the U.S. ) , and should India prove skittish in this regard , the new " Squad " ( in which the Philippines replaces India in the quartet ) , could be energised . <p> Mr. Trump understands that if China is allowed to gain unchallengeable dominance over east and central Asia , the resources and markets it would command would enable it to seriously challenge American strategic and economic interests . A struggle for influence in this part of the world will certainly ensue over the next few years and India will be called upon to define its stand in relation to it . <h> An Indian response <p> New Delhi will have to carefully juggle some crucial choices : how to define its uneasy relationship with a China that continues to threaten its borders , even while India 's import dependence on that country grows to record levels each year ; how to manage its close relationship with a Russia that is increasingly becoming a client state of Beijing ; how to manage its friendship with Iran at a time when Israel 's war with Hamas and Hezbollah and the U.S.-led attacks on the Houthis render Iran increasingly a regional undesirable ; and how to defend its own strategic autonomy in a world where the freedom of manoeuvre we have so far enjoyed among all these actors is narrowing . The U.S. under Donald Trump will undoubtedly seek to contain China , limit Russia , disempower Islamic Iran , and further isolate North Korea -- the new " axis of evil " identified by Washington -- while it promotes Israel and whips Europe into shape . U.S. support for India will be contingent on how adroitly India manages to navigate its own relationships with these countries so that it is seen as willing to go along with , or at least not undermine , these objectives . <p> Not only is it unwise to write off Trump 's America -- in light of these considerations -- we should take it very seriously indeed . <p> Shashi Tharoor is the fourth-term Congress Member of Parliament ( Lok Sabha ) from Thiruvananthapuram , the author of 26 books including Pax Indica : India and the World of the 21st Century , and the Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on External Affairs <h> Comments <p> Comments have to be in English , and in full sentences . They can not be abusive or personal . Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments . <p> We have migrated to a new commenting platform . If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in , you may continue to engage with our articles . If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments . Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. 
@@118463481 <p> * Hegseth on Capitol Hill : The former Fox News host and veteran is meeting with key GOP senators today . Hegseth will need to limit defections to three Republican senators , assuming all Democrats vote against him -- and there are already more than three lawmakers who have expressed uncertainty . <h> Romney warns about those " who would tear at our unity " in farewell speech on Senate floor <p> From CNN 's Terence Burlij <p> Sen. Mitt Romney speaks from the Senate floor on Wednesday , December 4 . <p> Senate TV <p> Sen. Mitt Romney of Utah delivered his final Senate floor speech Wednesday warning about those " who would tear at our unity " and hailing the importance of bipartisan cooperation . <p> " There are some today who would tear at our unity , who would replace love with hate , who deride our foundation of virtue , or who debase the values upon which the blessings of heaven depend , " Romney said . <p> The remarks marked the end of Romney 's career in public service , stretching from a term as governor of Massachusetts to six years as US senator from Utah -- with two presidential bids in between , including being the GOP 's nominee in the 2012 election against President Barack Obama . <p> During his time in the Senate , Romney has been a leading Republican critic of Donald Trump , having voted to convict the now president-elect during both of his impeachment trials in his first term . <p> As he departs the Senate , Romney said he plans to remain engaged in public discourse -- as a citizen . <p> " A country 's character is a reflection not just of its elected officials but also of its people , " Romney said . " I leave Washington to return to be one among them and hope to be a voice of unity and virtue . " <p> " He seems to have a lot of energy around reducing regulation , " Bezos said during an interview at The New York Times DealBook Summit Wednesday . He added that he would be willing to " help him do that " and that he believes America is " burdened by excessive regulation . " <p> " I 'm very optimistic that President Trump is serious about this regulatory agenda and I think he has a chance of succeeding , " Bezos said . " He is calmer than he was the first time , he 's more confident and settled . " <p> Bezos ' comments come as various tech executives have begun seeking to engage with President-elect Donald Trump , including around tech policy . Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg is also seeking an " active " role in policy discussions with Trump 's team , an executive for the company said this week . <p> Bezos also said he is not concerned about the relationship between billionaire Elon Musk -- whose SpaceX competes with Bezos ' Blue Origin and xAI competes with Amazon 's AI efforts -- and Trump . He said that he takes at " face value " Musk 's commitments that he will not use his political power against his corporate rivals . <p> Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai also briefly commented on the incoming Trump administration in a separate interview during Tuesday 's event . Pichai said of his conversations with Trump : " He 's definitely very focused on American competitiveness , particularly in technology , including AI . " <p> Link Copied ! <h> Cornyn says he wants the justice department and FBI under Bondi and Patel to lose political reputations <p> From CNN 's Ted Barrett <p> Sen. John Cornyn speaks with members of the media after a meeting with Pam Bondi on Wednesday , December 4 . <p> Pool <p> Republican Sen. John Cornyn of Texas said he is looking for Pam Bondi and Kash Patel , President-elect Donald Trump 's picks for attorney and FBI director , to make quick reforms at their agencies so they are not viewed by the public as political organizations . <p> Cornyn 's comments come after his meeting with Bondi . <p> " The most important thing to me is that the Department of Justice lose its current reputation as a political organization , and it be restored to an apolitical , professional law enforcement agency , " he said . " But it 's going to be an enormous task to try to cull some of the political hires and other people who were doing this for all reasons . " <p> Cornyn , who serves on the Senate Judiciary Committee , said he did n't expect Bondi to " slash and burn and fire a bunch " of career officials because " that would n't be prudent , " but would do " due diligence " to make appropriate changes at the justice department . <p> Coryn was asked about concerns by some critics regarding Patel on if he will carry out politically motivated prosecutions , the same way Republicans believe the current and previous FBI directors did against Trump . <p> " I 'm going to ask him about that , " Coryn said . " What we need is a restoration of the previous reputation of the Department of Justice and FBI for a nonpolitical law enforcement agency , not a continuation of the current policy . So I 'm going to look to both Pam Bondi and to Kash Patel as being reformers and restorers of the reputation of the FBI and Department of Justice . " <p> Link Copied ! <h> Trump announces Kelly Loeffler as his pick to lead the Small Business Administration <p> From Kate Sullivan <p> Former US Sen. Kelly Loeffler speaks at Erick Erickson 's conservative political conference " The Gathering " in Atlanta , on August 18 , 2023 . <p> Cheney Orr/Reuters/File <p> President-elect Donald Trump on Wednesday announced former US Sen. Kelly Loeffler as his pick to be Administrator of the Small Business Administration . <p> Loeffler is also co-chair of the Presidential Inaugural Committee . <p> " I am very pleased to nominate business leader and former U.S. Senator Kelly Loeffler , from the Great State of Georgia , to serve as Administrator of the Small Business Administration ( SBA ) . Small Businesses are the backbone of our Great Economy . Kelly will bring her experience in business and Washington to reduce red tape , and unleash opportunity for our Small Businesses to grow , innovate , and thrive . She will focus on ensuring that SBA is accountable to Taxpayers by cracking down on waste , fraud , and regulatory overreach , " Trump posted on Truth Social . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Hegseth takes to social media to illustrate support <p> From CNN 's Oren Liebermann and Aaron Pellish <p> In a barrage of posts and reposts on the social media site X , defense secretary nominee Pete Hegseth hit back at a series of stories that have put into question his viability for the cabinet position . <p> In his first post of the morning at 7:42 a.m . ET , Hegseth shared a picture from his time serving in Iraq in 2005 , saying , " Our warriors never back down , &amp; neither will I. " Hegseth accused " The Left " of trying to " smear w/ fake , anonymous sources &amp; BS stories . " <p> Hegseth struck a tone on X that was both combative and confident , posting dozens of messages of support while vowing never to back down as he works to keep his confirmation chances alive . <p> Hegseth also reposted a message from JD Vance . The Vice President-elect referenced a Wednesday Fox News appearance by Hegseth 's mother who explained an email she sent , first reported by the New York Times . His mother said in the interview that she regrets sending a 2018 email to her son accusing him of mistreating women , and urged female senators to support his confirmation . <p> " The media never talks about the apology because they 're trying to destroy him , not tell the truth , " Vance said on X. <p> In an effort to show the support he has from the Republican senators who will be crucial in his nomination process , Hegseth also shared a series of photos and statements from his meetings on Capitol Hill throughout the day . <h> Trump announces former Rep. Billy Long as his pick for IRS Commissioner <p> From CNN 's Kate Sullivan <p> Fromer Rep. Billy Long speaks during a House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health on May 14 , 2019 , in Washington , DC <p> Greg Nash/PoolAFP/Getty Images/File <p> President-elect Donald Trump on Wednesday announced former Missouri Rep. Billy Long as his pick for IRS Commissioner . <p> " I am pleased to announce that former Congressman Billy Long , of the Great State of Missouri , will be appointed to serve as the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) . Billy brings 32 years of experience running his own businesses in Real Estate and , as one of the premier Auctioneers in the Country . He then served 12 years in Congress , because he ' felt it was important for his constituents to have a Representative who has signed the front of a check ! ' " Trump posted on Truth Social.Trump continued : " Since leaving Congress , Billy has worked as a Business and Tax advisor , helping Small Businesses navigate the complexities of complying with the IRS Rules and Regulations . I have known Billy since 2011 - He is an extremely hard worker , and respected by all , especially by those who know him in Congress . Taxpayers and the wonderful employees of the IRS will love having Billy at the helm . He is the consummate ' people person , ' well respected on both sides of the aisle . Congratulations Billy ! " <p> House Speaker Mike Johnson would n't lay out congressional Republicans ' strategy for getting President-elect Donald Trump 's legislative agenda across the finish line early next year , instead referring to ongoing " critical discussions . " <p> " Look , I can make a case for different sequences of how we do all these priorities , but my job here build consensus , " he said when asked by CNN 's Manu Raju if GOP lawmakers are considering focusing on border and energy legislation before tackling tax reform . " So we 're working to do that in a bicameral fashion , but we had some good discussions today about trying to sort that out and of course we 're working closely with the Trump team , " he said . <p> CNN has reported on how House and Senate GOP leaders are ramping up talks about how to muscle Trump 's agenda -- mainly border , energy , deregulation and taxes -- through the GOP 's narrow margins . <p> Asked what legislative approach Trump supports , Johnson answered : " We all have the same priorities and it 's just a question of the sequence of how we do it , " adding he 's not going to " pre-guess " how things turn out , but " critical discussions " are ongoing . <p> Asked how difficult it may be to pass legislation with an extremely tight margin , Johnson responded with a smirk " easy . " <p> " We know how to work with a small majority , " he said . <p> Republicans are currently slated to have a 220-215 margin over Democrats . <p> After the resignation of Rep. Matt Gaetz and nominations to Cabinet positions for two other GOP lawmakers , Johnson could be left with a 217-215 majority if all three seats are vacant at once , meaning he could n't afford to lose a single member on a party-line vote . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Musk and Ramaswamy will meet with key Republicans before their larger GOP meeting Thursday , sources say <p> From CNN 's Annie Grayer and Haley Talbot <p> Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy will be holding a smaller meeting on Capitol Hill with key Republicans including House Speaker Mike Johnson and GOP Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene around 2 p.m . ET ahead of the broader meeting with House and Senate Republicans at 3 p.m. to discuss the newly formed Department of Government Efficiency , or DOGE , two sources tell CNN . <p> Then-Rep . Matt Gaetz attends the 2024 Republican National Convention at the Fiserv Forum in Milwaukee , Wisconsin , on July 16 , 2024 . <p> Patrick T. FallonAFP/Getty Images/File <p> The House Ethics Committee is expected to meet at 2 p.m. on Thursday where they will discuss the fate of the report on Matt Gaetz , according to a person familiar with the plans . <p> Gaetz , first elected in 2016 , had resigned from the House earlier this month after President-elect Donald Trump selected him to lead the Department of Justice and before the House Ethics Committee could release a report about its investigation into him , including alleged sexual misconduct , which he has denied . <p> Vivek Ramaswamy , the co-head of the Department of Government Efficiency , a nongovernment initiative created by president-elect Donald Trump , suggested Wednesday that the group would seek to eliminate " waste , fraud and abuse " in entitlement programs like Social Security and Medicare as a first step but stopped short of endorsing cuts to the programs , which are on shaky financial ground . <p> Resolving " program integrity issues " with Social Security and Medicare , as well as Medicaid , could generate " hundreds of billions of dollars in savings " for the federal government , Ramaswamy said during a panel at the Aspen Institute in Washington , DC . He made similar comments later Wednesday afternoon in an interview at the CNBC CFO Council . <p> But Ramaswamy , who heads Trump 's cost-cutting initiative alongside fellow tech entrepreneur Elon Musk , said it would " irresponsible " to discuss the possibility of making cuts to the programs before their efforts have " wrung all of that waste and all of that excess error out of the system . " <p> " Ultimately , through the people they elect to Congress for whether or not they 're going to pass the laws that would or would not cut entitlements like Medicaid , Medicare and Social Security , that sidesteps the thing that we unambiguously should be doing with all of those programs , which is making sure that their program integrity is intact , " Ramaswamy said . " I think it is intellectually lazy to just jump to saying , ' How are we going to fix the problem by taking that away ? ' without actually doing the more necessary work of stopping the people who , literally , under the current law , should not be receiving those payments , yet who still are , " he added . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Trump to appear on " Meet the Press " on Friday , NBC says <p> President-elect Donald Trump will sit for his first network interview since the election on " Meet the Press , " according to NBC . <p> The interview will take place on Friday and highlights will be released before the interview airs on Sunday . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Murkowski and Collins are set to meet with Hegseth next week <p> From CNN 's Morgan Rimmer and Ted Barrett <p> GOP Sens . Lisa Murkowski and Susan Collins both said they will meet with Pete Hegseth next week , with Murkowski noting she 'll speak with him on Tuesday . <p> Murkowski said she " absolutely " plans to address the allegations against him , as well as his views on women in combat roles . <p> " I think I would be remiss if I did n't speak about what everybody 's speaking about , " Murkowski said . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Hegseth says meeting with Ernst was " engaging and constructive " <p> From CNN 's Morgan Rimmer and Manu Raju <p> Pete Hegseth and his wife Jennifer Rauchet arrive for a meeting with Sen. Joni Ernst on Capitol Hill in Washington , DC , on Wednesday . <p> Al Drago/Bloomberg/Getty Images <p> Pete Hegseth had " an engaging and constructive conversation " with GOP Sen. Joni Ernst , he told reporters after the 45-minute meeting . <p> He did not answer questions about allegations of alcohol abuse , and whether he had already stopped drinking . <p> Ernst , a Republican from Iowa and member of the Senate Armed Services Committee who has battled against sexual assault in the military , would not comment on the meeting , other than saying it was a " thorough " conversation . She would n't say if she could vote for him . <h> Hegseth tells Wicker he wo n't drink alcohol if confirmed to the post <p> " He views the job as so important that he volunteered that , " Wicker told CNN . " I did n't ask him . " <p> Pressed on how the topic came up in their conversation this morning , Wicker replied : " I normally do n't discuss what we have talked about , specifically , but you know , the , the allegation was made about him being intoxicated at several times . And so the , the questions that every member will be asking him led to his statement . " <p> Wicker said he was still undecided on whether he would support Hegseth 's nomination , but added he 's " looking to be supportive . " <p> " I had a very good meeting today , " he noted . <p> Some context : GOPSen . Kevin Cramer said earlier Wednesday that he would n't rule out backing Hegseth 's nomination if he committed to abstaining from drinking alcohol . Cramer said he thinks allegations against Hegseth could come from his drinking . <p> Epshteyn had helped fill a number of legal roles within the administration . <p> More about the selection : Warrington , who served as the Trump campaign 's general counsel , is a Washington , DC-based lawyer who represented the former president during the House select committee 's investigation into the January 6 , 2021 , US Capitol attack . He had been a favorite of incoming White House Chief of Staff Susie Wiles , one source said , adding that the decision to appoint McGinley was made while Wiles was at a conference in Las Vegas at the urging of Epshteyn . <p> Warrington and Wiles had offices next to each other in West Palm Beach . <p> Two sources close to Trump pushed back on the notion that the controversy surrounding Epshteyn was the sole reason that McGinley was moved over to DOGE . They argue that they expect DOGE to be a big part of the administration 's work and that they expect that the organization will face a number of legal hurdles that will need the attention of a skilled lawyer and McGinley had the skill set . <p> " Dave has represented me well as my personal attorney , and as General Counsel for my Presidential Campaign . He is an esteemed lawyer and Conservative leader , " Trump said on Truth Social , while also announcing the change in role for McGinley . <p> CNN 's Kaitlan Collins contributed reporting to this post . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Here 's what GOP senators are saying about their meetings with Trump 's defense secretary pick <p> Pete Hegseth arrives for a meeting with Senate Minority Whip John Thune at the Capitol on December 4 , in Washington , DC . <p> Andrew Harnik/Getty Images <p> In his first comments since meeting with President-elect Donald Trump 's Defense secretary pick Pete Hegseth , incoming GOP Senate leader John Thune said the meeting went " well . " <p> He added that Hegseth laid out " a big vision for how to fix the problems " at Department of Defense . Thune rushed into a GOP lunch and did n't answer if Hegseth 's personal issues came up nor would he say if he 's ready to support Hegseth 's nomination . <p> GOP Sen. Shelley Moore Capito said her meeting with Hegseth Tuesday also went well , but she has n't made a decision yet whether she would vote to confirm him . <p> The West Virginia Republican said she and Hegseth " got into the personal issues " surrounding the Pentagon pick , saying " there 's still probably some questions to be asked there , and I 'm sure other members are asking him that . " <p> When asked if she was satisfied with their meeting , Capito said , " Yeah , but I mean , I think we 're still in a process here , so we 'll have to see . I have n't made a decision . " <p> Republican Sen. Josh Hawley said he does n't know if he thinks Hegseth should withdraw his name for defense secretary amid concerns about his personal life . He said his position on the confirmation process is he 'll support " whoever " President-elect Donald Trump wants in his Cabinet . " It 's not 100% clear who he wants as Secretary of Defense right now , " he said . <p> Hawley said Hegseth 's team canceled a meeting between him and the defense secretary nominee that had been scheduled for Wednesday but a Trump transition official says the Hawley meeting will be rescheduled to next week . <p> GOP Sen. Bill Hagerty emphasized that Hegseth assured him that Trump is still backing him . <p> " Secretary Designate Hegseth did a terrific job . He met with Senator Thune just before coming into this large meeting with the number of congressmen in the Republican Study Committee , and he got overwhelming support , applause , everybody 's behind him , " Hagerty said . <p> Hegseth has insisted as he makes his rounds on Capitol Hill that Trump is still standing behind him , amid reports that the president-elect is considering other options to lead the Department of Defense . <p> GOP Sen. Kevin Cramer , who is meeting with Hegseth later today , did not rule out backing his nomination if Hegseth agrees to stop drinking . <p> " I think for me it would be real -- It 'd be a very significant thing . As I 've said quite openly , I 've had plenty of experience in my family with alcohol and the dumb things that follow it , abuse of substances , " said Cramer . " And if he , if he 's willing to swear off alcohol , I think he 's , you know , I think that 's a pretty big corner for him to turn . And yeah , that would go a long ways with me . " <p> Cramer added that he thinks the other allegations against Hegseth could come from his drinking . " It 's my biggest concern because I think everything else comes from it , " he said . <p> The North Dakota Republican added that he 'd like to see GOP Sen. Joni Ernst get the nod if Hegseth 's nomination falls through -- though he noted that he does n't know if she would be interested in the job . <p> This post has been updated with additional reactions from GOP senators . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Vice President-elect Vance just departed Thune 's office after being there for about 30 minutes <p> The Hillsborough County Sheriff 's Office issued a brief statement following President-elect Donald Trump 's Truth post on the withdrawal of Sheriff Chad Chronister , who had been Trump 's pick to lead the Drug Enforcement Administration . <p> " Sheriff Chronister stands behind his decision to withdraw from consideration . Right now , his priority , as it has been for the last seven years , remains the mission to protect and serve everyone in Hillsborough County , " the Sheriff 's office said . <p> Remember : Chronister announced his withdrawal Tuesday , saying in a post on X that he made the decision " over the past several days , as the gravity of this very important responsibility set in . " On Wednesday , Trump said in a social media post that he pulled his support for the pick . <p> " He did n't pull out , I pulled him out , because I did not like what he said to my pastors and other supporters , " the president-elect said on Truth Social . <p> Chronister is the second of Trump 's picks to withdraw from being considered for a post in the next administration . Former Florida Rep. Matt Gaetz announced last month that he 'd no longer seek the position of attorney general as the conservative firebrand faced an uphill battle to be confirmed in the Senate . Trump replaced him with a fellow Floridian , former state Attorney General Pam Bondi , who is from Tampa . <p> He added that he 'd be surprised if " we 're still talking about Pete Hegseth next Monday , even by the end of the week . " <p> Blumenthal told reporters on Wednesday , " I 've talked to five to ten Republicans who have said to me they 're just waiting for the right moment to say no to Pete Hegseth . " <p> Pressed on why no Republican senators have explicitly said that they wo n't support Hegseth yet , Blumenthal responded , " nobody wants to defy Donald Trump , " adding the power of retribution is " pretty daunting . " <p> " I think Republicans are reluctant to step forward and be the first one , but I think privately , they 're much readier to advise the president that the better part of wisdom would be the urge withdrawing this nomination , " he continued . <p> Blumenthal , who sits on the Senate Armed Services Committee , said he 's prepared to demand records about Hegseth 's past financial dealings and sexual misconduct and alcohol abuse allegations , which he said could be " disqualifying . " <p> Link Copied ! <h> Hegseth tells House Republicans allegations against him are false <p> From CNN 's Sarah Ferris and Annie Grayer <p> Donald Trump 's embattled Pentagon pick Pete Hegseth received a friendly reception from one group of Republicans on Capitol Hill on Wednesday -- though it 's not the ones who can help save his nomination . <p> Hegseth took time from his frenzied slate of Senate meetings to sit down for lunch with dozens of House GOP members in the Republican Study Committee . <p> " I just do n't understand him coming over here to appeal to us when I would say that he probably already has 98% of the Republican Conference of the House of Representatives in support of him already " GOP Rep. Max Miller , who thought Hegseth was " very competent , " told CNN . <p> Hegseth -- who faces allegations of sexual abuse and alcohol misuse that has put his confirmation in jeopardy -- addressed those allegations to House Republicans in " very general language , " according to multiple sources in the room . He called the allegations completely false and compared the press reports against him to those that nearly sunk Trump 's nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court . <p> " Essentially what the message is , is that , you know , there 's a past and that he should be judged on the job that he 's been doing over the course of the last decade " Miller added . <p> GOP members offered up no real substantive questions but lots of supportive comments from members , with lawmakers asking about his top Pentagon priorities and how House members can help him win support in the Senate . And multiple GOP members told CNN that Hegseth indicated he has no intention of dropping out . <p> GOP Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene told CNN that Hegseth said Trump 's priority for him is for the Pentagon " to be returned to war fighting , removing the woke ideology , you know , things like DEI . " <p> Link Copied ! <h> Trump announces another round of picks for key posts <p> From CNN 's Alejandra Jaramillo and Kate Sullivan <p> President-elect Donald Trump announced that he has nominated Daniel P. Driscoll of North Carolina to serve as secretary of the Army in his administration . <p> In two posts on Truth Social , Trump made the case for Driscoll 's qualifications , highlighting his extensive background in military service , education , and political advisory roles . <p> " As a former Soldier , Investor , and Political Advisor , Dan brings a powerful combination of experiences to serve as a disruptor and change agent , " Trump wrote . The post went on to list Drsicoll 's accolades and military career . <p> Trump on Wednesday also said Jared Isaacman , the billionaire founder of payments platform company Shift4 , was his pick to be the administrator of NASA . <p> " Jared will drive NASA 's mission of discovery and inspiration , paving the way for groundbreaking achievements in Space science , technology , and exploration . Over the past 25 years , as the Founder and CEO of Shift4 , Jared has demonstrated exceptional leadership , building a trailblazing global financial technology company , " Trump posted on Truth Social . <p> Trump said Wednesday he had picked Adam Boehler to be his presidential envoy for hostage affairs . <p> " Adam worked for me as a Lead Negotiator on the Abraham Accords team . He has negotiated with some of the toughest people in the World , including the Taliban , but Adam knows that NO ONE is tougher than the United States of America , at least when President Trump is its Leader . Adam will work tirelessly to bring our Great American Citizens HOME , " Trump posted on Truth Social . <p> Trump on Wednesday said he has asked Michael Whatley to again serve as chairman of the Republican National Committee for another campaign cycle and named Michael Faulkender as his pick for deputy Treasury Secretary . <p> " Mike is a distinguished Economist and Policy practitioner who will drive our America First Agenda . He will help Treasury Secretary Nominee Scott Bessent usher in a new Golden Age for the United States by delivering a Great Economic Boom for all Americans , " Trump posted on Truth Social . <p> The president-elect picked Monica Crowley to serve as chief of protocol of the United States andPaul Atkins to be the next chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission . <p> He said Gail Slater was his pick for assistant attorney general for the Antitrust Division at the Department of Justice . <p> This post has been updated with more of Trump 's announcements for key posts . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Hegseth says he plans to " fight like hell " to win confirmation : " Why would we back down ? " <p> From CNN 's Eric Bradner <p> Pete Hegseth , Donald Trump 's choice for defense secretary , told conservative radio host Megyn Kelly on Wednesday that the president-elect told him earlier in the day he still supports him for the role , and said he plans to " fight like hell " to win confirmation . <p> Hegseth told Kelly , in the first clip of their interview , that Trump told him : " Hey Pete , I got your back . It 's a fight . They 're coming after you . Get after it . " <p> Hegseth also claimed that he does not have a drinking problem -- addressing one element of the series of misconduct allegations he has faced in recent weeks . He told Kelly that he has not directly responded to those allegations because he did n't want to " respond to things that do n't merit response . " However , he said he now plans to " do more talking . " <p> " The media 's driving forward with this ridiculous narrative . It 's our turn , it 's our time , to stand up and tell the truth , and our side . And he knows that , " Hegseth said . <p> Hegseth has faced doubts among some Republican senators who will vote on his confirmation . He told Kelly that " you 'd be surprised " how little the misconduct allegations have come up in meetings with senators . He said one senator on Wednesday morning compared the scrutiny he has faced to the Supreme Court nomination of Brett Kavanaugh . <p> " We 're going to fight like hell . There 's no reason to back down . Why would we back down ? " Hegseth said . <p> He also said he has " never had a drinking problem , " has never sought help for drinking , and has never been approached by anyone who told him he should do so . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Senate Democrats open to possibility of DeSantis for secretary of defense as Hegseth faces roadblocks <p> Kelly , who sits on the Senate Armed Services Committee , said that DeSantis " on paper " has the experience to be a contender for the job . <p> " He 's a , you know , a governor one of our biggest states , he served in Congress , he 's , you know , served in the military . So I think he has what you would look at on paper , as the requisite kind of experience he would want in the Secretary of Defense , " Kelly told CNN 's Manu Raju . <p> Fetterman noted that he posted on X about DeSantis , saying he 's " considering voting yes in DeSantis if he finally admits that he has lifts in his boots . " " I 'm sure he does , three inches , four inches at least , " he added . <p> Both Kelly and Fetterman expressed serious concerns about the allegations against Hegseth , and his lack of experience . <p> " I do n't see much in his background qualifies him to run what is perhaps the biggest enterprise on the planet , the US Department of Defense . On top of that , I think he 's got some things he needs to answer for in his personal life , " said Kelly . " So I 'm very concerned about him being put forward to run the Department of Defense . I think there 's a lot of other very qualified people that the president-elect could put into that role that could get bipartisan confirmation . " <p> Fetterman added that Hegseth should receive a full FBI background check . <h> Hegseth says meeting with Thune went " great " <p> " Meeting was great , " he told reporters as he rushed into his meeting with the Republican Study Committee . <p> He did not answer other questions . The former Fox News host and veteran has been meeting with key senators amid an uphill battle for confirmation . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Trump explains why he pulled his support for his previous DEA pick <p> From CNN 's Kate Sullivan <p> Hillsborough County Florida Sheriff Chad Chronister speaks to the media before the first day of school at Sessums Elementary School in August 2021 . <p> Chris O'Meara/AP <p> President-elect Donald Trump on Wednesday said he pulled his support for his previous pick to lead the Drug Enforcement Administration , Chad Chronister , " because I did not like what he said to my pastors and other supporters . " <p> Trump said in a new post on Truth Social on Wednesday , " he did n't pull out , I pulled him out , because I did not like what he said to my pastors and other supporters . " <p> Trump appears to be referencing to a time early in the Covid-19 pandemic when Chronister arrested a Tampa-area pastor for defying a local lockdown ordinance and was critical of people continuing to congregate during Covid . Because of this , the announcement of Chronister as Trump 's pick received backlash from the MAGA corner of the Republican Party , which opposed safety measures put in place in response to the pandemic . <p> The rest of the Truth Social post was Trump complaining about the Wall Street Journal 's coverage of him . Trump pointed to a story the Journal had published about Chronister withdrawing from consideration . <p> " The Wall Street Journal is becoming more and more obnoxious and unreadable . Today 's main headline is : " Trump 's DEA Pick Pulls Out In Latest Setback . " With all that 's happening in the World , this is their Number One story of the day . Besides , he did n't pull out , I pulled him out , because I did not like what he said to my pastors and other supporters . But , more importantly , what 's my " latest " setback ? ? ? I just won the Presidency of the United States ! They have n't written a good story about me in YEARS . Somebody over there ought to look at what they 're doing . The only one worse than them is stupid , China-centric Forbes Magazine ! " Trump posted . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Hegseth says he is not dropping out as Trump 's defense secretary pick <p> From CNN 's Manu Raju , Morgan Rimmer and Ali Main <p> Pete Hegseth arrives for a meeting with Senate Minority Whip John Thune at the Capitol in Washington on December 4 . <p> Hegseth ignored several questions from reporters as he headed into the Capitol for a meeting with incoming Republican leader John Thune , but did repeat that he is not dropping out of contention to be confirmed to lead the Pentagon as concerns grow about misconduct allegations against him . <p> " No , " he told CNN 's Manu Raju when he asked if Hegseth would drop out . <p> Asked by a reporter if he would go on television to address the allegations , he said " already did . " <p> Senate Minority Whip John Thune speaks to reporters following a news conference following the weekly Senate Republican policy luncheon at the US Capitol on November 19 in Washington , DC . <p> Andrew Harnik/Getty Images <p> Incoming Senate Majority Leader John Thune said defense secretary nominee Pete Hegseth will have to answer " hard questions " that have been raised about him allegedly drinking excessively and improperly treating women . <p> Thune is set to meet with Hegseth in his Capitol office in the next hour . <p> " He 's going to have an opportunity to address all the questions that have been raised , and you know , there are hard questions being raised . So he 'll have to answer those . And my assumption is throughout the process , we 'll get that opportunity , including in the meetings that he has with my colleagues . " <p> Also , Republican Sen. John Cornyn of Texas said he ca n't predict if Hegseth will survive the confirmation process but said the allegations around him prove why it 's important that the Trump transition team entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Department of Justice to do full FBI background checks on Trump 's nominees . <p> " I 'm not going to make any predictions . Obviously , you know , it demonstrates the importance of vetting these individuals so people know ahead of time what 's out there and rather than be surprised , he said . " So I 'm glad that the incoming administration has entered an MOU with FBI to do more comprehensive checks . But I 've known Pete Hegseth for a long time and I like Pete and I wish him well , but I ca n't predict the outcome . " <p> More on meetings with senators : GOP Sen. Joni Ernst spoke very briefly about her upcoming meeting with Hegseth . She says she looks forward to visiting with him and that their talk will be " thorough " <p> " I 'm looking forward to visiting with him . I think it will be a good meeting , " she said when asked what she needs to hear from him . <p> Asked if his nomination is viable , she said : " We 're looking forward to visiting with him " <p> She added later " we are going to have a very through discussion . " <p> Some Hill Republicans have said they are privately watching for potential alternatives , including Ernst , according to a person familiar with the conversations . <p> President Joe Biden is accompanied by his son Hunter Biden and his grandson Beau as they leave a book store in Nantucket , Massachusetts , on November 29 . <p> Jose Luis Magana/AP <p> The federal judge who oversaw Hunter Biden 's tax case blasted President Joe Biden for trying to " rewrite history " in his justification for pardoning his son . <p> District Judge Mark Scarsi wrote in a five-page order Tuesday that some of the " representations contained " in Biden 's statement announcing the pardon " stand in tension with the case record . " Scarsi specifically took issue with Biden 's rationale that his son 's tax problems were all caused by his struggle with alcohol and drug addiction . <p> " The Constitution provides the President with broad authority to grant reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United States ... but nowhere does the Constitution give the President the authority to rewrite history , " Scarsi wrote . <p> In the pardon announcement on Sunday night , Biden claimed his son was one of many Americans " who were late paying their taxes because of serious addictions . " But , as the judge pointed out , as part of Hunter Biden 's guilty plea , he admitted to not paying his nearly $1.4 million tax debts even after regaining his sobriety , and even though he had the funds to pay . <p> The judge also rebuked Biden for claiming that his son was " singled out " for prosecution because of political reasons . Earlier this year , Scarsi rejected this exact same argument from Hunter Biden , who wanted the indictment tossed on those grounds . ( The judge in Hunter Biden 's gun case in Delaware also rejected the selective-prosecution theory . ) <p> The president 's announcement claimed " no reasonable person " could conclude that this was n't a politically motivated prosecution . But Scarsi noted that plenty of Justice Department officials , including the attorney general , oversaw the case and let it go forward -- and therefore , " in the president 's estimation , this legion of federal civil servants ... are unreasonable people . " <p> Link Copied ! <h> Trump names former aide Peter Navarro as senior counselor for trade and manufacturing <p> From CNN 's Alejandra Jaramillo <p> US President-elect Donald Trump announced he has named former aide Peter Navarro as senior counselor for trade and manufacturing . <p> In a pair of Truth Social posts announcing the appointment , Trump revealed that Navarro will be responsible for helping to " successfully advance and communicate the Trump Manufacturing , Tariff , and Trade Agendas . " <p> Navarro previously served as a key trade advisor to Trump during his first term . <p> Link Copied ! <h> " We have nothing to spare , " Speaker Johnson says of tight House GOP margins for 2025 <p> From CNN 's Sarah Ferris <p> House Speaker Mike Johnson departs a news conference on Capitol Hill on November 19 in Washington , DC . <p> Andrew Harnik/Getty Images <p> Speaker Mike Johnson on Wednesday acknowledged the House GOP 's even tighter margins in 2025 will leave them with " nothing to spare " as they work to pass an ambitious Trump agenda . <p> Johnson 's remarks at his news conference come after the results of the race in the 2024 election was called -- a seat in Central California that Democrats flipped . While Johnson said some legal challenges were possible , he acknowledged the final party breakdown was 220-215 . <p> " Do the math , we have nothing to spare " Johnson said . <p> The margin will be even slimmer in early 2025 with three vacancies due to Trump 's cabinet picks . Johnson said he hoped to fill those seats by " late spring . " Johnson said he raised this issue to Senate Republicans in his meeting with them on Tuesday . <p> Asked about maneuvering a massive GOP agenda through those slim margins , Johnson said : " We know how to work in a small majority here , that 's our custom . " <p> Link Copied ! <h> GOP Sen. Cramer says he would like Hegseth to commit to setting aside drinking <p> From CNN 's Lauren Fox and Danya Gainor <p> Sen. Kevin Cramer arrives for the Senate Republican leadership elections at the US Capitol on Wednesday , November 13 . <p> Francis Chung/POLITICO/AP <p> GOP Sen. Kevin Cramer of South Dakota said Wednesday that he would like President-elect Donald Trump 's defense department pick , Pete Hegseth , to commit to abstaining from drinking alcohol " at least through his term as secretary . " <p> " Being familiar with the problems of alcoholism and the dumb things we do when we drink too much it would be really nice if he would set that one aside for good if not at least through his term as secretary , " Cramer said , adding he 'd like to hear about Hegseth 's plan for the agency . <p> Cramer 's son Isaac suffered from liver and kidney failure as a result of alcohol addiction . He died in 2018 . <p> Trump 's transition team was blindsided by the 2017 sexual assault allegation against Hegseth -- and then again after the related police report surfaced . As an avalanche of media reports on Hegseth 's alleged past transgressions have emerged , the patience of many in Trump 's orbit has grown thin . <p> Cramer , reiterated any personal issues " have to be in the past forever and I look to be convinced . " <p> " I love redemption . So I 'd love to hear from Pete , as he 's said in other reports , that that 's the old Pete and the new Pete does n't do those things . I do n't want him to admit to things he did n't do , if he truly did n't do them either . But the allegations are very , very serious , they ca n't be trivialized and I just want to know that he 's redeemed and going forward he 's going to be better , " he added . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Trump 's pick to lead the CIA makes first visit to agency <p> From CNN 's Katie Bo Lillis <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's pick to lead the CIA , John Ratcliffe , made his first visit to the agency on Tuesday , according to multiple sources . <p> Ratcliffe met officials on the famous agency seal at the entrance to headquarters , a source familiar with the matter said . He received a security briefing and had lunch with the outgoing director , Bill Burns , sources said . <p> " Director Burns congratulated Director-Designate Ratcliffe by phone two weeks ago and hosted him at CIA Headquarters yesterday for lunch and introductory meetings , " agency spokesperson Tamara Thorp said in a statement . " Director Burns is committed to the smoothest possible transition . " <p> Link Copied ! <h> Hegseth says Trump told him to " keep fighting " <p> From CNN 's Aaron Pellish <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's nominee to be Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth arrives for a meeting with Sen. Ted Budd in the Russell Senate Office building on Capitol Hill on December 3 , in Washington , DC . <p> Andrew Harnik/Getty Images <p> Pete Hegseth , Donald Trump 's pick to lead the Department of Defense , said he spoke to the president-elect earlier this morning who encouraged him to continue " fighting " as he faces an uphill battle to be confirmed to the role in the Senate . <p> Hegseth told CBS News as he arrived at the US Capitol for meetings with senators on Wednesday that Trump told him he 's continuing to support his nomination . Hegseth also said he has no plans to withdraw his nomination as some Republican senators have signaled concern over his fitness for the top Pentagon role amid allegations of sexual assault and mistreatment of women . <p> When asked about reports that Trump is considering replacing his nomination of Hegseth with someone else , potentially Florida Gov . Ron DeSantis , Hegseth shared details about his conversation with Trump . <p> " I spoke to the president-elect this morning , " Hegseth said as he arrived at the Capitol . " He said , ' Keep going , keep fighting , behind you all the way . ' " <p> " Why would I back down ? I 've always been a fighter . I 'm here for the war fighters . This is a personal passion for me , " he added . <p> When asked if he planned to withdraw his nomination , Hegseth pointed to his planned meetings about his nomination with Republican senators today . <p> " We 're meeting all day with senators , " he said . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Trump 's pick for national security adviser will meet with Israeli official today , source says <p> From CNN 's Jennifer Hansler <p> Rep. Mike Waltz attends the 2024 Concordia Annual Summit at Sheraton New York Times Square on September 23 in New York City . <p> Riccardo Savi/Getty Images North <p> Israeli Minister of Strategic Affairs Ron Dermer will meet on Wednesday with Florida Republican Rep. Mike Waltz , President-elect Donald Trump 's pick for national security adviser , according to a source familiar with the meeting . <p> The meeting will take place in Washington , DC , the source said . Axios first reported the meeting . <p> The two are likely to discuss Gaza hostage release efforts . On Monday , Trump warned that there would be " ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East " if the hostages being held in Gaza are n't released before he is sworn in as president in January . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu thanked Trump for the " strong statement , " saying it " adds another force to our continuing effort to release all the hostages . " <p> Dermer met with Secretary of State Antony Blinken at the State Department on Monday . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Hegseth says he will " never back down " in defiant social media post amid doubts over his nomination <p> From CNN 's Aaron Pellish <p> Pete Hegseth , President-elect Donald Trump 's pick to lead the Department of Defense , posted a defiant message on social media on Wednesday amid growing concerns about past allegations of his treatment of women that could jeopardize his place in the incoming Trump administration . <p> Hegseth posted on social media that " the Left is afraid " of him and Trump and is responsible for pushing back on his potential confirmation while adding that he will " never back down . " <p> " I 'm doing this for the warfighters , not the warmongers . The Left is afraid of disrupters and change agents . They are afraid of @realDonaldTrump -- and me . So they smear w/ fake , anonymous sources &amp; BS stories . They do n't want truth . Our warriors never back down , &amp; neither will I , " he wrote on X. <p> Hegseth 's post comes as his nomination appears to be in jeopardy after some Republican senators have signaled concern over his appointment to the top Pentagon job . Hegseth will meet with Republican senators on Capitol Hill today and is expected to participate in an interview with Fox News this evening . <p> The mother of Pete Hegseth , President-elect Donald Trump 's pick to head the Department of Defense , said she regrets sending a 2018 email to her son accusing him of mistreating women . <p> She is now urging women senators to support Hegseth in his embattled confirmation fight . <p> Penelope Hegseth said in an interview with Fox News on Wednesday that her son is " redeemed , forgiven , changed " in the seven years since she wrote an email recently published by the New York Times in which she said there are " many " women whom he has " abused in some way " and said her son is the right person to lead the Pentagon under the incoming Trump administration . <p> She explained her decision to write the email by saying she wrote it " as a parent " and with " deep emotions " amid her son 's divorce , and said she wrote an apology email to her son later that same day . <p> " I 'm sure many of you across the country understand how difficult divorce is on a family . There 's emotions . We say things , and -- I wrote that in haste . I wrote that with deep emotions . I wrote that as a parent , " Penelope Hegseth said . " Pete and I are both very passionate people . I wrote that out of love , and about two hours later , I retracted it with an apology email . " <p> " I do n't believe any of that is true , any of it . And I 'm here , I would n't be sitting on this -- in this chair today , if I did believe that about my son , " she added . <p> Penelope Hegseth denied that her son mistreats women and resisted delving into the specific accusations she made in her 2018 email , saying that he " does n't misuse women . " <p> " He 's been through some difficult things . I 'm not going to list them by name , but I would just say that some of those , some of those attachments or descriptions , are just not true , especially anymore , " she said . <p> At multiple times in the interview , Penelope Hegseth encouraged female senators to ignore the accusations about her son 's treatment of women as he faces a tough confirmation battle . Hegseth is expected to meet with several Republican senators on Capitol Hill today , including Iowa Sen. Joni Ernst . <p> " I just hope people will -- will get to know who Pete is today , especially our dear female senators , that you would listen to him , listen with your heart to the truth of Pete , " she added . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Hegseth set to talk to House GOP today , source says <p> From CNN 's Sarah Ferris <p> Pete Hegseth , President-elect Donald Trump 's defense secretary pick , will meet with the Republican Study Committee in a closed-door meeting on Wednesday , according to a person familiar . <p> This comes as he holds a flurry of meetings among GOP senators , who will vote on whether to confirm him next year . <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken holds a press conference at the NATO headquarters in Brussels on Wednesday . <p> Johanna Geron/Reuters <p> The Biden administration is determined " to spend every cent " in available funding for Ukraine , Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Wednesday at his last NATO foreign ministerial as top US diplomat . <p> Speaking ahead of a likely significant change in Ukraine policy under the incoming Trump administration , Blinken said he is trying " to give the incoming administration the strongest hand to play " on Ukraine and across the board . <p> " We are determined , and it 's fully my intent and the President 's intent , to spend every cent that we have available from the $61 billion that were authorized by Congress , " he said at a press conference in Brussels . CNN reported last week that the Pentagon is unlikely to use all of the billions of dollars authorized by Congress to arm Ukraine before President Joe Biden leaves office , according to two US officials and three defense officials . <p> Blinken emphasized that Ukraine must be allowed to make its own decisions about its future . <p> He said that NATO had continued " coordinating to ensure that Ukraine has the money , the munitions and the mobilized forces to fight as necessary through next year , or to be able to negotiate , but from a position of strength . " <p> " What we 're working to do in the time that we have left is to give Ukraine , to give our own country , to give all the allies and partners that support Ukraine the strongest possible hand to use next year and beyond , " he said . <p> " If Ukraine determines that it needs to continue the fight , we want to make sure it has what it needs to continue that fight -- the money , the munitions , the mobilized forces " he said . " If it chooses to engage in a negotiation -- and that assumes , of course , that Putin and Russia have any intent of doing that -- then again , we want to make sure it 's from a position of strength . " <p> " What I 'm trying to do , not just with Ukraine but across the board , is to give the incoming administration the strongest hand to play in all of these areas and to pass the baton in a way that they can hit the ground running , because the world does n't stop just because we have a political transition underway in the United States , " he said . <p> Donald Trump is in danger of losing another one of his provocative Cabinet picks in a further blow to his bid to shake up Washington in his second term . <p> The president-elect is facing a decision about how much his heart is set on former Fox News anchor and veteran Pete Hegseth to run the Pentagon . <p> Hegseth 's candidacy ran into stiff headwinds on Tuesday , amid increasing disquiet among some GOP senators about allegations concerning his treatment of women , drinking and capacity to run the US military behemoth . <p> A handful of Republican senators publicly said that Hegseth needed to answer questions about his alleged conduct -- and possible alternatives for secretary of defense were being floated by sources close to Trump . <p> Hegseth 's hopes appear to be ebbing ahead of a Fox News interview scheduled for Wednesday . A senior Trump administration source told CNN 's Jake Tapper late Tuesday night that " tomorrow is going to be absolutely critical . " The source suggested that Hegseth had n't been forthcoming with the Trump team about his past behavior involving women and alcohol . <p> Trump 's criteria for picking Cabinet secretaries seems to depend on how willing they 'll be to do exactly what he wants -- in this case , to root out what he regards as " woke " generals -- and how good they look on TV . But Trump 's subordinates enter a danger zone when they begin to come across as beleaguered and besieged and reflect poorly on him . That 's what happened to short-lived attorney general pick Matt Gaetz last month , and Hegseth risks entering similar territory . <h> DeSantis interested in leading Pentagon if offered , sources say <p> Florida Gov . Ron DeSantis is interested in serving in Donald Trump 's administration as defense secretary if formally offered the job , two sources close to DeSantis told CNN . <p> DeSantis is one of a handful of individuals that have been floated to Trump as potential replacements for embattled nominee Pete Hegseth . <p> Trump 's consideration of DeSantis for Defense Secretary -- and the Florida governor 's subsequent interest -- marks a stunning pivot in a relationship that soured in recent years . Trump viewed DeSantis as a disloyal former ally for jumping into the GOP race for president when it was well-known the former president intended to run again . <p> The bad blood continued throughout the primary , as Trump assembled a team of disgruntled former DeSantis operatives to oversee his third White House bid -- including co-campaign manager Susie Wiles -- and picked up broad support from members of Florida 's congressional delegation who often felt ignored by their own governor . <p> But on Tuesday , Trump and DeSantis both attended a memorial service for fallen Florida deputies in Palm Beach County -- a rare joint public appearance for two men who have barely spoken since their acrimonious primary came to an end . A source close to both men told CNN that during the day , the two also discussed DeSantis potentially replacing Hegseth as Trump 's nominee for defense secretary , should the former Fox News host ultimately falter . <p> As recently as last month , DeSantis previously brushed aside questions about serving in a Trump administration . During an address to Notre Dame shortly after Trump 's victory , he said Trump has " a lot of great people to choose from ... For me , I 'm not seeking anything . I 've got a great job in the state of Florida . " <p> " How can I best make a difference , " DeSantis said . " Given where we are , me quarterbacking the Sunshine State is probably how I make the biggest difference . " <p> However , the political calculus for the Republican has shifted in recent weeks as Trump has asserted his dominance over the state DeSantis leads . Trump has filled his government in recent weeks with Florida nominees , leaving DeSantis to deal with the political fallout amid pressure from Trump allies to do the president-elect 's bidding . That includes a public push to name Trump 's daughter-in-law Lara Trump as a replacement for Sen. Marco Rubio , who has been tapped as Secretary of State . <p> DeSantis also still harbors ambitions of running for president again -- a prospect that , for the moment , appears clouded by Trump 's running mate , Ohio Sen. JD Vance , the heir-apparent to lead the next generation of the MAGA movement in 2028 . Facing two more years as a lame duck governor of Florida before he is second and final term expired , and with no clear path to staying relevant in Trump 's GOP , DeSantis has grown increasingly comfortable with the idea of serving in the Trump administration . <p> Still , it 's not clear DeSantis is the front-runner to replace Hesgeth . Many of the president-elect 's key advisers remain on poor terms with the Florida governor and have plenty of firepower to influence Trump against elevating DeSantis to such a critical job . To this day , DeSantis supporters frequently clash online with Trump 's vast world of MAGA influencers on X. And unlike other Republicans , DeSantis did little publicly to assist Trump during his hard-fought bid for the White House and the two even took opposing positions on a Florida ballot referendum to legalize marijuana . <p> This post has been updated with additional details . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Democrats flip in California concludes final unresolved US House race <p> From CNN 's Ethan Cohen <p> Democratic Assembly member Adam Gray discusses legislation with a colleague at the Capitol in Sacramento , California , in May 2022 . <p> The five counties in the district certified their results Tuesday , leaving Gray with a 187-vote lead . <p> The contest was the last unresolved House race in the country , and with Gray 's victory , Republicans won 220 seats to Democrats ' 215 . Overall , Democrats gained one seat from their pre-election total . <p> The Republican majority is likely to be even tighter in the early part of next year -- former GOP Rep. Matt Gaetz resigned from the House last month and wo n't take his seat in the new Congress and Republican Reps . Elise Stefanik of New York and Mike Waltz of Florida are expected to leave the chamber to take positions in the Trump administration . <p> If all three seats are vacant at once , a 217-215 majority would mean that Republicans could n't afford to lose a single member on a party-line vote . <p> CNN 's Terence Burlij contributed reporting to this post . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Hegseth 's defense secretary nomination is in trouble as Trump 's team mulls replacements . Here 's the latest <p> From CNN staff <p> Pete Hegseth and his wife Jennifer Rauchet , left , walk through the Russell Senate Office building on Capitol Hill on Tuesday . <p> " He has not been forthright with the Transition team staff and the President-elect and Vice President-elect , " the senior Trump transition source said of the reporting about allegations about Hegseth 's behavior involving women and alcohol . " He has hurt a lot of people as a result . He did n't disclose anything . " <p> " There are significant concerns more accusations are going to come out from his time at Fox News , about his behavior there , where he had an affair with his now-wife who was his executive producer , " the source said . <p> As a result of the reports and allegations , Donald Trump 's allies involved in the transition process have been compiling a list of alternative candidates for Secretary of Defense in recent days in the event Hegseth 's road to confirmation appears destined to implode , according to multiple sources familiar with the discussions . <p> Per sources , the names under consideration include : <p> Sen. Joni Ernst of Iowa <p> Florida Gov . Ron DeSantis <p> Sen. Bill Hagerty of Tennessee <p> CNN has reached out to representatives for Ernst , DeSantis and Hagerty . <p> Hegseth and his mom on Fox News : In a sign of how seriously the transition team is taking their concerns , Hegseth is expected to sit for an interview with Fox News today , two people familiar confirmed to CNN . It 's unclear if the interview is scheduled to air today as well . <p> Separately , Hegseth 's mother is also expected to be interviewed on Fox and Friends today , according to two people . <p> More context : No Republicans have said they will not support Hegseth , but even some of the GOP senators closest to Trump , including Sen. Lindsey Graham , are now wondering whether Hegseth can survive the tightrope walk to confirmation , sending an ominous signal for the incoming White House . Hegseth will need to limit defections to three GOP senators , assuming all Democrats vote against him , and there are already more than three senators who are uncertain if they 'll back him . <p> The Trump-Vance Transition team has formally entered into a memorandum of understanding ( MOU ) with the Department of Justice , according to a statement from Susie Wiles , Trump 's chief of staff . This agreement outlines the terms of cooperation between the transition team and the DOJ , marking a significant step in the preparation of the incoming administration . <p> Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy will speak to Republican House and Senate members on Thursday afternoon , according to a notice distributed by Speaker Mike Johnson 's office on Tuesday . The meeting -- which will center on Trump 's new agency , Department of Government Efficiency -- will take place at 3 p.m . ET in the congressional auditorium . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Hegseth has scheduled visits with 4 key senators on Wednesday <p> From CNN 's Ted Barrett <p> Embattled defense secretary pick Pete Hegseth is set to meet with four key senators tomorrow : incoming Majority Leader John Thune and incoming chair of the Senate Armed Services Committee Roger Wicker , along with committee members Joni Ernst and Kevin Cramer , according to a source . <p> Times and locations of the meetings have yet to be announced . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Pete Hegseth 's mother is slated to be on Fox and Friends today , sources say <p> From CNN 's Kaitlan Collins <p> Pete Hegseth 's mother is expected to be interviewed on Fox and Friends today , according to two people . <p> It comes after she was inserted into his confirmation drama when The New York Times published an email she sent him amid his divorce in 2018 . <p> In it , she said he abused and mistreated women and needed to seek help . She later told the Times she sent an " immediate follow-up email at the time apologizing for what she had written . " <p> Donald Trump 's pick to run the Pentagon , Pete Hegseth , has been in a series of meetings on Capitol Hill this week with the Republican senators who will decide his fate . <p> In a sign of how seriously the transition team is taking their concerns , Hegseth is expected to sit for an interview with Fox News Wednesday , two people familiar confirmed to CNN . It 's unclear if the interview is scheduled to air today as well . <p> The transition is hoping his answers will alleviate the concerns that several Republican senators have expressed . His interview is notable because most , if not all , of Trump 's Cabinet picks have been told to stay away from media appearances until after their confirmation process . <p> Link Copied ! <h> Trump transition team enters into agreement with Justice Department <p> In this 2020 photo , a woman walks past the US Department of Justice in Washington , DC . <p> Al Drago/Reuters <p> The Trump-Vance Transition team formally entered into a memorandum of understanding ( MOU ) with the Department of Justice , according to a statement from Susie Wiles , President-elect Donald Trump 's chief of staff . <p> This agreement outlines the terms of cooperation between the transition team and the DOJ , marking a significant step in the preparation of the incoming administration . <p> The memorandum also paves the way for the Trump team to seek FBI background checks on Trump 's appointees . <p> " This allows the transition team to submit names for background checks and security clearances , " the transition team 's statement read . <p> CNN previously reported that the transition team was using private companies to conduct vetting of potential candidates and not going through traditional FBI screenings for at least some of its nominees . It is still unclear how many of Trump 's Cabinet picks will be submitted for FBI background checks going forward . <p> The move comes after complaints from GOP senators that the delay in signing the memorandum could delay the confirmation process of Trump 's nominees . <p> " This agreement with the Department of Justice will ensure President Trump and his team are ready on Day 1 to begin enacting the America First Agenda that an overwhelming majority of our nation supported on Election Day , " Wiles said . <p> In addition , the MOU grants the transition team enhanced access to critical information from federal agencies , allowing for more effective preparation as they take on the challenges and responsibilities of governing . 
@@118468081 <p> PEOPLE LOOK ON as smoke rises from a fire that broke out near Kibbutz Shamir in the Upper Galilee , as a result of a rocket attack from Lebanon , last week . The writer asks : What about securing the ability of our citizens to return to their homes in the North ? ( photo credit : AYAL MARGOLIN/FLASH90 ) <p> As Israel 's wary ceasefire with Hezbollah continues , there is only one path to success . Israel must break its pattern of indulgence , allowing diplomatic agreements to die amid a thousand infractions , as each little attack seems not worth triggering international opprobrium . And the US must support Israel aggressively , bullying the international community into allowing Israel to punish any violations , no matter how minor . <p> It happened during Oslo . It happened after America promised that the Gaza Disengagement would include a zero-tolerance policy for any violence from anywhere in the Strip . And it happened after the 2006 Hezbollah War . UN Security Council 1701 supposedly guaranteed peace in Southern Lebanon , with no armed forces other than the Lebanese Army rearming . Yet the Palestinian Authority , Hamas , Hezbollah , chipped away at the agreements , and Israel kept indulging them -- until disaster struck . <p> This time , after Hamas invaded on October 7 -- then Hezbollah joined and then the Houthis and other Iranian proxies bombed from afar , until Iran , finally and predictably , unleashed two unprecedented missile attacks -- Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , the IDF , the Americans , and the ever-feckless international community should have wised up . <p> The ceasefire will only last if Israel 's 80,000 northern evacuees can return home and rebuild , while Hezbollah terrorists avoid Southern Lebanon , knowing they 'll be crushed if they dare return . Mourners gather during the funeral of Hezbollah terrorists , who were killed during hostilities with Israeli forces , after a ceasefire agreement between the two parties took effect , in Maarakeh , southern Lebanon November 29 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/AZIZ TAHER ) <p> Trigger warning : Yes , my language is aggressive and my position is militant . But it 's remarkable that after fourteen months of war , not enough people realize that strength brings peace and weakness brings war , especially against jihadists . <h> Things to celebrate <p> I am a Fitzgeraldian Zionist -- as in F. Scott . I can hold two conflicting thoughts in my head . I can blame our military and political leaders for their October 7 failures , while encouraging them to take this victory lap . <p> True , for years they allowed Hezbollah to amass 150,000 rockets and a formidable fighting force . But , unlike with Hamas on October 7 , Israel 's leaders took that threat seriously enough to play their A-game : crushing Hezbollah while humiliating the terrorist group 's evil patrons in Iran . <p> REMEMBER SEPTEMBER 16 ? Hezbollah terrified us -- in ways Hamas never did , even on October 7 . We kept hearing that their fighters were professional , their missiles plentiful , Tel Aviv 's towers were vulnerable , and weeks-long electrical outages were possible . <p> Then boom -- actually beep ! With that first booming beeper , Israel changed everything . And no , my delicate friends warning that violence begets more violence , you 're wrong . These attacks were as surgical as it gets in warfare against jihadi maniacs who cower behind civilians . Besides , considering the many terrorist trigger fingers destroyed , that clever move reduced levels of violence worldwide -- now and in the future , especially considering the new junior jihadis who can not be spawned . <p> Systematically since then , Israel has degraded Hezbollah and demeaned its Iranian paymasters . Even The New York Times proclaimed on November 27 : " A Battered and Diminished Hezbollah Accepts a Cease-Fire . " Since then , with president-elect Donald Trump planning " maximum pressure " on Iran , with Syria 's Bashar Assad teetering , and with their favorite terrorists defeated , Iran 's mullahs are retreating . <p> The ceasefire " indicates the degree to which Iran is concerned and worried about its new vulnerability and the incoming Trump administration , " Paul Salem , a Lebanon expert at the Middle East Institute told the Times . <p> While thanking President Joe Biden and the Americans for the munitions and intelligence they provided generously , Israelis need to teach Biden 's successors what " taking the win " looks like . When Biden told Israel to " take the win " -- meaning accept simply resisting Iran 's April 13 attack -- he confused effective but momentary defense with the intimidating deterrence Israel needs to survive in its unforgiving neighborhood . <p> While many Americans acknowledge Israel 's impressive victory over Hezbollah , I have n't heard any of them regret their advice to slow down , avoid conflict , and try to appease Hezbollah . Similarly , as reservists in Gaza report that Hamas is reeling , having seen the IDF overrun Rafah with limited civilian casualties , few Americans admitted they were wrong for constantly trying to restrain Israel . <p> Such stubbornness amuses me as an Israeli , because we won anyway . But it terrifies me as an American historian . The unwillingness of people in power -- and the worldwide popcorn gallery -- to acknowledge mistakes prevents them from learning from them . <h> Where does Israel stand ? <p> HERE , THEN , is where we stand , as of this moment . <p> * Israel must keep pressure on Lebanon , and prevent Hezbollah from rearming and from flooding Southern Lebanon -- ever again . <p> * Israel and the US must keep pressure on Iran , and evaluate what pressure points would weaken the regime from within -- while assessing when it 's time to attack its nuclear project from without . <p> * And , learning from its successes , Israel must keep the pressure on Hamas in Gaza , hunting down terrorists while , in the spirit of the ceasefire , <p> * Starting to shift -- creating incentives for Hamas to free the hostages , which also means accounting for every last one , while allowing others from the Arab world to step in and start governing . <p> This way , Israel can ever so slowly start withdrawing and start lightening its grip , while controlling the Philadelphi corridor to protect smuggling , keeping the Netzarim crisscross corridor until stability is achieved , and never allow any Gazans to live within a kilometer of any Israeli villages ever again , or approach the border gate with impunity -- as they did for years , step by step wearing down the zero-tolerance for infractions policy Israel needs on its borders to survive . Never again is there -- now . <p> The writer , a senior fellow in Zionist thought at the Jewish People Policy Institute , is an American presidential historian . His latest book , To Resist the Academic Intifada : Letters to My Students on Defending the Zionist Dream , was just published . 
@@118468084 <h> As the existential threat to Judaism has shifted from antisemitism to Israel-bashing and anti-Zionism , many American Jews still explain that the opposition is not to Judaism , but to Zionism . <p> MALCOLM HOENLEIN participates in the annual mission to Israel of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations , in Jerusalem , in 2018. ( photo credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <p> Theodor Herzl defied the conventional wisdom of the 1890s . The prevailing view in his milieu was that European Jew-hatred was over since it was religious-based , and now Europe is secular . <p> Indeed , when a new secular ideology called antisemitism emerged , many dismissed it as merely a political view . After all , there were concerns about the " Jewish occupation of Europe " -- in culture , music , banking , and business , which the antisemites argued , pollutes humanity . <p> Yet Herzl 's European Jewish circle ignored his warnings that antisemitism was the new existential threat . One Jewish acquaintance explained to him : The opposition is not to Judaism but to liberalism . <p> We see similar dynamics today : as the existential threat to Judaism has shifted from antisemitism to Israel-bashing and anti-Zionism , many American Jews still explain that the opposition is not to Judaism but to Zionism . <h> Using antisemitism to unify Jews <p> But Herzl also had a deeper insight : He recognized that antisemitism can save European Jews , on a trajectory toward assimilation : " There , in antisemitism lies the will of God to benefit the Jews -- for it pushes us towards one another and unifies us , " he wrote . Pro-Israel students take part in a protest in support of Israel amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza , at Columbia University in New York City , US , October 12 , 2023. ( credit : JEENAH MOON/REUTERS ) <p> Herzl conceived a new ideology to capture this God-given benefit : Zionism . He stated clearly : " Zionism is the return to Judaism , even before the return to the land of the Jews . " Sadly , most European Jews did not return . <p> Some 130 years later , the Jewish state Herzl envisioned is under a dual assault : a physical one from Iran and its proxies , and an ideological one from the West . This indeed , has pushed Israelis toward one another . But can the assault on Judaism also benefit the core of the American Jewish community , which has been on a trajectory toward assimilation ? <p> One of its legendary leaders , Malcolm Hoenlein , a former head of the Conference of Presidents of Major Jewish Organizations , certainly believes so : " October 7 occasioned a revolution for American Jewry , " he shared with The Jerusalem Post . Stunningly , " there were 140 to 160 new Jewish organizations and initiatives that were created in the last year alone ! " <p> Therefore , it is only natural that age-old opposition to Judaism is expressed through anti-Zionism and Israel-bashing . As some noted , October 7 turned Judaism 3.0 from a thesis to a depiction of day-to-day life , as Jews were pulled into their Judaism through Zionism -- on college campuses , in the workplace and in social circles . <p> But just as Herzl posited that the 20th-century assault on Judaism can save European Jewry , Hoenlein maintains that the 21st-century assault on Judaism can save American Jewry : " Jewish organizations are attracting broader Jewish audiences -- people that previously had no connection to Judaism or organized community . " This includes influential American Jews : " There are CEOs , business leaders , Jews that had no interest in engaging in Jewish causes , and since October 7 , are doing a lot . " <p> Still , many American Jews tout the slogan of " Zero tolerance to antisemitism " ( the threat to Jews and Judaism of the previous century ) , while tolerating and even partaking in Israel-bashing and anti-Zionism ( the threat to Jews and Judaism of the 21st century ) . <p> This is akin to European Jews in the 1940s touting : " Zero tolerance to religious-based Jew-hatred " ( the threat to Jews and Judaism of previous centuries ) , alongside tolerating and even partaking in antisemitism ( the threat to Jews and Judaism of the 20th century ) . <p> Moreover , according to election exit polls conducted by J-Street , which Hoenlein dismisses as bogus , only 14% of American Jews listed Israel as one of their top two voting issues ! This is while Israel is at war , missiles are coming in , and over 100 , mostly Israelis , are held hostage in Gaza . This perhaps is reminiscent of the 1944 election , when American Jews failed to use their political leverage on President Roosevelt to bomb the extermination camps , where European Jews were being murdered . <h> Renewed fear of dual loyalty ? <p> Indeed , back then , and for the following 80 years , it was explained that American Jews in positions of power -- in the media , State Department and other government agencies -- fear being suspected of having " dual loyalty , " and had therefore developed an obsessive anti-Israel bias . <p> But the American public has since shifted . Surveys indicate broad support for the Jewish state , as its soldiers are fighting a seven-front war -- a war on terrorism that also benefits the West and the United States . <p> This awakens the question of " dual loyalty " -- but in reverse : While it is becoming increasingly clear that the Western assault on Judaism is a proxy for an assault on America , some powerful American Jews still accuse Israeli Jews of being " a Pariah opposed by the rest of the world " and of " dehumanizing others . " This in turn fuels the assault and gives it legitimacy . <p> Yet Hoenlein -- whom for full disclosure , I served alongside on the board of the America-Israel Friendship League for 20 years -- believes that there is a seismic shift coming . <p> Hoenlein , who meets world leaders on a regular basis , shared a conversation he recently had with Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu : " I told the prime minister that Israel has to start building a lot of affordable housing . " This , he said , is due to an anticipated post-war inflow of American and European Jews -- some making aliyah , and others what he calls " half-aliyah . " <p> We have witnessed quite a few miracles in the last year , such as sustaining thousands of incoming missiles , the Hezbollah beeper attack , as well as the astonishing mutual assurance and unshakable resolve of Israeli society . Are we about to see another ? <p> Are American Jews about to return to Judaism through Zionism -- physically or ideologically -- just as Herzl envisioned ? <p> Hoenlein certainly thinks so : " This is revolutionary ... October 7 and the reaction to it radically changed many in the American Jewish community . " Judaism is indeed going through a historic transformation . This leads to new existential threats , but also unleashes enormous opportunities . 
@@118471486 <p> DEIR AL-BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- A Palestinian health official said Wednesday that at least 21 people were killed by an Israeli strike on a camp housing displaced people in Gaza . <p> Atif Al-Hout , the director of Nasser Hospital in the southern city of Khan Younis said 28 people were wounded . <p> The Israeli military said its aircraft struck senior Hamas fighters " involved in terrorist activities " in the area . The military said that the strike had set off secondary explosions , indicating explosives present in the area were set off . It was not possible to independently confirm the Israeli claims , and the strike could also have ignited fuel , cooking gas canisters or other materials in the camp . <p> Hamas has been designated as a terrorist organization by the United States , Canada and the European Union . <p> The strike in the Muwasi area , a sprawling coastal camp housing hundreds of thousands of displaced people , near the southern city of Khan Younis , came after Israeli forces struck targets in other areas of the Palestinian enclave . Earlier strikes on central Gaza killed eight people , including four children . <p> Israel 's war in Gaza began when Hamas-led terrorists attacked southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 people . Some 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's offensive has killed over 44,500 Palestinians in Gaza , mostly women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not say how many were combatants . The Israeli military says it has killed over 17,000 fighters , without providing evidence . <p> Israel says it tries to avoid harming civilians and blames Hamas for their deaths because the fighters often operate in residential areas and are known to position tunnels , rocket launchers and other infrastructure near homes , schools and mosques. 
@@118499498 <p> For Edward Said , to be Palestinian was to be an exile . In 1979 he wrote , " Behind every Palestinian there is a great general fact : that he once -- and not so long ago -- lived in a land of his own called Palestine , which is now no longer his homeland . " Yet Said is careful to maintain that despite this shared past , all Palestinians have unique histories and experiences . " What I have tried to insist on , " he writes , " is the richness of ' the question of Palestine , ' a richness often obscured , ignored , or willfully misrepresented . " <p> Said 's desire for " richness , " for specificity and detail , resists the impulse to settle into a conclusive story about the past . This philosophy underlies Sand-Catcher , Omar Khalifah 's sharp , darkly funny debut novel , translated from Arabic by Barbara Romaine . The novel follows a group of four young Palestinian journalists who work at a Jordanian newspaper , characters identified only as archetypes : Two men , Qaa'id ( meaning " leader " ) and Khaa'in ( " adulterer " ) , and two women , Mutarjima ( " translator " ) and Khaa'ina ( " adulteress " ) . ( No one in Sand-Catcher is referred to by their proper name . ) Together the journalists -- the only four of Palestinian descent at their newspaper -- are assigned to interview an old man who is his family 's last living eyewitness of the 1948 Nakba , during which more than 750,000 Palestinians fled from their home or were expelled by the new state of Israel . Through the interview and its absurd aftermath , Khalifah satirizes the idea of telling your story as a noble or even politically effective pursuit . Instead , Sand-Catcher asks what is lost when the multiplicity of experience is reduced to a single , traumatic story . <p> That kind of flattened narrative -- easily packaged and sold -- is exactly what the journalists hope to extract from the old man . Sand-Catcher is set in the lead-up to the 70th anniversary of the Nakba , in 2018 . The novel begins with the interview , the four journalists equipped with " digital recorders , papers , smart tablets , cameras , and nineteen questions . " Surrounded by his family members , the old man sits silently through each of the journalists ' carefully crafted questions , offering nothing in response . Flustered , Qaa'id eventually says , " You ca n't imagine how valuable your testimony to the events of the Nakba will be . The world has declared war on the collective memory of the Palestinians , ' ammi , and you 're a soldier on the right side of this war . All of us have a duty to tell the world our stories , so that -- " He 's interrupted by the old man : " Get the hell out of here , you motherfuckers ! " <p> The outburst might seem shocking , but we soon learn that the old man 's only wish is " to die without being forced to tell anyone about 1948 . " He has spent his whole life refusing to excavate his past as a form of national duty . Even his eldest son does not know what happened to his father in 1948 ; he scheduled the interview in the hopes that he might finally have the chance to hear his father 's memories , despite the fact that they 'll be " mediated by strangers . " The old man 's grandson , too , is curious about his grandfather 's past , recalling a school assignment for which he had tried to interview him about the Nakba : <p> When I got home from school that day , I approached him and told him what the teacher had asked for . My grandfather said , " Write . " I opened a notebook and sat down by him . " Palestine was lost . " " Palestine was lost . " " Full stop . " <p> This line becomes the old man 's only refrain when his family asks about the Nakba : Palestine was lost . <p> If the old man 's silence frustrates and hurts his family , it outrages the reporters . This is where Khalifah 's satire is at its sharpest : The journalists begin to cast themselves as victims , not aggressors , in the fight to unearth the old man 's memories . After all , they think , their careers are on the line . If they fail , their editor threatens , he will not just assign other writers to the interview , but he will make the resulting article entirely about their failure . The editor knows what sells : a dramatic story . <p> Freshly determined to get the old man to speak , the journalists hatch a ludicrous plot . They accost him after Friday prayers and kidnap his grandson , using him as leverage to coerce the old man into talking with them ; they also try to get their hands on a diary that he has kept since 1948 . In chronicling their increasing desperation to finish the job , Sand-Catcher grows darker and more absurd . The journalists overstep boundaries , ignore their conscience , and fight -- sometimes physically -- with one another . <p> What lies behind their rabid intensity ? The journalists are not just motivated by their professional ambition : They all feel a personal stake in hearing the old man 's account . Because each of them lives in exile , their homeland is accessible only secondhand , through anecdotes and their family 's memories . For them , and for others of their generation who have never spent time in Palestine , these stories become almost cipherlike , obscuring the place itself . The grandson reflects that for him , Palestine " acquired the character of something like a legend : simultaneously real and unreal -- something he saw every day without ever getting to know it fully , a mystifying text he did n't know how to read , despite its powerful effect on him . " <p> The journalists have similarly complicated feelings about Palestine . Early on in the novel , Khaa'ina asks her colleagues to " name one specific thing , something distinctive , about your connection to Palestine . " The scene morphs from conversation into confession , revealing truths that each journalist continues to reflect on over the course of the novel . Qaa'id admits that he still mixes up the colors of the Palestinian flag . Mutarjima tells the group that the first time that she ever made maqlouba , a traditional Palestinian dish , she burned it " to a crisp . " Khaa'ina recalls that she set her wedding date for the anniversary of the Nakba , which she did n't realize until the Palestinian band she 'd hired refused to play . Khaa'in seeks out affairs with Palestinian women , searching for a kind of profound , mystical connection that he imagines he might find with a woman with whom he shares a land of origin . Through its polyvocal structure , Sand-Catcher refutes the demand for one Palestinian story to be told ( and sold ) , instead offering many stories , about many kinds of people , with many different relationships to Palestine . <p> But perhaps the most powerful insight of Sand-Catcher is that the call to bear witness should n't supersede the right to privacy . The old man calls the journalists " thieves , " condemning their almost-vampiric hunger to take something essential -- his recollections -- from him . His memory is " an intimate concern , something private , and he did n't want anyone else getting near it . Why not respect the one unique thing left to him from his homeland ? " The grandson says that everyone -- his father , the journalists -- sees his grandfather 's story " as a matter of public record , " belonging not to him but to all Palestinians . He considers the realities of life that people prefer to keep to themselves : intimate relationships , embarrassing moments from childhood , troubles at work . But witnesses to significant events , especially violent ones , are not given the option to stay silent . For them , speaking out becomes a moral duty , as Qaa'id tells the old man -- a national , collective responsibility to counter the history being written by those in power . <p> In the end , the old man surrenders his diary in exchange for his grandson . But he gets the last word . When the journalists open the notebook , each entry is the same : a date , from May 15 , 1948 , until May 15 , 2018 , and underneath it , the phrase " Palestine was lost . " Reading Sand-Catcher in late 2024 , as the terrible violence in Gaza and Lebanon continues , is a poignant reminder that each picture , each death recorded , represents an individual , a whole world of dreams , ideas , and idiosyncrasies . And some of these people might prefer , like the old man , to keep their experiences to themselves . When atrocities become commonplace , when dominant narratives circulate unchecked and unopposed , too often the burden of collective memory comes to rest on individual witnesses -- people who , Sand-Catcher suggests , might have something to lose in the telling . <p> ? When you buy a book using a link on this page , we receive a commission . Thank you for supporting The Atlantic . 
@@118500687 <h> Amnesty International accuses Israel of genocide in Gaza <p> Mohammad Shouman carried the body of his daughter , Masa , who was killed in an Israeli bombardment of the Gaza Strip , during her funeral in Rafah , southern Gaza , on Jan. 17 . Fatima Shbair/Associated Press <p> JERUSALEM -- Amnesty International on Thursday became the first major international human rights organization to accuse Israel of carrying out genocide in the Gaza Strip , drawing a rebuke from Israeli officials , who denied the claim . <p> Amnesty 's contention , outlined in a 296-page report , comes as the International Court of Justice , the principal court of the United Nations , is reviewing similar allegations by South Africa , claims that have been at the heart of difficult debates about the war around the world . <p> " Israel committed and is committing genocide against Palestinians in Gaza , " the Amnesty report said . <p> " Israel 's unlawful conduct throughout its military offensive resulted in unprecedented harm to Palestinians in Gaza that resulted in the massive scale of killings and serious injuries over an extremely short time , " it added . <p> Lawyers say that genocide is among the most difficult crimes to prove in international law because it requires demonstrating the specific intent to destroy a group , " in whole or in part , " something that Israeli leaders have persistently denied is their intent in Gaza . <p> In a rare move , the Israel chapter of Amnesty International protested the findings of the report , saying " the majority " of local members " holds that the claim that Israel is committing a genocide is not sufficiently substantiated . " <p> Advertisement <p> Still , the local chapter said that it was worried " serious crimes " were being perpetrated in Gaza and that the killing and destruction in Gaza was at " catastrophic proportions and must cease immediately . " <p> More than 40,000 Palestinians have been killed since the start of the war , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does n't distinguish between combatants and civilians . Nearly 2 million people have been displaced , and cities have been reduced to rubble . <p> Amnesty International said it took into account acts by Israel between October 2023 and July 2024 , including what it described as " repeated direct attacks on civilians " and extensive restrictions on humanitarian aid . <p> Israel says it is waging a war against Hamas in Gaza and not civilians . It has also blamed the United Nations for mismanaging the delivery of aid and accused Hamas of looting it . <p> In a statement , the Israeli military said it " takes all feasible measures to mitigate harm to civilians " during its operations , including " providing advance warnings to civilians in combat zones whenever feasible . " Allegations of intentional harm , the military said , were " unfounded . " <p> Advertisement <p> The genocide accusation is acutely sensitive for Israel , which was founded in 1948 in the aftermath of the Holocaust . Many Israelis argue that it is Hamas that should face charges of genocide after its attack Oct. 7 , 2023 , when about 1,200 people were killed in Israel and about 240 were taken captive , according to Israeli officials . <p> While the Amnesty report did n't focus on the Oct. 7 attack , it said militants from Hamas and other armed groups conducted " deliberate mass killings , summary killings and other abuses , causing suffering and physical injuries . " It said war crimes committed by Hamas would be the subject of a separate report . <p> Under a convention adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1948 in the wake of the Holocaust , genocide is defined as carrying out certain acts of violence with the " intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial , or religious group . " <p> In the case before the International Court of Justice , South Africa has argued that inflammatory public statements made by Israeli leaders are proof of intent to commit genocide . Part of Israel 's defense is to show that whatever politicians may have said in public was overruled by executive decisions and official orders from Israel 's war Cabinet and its military 's high command . <p> Amnesty International said it used the 1948 convention to make its determination that Israel was committing genocide , and it warned against narrow interpretations of what constitutes intent . <p> Janina Dill , codirector of the Oxford Institute for Ethics , Law and Armed Conflict , said the Amnesty report was not necessarily an indication that the International Court of Justice would reach the same conclusion . <p> Advertisement <p> She said Amnesty appeared to be using a standard for establishing whether Israel had intent to commit genocidal acts that was closer to a " preponderance of evidence , " whereas the International Court of Justice has held a higher bar in past cases . <p> " The report is critical and important to establish the facts of what has happened in Gaza , but I do n't think it is decisive for how we should expect the ICJ case to unfold , " she said . 
@@118501785 <p> Palestinians survey the aftermath of an Israeli air strike on al-Mawasi camp near Khan Younis , in the southern Gaza Strip , which set several large tents ablaze Abdel Kareem Hana/AP Photo <p> Published On 5 Dec 20245 Dec 2024 <p> The Israeli military has killed at least 39 Palestinians in overnight strikes across the Gaza Strip , medics said , including at least 21 in an attack that set ablaze tents sheltering displaced Palestinian families in a crowded camp . <p> Residents carried a body wrapped in carpets out of the charred wreckage of the makeshift shelters in al-Mawasi , near the beach west of Khan Younis in southern Gaza , where tens of thousands of people have sheltered for months . Israel calls the area a so-called " safe zone " , but has repeatedly attacked displacement tents in the area . <p> Mourners said the latest attacks demonstrated that a new declaration from international human rights group Amnesty International that Israel was guilty of genocide in Gaza had come too late . <p> Gaza medics said the 21 confirmed killed in the Israeli strike there included women and children . Israel claimed the strike targeted senior Hamas members , whom it did not identify . <p> Later on Thursday , Hussam Abu Safia , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya in the north of the enclave , said a 16-year-old boy who used a wheelchair was killed and several people , including medics , were wounded in a drone attack at the medical facility . <p> Advertisement <p> The Health Ministry said three hospitals that are barely operational on the northern edge of the Gaza Strip have come under repeated attack since Israeli forces sent tanks to Beit Lahiya and Beit Hanoon towns and the nearby Jabalia refugee camp in October in a renewed ground assault and siege on northern Gaza . <p> The siege has exacerbated an already dire humanitarian situation , with famine looming and the healthcare system collapsed . <h> ' Stop this crazy war ' <p> The strike at al-Mawasi set several large tents ablaze and exploding cooking gas canisters and burning furniture fuelled the fire . The area was strewn with charred clothing , mattresses and other belongings among the twisted frames of burned-out shelters . <p> " We do n't see anyone from the whole world standing by us or helping us in this situation . Let them stop this crazy war that 's against us . Let them stop the war , " said Abu Kamal al-Assar , a witness at the site . <p> Al Jazeera 's Tareq Abu Azzoum , reporting from the site of the attack in Khan Younis , said the strike " encapsulates the catastrophic calamity Palestinians are really going through , especially since there are not any places across the Gaza Strip or even shelters that could be safe " . <p> The attack came on the day Amnesty International released a report saying Israel 's actions in Gaza met the definition of the crime of genocide . Israel strongly rejected that accusation , denouncing Amnesty as a " deplorable and fanatical organisation " . The United States , a key ally , also rejected the Amnesty allegation . <p> Palestinians survey the aftermath of an Israeli air strike at the al-Mawasi camp for displaced people near Khan Younis , in the southern Gaza Strip Abdel Kareem Hana/AP Photo <p> In southern Gaza at a funeral in Khan Younis , where relatives wept over white-shrouded bodies , resident Abu Anas Mustafa called the Amnesty report " a victory for Palestinian diplomacy " , although he said it came late . <p> Advertisement <p> " It is the 430th day of the war today , and Israel has been carrying out massacres and a genocide from the first 10 days of the war , " he said . <p> Israeli strikes on Thursday pounded Gaza City , where medics said an attack , which destroyed a house where an extended family had taken shelter and damaged two nearby homes , killed at least three people . <p> In Rafah , near the border with Egypt , an Israeli strike killed three Palestinians on Thursday , medics said . Three others were killed in a separate air strike in Shujayea , in eastern Gaza City , they added . <p> Israel launched its assault on Gaza in October last year , forcing nearly the entire 2.3 million population from their homes . More than 44,500 Palestinians have been killed , with thousands of others feared dead under the rubble . <p> Basem Naim , an official in Hamas 's political bureau said that international mediators have resumed negotiating with the group and Israel over a potential ceasefire in Gaza , and that he was hopeful a deal was within reach . <p> Ceasefire negotiations were halted last month when Qatar suspended talks with mediators from Egypt and the United States because of frustration over a lack of progress . <p> But there has been a " reactivation " of efforts in recent days to end the fighting , release captives from Gaza and free Palestinian prisoners in Israel , according to Naim . 
@@118501790 <p> US President Joe Biden greets his son Hunter Biden at the Democratic National Convention ( DNC ) in Chicago , Illinois , US on August 19 , 2024 Craig Hudson/File Photo/Reuters <p> Papa Joe Biden is a blatant liar and the embodiment of a perverse lie that sustains America 's phantom democracy . <p> Only the familiar stable of wind-up partisans who appear on US cable news networks and silly naifs who cling to the fantastical idea that America is a shining-city-on-a-hill model of liberty , equality , and fraternity would deny the essential truth of that blunt opening sentence . <p> That is why the overwrought brouhaha over Papa Biden 's predictable volte-face to pardon his wayward son after insisting that he would not exercise his prerogative to wave a presidential wand and erase Hunter 's criminal convictions , strikes me as missing a larger and obvious point . <p> All presidents lie . It is the American way . It always has been . It always will be . <p> Indeed , there are two defining qualities that every American president must possess in order to fulfill their duties and responsibilities . They must be able to lie with an almost pathological ease and they must be content to order others to kill without pause or a scintilla of remorse . <p> Advertisement <p> Presidents lie about war . They lie about peace . They lie about negotiating " truces " . They lie about " intelligence " produced by spy services whose business is deceit . They lie about bridging the schism between rich and poor . They lie about protecting " innocents " at home and abroad . They lie about preventing the planet from burning into extinction . <p> They lie about pardons . They lie when they place their hand on a bible and swear to " preserve , protect and defend the Constitution of the United States " . The biggest lie of all is when they reassure " the American people " -- again and again -- that they will , without fail , tell the truth . <p> Which raises a necessary question : Why do they lie ? <p> They lie to convince the gullible that presidents are " peacemakers " who oppose war rather than fuel conflict with money and arms . <p> They lie to obscure the fact that , as president , their principal obligation is to serve the parochial interests of the few at the debilitating expense of the many . <p> They lie to promote a myth that America is a symbol of hope and freedom in order to deny the historical record that US president after president has been the unrepentant architect of loss and suffering on an almost incomprehensible scale across this ever-turbulent world . <p> Biden 's eager complicity in the genocide being perpetrated with such ferocious and lethal efficiency in the desolate remnants of Gaza and the occupied West Bank is more convincing evidence of America 's defining and anti-human past , present and , no doubt , future . <p> Advertisement <p> America 's 46th president has passed the litmus test that every president must pass . Biden has proven throughout his septic tenure as president that he has , all along , had the right stuff all right to be commander-in-chief . <p> And , like many other presidents who preceded him and are , of course , destined to follow him , Biden will have a shrine -- euphemistically known as a presidential library -- built in his honour to celebrate his facility to lie and kill . <p> So , the duelling camps on what constitutes the " right " and " left " in America who , on one hyperbolic side , are excoriating Biden for his hypocritical assault on the " rule of law " and , on the other sentimental wing , are defending the president 's understandable act of love , are both guilty not only of naivete , but a glaring double standard which confirms their profoundly unserious natures . <p> Biden 's detractors wail like colicky babies that he has reneged on a solemn pledge not to grant his second , troubled son clemency because they were convinced of this president 's once-uncompromising fidelity to the " norms " that gird the American democratic " experiment " . <p> This may come , I suspect , as a revelation to these starry-eyed chumps , but the pampered and powerful elites in Washington , DC and beyond -- who dictate the terms and conditions of the American " experiment " -- have never had to abide by any of your fictive " norms " . <p> There are an exculpatory set of rules for the governors and a decidedly different set of incriminating rules for the governed . <p> Advertisement <p> Exhibit A : Not one of the grinning nest of Wall Street plutocrats who engineered the sub-prime mortgage racket that triggered the near collapse of the rigged US economy and caused such grief and hardship among " Main Street " America were held to even a perfunctory measure of account . <p> Instead , they were handed golden , **29;1617;TOOLONG tickets and bailed out by the legion of " blue-collar " American taxpayers whom they damaged , often beyond repair . <p> Not surprisingly , they were abetted on this rule-of-law defacing score by a succession of compliant presidents . <p> In happy league with their grateful Wall Street patrons and donors , not one sitting president has ever been charged , let alone convicted and jailed , like millions of their much less fortunate " fellow citizens " . <p> God-fearing , law-abiding , Boy Scouts all . <p> I suggest the " I 'm shocked , shocked that the president lied " crowd take out a tissue and dab their embarrassing spigot of crocodile tears . <p> As for The Washington Post columnist and his like-minded brethren on CNN and MSNBC who chafed at Papa Biden 's U-turn but gave him credit for saving his kid from an unpleasant fate since that 's what any father would do , apparently these maudlin apologists require reminding that poor , little Hunter is a 54-year-old married man who ought to be responsible for his illicit actions and his pop is the president of the United States . <p> The scales of justice are n't blind when your dad can lift the blindfold and take a good , long peek at the accused in the dock to find out whether they are related to you or not . <p> Advertisement <p> Papa Biden should spare an ounce of his mercy for the deserving victims of the " miscarriages of justice " that are rife in America 's unsparing " judicial system " , which routinely imprisons the poor , minorities , non-violent offenders , and the innocent , who , in many outrageous cases , face the death penalty . <p> Towards that -- dare I say it -- just end , Biden better carve out some time during his dwindling days in office to call the Innocence Project -- a group of honourable volunteers who work hard to free the condemned -- and seek its advice on who he should pardon next . <p> That might temper the shameful stain on the " truth " and " justice " he has left behind . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@118502580 <p> President Joe Biden pauses before he addresses the nation from the Oval Office of the White House in Washington , Wednesday , July 24 , 2024 , about his decision to drop his Democratic presidential reelection bid . <p> A voter watches the stage before former first lady Michelle Obama speaks at campaign rally in support of Democratic presidential nominee Vice President Kamala Harris , Tuesday , Oct. 29 , 2024 , in College Park , Ga . <p> Democratic presidential nominee Vice President Kamala Harris looks at a monitor of the event from backstage , just before taking the stage for her final campaign rally , Monday , Nov. 4 , 2024 , in Philadelphia . <p> Asylum-seeking migrants wrap themselves in blankets to ward off the wind and rain as they line up in a makeshift , mountainous campsite to be processed after crossing the border with Mexico , Friday , Feb. 2 , 2024 , near Jacumba Hot Springs , Calif . <p> Georgian migrant Nani smiles as she thanks a U.S. volunteer , speaking between gaps in one of the border walls separating Tijuana , Mexico , and San Diego , as she waits to apply for asylum with U.S. authorities , Friday , April 12 , 2024 , seen from San Diego . <p> A family who went to check on their storm-damaged home uses flashlights to walk back up a sand-coated street , currently open only to pedestrians and vehicles involved in the recovery effort , on Manasota Key , Fla. , as night falls , Saturday , Oct. 12 , 2024 . <p> Dustin Holmes , second from right , holds hands with his girlfriend , Hailey Morgan , while returning to their flooded home with her children Aria Skye Hall , 7 , right , and Kyle Ross , 4 , in the aftermath of Hurricane Helene , Friday , Sept. 27 , 2024 , in Crystal River , Fla . <p> Fans interfere with a foul ball caught by Los Angeles Dodgers right fielder Mookie Betts during the first inning in Game 4 of the baseball World Series against the New York Yankees , Tuesday , Oct. 29 , 2024 , in New York . <p> Inter Miami striker Shanyder Borgelin competes for the ball against DC United left wing back Pedro Santos during the second half of an MLS soccer match at Audi Field , Saturday , March 16 , 2024 , in Washington . <h> The Associated Press ' top photos of 2024 from the US <h> In 2024 , U.S. photographers captured glimpses of humanity , ranging from a deeply divisive presidential election , to hurricanes and fires that ravaged communities , to campus protests over the war between Israel and Hamas in Gaza <p> Voters stand in line outside a polling place at Madison Church , Tuesday , Nov. 5 , 2024 , in Phoenix , Ariz . <p> Matt York - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Republican presidential candidate former President Donald Trump is surrounded by U.S. Secret Service agents at a campaign rally , Saturday , July 13 , 2024 , in Butler , Pa . <p> Evan Vucci - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Republican presidential candidate former President Donald Trump pumps his fist as he is helped off the stage at a campaign event in Butler , Pa. , on Saturday , July 13 , 2024 . <p> Gene J. Puskar - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> President Joe Biden pauses before he addresses the nation from the Oval Office of the White House in Washington , Wednesday , July 24 , 2024 , about his decision to drop his Democratic presidential reelection bid . <p> A voter watches the stage before former first lady Michelle Obama speaks at campaign rally in support of Democratic presidential nominee Vice President Kamala Harris , Tuesday , Oct. 29 , 2024 , in College Park , Ga . <p> Brynn Anderson - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Democratic presidential nominee Vice President Kamala Harris looks at a monitor of the event from backstage , just before taking the stage for her final campaign rally , Monday , Nov. 4 , 2024 , in Philadelphia . <p> Jacquelyn Martin - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Supporters of Republican presidential candidate former President Donald Trump look on as a bus carrying Democratic presidential nominee Vice President Kamala Harris passes by following a campaign event , Sunday , Aug. 18 , 2024 , in Rochester , Pa . <p> Julia Demarre Nikhinson - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Former President Donald Trump speaks before entering the courtroom at Manhattan criminal court , Thursday , Feb. 15 , 2024 , in New York . <p> Mary Altaffer - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Elon Musk jumps on the stage as Republican presidential nominee former President Donald Trump speaks at a campaign rally at the Butler Farm Show , Saturday , Oct. 5 , 2024 , in Butler , Pa . <p> Grand Marshal Dakota Meyer , U.S. Marine Corps , a Medal of Honor recipient , waves from a car during the annual Veterans Day Parade , Monday , Nov. 11 , 2024 , in New York . <p> Adam Gray - freelancer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Asylum-seeking migrants wrap themselves in blankets to ward off the wind and rain as they line up in a makeshift , mountainous campsite to be processed after crossing the border with Mexico , Friday , Feb. 2 , 2024 , near Jacumba Hot Springs , Calif . <p> Gregory Bull - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Georgian migrant Nani smiles as she thanks a U.S. volunteer , speaking between gaps in one of the border walls separating Tijuana , Mexico , and San Diego , as she waits to apply for asylum with U.S. authorities , Friday , April 12 , 2024 , seen from San Diego . <p> Gregory Bull - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> A tattered American flag flaps outside a home as furniture and household items damaged by Hurricane Helene flooding sit piled along the street awaiting pickup , ahead of the arrival of Hurricane Milton , in Holmes Beach on Anna Maria Island , Fla. , Tuesday , Oct. 8 , 2024 . <p> Debris is strewn on the lake in the aftermath of Hurricane Helene , Wednesday , Oct. 2 , 2024 , in Lake Lure , N.C. <p> Mike Stewart - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> A family who went to check on their storm-damaged home uses flashlights to walk back up a sand-coated street , currently open only to pedestrians and vehicles involved in the recovery effort , on Manasota Key , Fla. , as night falls , Saturday , Oct. 12 , 2024 . <p> Rebecca Blackwell - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> An animal runs through grass while fleeing flames as the Park Fire tears through the Cohasset community in Butte County , Calif. , on Thursday , July 25 , 2024 . <p> Noah Berger - ugcr , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Firefighters and sheriff 's deputies push a vintage car away from a burning home as the Mountain Fire burns in Camarillo , Calif. , on Wednesday , Nov. 6 , 2024 . <p> Noah Berger - ugcr , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Dustin Holmes , second from right , holds hands with his girlfriend , Hailey Morgan , while returning to their flooded home with her children Aria Skye Hall , 7 , right , and Kyle Ross , 4 , in the aftermath of Hurricane Helene , Friday , Sept. 27 , 2024 , in Crystal River , Fla . <p> Phelan M. Ebenhack - freelancer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Debris is visible through the window of a damaged home following severe storms Friday , March 15 , 2024 , in Lakeview , Ohio . <p> Joshua A. Bickel - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> The roof of Tropicana Field is damaged the morning after Hurricane Milton hit the region , Thursday , Oct. 10 , 2024 , in St. Petersburg , Fla . <p> Julio Cortez - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Wreckage of the Francis Scott Key Bridge rests on the container ship Dali , Wednesday , April 3 , 2024 , in Baltimore . <p> Julia Demaree Nikhinson - freelancer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Police break through a barrier set up by pro-Palestinian demonstrators on the UCLA campus Thursday , May 2 , 2024 , in Los Angeles . <p> Jae C. Hong - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Students try to prevent the Gaza Solidarity Encampment from taking over Hamilton Hall at Columbia University on Tuesday , April 30 , in New York . <p> Fans interfere with a foul ball caught by Los Angeles Dodgers right fielder Mookie Betts during the first inning in Game 4 of the baseball World Series against the New York Yankees , Tuesday , Oct. 29 , 2024 , in New York . <p> Ashley Landis - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Inter Miami striker Shanyder Borgelin competes for the ball against DC United left wing back Pedro Santos during the second half of an MLS soccer match at Audi Field , Saturday , March 16 , 2024 , in Washington . <p> Nathan Howard - freelancer , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Argentina 's President Javier Milei poses for pictures after ringing the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange in New York , Monday , Sept. 23 , 2024 . <p> Seth Wenig - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> A race fan walks though the stands at Churchill Downs before the 150th running of the Kentucky Derby horse race Saturday , May 4 , 2024 , in Louisville , Ky . <p> Brynn Anderson - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Florence Pugh arrives at the Oscars on Sunday , March 10 , 2024 , at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles . <p> John Locher - invision linkable , John Locher/Invision/AP <p> People sing the National Anthem during the third day of 2024 Republican National Convention at the Fiserv Forum , Wednesday , July 17 , 2024 , in Milwaukee . <p> In 2024 , photographers across the U.S. captured glimpses of humanity , ranging from a deeply divisive presidential election , to hurricanes and fires that ravaged communities , to campus protests over the war between Israel and Hamas in Gaza . <p> The gallery from The Associated Press illustrates a new chapter of political history -- the assassination attempt on former President Donald Trump , the moment President Joe Biden announced he would no longer run again , the campaign sprint by Vice President Kamala Harris in Biden 's place , and the raw emotion from voters during a grueling contest ultimately won by Trump . <p> Hurricanes whipped through the country with devastating imagery , leaving a path of wreckage and death from Florida to Appalachia . After Hurricane Helene , Lake Lure in North Carolina was shown in a jarring photo covered in shards of debris thick enough to hide the surface of the water . Hurricane Milton ripped apart the roof of Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg , Florida , home to Major League Baseball 's Tampa Bay Rays . <p> The scale of destruction experienced in some corners of the country in 2024 was hard to capture and might have been harder to fathom . That was the case when a container ship slammed into the Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore , causing it to collapse and crumple around the vessel , killing construction workers on the bridge . <p> As flames torched the landscape in California , another image captured firefighters and sheriff 's deputies pushing a vintage car away from a burning home . Elsewhere in California , one photo is aglow with bright orange flames , broken up only by the subtle features of an animal running through them . <p> But hope also persevered in the face of devastation . In Helene 's aftermath , an image from Crystal River , Florida , shows Dustin Holmes holding hands with his girlfriend , Hailey Morgan , as they sloshed through floodwaters with her 4- and 7-year-old children to return to their flooded home . And in Manasota Key , Florida , a family was lit up by the glow of flashlights as they walked to check on their home damaged by Milton . <p> Other photos from 2024 also grabbed the darkness and shadows to emphasize light : among them , a rocket liftoff and a total solar eclipse . And , yes , eclipse glasses were back in style for a shared moment of skygazing . <p> But many other photos delivered a blast of color , from the spectrum of the northern lights across a Maine sky to a crew of workers wading into the deep-red of a Massachusetts cranberry bog . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@118507991 <h> Amnesty International accuses Israel of genocide ; Israeli official calls claim " entirely false and based on lies " <p> The rights group Amnesty International has accused Israel of committing genocide against Palestinians in Gaza and called on the United Nations ' International Criminal Court " to urgently consider adding genocide to the list of crimes it is investigating and for all states to use every legal avenue to bring perpetrators to justice . " <p> Israel has repeatedly rejected accusations of genocide in Gaza , insisting that it has a right to defend itself after the Palestinian territory 's Hamas rulers carried out their brutal attack on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people and taking 251 others hostage . Since the start of the war in Gaza , at least 44,580 Palestinians have been killed in Israel 's military offensive , according to the Hamas-run Health Ministry , and most of its residents have been internally displaced . <p> In a report published Thursday , the London-based rights group said it had found " sufficient basis " to conclude Israel had and was continuing to commit the crime of genocide in Gaza . <p> Genocide consists of " acts committed with intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group , " according to the 1948 United Nations Convention on Genocide . <p> " Amnesty International 's report demonstrates that Israel has carried out acts prohibited under the Genocide Convention , with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza , " Agn ? s Callamard , the group 's secretary general , said in a statement . " These acts include killings , causing serious bodily or mental harm and deliberately inflicting on Palestinians in Gaza conditions of life calculated to bring about their physical destruction . Month after month , Israel has treated Palestinians in Gaza as a subhuman group unworthy of human rights and dignity , demonstrating its intent to physically destroy them . Our damning findings must serve as a wake-up call to the international community : this is genocide . It must stop now . " <p> The rights group said countries that supply weapons to Israel , including the United States , " must know they are violating their obligation to prevent genocide and are at risk of becoming complicit in genocide . " <p> Amnesty said such countries " must act now to bring Israel 's atrocities against Palestinians in Gaza to an immediate end . " <p> " The deplorable and fanatical organisation Amnesty International has once again produced a fabricated report that is entirely false and based on lies , " Israel 's Foreign Ministry spokesperson Oren Marmorstein said on social media in response to the report . <p> Amnesty International 's own branch inside Israel said it did not accept the main findings of the report accusing the country of genocide , but it called for an immediate end to the war and an investigation into serious violations of international law and crimes against humanity . <p> The report comes two weeks after the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his former defense minister , as well as for a Hamas leader who Israel says was killed in an airstrike over the summer . <p> Meanwhile , on Wednesday , an Israeli strike on a tent camp where many displaced people are living in southern Gaza killed at least 21 people and wounded 28 , the director of Nasser Hospital located in the nearby city of Khan Younis , Atif al-Hout , said . <p> The Israeli military said it had hit senior Hamas militants " involved in terrorist activities " in the area , The Associated Press reported . Earlier Israeli strikes in Gaza killed eight people , four of them children , the AP reported . 
@@118523387 <h> Follow Us <h> Amnesty International accuses Israel of committing genocide in Gaza <p> Children cry as people mourn Palestinians killed in an Israeli strike , at Nasser hospital in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip , Dec. 5 , 2024 . <p> Share <p> Amnesty International accuses Israel of committing genocide in Gaza <p> share <p> Israel says a new report by Amnesty International accusing it of committing genocide in Gaza is " entirely false and based on lies , " while denouncing the human rights watchdog as a " deplorable and fanatical organization . " <p> The London-based group released a report Thursday in which it concluded that Israel and its military have violated the 1948 United Nations-backed Genocide Convention , which defines genocide as " acts committed with intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group . " <p> The nearly 300-page report covered a nine-month period beginning in the aftermath of the October 7 , 2023 , attack on southern Israel by Hamas militants that ended with 1,200 people killed and 250 others taken hostage . Israel launched a massive ground and aerial campaign on the Palestinian enclave in response . <p> Amnesty said it came to its conclusion based on hundreds of " dehumanizing and genocidal statements " by Israeli officials , as well as ground reports from Gaza . The report said 15 Israeli airstrikes carried out between October 2023 through April 2024 killed 334 civilians , including 141 children , but Amnesty said there was no evidence that any of the strikes were directed at military objectives . <p> The group said Israel 's actions , including mass evacuation orders that have displaced most of Gaza 's 2.3 million people and the restriction of humanitarian aid deliveries , are deliberately bringing about the destruction of the Palestinians through a " slow , calculated death . " <p> The United States , Israel 's main arms supplier , said it disagreed with the Amnesty International conclusions , with the State Department declaring , " We have said previously and continue to find that the allegations of genocide are unfounded . " <p> Agnes Callamard , Amnesty 's secretary-general , said in the report that the group 's findings " must serve as a wake-up call to the international community : this is genocide . " Callamard said the United States , Israel 's major international ally , and other nations who provide Israel with weapons are at risk of being complicit with genocide . <p> In a statement posted on the social media platform X , Israel 's Foreign Ministry slammed the report as " fabricated " and said it was Hamas that carried out a " genocidal massacre " on October 7 . The statement said since then , Israel has been defending itself against " daily attacks from seven different fronts " while " fully in accordance with international law . " <p> The Washington Post said it received a statement from the Israeli military calling Amnesty 's " allegations of genocide and intentional harm are not only unfounded but also ignore Hamas ' violations of international law , including its use of civilians as human shields and its deliberate targeting of Israeli civilians . " <p> Amnesty 's branch in Israel also disputed the accusations levied by its parent group , saying there was no solid evidence of genocide taking place . <p> The Israeli office said it did not take part in the research for the report , but also said an investigation needs to be conducted into possible crimes against humanity committed by Israel . <p> Israel 's counteroffensive in Gaza has killed more than 44,500 Palestinians , more than half those of women and children , according to the Gaza health ministry . Israel says that the death toll includes thousands of militants it has killed . <p> Amnesty 's report joins a growing chorus of voices across the international community accusing Israel of human rights violations in its war on Gaza . <p> The International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants last month for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity , including starvation as a method of warfare . <p> South Africa has brought charges of genocide against Israel in the U.N.-backed International Court of Justice in The Hague . <p> Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire <p> U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Wednesday that while fighting rages in Gaza , the fragile Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire in Lebanon is " holding , " even as the warring parties have continued to periodically target each other with new strikes in recent days , and Israel launching new strikes in Lebanon Wednesday . <p> Blinken told journalists on the sidelines of a NATO meeting in Brussels , " The ceasefire is holding , and we 're using the mechanism that was established when any concerns have arisen about any alleged or purported violations . " <p> Both Israel and Hezbollah have accused each other of violating the week-old truce to end 14 months of fighting that has killed thousands of people in Lebanon and sparked mass displacement of residents on both sides of the Israeli-Lebanon border . <p> Israel stepped up its campaign against Hezbollah in southern Lebanon in late September after nearly a year of cross-border exchanges by Hezbollah in support of its ally Hamas , following the Palestinian group 's October 2023 attack on Israel . <p> There are still about 100 hostages held in Gaza , with about one-third believed to be dead . <p> Hamas and Hezbollah have been designated as terror groups by the United States , United Kingdom and other Western countries . <p> Some material in this report came from The Associated Press , Agence France-Presse and Reuters . <p> The Voice of America provides news and information in more than 40 languages to an estimated weekly audience of over 326 million people . Stories with the VOA News byline are the work of multiple VOA journalists and may contain information from wire service reports . 
@@118543884 <h> Photos of the Week : Santa Wink , Krampus Run , Panda Pose <p> Christmas decorations across Germany , lake-effect snowfall in Ohio , a festival of lights in France , a brief clash between soldiers and civilians in South Korea , devastating floods in Malaysia , sumo wrestlers in London , anti-government protests in Georgia , and much more <p> To receive an email notification every time new photo stories are published , sign up here . <p> A rope remains around the neck of a toppled statue of Bassel al-Assad , the brother of Syrian President Bashar Assad , in Al Basel Square in Aleppo , Syria , after rebel fighters captured the city on December 2 , 2024. # <p> A panda mascot poses for photographs in front of panda sculptures displayed at the Hong Kong International Airport during the welcome ceremony of the panda-themed exhibition " Panda Go ! " on December 2 , 2024. # <p> Thai Royal Guards take part in a rehearsal for the " Trooping the Colour " and oath-giving ceremony to mark the 72nd birthday celebrations of Thailand 's King Maha Vajiralongkorn at Dusit Palace in Bangkok on November 30 , 2024. # <p> Visitors interact with an immersive light-and-AI display at the " Modern Guru and the Path to Artificial Happiness " exhibition by Australian art studio Eness at the Icon Siam shopping mall in Bangkok on December 2 , 2024. # <p> Demonstrators point lasers toward police during a rally outside Parliament to protest the government 's decision to suspend negotiations on joining the European Union in Tbilisi , Georgia , on December 3 , 2024. # <p> Fireworks fired by protestors explode along police lines during a demonstration against the government 's decision to delay European Union membership talks amid a postelection crisis , outside Georgia 's Parliament , in Tbilisi , early on December 1 , 2024. # <p> In Tbilisi , on December 2 , 2024 , a demonstrator draped in a Georgian national flag sits in front of police at a protest against the government 's decision to suspend negotiations on joining the European Union. # <p> Sumo Wrestlers Kitanowaka Daisuke and Fukutsuumi Akira of Japan pose with a London Black Cab following The Grand Sumo Tournament press conference at Royal Albert Hall on December 4 , 2024 , in London , England . This will be only the second time in the sport 's 1,500-year history that an official Basho tournament will take place outside Japan , following the 1991 event at the Royal Albert Hall , which attracted audiences from across Europe to witness the spectacle. # <p> An unforgiving lake-effect snow band unleashed heavy snow across the Great Lakes , burying parts of New York and Pennsylvania under feet of snow and stranding motorists on frozen highways in Ohio , photographed on December 3 , 2024. # <p> A Palestinian woman carries her cat as displaced people from Beit Lahia arrive in Jabalia in the northern Gaza Strip on December 4 , 2024 , amid the ongoing war between Israel and the Palestinian Hamas movement. # <p> South Korean soldiers try get into the national assembly on December 4 , 2024 , in Seoul . South Korean lawmakers voted to lift a declaration of emergency martial law announced earlier by President Yoon Suk Yeol in a televised speech . Since taking office two years ago , Yoon has struggled to push his agendas against an opposition-controlled Parliament. # <p> A newborn seal pup reacts on the dunes of the Lincolnshire Wildlife Trust 's Donna Nook nature reserve near Grimsby , England , on November 29 , 2024 . Every November and December , thousands of gray seals give birth to their pups near the reserve 's sand dunes. # <p> Nova , the world 's first electric hydrofoil ferry , cruises in the waters of central Stockholm as it begins operating its service for public transportation in Sweden . Nova uses computer-controlled hydrofoil wings to lift its hull and fly one meter above the water , cutting water friction and reducing energy consumption by 80 percent compared with traditional vessels. # <p> Nelli Lunkenheimer , dressed as the gold-foiled Christ Child , recites the traditional prologue for the opening ceremony of the famous Nuernberger Christkindlesmarkt ( Christ Child Market ) one of the world 's oldest Christmas markets , in Nuremberg , Germany , on November 29 , 2024. # <p> Croatia 's Katarina Jezic jumps to shoot during the women 's EHF 2024 European championship handball game between Croatia and Faroe Islands at the St. Jakobshalle arena , in Basel , Switzerland , on December 1 , 2024. # <p> People admire Josef Glogger 's Christmas-decorated house and garden in Balzhausen , near Guenzburg , Germany , on December 2 , 2024 . Glogger began his Christmas illumination 20 years ago , creating every figure himself. # <p> An autonomous delivery robot in Barcelona , a heat wave in Australia , a triceratops auction in France , a lava flow in southwestern Iceland , Macy 's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York City , and much more 
@@118545398 <p> WASHINGTON -- President-elect Donald Trump 's incoming Middle East envoy recently visited Israel and Qatar for high-level talks on landing a ceasefire and hostage deal in Gaza , a U.S. official said Thursday . <p> Steve Witkoff , who was tapped by Trump to serve as his special envoy to the region , met separately in recent weeks with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Qatar 's Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani , according to the official , who was not authorized to comment publicly about the sensitive talks and spoke on condition of anonymity . <p> The official added that Witkoff has kept in contact with Biden 's foreign policy team as the incoming Trump and outgoing Biden administrations have agreed to coordinate on efforts to free hostages who remain in captivity in Gaza . <p> The official also confirmed that there has been recent progress on ceasefire talks to end the grinding war , though there are currently no plans for Biden to dispatch senior adviser Brett McGurk back to the region . McGurk has served as the administration 's chief interlocutor in the on-and-off talks . <p> Meanwhile , Bassem Naim , a member of Hamas ' political wing , said in an interview in Turkey on Thursday that international mediators have resumed negotiating with the militant group and Israel over a ceasefire in Gaza and that he was hopeful a deal to end the 14-month war was within reach . <p> Reuters first reported on Witkoff 's travels to the Middle East . <p> News of Witkoff 's efforts on a ceasefire deal comes after Trump demanded earlier this week the release of hostages held by Hamas before he is sworn into office in January . <p> " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . <p> The war in Gaza began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking around 250 people hostage on Oct. 7 , 2023 . Israeli officials believe about two-thirds of the roughly 100 hostages are still alive . <p> Trump transition officials did not respond to requests for comment on Witkoff 's recent Mideast visit . The State Department also declined to comment on Witkoff 's travels . <p> When he assumes his role as Mideast peace envoy , Witkoff is expected to operate out of the White House , much as Jared Kushner did during the first Trump administration . <p> Biden 's and Trump 's teams have previously acknowledged efforts to coordinate on the Middle East crisis . <p> Last month , the Biden administration officials said they kept Trump 's incoming administration closely apprised of its efforts to broker the ceasefire deal between Israel and Hezbollah on the Israel-Lebanon border . <p> Trump 's team , meanwhile , was quick to claim credit for the Lebanon ceasefire . <p> " Everyone is coming to the table because of President Trump , " said Florida Rep. Mike Waltz , Trump 's choice for his national security adviser , in a post on the social media platform X , shortly before the Israeli Cabinet signed off on the agreement . " His resounding victory sent a clear message to the rest of the world that chaos wo n't be tolerated . I 'm glad to see concrete steps towards deescalation in the Middle East . " <p> Biden 's national security adviser , Jake Sullivan , who has confirmed he has had talks with Waltz , bristled at the idea that Trump deserved credit for the long-sought deal coming together . <p> " I would just point out that you know you 've done a really good thing when other people take credit for it , " Sullivan said . <p> Witkoff , a Florida real estate investor , is also co-chair of Trump 's inaugural committee . <p> Witkoff was on the golf course with Trump in West Palm Beach , Fla. , in September during the second attempt on Trump 's life this year . <p> APPEAL FROM UKRAINE <p> Meanwhile , Ukrainian officials are visiting the United States this week to seek continued U.S. support and met with members of Donald Trump 's transition team to appeal to a president-elect who has pledged to bring a quick end to Ukraine 's war with Russia . <p> Ukrainian Foreign Minister Andrii Sybiha said at a NATO meeting in Brussels on Wednesday that Andriy Yermak , President Volodymyr Zelenskyy 's powerful chief of staff , had made the visit for meetings that are " important for establishing relations , including with the leaders of the new administration . " <p> Yermak and Ukraine 's ambassador to the United States , Oksana Markarova , met on Capitol Hill on Wednesday with Vice President-elect JD Vance and Waltz , said a person with knowledge of the meeting who spoke on condition of anonymity . Also present was a representative for Keith Kellogg , a retired lieutenant general who is the president-elect 's choice for envoy to Ukraine and Russia . <p> Yulia Svyrydenko , Ukraine 's first deputy prime minister , was also in the U.S. this week . She spoke of her country 's energy investment opportunities at an Energy Transition Forum in Washington , in which she appealed to American businesses for investments such as oil and gas extraction , she said on social media . <p> With Ukraine 's war effort showing signs of exhaustion and its forces losing ground daily , there are fears in the country that the period leading up to Trump 's inauguration Jan. 20 could be exceedingly violent as Russia tries to capture more land before any talks are held . <p> Ukraine 's leadership has been trying to court Trump and his team since before the election , and an added sense of urgency is compelling Ukraine 's government to seek their support even before he takes office . <p> Some Ukrainian officials , including Zelenskyy , have presented the American election result as an opportunity for a new strategy in the war , but other Ukrainian politicians and political experts have expressed fear that it will mean reduced military aid . <p> On Tuesday , Speaker Mike Johnson dealt a blow to Ukraine 's war effort by refusing to allow a House vote on the Biden administration 's request for $24 billion in additional aid . <p> That echoed moves by him and other Republicans last winter to hold up a Ukraine aid package for months , although the Pentagon said this week that it was sending Ukraine an additional $725 million in military assistance from its stockpiles . That tranche will be the largest the United States has sent to Ukraine since a $1 billion shipment was announced in April . <p> Several Ukrainian officials have been looking for opportunities to reach out to Trump 's incoming administration . Oleksandr Merezhko , chair of the Ukrainian parliament 's Committee on Foreign Policy , said in an interview that he was planning a trip to Washington this month . " I would like to meet those people who are close to Trump -- it is important , " he said . <p> Information for this article was contributed by Aamer Madhani , Abby Sewell , Matthew Lee and Michelle L. Price of The Associated Press and Maria Varenikova of The New York Times . <p> FILE - Steve Witkoff speaks on the final night of the Republican National Convention , July 18 , 2024 , in Milwaukee . ( AP Photo/J . Scott Applewhite , File ) 
@@118546182 <h> No , President Yoon 's attempted coup was not a desperate act of nostalgia <p> Protesters hold placards during a candlelight vigil to condemn South Korean President Yoon Suk-yeol 's failed attempt to declare martial law and to call for his resignation in Seoul , South Korea , on December 5 , 2024 Kim Kyung-Hoon/Reuters <p> As always , the conventional wisdom is wrong . <p> In the aftermath of the jarring events that rattled South Korea earlier this week , the instant consensus among the instant " experts " who rushed to explain why South Korea 's besieged president , Yoon Suk-yeol , declared martial law , was that the failed gambit amounted to , in effect , a desperate act of nostalgia . <p> Yoon made his surprising and authoritarian-steeped move for narrow and broad reasons with the apparent support of the country 's historically democracy-allergic military . <p> Clearly , the primary motivation was to stave off the legal and parliamentary wolves nipping at his vulnerable heels and to return to those bucolic , not-so-distant days when South Korea was ruled with a ruthless and uncompromising fist . <p> That is why Yoon 's botched " tactical manoeuvre " took South Koreans and the commentariat off guard -- martial law was considered a passe relic ; a blunt , autocratic instrument more in keeping with yesterday than today . <p> Wrong . Wrong . Wrong . <p> Authoritarianism is in vogue . The gravitational pull of the mythic " strongman " who knows how to fix complex problems with simple , easy-to-absorb rhetoric designed to convince the gullible that relief and the answers are readily at hand , is as irresistible today as it was yesterday . <p> Advertisement <p> The rule of law , opposition parties , a " free press , " and the courts are irritating nuisances that prevent the " dear leader " from defeating the conniving " communist " enemies who are intent on destroying the nation 's " fabric " and soul from within . <p> Plucked from Chapter 1 of the authoritarian playbook , Yoon parroted that predictable line during his late evening address on Tuesday in defence of his draconian decision to send in the troops . <p> Yoon deployed the military -- the state 's armed tools of fear and intimidation -- in a blatant effort to silence and possibly jail his adversaries and force South Koreans to capitulate to his dictatorial designs . <p> It is that same cynical , but effective , guide that a host of " strongmen " in a host of countries have exploited to achieve power or attempt to seize it to satisfy their lust for retribution and vengeance and to avoid , by happy coincidence , the dock . <p> As I watched Yoon try to wrest absolute authority by whatever means necessary , one name sprang to mind : Donald Trump . <p> I am convinced that Yoon looked into a mirror recently and saw Trump 's reflection and then went about trying to emulate his ruthless modus operandi . <p> Given his litany of Trump-like grievances -- principally that he is the target of a widespread conspiracy to persecute an innocent man -- Yoon likely views the United States president-elect as a kindred spirit . <p> By winning a second term as commander-in-chief and with the complicity of several prostrate Supreme Court justices , Trump has , it appears , evaded the judicial comeuppance he has earned after a lifetime spent offending decency and the law . <p> Advertisement <p> Yoon 's calculation , no doubt , was that Trump 's sinister blueprint was the prescription for his political salvation . So , he seized the moment to save himself just as Trump had escaped the fast-tightening vice a little more than a month ago . <p> Among his other alleged offences , Yoon could be charged with plagiarism for his near-verbatim attack on the supposed pillars of a functioning democracy -- journalism , pluralism and the judiciary . <p> Trump has devoted his rancid political instincts to vilifying all three as constituting a fifth column , who , working in concert with entrenched elements of the so-called " deep state , " are draining America not only of its greatness and promise , but its ethnic and religious purity , as well . <p> Throughout his campaign , Trump vowed to unleash gun-toting GIs to rid America of the hordes of immigrant " vermin " who have " poisoned " the country and hollowed out its once dominant white , Christian identity . <p> He has also threatened to round up the federal and state officials and politicians who sought to prosecute him and warn that he poses an existential risk to the US Constitution and , by extension , the ever decaying " American experiment " . <p> Yoon heard Trump 's fascist clarion call loud and clear and beat him to the despotic punch by imposing martial law . <p> Yoon may have been emboldened by the international community 's failure to hold to account another indicted strongman turned accused war criminal , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , for the genocidal campaign Israel has waged for more than a year in Gaza and the occupied West Bank which has claimed the lives of 44,000 and counting Palestinians -- mostly children and women . <p> Advertisement <p> If America refused to rein in the corrupt leader of its client-state in the Middle East , why would it be moved to restrain the rogue -- to put it charitably -- leader of its client state in Southeast Asia ? <p> Alas , Yoon miscalculated . <p> Courageous South Korean parliamentarians fashioned makeshift barricades to prevent Yoon 's obedient foot soldiers from entering the National Assembly . Later , they unanimously voted in favour of a resolution urging the president to rescind his imperious order . <p> Meanwhile , thousands of anxious and , at the same time , brave South Koreans flooded into the streets in defiance of Yoon and to insist that parliamentary democracy be restored . <p> Gladly , they prevailed in just a few hours . <p> In retrospect , Yoon should have waited until Trump took the oath of office on January 20 , 2025 , before attempting his flagrant power grab . <p> Perhaps then one authoritarian would have congratulated a would-be authoritarian and offered his giddy support and encouragement while President Yoon worked hard to Make South Korea Great Again without the bother of those silly , anachronistic ballot boxes . 
@@118546183 <h> Are we your perfect victims now ? <p> Nahed Elrayes is a Palestinian writer , composer , and Development Manager at UNRWA USA <p> Published On 6 Dec 20246 Dec 2024 <p> Chef Mahmoud Almadhoun , 33 , is survived by his wife , Alaa , and their seven children - the youngest of whom is a baby girl named Aline , who was born just a few weeks ago GazaSoupKitchen via Instagram <p> It feels strange to grieve Chef Mahmoud . <p> There is something about mourning a stranger that condemns their real self to obscurity . I hesitate to grieve a brother I never had , a laugh I never heard , secrets I never learned , arguments and breakfasts we never shared . I hesitate to grieve the handshake I can never give him , for feeding thousands who may not survive , in a place I may never see again . <p> I hesitate , even as the deceased faced a cruel death , a death only possible in Gaza . I hesitate , even as I know his loved ones . Even knowing he honoured my family by name , even as I remember the times his brother 's eyes glimmered when he spoke of their work in Gaza 's North . <p> But when all is said and done , we know how this ends . He dies unjustly , and like a genetic imprint , we feel some burn of an old scalpel in our chest , the burn of a question , The Palestinian Question . <p> " How can I make this victim a hero ? No no ... how can I make this hero a victim ? <p> Can we do both ? " <p> As if it 's the English language that decides . <p> Advertisement <p> * <p> To a child , a " hero " wears a mask . But Chef Mahmoud had no mask . His face was shown from the start . His family was exposed from the start . They still are . <p> To an adult , a " hero " wears an army uniform and takes lives . Chef Mahmoud did nothing but save lives . He had no defence of camouflage , not even a rifle . His only weapon was the ladle in his hand -- and that weapon saved thousands . <p> How can anyone but a hero outdo the courage of all these characters -- fictional or not -- better able to defend themselves ? Will the world ever understand the sheer humanity of such a person ? Is it lost in translation ? <p> It feels like the world has lost fluency in the language that Palestine is most fluent in : the language of deeds . That language which Mahmoud Almadhoun left his mark on with the richest poetry . <p> There is the burn again . I feel the weight of my youth wasted outside Palestine , away from men no nation but Palestine could produce . Away from families who , under the crushing weight of an inevitable famine , say , " No thank you . We are too creative to starve , too upright to uproot . " <p> Or " you can hold a rifle to my head and strip me to my underwear , but I promise , you will never find what you are looking for . You will never incapacitate the heart that beats for Gaza . You can not kidnap it into cowardice , impoverish it into dependency , or parch it into silence . I will stay here , forever . " <p> And there he stayed . Forever . <p> * <p> It feels strange to grieve Chef Mahmoud . <p> At first , I wanted these words to exalt him . I thought that was why my chest burned . But it still burns , and now I realise : none of this exaltation is for me , for the Almadhoun family , or even for us Palestinians . No . I am actually assembling these English words to appeal to the humanity of our colonisers by proxy , like a space capsule sent out in the hopes of finding extraterrestrial life . <p> Advertisement <p> I suddenly realise the importance of refining my tone , and keeping any emotional asides within neat parentheses , ten words or less . ( I hate the fact that we have to die . I hate the fact that we know exactly who will die and how , that we predict this based on the boundless moral depravity of a genocidal colonising force that kills food workers , that slaughters our families one by one like it is nothing . I hate that I have to be articulate and proofread this , in case some in inconsistency in my writing flow fails to convince the reader that genocide is worth stopping . ) I look at the time . <p> It is 3am , and after four hours pretending this kind man 's death is not devastating me , pretending through words , I finally understand what the burn is . We Palestinians know who we are . We know what Israel is . But what remains is for the world to see it . <p> As a world , you told us to endure the worst terrors and humiliations of the occupation , without turning to violence . <p> You told us to teach our children love and science , even if Israel has bombed every school . <p> You told us to sing and smile and cook through our suffering . <p> You told us not to be beggars , nor to starve in silence . <p> You told us to resist , but without any weapons . <p> To count on your " eyes " to defend us . <p> Chef Mahmoud did all of those things . And was assassinated by drone strike . <p> Are we your perfect victims now ? <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@118546193 <p> As the occupying power , Israel has a legal obligation to supply the population in Gaza with all basic provisions and necessities . <p> But since Israel began its war on Gaza on October 7 , 2023 -- following a Hamas-led attack on Israel earlier that day -- it has cut off water , fuel and nearly all humanitarian aid from reaching civilians in Gaza . <p> Palestinians gather to receive food cooked by a charity kitchen amid a hunger crisis as the Israel-Gaza conflict continues , in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip , on November 19 , 2024 Hatem Khaled/Reuters <h> Palestinian civil society <p> In a damning statement one month after Israel began its offensive on Gaza , al-Haq , the Palestinian Center for Human Rights and Al-Mezan Center for Human Rights said Israel intended to wipe out the Palestinian people " in whole or in part " . <p> They sounded the alarm over the " clear risk of genocide " Palestinians faced in Gaza , focusing on the dehumanising rhetoric by Israeli officials . <p> These included the words of then-Defence Minister Yoav Gallant -- wanted by the International Criminal Court for crimes against humanity -- who referred to Palestinians as " human animals " . <p> Israeli President Isaac Herzog also declared : " There are no innocent civilians in Gaza . " <h> Center for Constitutional Rights ( US ) <p> The CCR is a United States-based legal advocacy fighting for civil rights since 1966 that has also said Israel is committing genocide in Gaza . <p> On October 18 , 2023 , CCR released a legal analysis on Israel 's violations of the Genocide Convention and also criticised the US administration . <p> Advertisement <p> The US government has supplied about 69 percent of the weapons Israel uses to assault Gaza -- including large , non-precision bombs that inflict disproportionate suffering on civilians -- fighter jets , and other artillery . <p> " There is a plausible and credible case to be made that the United States ' actions to further the Israeli military operation , closure , and campaign against the Palestinian population in Gaza rise to the level of complicity , " the CCR said in a statement . <p> Palestinian children queue at a food distribution kitchen in Deir al-Balah , on November 28 , 2024 Abdel Kareem Hana/AP Photo <h> UN special rapporteur on the occupied Palestinian territories <p> Francesca Albanese , the United Nations special rapporteur on the situation in Palestine , has concluded that Israel is committing genocide against Palestinians in Gaza . <p> In her March report entitled , Anatomy of a Genocide , she also found Israel was committing three of the five acts of genocide . <p> She noted that beyond denying life-saving aid and food to Palestinians , Israel was also bringing about the destruction of the people through systematically destroying hospitals and farmland . <p> " Israel 's genocide of Palestinians in Gaza is an escalatory stage of a long-standing settler colonial process of erasure , " Albanese said . <h> International Court of Justice <p> The UN 's World Court ruled on January 26 that Palestinians were " at risk of " genocide . <p> This was a case South Africa raised against Israel for committing genocide and remains ongoing , as the former continues to raise requests with the court in an effort to get Israel to end its war on Gaza . <p> Advertisement <p> The hearings in January saw the court issue a binding order for Israel to stop acts of genocide by scaling up humanitarian aid . <p> Israel is obligated to report back to the court on a monthly basis to demonstrate how it has complied with the orders -- an ongoing assessment which could take years . <p> Until now , Israel has defied the court 's orders and has instead killed relief workers and civil servants in Gaza who are indispensable in distributing humanitarian relief . <p> Israeli officials have attempted to smear the court as " anti-Semitic " and claimed South Africa was " providing legal cover for Hamas " . <p> Outside the ICJ , a protester draped in a Palestinian flag calls for an end to Israel 's war on Gaza File : Johanna Geron/Reuters <h> What countries accuse Israel of genocide ? <p> So far , 14 countries have joined or signalled their intention to join South Africa 's genocide case against Israel in the World Court . 
@@118564988 <p> Colombia 's married president Gustavo Petro has found himself in an outrageous scandal after he was accused of cheating on his wife with a transgender woman . <p> The leftist president 's office has refused to comment on a video circulating online that supposedly shows Petro walking with Colombian newscaster Linda Yepes after the inauguration of new Panamanian president Jos ? Ra ? l Mulino on Sunday . <p> The bombshell video , which shows a man and woman walking hand-in-hand before he stops to lovingly take her picture , has scandalized Colombia and the region , as reported by Telemundo . <p> The president , who has been married to Veronica Alcocer since 2000 , has not denied or confirmed that he is the man seen getting close to Yepes , only speaking out to say he is not gay , and slam those he called ' transphobic . ' <p> The former guerilla member wrote on X on Wednesday : ' I am heterosexual , but you will never hear or read a transphobic word from me . Because not only would he stop being a man , but also human . ' <p> Colombia 's married president Gustavo Petro 's office has refused to comment on a video circulating online that supposedly shows him walking with trans newscaster Linda Yepes <p> The man in the viral video is seen taking a picture of the woman in Panama City <p> The president , who has been married to Veronica Alcocer ( pictured ) since 2000 , has refused to deny that he is the man seen getting close to Yepes , only speaking out to say he is not gay , and slam those he called ' transphobic ' <p> He added : ' I have always considered that intimacy is the " last level " of freedom , the last trench of being free , and I will preserve this principle until I write about myself or die . <p> ' But these thousands of transphobic messages that have exploded in the hands of a right-wing , deeply exclusive , ignorant and discriminatory society must be rejected by the president . ' <p> Speaking on Univision , Yepes played coy when asked about the viral video . <p> ' I was in Panama . I love Panama , ' she said . <p> When pressed further , she replied : ' I can not speak about the details yet . <p> Yepes has also claimed she has received death threats since the video emerged . <p> While Petro has not confirmed he appears in the video , Telemundo pointed out that the president was seen wearing a similar outfit earlier in the day . <p> Speaking on Univision , Yepes played coy when asked about the viral video <p> While Petro has not confirmed he appears in the video , Telemundo pointed out that the president was seen wearing a similar outfit earlier in the day <p> Telemundo also noted the man in the video appears to be accompanied by a bodyguard who looked similar to the one seen with Petro earlier that day . <p> Petro 's wife , a philanthropist , has not commented on the images . <p> Moreover , his comments were not enough for many Colombians , who left angry messages under his social media statement . <p> One comment ready : ' Your sexual orientation is irrelevant , but the use of pubic resources to finance your adventures would be of interest to us all . ' <p> Another read : ' It 's incredible that you get accused of cheating and blame the ultra-right and the Nazis . ' <p> Petro , a supporter of Hugo Chavez and Fidel Castro , has been a loud voice against the US since taking power in 2022 after spending his life as a prominent left-wing figure in Colombia . <p> Petro 's wife has not commented on the images . They are seen in 2022 celebrating his election <p> Yepes has also claimed she has received death threats since the video emerged <p> In April , thousands of Colombians took to the streets in a rebuke of Petro 's reform agenda . <p> While protests have been a constant since the former leftist guerrilla took office in 2022 , they 've gained momentum of late . <p> The president is struggling on various fronts , as one of his six kids is accused of corruption , as is his brother . <p> Alarming Colombians further - Petro has floated the possibility of rewriting the constitution to spur social reforms that he 's been unable to advance in the face of opposition by a hostile congress and conservative business groups . <p> In May , Petro announced Colombia would break ties with Israel over the war in Gaza . <p> Petro has described Israel 's actions in Gaza as ' genocide . ' <h> Share or comment on this article : Married Colombian president Gustavo Petro says he 's not gay after ' he is seen in Panama with trans woman Linda Yepes ' 
@@118583295 <p> Rebels on a lightning advance through Syria said they were nearing the capital Damascus on Saturday , although the Bashar al-Assad government denied the army had withdrawn from areas around the city . The rebels claimed they had encircled the city . <h> Here 's your 10-point cheat sheet to this big story <p> " Our forces have begun the final phase of encircling the capital , " said rebel commander Hassan Abdel Ghani , with the Islamist-led alliance that launched the offensive , news agency AFP reported . <p> The leader of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , the Islamist group which has headed the assault , told fighters to prepare to take the seat of Assad 's government , just over a week into a renewed offensive in the long dormant conflict . <p> " Damascus awaits you , " said HTS 's Ahmed al-Sharaa in a statement on Telegram , using his real name instead of his nom de guerre , Abu Mohammed al-Jolani . <p> Syria 's defence ministry said army forces were " present in all areas of the Damascus countryside " . " There is no truth to news claiming our armed forces ... have withdrawn " from positions near Damascus , it said . Syria 's presidency denied reports that Assad had left Damascus , saying he was " following up on his work and national and constitutional duties from the capital " . <p> HTS is rooted in the Syrian branch of Al-Qaeda . Proscribed as a terrorist organisation by Western governments , it has sought to soften its image in recent years . As the Islamist rebels seize more territory , they have sought to reassure minority groups living in areas now under their control . " We ask that all sects be reassured ... for the era of sectarianism and tyranny has gone away forever , " said Abdel Ghani . <p> Since the offensive began last week , at least 826 people , mostly combatants but also including 111 civilians , have been killed . The United Nations said the violence has displaced 3.7 lakh people . <p> Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Syria must not be allowed to fall into the hands of " terrorist " rebels fighting the forces of Moscow 's ally President Bashar al-Assad . " It 's inadmissible to allow the terrorist group to take control of the lands in violation of agreements which exist , starting with the UN Security Council Resolution 2254 which strongly reiterated sovereignty , territorial integrity and unity of the Syrian Arab Republic , " Mr Lavrov said at an event in Qatar , referring to a 2015 UN resolution for a political settlement in Syria . <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken called for a " political solution to the conflict " , his spokesperson said on Friday , in a call with Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan . <p> US President-elect Donald Trump , however , on Saturday said the US should " not get involved " in the situation in Syria . " Syria is a mess , but is not our friend , and the United States should have nothing to do with it . This is not our fight . Let it play out . Do not get involved , " Trump said on his Truth Social platform . <p> There has been no public signal that the Biden administration is contemplating such an intervention . Trump has long taken an isolationist approach , and during this year 's presidential campaign he often said he could end the Ukraine and Gaza wars " quickly . " 
@@118584882 <h> Israel 's attacks on Kamal Adwan Hospital and Nuseirat home in northern Gaza <p> The strike comes as Gaza 's health system is collapsing amid repeated attacks by the Israeli military . <p> A man holds a cat amid the rubble of a building after an Israeli strike in Nuseirat on December 5 , 2024 Eyad Baba/AFP <p> Published On 7 Dec 20247 Dec 2024 <p> Israel killed at least 26 people and injured more than 60 -- including children and women -- in an air strike on a home in the Nuseirat refugee camp , in the central Gaza Strip , according to Al-Awda Hospital . <p> The raid took place in the early evening on Friday and " damaged multiple neighbouring houses " , civil defence agency spokesman Mahmoud Basal told the AFP news agency . <p> Israel 's military carried out several deadly attacks over the past day as it laid siege to the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya and the surrounding area in northern Gaza . <h> Attacking a hospital <p> On Friday , Israeli forces killed about 30 people when they stormed the Kamal Adwan Hospital under cover of heavy artillery fire and air attacks , according to Dr Eid Sabbah , director of nursing at the hospital . <p> " People that we did n't know were sent inside the hospital wearing different uniforms and equipped with weapons and speakers , " Sabbah said . <p> Advertisement <p> " They sent a message to hospital director Dr Hussam Abu Safia and his colleagues ... to evacuate the hospital , including patients and medical staff . They asked them to evacuate towards the tanks , " he said . <p> " This operation led to the killing of 30 people inside the hospital including four staff members . They were targeted and killed . " <p> Witness accounts also suggest the Israeli army used drones to target Palestinians inside the hospital . <p> Medical facilities , their staff and vehicles are protected under the Geneva Convention . <h> Trapping frightened people <p> Norwegian doctor Mads Gilbert , who worked extensively as an emergency surgeon across Gaza , said he believed the Israeli military is using the medical facility as a " trap " . <p> " This has been repeatedly happening . Israeli forces ... attack the surroundings , then when people run to the hospital for help they attack the hospital , " Gilbert said . <p> " It seems therefore that the Israeli military is using Kamal Adwan as a trap to apprehend or kill those it wants to . " <p> On Friday , the Palestinian Health Ministry in Gaza accused the Israeli military of committing a war crime in Kamal Adwan . <p> The World Health Organization said Israeli forces had bombed the facility apparently without warning its staff . <p> To justify its actions , Israel claims Hamas fighters are using civilian buildings , including hospitals and schools , for operational cover throughout the 14-month Gaza war . <p> The Palestinian Health Ministry said the three main hospitals in the north of the enclave are barely functioning and have been under repeated attack since Israel sent tanks into Beit Lahiya and nearby Beit Hanoon and Jabalia in October . 
@@118584895 <h> Where does Iran stand on Syria 's fast-moving conflict ? <p> Tehran has warned it could directly send troops into Syria , but there has been no evidence of a major mobilisation yet . <p> The foreign ministers of Russia , Iran and Turkiye attend a meeting on the crisis in Syria in the framework of the Astana process on the sidelines of the Doha Forum in Doha , Qatar , December 7 , 2024 Russian Foreign Ministry/Handout via Reuters <p> Tehran , Iran -- Iran has continued to voice support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad as opposition fighters carry on with a blistering military offensive that aims to overthrow the government . <p> The foreign ministers of Iran , Russia and Turkiye held Astana-format talks , joined by United Nations representatives in Qatar on Saturday , as more Syrian cities fell to the armed opposition groups . <p> Iran 's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi told reporters after the meeting in Doha that participants agreed that the conflict should end and that political dialogue needs to be established between the Syrian government and " legitimate opposition groups " . <p> He met with his Syrian and Iraqi counterparts in Baghdad a day earlier , their statement saying " continuous coordination , cooperation and diplomatic engagement " is the only way to avoid further escalation . <p> At a joint news conference after the meeting , Iran 's top diplomat said his country would stand with Syria against groups that " are without a doubt carrying out an American-Zionist conspiracy " . <p> Advertisement <p> Tehran has emphasised the idea that the rebels are foreign-supported in an apparent effort to prevent this offensive from being seen as a mere continuation of the civil war in Syria -- which had solidified al-Assad 's position after 13 years of fighting that destroyed much of the country . <p> Iran has also issued stern warnings that fighting in Syria could spread across the region , considering the high level of tension amid Israel 's brutal war on Gaza . <h> Lightning offensive <p> The opposition offensive started last week , just after Israel and Hezbollah agreed to a shaky ceasefire deal that has held so far despite numerous violations . <p> It was launched from Idlib by the group controlling the governorate , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , along with allied armed factions . <p> HTS 's chequered past saw it start as al-Qaeda offshoot Jabhat al-Nusra until its leader , Abu Mohammed al-Julani , embraced a more nationalistic -- rather than transnational -- mission and rebranded as HTS in 2017 , ostensibly a more " moderate " group amid the factions competing for Syria . <p> Al-Julani has been at the forefront of a media campaign emphasising HTS 's reformed ways , being filmed in public in Aleppo multiple times , including this week after an Iranian lawmaker proudly proclaimed in parliament that he had been killed in a Russian air strike . <p> He also released videos of himself directly addressing the people and leaders of Syria and the region and gave an interview to CNN on Friday and allowed it to report from Aleppo hours after the city was taken . <p> Advertisement <p> Asked why people should believe his reforms while HTS remains designated a " terrorist " organisation by the UN , the US and the EU -- and there is a $10m reward on his head -- he said : " These classifications are primarily political and wrong . " <p> He promised he would build an " institutions-based " Syria that would recognise the country 's ethnic , cultural and sectarian diversities . <h> Iran and Turkiye , in light of Syria <p> The Iranian foreign ministry has been hesitant to publicly rebuke Ankara for its backing of HTS , but Araghchi met with his counterpart in Turkiye on Monday for a reportedly tense conversation prior to the talks on Saturday . <p> Ali Akbar Velayati , a longtime foreign policy advisor to Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , appeared to express disbelief about Turkish support for the Syria offensive earlier this week . <p> " We did not think that Turkiye would fall in the hole dug " by the US and Israel , he said , suggesting that the shifting reality in Syria is Israeli and Western-backed and would harm the whole of the Muslim world . <p> However , Iranian state television late on Friday started referring to the rebels as " armed groups " in an apparent policy shift from calling them " terrorists " . <p> During an address on Friday , Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan backed the rebel offensive and said he had contacted al-Assad to hold talks and find a solution but did not receive a positive response . <p> " Idlib , Hama , Homs , and of course , the ultimate target is Damascus , " Erdogan said . " Our hope is that this march in Syria proceeds without any accidents or troubles . " <p> Advertisement <p> Erdogan has been seeking to eliminate an armed Kurdish presence or territory on Turkiye 's borders , as the country tries to resolve a longrunning struggle against armed Kurdish separatists , the outlawed PKK ( Kurdistan Workers ' Party ) . <p> It also wants to establish a " safe zone " in northern Syria to resettle millions of Syrian refugees currently in Turkiye . <p> An operative fighting to overthrow the al-Assad government carries a rocket in the northern outskirts of Hama on December 4 , 2024 Bakr Al Kassem/AFP <p> Near Iran 's borders to the north , Turkiye is supporting the Zangezur Corridor , a proposed transport route linking Azerbaijan to its exclave Nakhchivan through Armenia 's Syunik Province , which would effectively connect Turkiye , Azerbaijan and Central Asia . <p> If realised , the corridor would sever a significant Iranian route to Europe and bypass Armenian control . <p> Within this context , a major difference between the continuing offensive in Syria and the conflict that started in 2011 is the level of overt support provided to anti-Assad forces by Turkiye , Tehran-based political analyst Ehsan Movahedian said . <p> " While much of the fighting during the time of the civil war was driven by ideology , the nature of the fighting this time predominantly revolves around geopolitical goals , " Movahedian told Al Jazeera . <p> " Turkiye is pursuing an array of geopolitical goals , including dealing a blow to the interests of Iran and the axis of resistance across the region , and reaping potential economic gains by expanding its presence in northern Syria . " <p> Advertisement <p> Movahedian said Ankara may inadvertently push Arab nations ' stance on Syria closer to Iran since HTS has displayed " radical " thinking over the years that does not enjoy broad backing in the Arab and Islamic world . <h> What 's next ? <p> Iran 's Araghchi has threatened that Tehran could directly send soldiers into Syria , without saying what conditions would prompt Tehran to make that move . <p> The Iranian foreign ministry on Saturday denied reports that Tehran 's embassy in Damascus has been evacuated . <p> But Tehran has not officially commented on media reports that Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ( IRGC ) personnel and some other Iran-aligned fighters have evacuated Syria . <p> Especially in this environment , sending in a large number of soldiers would be a significant shift for Iran , which has so far relied on proxy fighters and sending in senior commanders as " military advisers " rather than keeping Iranian boots on the ground . At least one Iranian general has been killed in Syria since the flareup of fighting last week . <p> But despite videos circulating online that have purportedly shown tens of thousands of soldiers and heavy arms ready to deploy to Syria from Iraq -- and some even entering Syria -- there has been no official deployment . <p> HTS in a statement late Friday asserted that it would not invade Lebanon and Al-Julani released a video asking Iraqi forces not to enter Syria , prompting a pro-Iran Kataeb Hezbollah leader to accuse him of using " Zionist-stricken mercenaries " . <p> Iran and Russia would need to send in major military assistance if they want to revitalise al-Assad , according to Aron Lund , a fellow at Century International and a Middle East analyst at the Swedish Defence Research Agency , who said he is " very sceptical " this would happen under current circumstances . <p> He added that sending Iranian troops to Syria would also be risky due to Israeli attacks on Iranian positions there , and Russia may not be prepared to back them with significant air power due to the war in Ukraine . <p> Advertisement <p> " Whether Assad keeps his regime afloat or not , Syria is unlikely to have a well-functioning central government for a while . <p> " Parts of Syria may just degenerate into warring fiefdoms , with extremism , guns , and refugees pouring out across the borders . There 's a real risk of that , especially along the Jordanian and Iraqi borders . " 
@@118592688 <h> " To think that even today , after 428 days , there are hostages still underground , suffering every moment , living Russian roulette - it 's unbearable . " <p> A large rally calling for a hostage deal was held on Saturday night in Hostage Square on Kaplan Street , Tel Aviv , marking 428 days since the start of the war . <p> The Hostages and Missing Families Headquarters announced the rally would start at 8 p.m. , under the slogan : " It 's High Time ; One Phase , One Hope . " <p> " The time has come for a comprehensive , single-phase deal to return all hostages : the living for rehabilitation and the deceased for dignified burial in their homeland . " <p> On what would have been his birthday , the mother of murdered hostage , Sahar Baruch , said " our beloved Sahar has n't yet been laid to eternal rest and we can not and should not accept this . " <p> Tamar Baruch spoke to the attendees of the events leading to Sahar 's capture : " On October 7th , Sahar and his brother Idan were in our home in Be'eri when terrorists attacked the kibbutz . Idan was murdered near the house and was buried in the kibbutz where we all lived . Sahar was taken to Gaza , and during Hanukkah , we received the bitter news pf his death in captivity . " Nofar Buchshtab ( credit : Paulina Patimer ) <h> Russia routlette <p> " We must not stay silent while living hostages are murdered , " she added . " Our hearts will not rest until the last hostage returns home . " <p> Nofar Buchshtab , the sister of the late Yagev Buchshtab , said that Israel 's military pressure on Gaza endangers the hostages and the soldiers , and called for a change in tact . <p> " This week we heard from IDF officers how the army bombed the underground complex where Yagev , Nadav , Alex , Chaim , Yoram and Avraham were held , how only afterwards did they realize they were there - how they found their bodies in the tunnel , and that they were likely executed following the bombings . " <p> " To think that even today , after 428 days , there are hostages still underground , suffering every moment , living Russian roulette - it 's unbearable . " <p> Noam Safir , granddaughter of the oldest hostage in Gaza , Shomo Mantzur , 86 , spoke of how he and his family survived the Iraqi Farhud and yet how he now endures a second fight against terror . <p> Unlike the first time , Safir continued , Mantzur was brutally taken from his home in Kibbutz Kisufim , in his own car , handcuffed , and since then there 's been no information about him . <p> " He sits in dark tunnels , shivering , scared and abandoned . " <p> The sister of Doron Steinbrecher , Yamit Ashkenazi , spoke of the 321 days that have passed since Hamas released a video of her sister alive on day 107 of the war . <p> " 321 days of silence . 321 days of deafening quiet that pierces the heart . 321 days where fear has become my biggest enemy . They 're here - so close , it 's maddening . " <h> Video of Matan Zanguaker <p> Earlier on Saturday , Hamas published a three-minute video of hostage Matan Zangauker , 24 , to Telegram on Saturday , entitled " Time is running out . " Hamas released a video of hostage Matan Zangauker , December 7 , 2024. ( credit : screenshot ) <p> In the video , Zangauker introduces himself and tells the camera that he has been in captivity for over 420 days . He then sends a message to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu : " I heard about your new plan to return us home . I heard that you will give $5 million to whoever returns us safely home and provide them a safe exit from the Gaza Strip . I am very disappointed . Now I am certain that you do not know your enemies and you do not understand their mentality . This is your failure and the failure of the government since October 7 . " <p> Zangauker added that " we die a thousand times every day , and no one feels for us . The people of Israel , do not neglect us . We are still alive . We want to return before we go crazy . Isolation is killing us , and the darkness here is frightening . It is illogical that we pay the price for the government 's mistakes , and it is time to put an end to our suffering . " <p> In an interview with Kan , his mother Einav Zangauker , said " It took me a while to understand that it was just a video and Matan can not hear me . It 's hard to hear Matan say , Mum , do n't abandon us . You can see his thinness , the lack of sleep , the crying , the shaking . The hostages will only return if there is a comprehensive deal and if the war ends . " <h> Police response <p> Israel Police announced that they arrested five " rioters " at an " illegal demonstration in Tel Aviv " beginning on Begin Road . <p> The five people were reportedly arrested on suspicion of assaulting a police officer . 
@@118592695 <h> Qatar engaging with Trump administration on Gaza , hopes for ceasefire deal before inauguration <p> By REUTERS breaking news ( photo credit : JPOST STAFF ) <p> Qatar is engaging with the incoming Trump administration on Gaza after sensing a new momentum with the administration on ceasefire talks , Qatar 's Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani said on Saturday . <p> Al Thani said during the Doha Forum that his country has seen encouragement from the Trump administration to reach a ceasefire in Gaza before Trump 's inauguration in January . <h> Hostage deal negotiations have been reported to enter a new and " final " phase , sources told Hezbollah-affiliated Lebanese newspaper Al-Akhbar . <p> Hamas is reportedly attempting to determine the number of living Israeli hostages held both by Hamas and other terrorist groups in the Gaza Strip , Saudi-owned news outlet Asharq Al-Awsat reported on Saturday . <p> Palestinian sources told Asharq Al-Awsat that Hamas leadership reached out to other groups to assess the number of living hostages . <p> The report comes as sources told the Hezbollah-affiliated Lebanese newspaper Al-Akhbar that hostage deal negotiations have been reported to enter a new and " final " phase . 
@@118592696 <h> Similar to video of Edan Alexander released last week , Zangauker states " the guards informed us of the new instructions , we are very afraid . " <p> Hamas released a video of hostage Matan Zangauker , December 7 , 2024. ( photo credit : screenshot ) <p> Hamas published a three-minute video of hostage Matan Zangauker , 24 , to Telegram on Saturday , entitled " Time is running out . " <p> In the video , Zangauker introduces himself and tells the camera that he has been in captivity for over 420 days . He then sends a message to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu : " I heard about your new plan to return us home . I heard that you will give $5 million to whoever returns us safely home and provide them a safe exit from the Gaza Strip . I am very disappointed . Now I am certain that you do not know your enemies and you do not understand their mentality . This is your failure and the failure of the government since October 7 . " <p> Similar to the video of Israeli-American hostage Eden Alexander Hamas released last week , Zangauker states that " the guards informed us of the new instructions , and we are very afraid , my friends and I , for our lives . " <p> Zangauker says that " we die a thousand times every day , and no one feels for us . The people of Israel , do not neglect us . We are still alive . We want to return before we go crazy . Isolation is killing us , and the darkness here is frightening . It is illogical that we pay the price for the government 's mistakes , and it is time to put an end to our suffering . " Natali Zangauker ( left , ) sister of Israeli hostage Matan Zangauker , and their mother Einav Zangauker ( right ) arrive for a police investigation in Tel Aviv , May 1 , 2024. ( credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/FLASH90 ) <h> A message to his family and friends <p> He also sent a message to his mother , Einav , who has been leading the Hostages and Missing Families Forum protests since the beginning of the war on October 7 . <p> " I watch you , and I hear you a lot , and I understand the activities you do , and I hear the activities you carry out . I am very happy that you are well , and I hope to see you soon and sit with you at the same table to eat and drink and talk with you . " <p> There is then a pause in the video before Zangauker reappears . <p> " You are leaving us to die and fall . I do not know how you work . Why do you make all these mistakes ? I am paying the price for your mistakes that you make every day . I am dying little by little , and every day , a part of me dies , " he said . <p> " The people of Israel , my family , my friends , my mother , Dado , Shani , and my grandmother : The government has neglected us and continues to neglect us day after day . I hope you will do what you can to change the situation and return me with the rest of the prisoners alive and healthy , " the hostage said . <p> " Life in Gaza is not easy . We live with little food , undrinkable water , and little medicine . We live with rats , spiders , and other animals , and the lack of hygiene products affects us badly . We have skin disease and dandruff . We do n't have soap . " <p> Zangauker then calls on all the people of Israel to demonstrate in front of Netanyahu 's house and not let him sleep . <p> " Why is this taking so long ? Why is there no agreement ? Why are we here ? " he asks as the video concludes . " Do n't forget us ! " <p> Zangauker was taken captive from Kibbutz Nir Oz on October 7 . He was abducted alongside his partner , Ilana Gritzewsky , who was released as part of a hostage deal after 55 days in captivity . <p> The Hostages and Missing Families Forum said in response that " the release of Matan 's video , coming just one week after Edan Alexander 's , provides further evidence that after more than 420 days in captivity , there are hostages still alive and enduring severe suffering . " <p> The forum concluded that " through these 420 days of ongoing abuse , malnutrition , and confinement in darkness , the critical need to secure the return of all 100 remaining hostages becomes more urgent with each passing hour . As time grows increasingly precious , we urge all parties involved in negotiations to explore every available path and apply all possible forms of pressure -- these hostages ' lives hang by a thread . " 
@@118592699 <h> Eisenkot shares insights on war strategy , Netanyahu 's decisions , and the loss of his son Gal in this revealing Q and A. <p> MK Gadi Eisenkot attends a Defense and Foreign Affairs Committee meeting on the ultra-Orthodox draft law at the Knesset , the Israeli parliament in Jerusalem on June 24 , 2024. ( photo credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <p> In an interview with Walla , former IDF chief of staff and Member of the Knesset Gadi Eisenkot discusses the loss of his son , and his experience throughout the war , particularly during major decision-making moments . <p> Tomorrow marks the anniversary of the death of Sergeant Major Gal Eisenkot in battle in Jabaliya . His father , former Eisenkot , has since adapted to a new and permanent title : a bereaved father . <p> Unlike his other titles , this one lasts a lifetime . Throughout his 40 years in uniform , Eisenkot visited and consoled hundreds of bereaved families , attended countless funerals , and knocked on doors to deliver devastating news to families whose worlds had been shattered . One day , he found himself on the other side -- not knocking on a door but standing behind one . <p> Walla asked Eisenkot how he was coping as the anniversary approached . " These days are very intense , " he replied . " On Friday , we 'll commemorate his passing with family . On Saturday , there 's a memorial event at the CrossFit surf club in Galil Yam . In the evening , a gathering with friends . " Family , friends and officials attend the funeral of Master Sgt. ( res . ) Gal Meir Eisenkot , son of war cabinet minister Minister Gadi Eisenkot in Herzliya on December 8 , 2023 ( credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/FLASH90 ) <h> You had a unique connection with him . <p> " Gal was our youngest child . I worried about him more than the others because he was always pushing boundaries . He had immense curiosity , interest , and a sense of adventure . He was passionate about fitness , extreme sports , triathlons , and surfing worldwide , as well as extreme skiing . He sought the most challenging places -- the biggest waves , the steepest slopes . He lived life to the fullest , and as his father , I accompanied it with worry . I was very concerned about him . I always knew where he was and called him frequently . " <h> He probably did n't appreciate that . <p> " Not really . I tried to instill a sense of responsibility and safety in him and made him take extra care not only of himself but also of those around him . And that 's how he was -- always caring for everyone , always looking out for others . Once in Thailand , one of the girls in their group fainted . Gal revived her , restored her pulse , carried her on his back , and evacuated her . " <p> " He was a combat medic , almost a paramedic by training . When he enlisted , I understood immediately where this was headed . He was a combat soldier in the 551st Battalion and served in the reserves alongside soldiers from units like Maglan , the Paratroopers Brigade , and Duvdevan . I understood the implications . He was always on the front line . He 'd tell me , ' Dad , do n't worry . I 'm in the medical team ; I 'm not in the lead . ' I 'd respond , ' Gal , from my experience , those at the back sometimes face more danger . ' " <h> And then the war broke out . Did you manage to keep your composure ? <p> " I tried to put on a brave face , mainly to reassure Hanna his wife , Gal 's mother . I told Gal , ' Listen , you 're part of the strongest force ; nothing can stand against you . But stay vigilant . ' The intention was to instill confidence in him . And I succeeded -- he had confidence like four Chiefs of Staff rolled into one . But I admit , it was all a facade for me . Hanna stayed constantly updated through a network of mothers of soldiers and knew what was happening . " <h> Gal fell in combat during an operation to recover the bodies of hostages . Do you think it 's appropriate to risk soldiers ' lives to retrieve bodies ? <p> " I discussed this with Hanna . She asked me , ' Do you think it 's reasonable for our son to die retrieving bodies ? ' I told her , ' In this case , it was justified to send them . I was aware of the intelligence and the level of risk , and it was a reasonable decision . If I were Chief of Staff , I would have also approved this operation . There are cases where the risk is too high , and then you do n't go ahead . But you never know how such operations will end . That 's part of it . " <h> Did you have a sense that something terrible was about to happen ? <p> " His death is linked to the previous hostage deal . He came home on its last day and was called back when it fell through after 24 hours . He managed to be home for one night , visited friends , and had dinner with us . At some point , he picked up our granddaughter and kissed her . Suddenly , I felt the need to photograph him -- a strange feeling . I took four photos with my phone . The next morning , I woke him at 7 AM , drove him to Arlozorov Street , and he took a bus back to the assembly point . Our last exchange was via text . His last call was to his girlfriend , and then he texted me that he was turning off his phone . That week , he did n't call me , even though he would sometimes ask his company commander to borrow the military phone to call my secure line . When he did n't call that week , I understood they were extremely busy . <p> " On the morning of his death , Benny and I were traveling to the Gaza border . At the Yahalom Unit base , we were briefed on all the explosive devices captured in Gaza and the different types they encountered there . We then drove to the division headquarters for another briefing . About half an hour in , I noticed activity out of the corner of my eye . A female officer I knew entered the room , called the division chief of staff outside , and he returned looking shaken . <p> Then I saw Nadav Padan enter , glance at me , approach , and ask me to step outside with him . I understood immediately . He said , ' Gal was critically wounded -- possibly fatally . Go home . ' I told him , ' Nadav , when someone is fatally wounded , it means they 've passed . How did it happen ? ' He told me it was an explosive device . At that moment , I switched to autopilot . " <h> What do you mean by ' autopilot ' ? Your youngest son had just been killed . How can you describe your feelings in that moment ? <p> " A feeling I ca n't describe -- like a suffocating weight . But I got into the car and began making phone calls . I called my eldest son , Guy , and said , ' Listen , Gal has been killed . Go home and make sure no one enters the house until I get there . ' I called Pasco , my former chief of staff , who was on his way to the hospital in Ashdod , where Gal had been evacuated . He told me Gal arrived at the hospital with a pulse , and they fought to save him , but it was n't successful . I called Guy again to confirm he had reached the house and no one had entered . " <h> What happened when you got home ? <p> " I arrived at about 3:15 PM . Hanna was putting our granddaughter to sleep . One of my daughters was already there , and two more were on their way . The girls had planned to spend the afternoon with their mother . I told them , ' Listen , Gal has been killed . He was hit by an explosive device . I believe he died instantly . He was evacuated to Ashdod . That 's it . ' No one could speak anymore . We just cried . " <p> During the shiva , we were visited by Brigadier General ( Res . ) Vered Pomerantz , who now heads the Family Liaison Unit in the Ministry of Defense 's Hostage Affairs Division . In the past , she was the legendary casualty officer of the Golani Brigade . <p> Eisenkot was one of the many she once persuaded to send their sons to Golani . " Only Golani . My son will not serve anywhere else , " she 'd told him and countless others . " When I hesitated , " Eisenkot recalled , " she brought out of nowhere Uri Sagi , one of Golani 's legendary brigade commanders . " And it worked . Her son Daniel became a Golani soldier . During the APC disaster in Shuja'iyya during Operation Protective Edge , he was killed . At the shiva for Gal , Pomerantz came to console Eisenkot . " Now you can finally look me in the eyes without lowering your gaze , " she told him . <h> A Family 's triple tragedy <p> People say lightning does n't strike the same place twice . But it does . A day after Gal 's death , Gadi Eisenkot 's nephew , Maor Cohen Eisenkot ( the son of his sister Sharon ) , was killed in battle in Gaza . Less than a month later , on November 17 , lightning struck again -- 700 meters from where Gal fell . Captain Yogev Pazzi , a beloved cousin and platoon commander in the Nachshon Battalion of the Kfir Brigade , was also killed . <h> It feels like a curse was placed upon your family . <p> " Yes , it 's difficult . Yogev 's death felt like a replay of Gal 's . When I was informed he had been killed , I drove home and told my children to gather . Two daughters were already with us , and I called Guy to come home from university . I told them , ' Yogev has been killed . ' You have to understand -- Yogev was like a younger brother to Gal . They were deeply connected in heart and soul . By the way , the first in our family to be injured was Omer , my brother 's son , an officer in the 5th Brigade , who was wounded early in the war . Two months ago , I attended his wedding . He walked down the aisle with his radio operator , who was blinded in the same incident where he was injured . " <p> War Cabinet minister Gadi Eisenkot , eulogizing his son Gal , who fell in battle , a hero , fighting Hamas monsters in Jabaliya. **26;1074;TOOLONG <h> How do you cope ? Honestly , this sounds inhuman . <p> " The night before Gal 's funeral , I sat down to write his eulogy . I decided to write as a father -- not as a cabinet minister or a Chief of Staff . I wrote it in five minutes . During the shiva , I reflected a lot . I 've seen hundreds of bereaved families . I told my family upfront : the pain is immense and enduring , and time does not dull it . Gal was the happiest person I ever knew . He always had a smile on his face . In my office , I have a picture of him sitting in the snow after skiing , smiling . He always smiled . After triathlons , I 'd run to wrap him in a coat , and he 'd be smiling . <p> But in the end , life goes on . There 's no choice . On the fourth day of the shiva , I was informed of a significant event . I left and went to the cabinet meeting , with the beginnings of a beard on my face . I think I challenged that cabinet quite a bit during the session . I did n't come to quarrel -- I came with good intentions . When it was my turn to speak , I said , ' Do n't go easy on me because I wo n't go easy on you . ' " <h> Let 's go back to October 7 , Saturday morning . Where were you ? <p> " I was preparing to go for a morning walk when I heard the sirens and turned on the TV . Gal had slept at our house the night before . I woke him up and said , ' It 's war . ' Just then , footage appeared of a white Toyota driving through Sderot . Gal asked me , ' What 's that ? ' I told him , ' It 's a truck with terrorists in Sderot . This is war . ' He enlisted that day . Meanwhile , Benny Gantz , Chili Tropper , and I were discussing amongst ourselves . It was clear we would be entering the government . It took three days to arrange . " <h> You joined the government on October 11 , a date that will go down in history for the debate over whether to eliminate Nasrallah . <p> " That 's right . Benny Gantz called me that day and told me , ' Today we 're signing , and tomorrow we 'll be sworn in . ' I reviewed the agreement -- it was perfectly fine . I was getting ready to go home for a haircut when Benny urgently summoned me to the Kirya IDF headquarters . ' Come immediately ; there 's a critical discussion at 5 p.m . ' We entered the meeting , and I already understood what was on the table . " <p> Although the story has been reported and published , Eisenkot refrains from explicitly stating what was discussed . However , it is known that the meeting centered on an operational opportunity to assassinate Hassan Nasrallah and Hezbollah 's entire Shura Council leadership . Israeli air force planes were armed and airborne , waiting for orders from the political echelon . <p> According to the plan , the assassination would trigger Hezbollah 's commanders and fighters to mobilize , prompting Israel to detonate 15,000 booby-trapped radios , killing between 10,000 and 15,000 operatives . Defense Minister Yoav Gallant and IDF Chief of Staff Herzi Halevi , backed by the entire security establishment , recommended executing the plan . Netanyahu hesitated and wanted to stop it . Aryeh Deri agreed with him , as did Ron Dermer . But Netanyahu needed significant support from experienced security officials . This is why Gantz and Eisenkot were urgently summoned . <p> " It was a very heavy , very serious discussion , " Eisenkot recalls . " We found ourselves going from zero to one hundred without warning , in such a dramatic debate , with the small group that later became the war cabinet . At that stage , everyone spoke , sharing their opinions . We were still essentially private citizens , not yet sworn in . Netanyahu said , ' Gadi , I want to hear your opinion . ' <p> With my experience as a chief of staff and in such discussions , I suddenly realized there was no recording , no stenographer . I said , ' Prime Minister , this is a critical discussion . It must be recorded , and a stenographer must be present . Decisions of enormous consequence are being made here . Intelligence chiefs should also be present . ' They brought in recording equipment and a stenographer , and then I spoke . Essentially , it turned out that I was the only one recorded in that discussion because everyone else had spoken before . Herzi , Gallant , everyone . Only I was recorded . " Destroyed houses from the October 7 massacre almost a year ago , in Kibbutz Kfar Aza , southern Israel , September 19 , 2024 ( credit : Chaim Goldberg/Flash90 ) <h> How did it end ? We all know . <p> " At some point , towards the end of the meeting in the Prime Minister 's Office , we saw rumors on TV about dozens of Hezbollah drones landing in the Galilee . Alerts kept coming in . We rushed downstairs to the underground bunker . That 's where the matter was decided . " <h> You helped Netanyahu avoid the strike that day . In hindsight , was it a mistake ? Eliminating Hezbollah 's leadership just four days after October 7 could have shortened the entire conflict . <p> " Absolutely not . We knew the intelligence picture and understood that operational opportunities to take down Nasrallah would arise again . Yahya Sinwar had orchestrated the most severe attack on Israel since its founding , and we needed to deal with him first . A strike in Lebanon would have shifted our efforts northward when we still had 250 hostages in the south . There were other questions : Are we prepared for a war in the North ? Is there a plan ? Later , people told me we were ready with the ' Beepers Operation . ' That 's complete nonsense . Most people had no idea about the beepers , which only became a possibility much later . The decision made that day was very correct . We needed to handle the South first . At that point , we were still clearing out terrorist cells from the area . " <h> You 're ignoring the argument that an early , dramatic blow to Hezbollah would have shortened the process and positively impacted the southern front . <p> " Look , in war , you ca n't play ' what if . ' We worked on the northern plans for over a decade . It 's funny that people like Itamar Ben-Gvir now claim credit for everything . He did n't even know about the beepers and only learned about them from the media . The process started back when Tamir Pardo was head of the Mossad . Credit for everything prepared in Lebanon belongs to leaders like Gabi Ashkenazi , Benny Gantz , Aviv Kochavi , and Herzi Halevi . Herzi deserves significant credit as former head of Military Intelligence for what was done during his time . The success in Lebanon is the result of years of planning , preparation , countless days and nights in command centers , and intelligence superiority . It 's a decade-long event . If Nasrallah knew just how exposed and vulnerable he is , he 'd be much more cautious . " <h> It 's a shame this was n't the situation with Gaza . <p> " On October 7 , the government set four war objectives . On one hand , Netanyahu deserves credit for that . On the other hand , the objectives did n't mention the hostages . This omission reflects the state of mind of the leadership at the time . The word ' hostages ' did n't even enter the government 's vocabulary during the first week . It was n't until October 16 , five days after we joined , that the concept of ' returning the hostages ' was formally introduced at our insistence . " <h> How do you explain that ? <p> " The mindset of those in leadership on October 7 was shaped by the trauma , shock , and failure they experienced . Some did n't even believe it was possible to bring the hostages back . From the outset , Benny Gantz , Gallant , Aryeh Deri , and I agreed with the defense establishment that the debate between focusing on the South versus the North had ended . We were heading south . The foundational state in the South was offense , while in the North , it was defense . I estimated it would take us one to two months to deliver the required blow in Gaza . It was clear to us that significant ground maneuvers were essential to achieve meaningful results -- capturing territory , controlling the population , and cleansing the area . This was based on our experience in the West Bank during Operation Defensive Shield , which took two months to achieve operational control , followed by years of cleaning up . " IDF soldiers operate in the Gaza Strip , December 3 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <h> But the plan went off track . <p> " That 's true . The original plan was about three weeks to a month of firepower from a distance , followed by three months of powerful ground maneuvers , and then transitioning to Phase C , where we are now . The problem was that the operation in Gaza stalled . As a result , the primary effort in the North only began two months ago . What they 're doing now is essentially reversing the timeline , leveraging the significant achievements against Hezbollah . But in the end , the plan deviated . We went North much later than intended . " <h> How do you see the situation today , a year and two months after October 7 ? <p> " This was a defining moment for Israeli resilience . The blow we suffered on October 7 deeply damaged something very fundamental . Israel 's deterrence is based on three principles : the IDF is an invincible army , Israeli society is strong , united , and advanced , and we are America 's closest allies , making it unwise for anyone to challenge us . On October 7 , Sinwar shattered the first principle . The other two principles were also under threat , but it became clear that Israeli society has a very high level of resilience , and the Americans , despite disagreements and disputes , stood firmly by our side . It took a year , but that was repaired . " Reinforcement of IDF troops in Golan Heights 06 December 2024 ( credit : IDF ) <h> So , did we win ? <p> " Looking at the balance of achievements , there are significant cumulative successes . Hezbollah 's leadership was destroyed , and around 60% of the organization 's capabilities were eliminated . Hamas 's leadership was destroyed , with approximately 70-80% of its capabilities eradicated . We captured the Gaza Strip and control 100% of its perimeter . In Lebanon , we captured only 2-3% of the territory . We do n't control the perimeter , the crossings , or the country 's interior . But after listing the achievements , you also have to account for the costs . Nearly 1,800 killed , tens of thousands wounded across expanding circles , and an entire region abandoned for over a year . No one could have imagined such an event . In early discussions , we did n't even consider evacuating Sderot in the event of full-scale war . If necessary , we planned to station three brigades to defend it . <p> " At the strategic level , the IDF , Shin Bet , and Mossad achieved impressive results . But when you evaluate the eight updated war objectives , the prime minister ca n't claim a single one was fully achieved . The reason lies in an unwillingness to make the tough decisions required to achieve those goals . <p> " It took me two or three months to understand , " Eisenkot continues , " that this war had both overt and covert objectives . Within the broader cabinet , a divide emerged between those focused on the overt goal of dismantling Hamas 's organizational and governmental capabilities and returning the hostages , and those advocating for the conquest of Gaza , the imposition of military rule , and the resettlement of Israelis there . Today , they openly voice those goals , establishing new settlement cores . And you think , ' Have n't we learned anything ? ' The most important thing now is to preserve solidarity and unity . After the shock , the massacre , the trauma -- everything we 've endured -- is this the time to shatter our unity ? Is this why we sent soldiers to die ? The fact that the government is now introducing these goals through the back door points to a deep sickness . " <h> How do you explain this to yourself ? <p> " Israel has a very weak National Security Council . There are a few good people there , but the council can not manage the strategic level . Netanyahu has three forums that I 'm familiar with : the broader cabinet , which has formal responsibility and usually involves about 15 ministers . With all their aides and advisors , there are around 50 or 60 people in the room . The war cabinet is smaller and more efficient , but even there , between 20 and 30 people are present , with every minister bringing their aides . I was the only one who did n't bring aides . The third forum is the war cabinet ministers , along with the heads of the security organizations and the chief of staff . Unfortunately , Netanyahu convened this forum only a few times . " <h> When did things start falling apart ? <p> " As long as we felt backed into a corner , there was unity . After the first hostage deal , confidence began to return , and then the leaks started . It was crystal clear where they came from . This created a very unhealthy atmosphere . I 'm very experienced at this level , in cabinets and security forums . I 've been attending these since 1999 , for 25 years . And suddenly , I saw something was very off , compared to how I was trained . <p> The disputes with Netanyahu became bitter in January . We started pressing for the hostages ' return , for planning the day after in Gaza , for bringing in a governing body to replace Hamas , and for shifting focus North . It was clear to me there was no reason to keep five divisions in Gaza . There were also disagreements over the operational approach in the Strip . Why focus only on the north ? Why not move towards Rafah and Khan Yunis ? <p> " But you must understand , by January-February , it became clear there was no intention to move North and no rush to accelerate operations towards Rafah . We said , ' We 've already deployed five divisions ; there 's no point in keeping such a large force in Gaza . ' Two divisions could remain while the others focused on the north . <p> Today , they tell us that if they had listened to us , they would n't have killed Sinwar . But these are just hypothetical games . Killing Sinwar was always a matter of time -- it would have happened sooner or later . Militarily , reaching Rafah was n't a big challenge , and it was n't even a Hamas stronghold . Benny Gantz and I believed we should shift focus to Lebanon by March or April . Benny wrote this in his famous memo and added a specific goal : to return residents to their homes safely by September 1 . Netanyahu , Dermer , and Gallant thought we should stay in Gaza . " <h> Who was right ? <p> " We 'll never know . As I 've told you , in war , you ca n't predict how things will unfold . Broadly speaking , it would have been correct to forego the Hezbollah strike on October 11 , concentrate efforts in Gaza with five divisions , achieve the necessary objectives by March , leave two divisions in Gaza , and redirect four divisions North . The plans were already approved and ready . As I see it , the prolonged stay in Gaza until just two or three months ago , and the delayed move North , were serious mistakes . All of this was written in a document I submitted to the cabinet on February 15 -- the same document leaked to Yaron Avraham . " <h> What 's your opinion on the concept of ' total victory ' ? <p> " I 'm sure all cabinet members want total victory , and I assume the Prime Minister emphasized being on the brink of it mainly for public perception . I believe that instead of focusing on slogans , the effort should be directed toward completing operations in Khan Yunis , moving down to Rafah and the central camps , immediately promoting plans to return the hostages , and creating a governance framework that does n't involve Hamas . I think Netanyahu opposes this even today . He 's hesitant to make such decisions . " <h> Initially , he was very wary of a ground maneuver in Gaza . <p> " That 's true . We saw in discussions his deep fear of ground maneuvers inside the Strip . He summoned Major General ( res . ) Yitzhak Brik several times , who only heightened his fears . I had a personal meeting with Netanyahu about this and realized it was challenging to influence him . He was genuinely afraid . I told him , ' I 'm confident the IDF will succeed , and my son will be in the first battalion . ' Gabi Ashkenazi also went to see him to reassure him . <p> On the way , he stopped by my place . There were even two ministers in the extended cabinet who opposed the maneuver . I wo n't name names . Later , they retroactively changed their stance . Benny and I were clear : the IDF was capable of a successful ground maneuver , and no significant military achievement was possible without it . " <h> What led to your departure from the government ? <p> " We realized we had become a fig leaf and were n't influencing decisions . The IDF used substantial force in Khan Yunis but did n't move south . We pushed for a move southward , but it was stuck . Netanyahu was n't in a hurry . We understood we could n't make progress . So we left , with heavy hearts . We made an effort , tried to promote our path , but realized he did n't want to return the hostages , did n't want to discuss the day after , did n't want to shift focus North , and did n't want to pass universal conscription legislation . It became clear that while Ben-Gvir and Smotrich were n't in the War Cabinet , they had more influence than anyone else , especially regarding the hostages . " <h> Do you truly believe the hostages could have been returned ? Was another deal feasible after the first one fell apart ? <p> " Yes . Let 's look at the first deal . Ben-Gvir and Smotrich put on a show -- at the last moment , Smotrich voted in favor , and Ben-Gvir against . In the second round , we pushed for a hostage framework starting in late January . But Netanyahu kept creating obstacles . Again , Sinwar is the main culprit and source of evil , but that does n't mean we could n't act . On April 25 , an Egyptian delegation arrived . It was a significant moment . Our team received a mandate , and then there was the infamous conversation where Netanyahu backtracked behind Gantz 's back . <p> " This is n't ancient history . We still have 100 hostages in Gaza . The issue remains urgent because , on May 27 , Netanyahu presented his framework to the War Cabinet . It was titled : ' General principles for an agreement between the Israeli and Palestinian sides in Gaza regarding hostage and prisoner exchanges and sustainable quiet . ' <p> " ' The framework 's goal is the release of all Israeli hostages in Gaza -- civilians and soldiers , whether alive or deceased , from all periods . This will be in exchange for an agreed number of Palestinian prisoners held in Israeli jails , alongside sustainable quiet that leads to a permanent ceasefire , withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza , reconstruction of the Gaza Strip , reopening of crossings , and enabling the movement of people and goods . ' " <p> Eisenkot notes , " This paragraph is the entire story . Netanyahu went all the way with this . The framework included a permanent ceasefire and a phased Israeli withdrawal . This was in May . If a deal is reached now , it will be based on this framework . The problem is that months have passed in the meantime . " <h> What happened with Netanyahu 's framework in that meeting ? <p> " He distributed the document to all ministers , read out their names one by one : ' Gadi ? In favor . Benny ? In favor . Gallant ? In favor . Dermer ? In favor . Deri ? In favor . ' ' Good , ' said Netanyahu , ' everyone agrees . ' He instructed the negotiation team to pass the framework as it was to the intermediaries -- Qatar , Egypt , and the US . But then a day passed , and another day , and on May 29 , I was at the Dagan Conference when I began hearing leaks about a discussion on the hostages . <p> The narrative was that Benny , Gallant , and I wanted to retreat , but Netanyahu and Dermer stood firm against us . That 's when I realized he was starting to backtrack . So , at the conference , I made it clear for the first time : ' This is Netanyahu 's framework . ' I publicly stated that it was his plan , and I told the audience , ' The person who introduced it is Netanyahu . And now I 'm hearing in the media that those who folded are us . ' <p> " By the way , the Americans received a copy of the framework that same night . That 's why , when Biden realized Netanyahu was trying to escape it , he made the framework public and forced it out of the shadows . Two days later , Netanyahu went on ' The Patriots ' , where he announced , on camera , a message that Hamas surely picked up on : that he was n't planning to honor the framework he himself wrote . He said he would only implement Phase A , with no commitment to the following stages . He claimed that Benny , Gallant , and I were trying to impose a ceasefire on him , and he would n't agree to any deal that did n't allow him to resume fighting after Phase A. " <p> Eisenkot shakes his head . " But that 's the thing -- he wrote ' permanent ceasefire ' in the framework himself . I 've never even used the term ' ending the war . ' I 've always advocated for a two-to-three-month ceasefire to bring the hostages home , followed by resuming the fight . He insisted that we vote on his framework , the very framework he now denies . In hindsight , I understood why he refused to bring this framework to the broader cabinet . He knew exactly what he was doing . " <h> How did Hamas respond to the framework Netanyahu disavowed ? <p> " On July 2 , Hamas responded that they would agree to the framework on the condition that there would be no resumption of fighting after Phase A. After all , if we resumed , we would n't receive the remaining male hostages and soldiers . Then Netanyahu launched a public relations campaign , claiming that if we proceeded with the framework , we would only get some of the hostages . And so , we went back to square one : Hamas are villains -- they have their objectives -- but we are the stronger side . We won . We could now go for demilitarization in exchange for reconstruction , expelling Hamas 's leadership -- even though there 's barely anyone left to expel -- and ensuring that the next administration in Gaza is n't Hamas . <p> All of this was detailed in Netanyahu 's own framework , which he himself distributed to the media that night . The framework explicitly states that civilian governance in Gaza would fall to the international community and local actors with administrative experience unaligned with states or entities supporting terrorism . " <h> Now they 're discussing another partial hostage deal . <p> " Today ( Wednesday ) , many hostage families came to the Knesset , where they once again had to rely on media leaks to learn about a possible partial deal . What is a partial deal ? Simply implementing Phase A of Netanyahu 's framework . When will the future agreement come ? Every security expert agrees that the conditions are ripe for a comprehensive deal now . There 's no reason to delay . The achievements and conditions in Gaza are significantly better than in Lebanon . The risk in Gaza is far lower than in Lebanon , yet in Lebanon , a ceasefire was agreed upon , and here it was n't . <p> What is he afraid of ? Ceasefires can always be broken . It seems like he 's trying to buy more time instead of executing the full and proper deal . I hope I 'm wrong , but I believe he does n't want a comprehensive deal . How long can we keep hiding behind Sinwar and Hamas ? Yes , the Americans also said Hamas is blocking a deal . But Israeli citizens elected you , not Hamas . This failure happened on your watch . It 's your job to bring them back . The security establishment agrees it 's possible . If we do n't return them , it will be a permanent mark of shame on us . " <h> No matter how we look at it , you saved Netanyahu on October 11 . <p> " I do n't agree . We saved the country . Look , I entered that room on October 11 and saw how deeply affected everyone was . Gallant deserves credit for being the only one projecting strength and stability . You do n't want me to describe how Netanyahu looked , how Dermer looked , how the National Security Council looked , or the others in the room . " <h> Actually , I do . <p> " That day , I left the bunker around 2 a.m . My phone was flooded with hundreds of WhatsApp messages and calls . Many people congratulated me on joining . Gal , my son , also called to congratulate me . I told him , ' Gal , these were the eight most significant hours of my security career . ' Looking back , maybe I exaggerated . Or maybe I did n't . Later , we went down south . I saw Be'eri , Nir Oz . I was stunned by the destruction . The fact that Hamas managed to capture parts of the country , that citizens in a sovereign state with a powerful IDF fought all day to hold onto their bomb shelter doors to stay alive -- that 's a lesson that needs to endure for generations . <p> I call it the Conventional Begin Doctrine : the entire region must understand that anyone who captures Israeli territory and harms its citizens in this way will pay an unbearable price -- with their lives , their leadership , their centers of power , and their people . That 's the blow they suffered in Gaza and the Dahiyeh . That 's the price tag that must be levied on anyone thinking of conquering parts of Israel . " <h> Moments before tragedy <p> At Be'eri , while still in shock from the sights of destruction and the burned kibbutz , Eisenkot received a phone call from his nephew , the son of his sister , a doctor at Soroka Hospital . He informed him that Omer , another nephew , the son of his brother , had been severely wounded by a mortar in the Gaza border and was being airlifted to the hospital . At that point , he did not yet know that this would be the family 's least difficult case that year . <h> I want to press you about October 11 . Do you think that if you had n't joined , the country would have collapsed or been conquered ? No . In the end , the ones you truly saved were Netanyahu . <p> " Again , these are ' what-if ' games . What 's certain is that no one had the confidence to move to action , least of all Netanyahu . We bolstered that confidence . We brought the experience of two former chiefs of staff , integrated the return of the hostages into the objectives , and were the driving force behind the first deal . That happened because we came from the outside . We did n't experience the trauma of October 7 from within . <p> We had nothing to prove or to fix . We insisted that bringing the hostages home was not a weakness but a strength and a basic duty . I 'll tell you -- the trust of the soldiers in the leadership during those days was very low . I received responses from dozens of directions saying it was good we joined . In every tour , every place we visited -- divisions , brigades , commands -- people approached us and said that the fact that the two of us entered without hesitation and stood by them gave them confidence . Try to remember the shock and trauma . At that point , the fact that two former chiefs of staff joined was a strategic event . " <h> Your departure was also controversial . You 're criticized for both entering and leaving . You 're under fire for everything . <p> " We did n't leave lightly . Our departure was conditional . Benny wrote a detailed letter to Netanyahu . We did n't want to leave just for the sake of leaving but to steer the cabinet in the right direction , to balance the influence of Ben Gvir and Smotrich . We hoped for dialogue -- hostages , moving northward . But there was no dialogue , and there was no listening . From his perspective , we were no longer essential . We were a nuisance . They briefed against us nonstop , as if we did n't want to advance to Khan Yunis , blocking things here and there -- everything opposite of the truth . Today , they 're trying to explain that since we left , there 's been momentum . It 's just a shame this momentum came with a 7 -- 8-month delay . Had we moved north in March , the residents would already have returned by September . The blow we could have dealt in the north then would have been far more significant . Lieberman mentioned it in one of his interviews -- the main plan involved communication devices and bunkers , an operation planned for many years . But Netanyahu now tries to create the impression that he and Dermer planned it over the past year . In summary , we left because we had no choice . We refused to be a fig leaf . We hoped our departure would push him in the right direction . In practice , the opposite happened . " <h> Yes , but the military achievements are impressive . <p> " These are operational achievements . But as prime minister , you also need strategic achievements . You need to fulfill the war 's objectives as quickly as possible and at the lowest cost . Even now , he ca n't say that even one of the eight goals has been achieved . A 60-day ceasefire in Lebanon is the required achievement ? Why not aim for a simultaneous ceasefire in both the North and South through a UN Security Council decision under US dominance ? <p> In the North , this would be based on a reinforced 1701 resolution , and in the south , on an improved Netanyahu framework -- with the Philadelphi Corridor sealed with an underground wall , reconstruction in exchange for demilitarization , and a US-Israel agreement ensuring Iran never achieves nuclear capabilities , alongside building an Israeli-Sunni regional alliance . This is an opportunity to significantly enhance the IDF 's capabilities , stabilize US-Israel relations , heal Israeli society for generations , establish a national security doctrine , strengthen the IDF for future challenges , enhance the ability to manage prolonged campaigns , boost the economy , enact a universal conscription law , reinforce governance , and , of course , bring the hostages home . That 's what victory should look like . " <h> Meanwhile , look at the chaos around us -- the insane legislation , the ongoing assault on gatekeepers , the military , and all systems . <p> " I call it the extremist worldview of the spirit of Ben Gvir , Smotrich , and Karai . Some mistakenly call it religious Zionism . This is not religious Zionism . It 's what will drag Israel into deep social division , multi-front attrition warfare , and international delegitimization . They aim for the return of settlements in Gaza , a binational state in Judea and Samaria , annexation , and the continuation of the ongoing struggle in Lebanon . All this instead of what I outlined above . Netanyahu makes partial decisions in every area and tries to buy time . " <p> This week , they plan to pass the Feldstein Law in its preliminary reading . <p> " This is utter madness and a total loss of direction . This law , by Milvitzky and Amit Halevi , would allow any soldier in Military Intelligence , or an employee of the Shin Bet or Mossad , to directly transfer intelligence information to the Prime Minister and cabinet ministers . Whoever decided on this is n't just burning barns -- they 're also destroying Israel 's intelligence superiority . It 's clear there 's no preservation of secrecy and chaos across the agencies . When I was Chief of Staff , I demanded 6,000 to 8,000 polygraph tests annually in the military to safeguard secrecy . The first question in a polygraph test is whether you 've shared intelligence information with an unauthorized person . That question will no longer even be asked . " <h> Netanyahu claims that information was withheld from him . <p> " The Prime Minister has access to all the material . His intelligence aide is authorized to access every database . He does n't need favors from anyone . This law is merely a gesture to reassure Feldstein that he 's being looked after . And for that , they 're sacrificing our intelligence superiority . Does Netanyahu not understand this ? He understands it perfectly . Does he really want to destroy Israel 's intelligence system ? Yesterday , I addressed this in the Knesset . I was a military secretary 25 years ago ; I was chief of staff . Without intelligence superiority , we have no capabilities in the region . We have no purpose here . What bridges the asymmetry on our fronts today is intelligence superiority , and they 're burning it down . There 's no justification for this . <p> In his nine-minute speech , the Prime Minister said it 's unacceptable for highly classified information not to reach him . Let 's assume this happened . Then issue a directive requiring that all highly classified information reaches you . It might require a few extra desks in the office , but it 's doable . But to give a sweeping authorization to anyone to leak raw intelligence ? Have they lost their minds ? I 've quietly spoken with Likud MKs , urging them to show statesmanship and protect the IDF . I hope it will have an impact . I keep reaching out and speaking to them . <p> I hope that tomorrow , Avi Dichter , Yoav Gallant , and Nir Barkat wo n't raise their hands to enable any junior officer to leak documents . They must n't participate in destroying the intelligence superiority built since the days of the Palmach 's Arab Division . Someone has decided to blind Israel and undermine its capabilities . I want to see Dichter vote for something like this , allowing any Shin Bet officer to take classified materials . I ca n't believe it will happen . I ca n't believe it . Losing trust in people has its limits . There 's only so much incompetence and spinelessness one can tolerate . " <h> Voting on the Feldstein law <p> The next day , the vote took place . Dichter and Barkat voted " in favor . " Eisenkot was agitated : " The law passed an hour ago , " he told me in a follow-up phone call . " I thought it would be hard to surprise me after two years . In the end , Dichter , a former head of the Shin Bet , votes in favor of severely damaging Israel 's intelligence superiority , while all the Arab MKs opposed this harm . It seems there 's always more to learn about our politics . If this law is enacted , it will be a fatal blow to our ability to safeguard secrets . And at 64 and a half , I 've learned something new about the cynicism of Israeli politics . " <h> Do you believe Netanyahu did n't know what Feldstein and Orich were doing ? <p> " Look , Ronen Bar is a brave man , but I 'm sure that if they had pushed a bit further , it would have reached Netanyahu . Orich is Netanyahu . We know Netanyahu . The Israeli Prime Minister is not the US President ; he 's not the supreme commander -- he 's first among equals . We reminded him of that in the cabinet -- the responsibility is collective , not his alone . " <h> Shortly before you spoke in the Knesset , Minister Dudi Amsalem accused you of shrinking the military . And this is n't the first time you 've faced such accusations . <p> " Look , it 's not even funny . Nine years ago , the Prime Minister came to us with the Brodet Report , the literary name for the Netanyahu Report , which proposed cutting IDF service from 36 months to just 24 . Netanyahu established the Brodet Committee precisely for this purpose -- to significantly shrink the army . <p> It was blocked at the time thanks to good Likud members . All four who helped stop it -- Bogie , Kahlon , Steinitz , and Gallant -- paid a price later . They were cabinet ministers and prevented it . Netanyahu wanted to cut the army by an entire year . They stopped him . I handed over an IDF larger than the one I received . That 's a fact . " <h> They want to dismiss the Attorney General . Do you believe it 's possible ? <p> " Shlomo Karai issued a letter today with signatures from 13 MKs calling for her dismissal . Look , Gali Baharav-Miara sat next to me in the cabinet . She demonstrated impressive backbone . She 's very security-minded in her positions . She did n't block us from anything . She 's an island of stability . <p> I do n't understand what they want from her . I hope Gideon Sa'ar wo n't be a pushover and will stand firm to prevent them from dismantling the state . These people have no boundaries . Yesterday , I spoke with a few Likud MKs . " <p> " What 's troubling now is the madness of Ben Gvir and Smotrich , who are exploiting the immune system 's weakness to launch an autoimmune attack on the state . Settling Gaza now -- is that what will rebuild solidarity in Israeli society ? Annexing over two million Palestinians -- is that the cure ? Avoiding passing a conscription law with personal and criminal sanctions -- is that what will restore solidarity ? <p> All this instead of ending the war from a position of advantage , building a long-term security strategy , maintaining our qualitative edge over our enemies , and enacting a conscription law . This week , there was cause for concern when Hezbollah 's fire was n't answered in Beirut but in a few villages . That 's worrisome . " <h> You occasionally call on security officials to take personal responsibility and resign . Are n't you overlooking the fact that Netanyahu is n't resigning , is n't forming a commission of inquiry , and is n't calling elections ? The departure of these officials would only enable him to appoint loyalists . <p> " Look , it 's clear that the villain in this story is Netanyahu , and the people he 's sacrificing are Herzi Halevi and Yaron Finkelman . I love both of them deeply . I admire Herzi -- he was an excellent head of Military Intelligence , an outstanding Southern Command leader , and even he knows that this excellent man is responsible for the greatest failure we 've experienced on October 7 . <p> On the other hand , he deserves immense credit for how he stood firm from that dark hour onward , like an immovable rock . If someone takes pride in the cumulative balance of achievements , the first to receive credit should be Herzi , Ronen Bar , and Dedi Barnea -- especially Herzi and Ronen , who started from an incredibly challenging position . <p> But still , if responsibility is not taken soon , from the division commander to the prime minister , we might as well erase the word ' responsibility ' from the Hebrew language . My example is Udi Adam , a close friend of mine , the Northern Command leader during the Second Lebanon War , who was responsible for both the failure and the achievements . On the day the ceasefire took effect , he submitted his resignation to Chief of Staff Halutz . <p> The same applies to Southern Command leader Yaron Finkelman . I love Yaron , but he is responsible for the failure . Period . The fact that ' Toladano and Military Intelligence told me this and that , and I did n't go home for a year ' -- it 's all true . I admire him for that and for his wartime performance . But in my opinion , Yaron should have followed Udi Adam 's example during the first lull . The time has come for all these good people to take that step and not wait to be dismissed . " <h> But you 're overlooking the risk that the departure of these capable people , when no one in the political echelon takes responsibility , would leave the system exposed to reckless appointments . We 've already seen this with the police . <p> " Yes , but we must insist on the concept of responsibility . I demand it from Netanyahu , above all . He 's supposedly so strong and heroic in Filber 's polls ? Let him go to elections and seek the public 's trust . You see how he avoids attending ceremonies because he and others in his government are afraid to face the public . Sometimes , they even reach out to me , asking if I can talk to families to let them attend . <p> I still very much hope that the Israeli government has enough responsibility left to appoint the right people to replace those who resign . I also hope that one day the police chief realizes he 's been deceived . What 's happening there is that the police are essentially run by Kobi Yaakobi . He 's the Prison Service Commissioner , but anyone wanting to advance is aligned with Yaakobi . At some point , the police chief will understand this . Meanwhile , in all these investigations , it 's clear I underestimated when I described a sub-criminal culture . It 's actually a super-criminal culture . " <h> A year and two months later , even a state commission of inquiry is no longer relevant . <p> " Anyone who thinks they can pull a stunt with some sort of pseudo-state commission of inquiry is gravely mistaken . They found some useful idiot to propose setting up a crooked committee that would decide that a state commission is off the table . This wo n't pass . It must not pass . Without a state commission of inquiry , there will be no repair . Elections must be held , with the opposition putting egos aside . Whoever can lead the largest party should form a system that will fix Israel . " <h> Oh , you 've set me up perfectly for this . How many times in the past year have people come up to you and said , " Gadi , you need to be number one " ? <p> " A lot . And I listen to them and tell them it 's irrelevant . There are no elections right now , our party is n't in a terrible place -- we 're polling at 19 or 20 seats . It 's not what it used to be , but it 's not bad . For me , the idea of ' Israel first ' is genuine and deeply ingrained . Whether it 's Gadi or Benny leading , it 's less important than the need to establish a government that will take Israel to a better place . <p> Any decision about leadership will come from that necessity , not from blind loyalty . My loyalty is to the State of Israel . I have tremendous respect for Benny . He knows how to share leadership , and it 's a joint effort under his guidance . He sees me as a senior partner . Look , Lapid does n't say , ' Ram , Ben , Barak , and I , ' whereas Benny sees me as a partner in the journey . He founded the party ; he 's the first , and I need to do everything I can in the meantime to ensure we 're a worthy opposition and a major party . " <h> You 're not really succeeding as an opposition . <p> " We failed as an opposition in not being able to retain Gideon Sa'ar or bring decent people to our side . I 'm in touch with them . There are decent people in the political system who understand the situation , who know that the State of Israel is more important than Netanyahu , and they see where he 's taking this country . He 's done what he 's done ; he 's responsible for the greatest failure since the state 's founding . He 's deepened societal divides , brought an extremist Kahanist party into the halls of power , and endangered the Zionist project . They understand this . They see the disaster of Ben Gvir , a man who has failed in everything he 's done but still manages to enjoy support . I hope people wake up and realize he 's an empty vessel . When you see his ridiculous behavior , like a poor man 's version of Netanyahu , you ca n't miss that he 's someone from the minor leagues trying to play in the NBA . Now he 's boasting about killing Nasrallah . Even humor has its limits . " <h> Are you still an optimist ? <p> " Look at our young people . In this war , we 've rediscovered them . My son Guy told me that ever since Gal fell , he reads every eulogy for every fallen soldier . I asked him what he discovers in them . He told me the recurring theme is giving , volunteering , love for friends , family , and country . <p> At the funeral of Yogev , my nephew , the secretary of the community his parents helped establish in the Negev , Giv'ot Bar , read a post he had written . As I listened , I realized it was a love letter . I thought he had written it to his partner . It began like this : ' Hey , my love . It 's me . Yes , I know -- it 's been a long time since we last saw each other . I 've been away for a while . Do n't think for a moment it was easy for me without you . You know how much I love you . But you need to know and remember -- it was for you . For us . ' <p> And it goes on and on , and suddenly you realize he 's writing this letter to the country , after returning from a year of service for the Jewish Agency in Chicago , just before his enlistment . This was a 22-year-old kid , an active partner in establishing a new settlement in the Negev . His father was an officer in the Paratroopers , his mother a tough Golani instructor . <p> I 'll tell you something else . When Gal was killed , another soldier , Eyal Berkovitz , fell with him . From their regular service , Gal would always talk about Berko . Gal was from the Shayetet , Berko from Sayeret Matkal , but they served together in the same team in Maglan during their regular service and later in reserves . Berko became the team commander . Gal was n't one to give out compliments easily , but he spoke about Berko with superlatives . <p> When Gal was killed , I realized another soldier had fallen with him . When I got home , I was already informed that the second casualty was Berko . I probably knew this before his parents . He was born during their mission in New Zealand , grew up in Susya , and was in his first year of medical school , recently married to Michal . They fell together -- a soldier from Herzliya and a soldier from Susya - different worldviews , but they died together . They have a shared photo standing in Gaza holding the Israeli flag . <p> Their team members from Rafah just sent me a picture . They recreated that photo on a wall , with Gal and Berko holding the flag in life , and in death . <p> When I met Berko 's parents , his father came to me and said , ' Gadi , nice to meet you , you were my battalion commander . ' His mother , a school principal , came to the Knesset one day , to the Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee , to speak with MKs . It was the most powerful experience I 've had since becoming a Knesset member . She spoke about her son Berko , a Torah scholar and brilliant young man who could have been a great rabbi but chose to enlist in Sayeret Matkal , Maglan , and the reserves , ultimately falling in defense of the homeland . There was dead silence in the room -- not even a mosquito buzzed . Even the ultra-Orthodox MKs sat silently and listened . <p> So if you ask me what encourages me , it 's that -- these people , who are here . We must be worthy of them . " 
@@118594898 <h> President Emmanuel Macron Has Plunged France into Chaos <p> Messy though France 's politics currently are , it is easy to trace the evolution of the turmoil , and to pinpoint when the political situation tipped from uncertain yet orderly into surrealistic and totally **26;1130;TOOLONG by Simon Bailly <p> At the end of July , Lucie Castets was planning to go to Italy with a group of friends . Every year , they rented a house and followed the same ritual : pool , spritzes , a viewing of " Gladiator . " For the past year , Castets had worked as the finance director for the City of Paris . On July 22nd , shortly after noon , she was in the bike garage of her office building , in the Thirteenth Arrondissement , when her phone started buzzing . The caller was Olivier Faure , the head of the French Socialist Party . Just before picking up , Castets texted her wife , then took the call . <p> " What does he want ? " her wife wrote back . <p> " I do n't know , " Castets replied . <p> " Maybe he 's gon na ask you to be Prime Minister or something . " <p> " Haha . " <p> After Castets hung up , the text conversation continued . <p> " Actually , he is , " she wrote . <p> " No shit ? " her wife replied . <p> Soon , Castets would burst onto the political scene in what the French press took to calling her " Warholian summer " of instant notoriety . For the moment , however , practically no one knew who she was . After the phone conversation , Faure ran Castets 's name by his fellow party heads in the left-wing alliance known as the Nouveau Front Populaire , or N.F.P. " Who ? " one of them replied . But Castets made an appealing candidate : a thirty-seven-year-old woman from civil society , fresh-faced and sincere , yet not without a streak of swagger ; impeccably credentialled and indisputably of the left , but obscure enough to have neither a record that would raise hackles nor political enemies of consequence . <p> Cartoon by Roland High <p> Link copied <p> As the party heads deliberated , Castets went on with her day . She got on her bike and pedalled across the neighborhood , arriving at a restaurant where she was supposed to meet an acquaintance . It had already been a wild summer in France . In three days , the Paris Olympics would begin , superimposing live contests of might and savvy over a grunting , deadlocked struggle for political power that had transfixed the country for weeks . Castets did n't know the person she was having lunch with very well , so she said nothing about Faure 's call . " I think I had a poke bowl , " she told me . That weekend , the plane to Italy took off without her . <p> On December 4th , members of the Assembl ? e Nationale , the lower house of the French parliament , passed a no-confidence vote against Prime Minister Michel Barnier , toppling the country 's third government of the year only twelve weeks after it had been formed . " It 's a singular moment , because the vote of no confidence is accompanied by huge questions about what happens next , " Christophe Bellon , a parliamentary historian at the Catholic University of Lille , told me . Messy though France 's politics currently are , it is easy to trace the evolution of the turmoil , and to pinpoint when the political situation tipped from uncertain yet orderly into surrealistic and totally unpredictable . <p> Back in June , a little more than a month before Castets received the unexpected call , French people went to the polls to elect representatives to the European Parliament . The outlook was not particularly good for the group anchored by President Emmanuel Macron 's party . Macron had squandered a large mandate since taking office , in 2017 , as a paradigm-busting centrist who would govern not from the left or the right but , as he liked to say , from the left and the right " at the same time . " The promise of Macronism was social progressivism and economic liberalism . The practice of Macronism was the tenacious pursuit of economic reforms at the expense of sweeping social programs , which were always just about to materialize . <p> Macron had reduced unemployment from more than ten per cent to around seven per cent , made France a far more attractive place for foreign investment , and streamlined a complicated retirement system . But his comparative neglect of such areas as health care and housing , combined with the fact that he instituted a tax policy that favored the rich and that he raised the retirement age from sixty-two to sixty-four , had eroded support in the left-leaning part of his coalition . In the eyes of many voters , he was a centrist President tacking ever rightward , hardening his stances on immigration and Islam as the extreme-right party , the Rassemblement National , or R.N. , soared in polls . Many French people , whatever their politics , loathed Macron personally , citing his arrogance , exemplified by comments such as one that he made to an unemployed gardener : " I could find you a job just by crossing the street . " On a good day , his approval rating was around thirty per cent , considerably lower than Joe Biden 's . <p> The party that is now the R.N. was founded in 1972 , in the aftermath of the Algerian War , by the torture apologist and Holocaust denier Jean-Marie Le Pen . " Tomorrow , immigrants will stay with you , eat your soup , and sleep with your wife , your daughter , or your son , " he once warned . The party is essentially a family firm , now fronted by his more politically supple daughter Marine Le Pen . It has never produced a President or a Prime Minister , but it is getting closer . Since 2022 , the R.N. has constituted the largest opposition party in the Assembl ? e . <p> Domestically , the R.N. espouses a form of nationalist populism -- more deportations , lower taxes on gas . In recent years , Le Pen has tried to detoxify the party 's reputation , but some members still promote colonial nostalgia and racist theories such as the " great replacement . " Regarding foreign policy , the R.N. , historically a reliable friend to Vladimir Putin , could fairly be called more Europhobic than Euroskeptic . After years of lobbying to withdraw from the eurozone , the party reversed its position , but it continues to rail against , per its platform , " the woke excesses imposed by Brussels . " <p> Le Pen is sometimes compared to Donald Trump , but the analogy is not quite apt . Certainly , their movements share an anti-immigrant , selectively isolationist brand of nationalism -- " Les n ? tres avant les autres " ( " Ours before others " ) is the R.N. 's version of " America First . " Both have ties to strongmen and a taste for tariffs and fossil fuels . But Trump is more plutocratic than populist when it comes to policy . And , whereas the Republicans romanticize a bygone world , the R.N. is keen to present itself as a forward-looking concern . Trump is a soft man obsessed with seeming tough ; Le Pen is a tough woman forever trying to project a soft touch . <p> " With Le Pen , in France , you have a strong element of continuity with historical fascism that does n't exist with Trump in the U.S. , " Jean-Fran ? ois Drolet , a professor of politics and international relations at Queen Mary University of London , told me . But , he added , " increasingly these far-right-wing movements share a sense of global interconnectedness . They all understand that in order to pursue their domestic programs they have to destroy the liberal international agenda as we know it . " <p> Elections for the European Parliament are paradoxical , in that the parties that enjoy disproportionate success in them often question the value of the entire European project . Le Pen 's party has historically fared better in these races than in France 's Presidential or legislative elections . This summer 's vote was the first since the implementation of Brexit , with wars raging in Ukraine and Gaza , and the R.N. was projected to pull ahead of Macron 's group . But when the results came in , on June 9th , they were unexpectedly lopsided : 31.5 per cent for the R.N. and just 14.6 per cent for Macron 's group . This represented the R.N. 's largest victory ever in a nationwide race , and the best performance by any French party in a European election since 1984 . <p> Lib ? ration called the results an " earthquake . " Macron 's response was to shake things up further . Just before eight o'clock that evening , his office announced that he would address the nation . Millions of screens lit up with speculation as the political class and regular citizens alike tried to figure out what the President could possibly be up to . In the control room at BFMTV , one of the country 's leading news channels , correspondents found themselves at a loss . " We joked that maybe he was going to do a referendum on banning mobile phones in schools , " Philippe Corb ? , then the channel 's editorial director , told me . Roland Lescure , Macron 's industry and energy minister , was on a radio show discussing the election results when a journalist , during an ad break , asked him about a rumor that Macron was planning to call a snap election . " No way , " Lescure responded . <p> At nine o'clock , cameras cut to the ? lys ? e Palace , its rooftop flag flapping melancholically under a pink-and-black sky . More than fifteen million people -- sixty-five per cent of the French viewing public -- watched as Macron appeared onscreen , perched on a balcony with the plane trees of the palace gardens behind him , filtering the day 's last light . After a curt denunciation of the extreme right , Macron got to the point : he was dissolving the Assembl ? e Nationale and holding new legislative elections , with a first round of voting in just three weeks . " At the end of this day , I can not act as if nothing happened , " he said . His plan , he claimed , would provide an " indispensable clarification . " Never mind that the people had just spoken , rather unmistakably . Macron , leading boldly from behind , would force them to think hard about whether they really meant what they said . " To be French , " he reminded them , is " to choose to write history rather than to submit to it . " And , with that , he was gone . <p> Lib ? ration called the news a " double earthquake . " The French constitution gives the President the power to dissolve the Assembl ? e and call new elections whenever he wants to , up to once a year . If successful , dissolution can break a stalemate or deliver a majority for the President . But the maneuver is so risky that , since the Fifth Republic was established , in 1958 , it had been used only five times . The move can backfire spectacularly , leading to a rare situation that the French call " cohabitation , " in which the offices of President and Prime Minister are held by different parties . ( Unlike many European countries , France concentrates power in an unusually strong President and has little tradition of coalition government . And , unlike the U.S. , France has no midterm elections . ) The most recent dissolution , in 1997 , saddled President Jacques Chirac with a hostile Assembl ? e for five years . <p> Macron pitched the dissolution as " an act of confidence , " but it radiated desperation . " He would say it 's de Gaullian , but it 's Bonapartian , " Corb ? told me . " It 's this idea that you can get on your horse and take your sword , that even when you 're stuck somewhere there 's always a way to escape . " Given the massacre of the European Parliamentary elections , Macron 's decision seemed more akin to falling off his horse , losing his sword , and still insisting he held a strategic advantage . Had he done nothing , he would have had to swallow a humiliating loss , but he could have continued to govern more or less as before . Now he was risking his group 's relative majority and opening a path for the R.N. to take power . <p> If the R.N. gained a majority , Macron would have little choice but to allow the party to select a Prime Minister . The R.N. 's leaders quickly announced their pick : Jordan Bardella , the party 's scrubbed and dimpled twenty-eight-year-old dauphin . Biographically , Bardella is a godsend , one that the R.N. has been searching for for decades . He was born in Seine-Saint-Denis , France 's poorest department , and grew up in a housing project , the " little white kid " dodging drug dealers , he says , while his mother struggled to make ends meet as a nursery-school assistant . His maternal grandparents were Italian immigrants from Turin , and , according to Bardella , they gratefully embraced their new country . " If Iolanda and Severino 's integration worked , it 's because it was European , " he writes in a new memoir , contrasting his family 's culture to that of " populations from the other side of the world , " particularly Muslims , some of whose ideas are " profoundly contrary to who we are . " <p> Bardella 's opponents point out that he has never had a job outside of politics , other than briefly working at a vending-machine company owned by his father . They dismiss him as " Monsieur Selfie , " for his constant presence on social media , where he posts videos of himself eating Haribo gummy bears . Recent reporting has complicated his backstory , establishing that he spent weekends with his father in a well-off suburb , and that his paternal lineage includes an Algerian-immigrant great-grandfather . Politically , Bardella owes everything to Le Pen , whom he calls his " second mom " ( and whose niece he long dated ) . French commentators sometimes refer to him as " the ideal son-in-law , " though they often fail to specify of what kind of family . <p> Macron 's decision to call the snap election elicited shock and clich ? s : he was playing with fire , rolling the dice , holding a gun to the country 's head . Seemingly on a whim , he had thrown the country into political pandemonium , making more probable than ever the scenario that French voters had been fending off for decades -- the ascendance of the extreme right . Even Macron 's own people were stupefied . On television , the finance minister memorably described the clique of advisers who had urged the President to dissolve as " wood lice , " munching up " the palaces of the Republic . " <p> The announcement also surprised the sitting Prime Minister , Gabriel Attal , whom Macron had informed only an hour before . At thirty-five , Attal had been in office for just six months . Like Bardella , he has hardly had a job outside of politics . He is tousle-haired and mediagenic ( despite a minor slipup during the Olympics , when , after meeting Lady Gaga , he accidentally disclosed her engagement ) . Because of their common youth and charisma , Bardella and Attal are often referred to as the " fraternal twins " of French politics , popping out of their respective party wombs at roughly the same time . But , if Bardella is the ideal political son-in-law , Attal seemed to be dealing with degenerating family ties . At a cabinet meeting shortly before the President 's public announcement , Attal sat staring at Macron with what Vanity Fair France described as " the look of a serial killer . " He was so stung by the betrayal that he went M.I.A. for twenty-four hours . At a later meeting , Roland Lescure , the industry and energy minister , raised his hand . " Mr. President , you said , rightly , that an election is a matter of dynamics , " he began . " Well , we just lost one . " <p> The twenty-one-day scramble toward the snap election promised to be chaotic , and in the wake of the announcement Macron 's popularity plunged to new lows . " It was unprecedented , rickety , baroque , " someone close to Attal told me of the period . " Nobody knew what was going to happen . " Attal , citing a sense of duty , ultimately agreed to lead the campaign . Internally , hopes for victory were modest . The person close to Attal , borrowing a slogan from Dua Lipa , characterized the Prime Minister 's attitude as " radically optimistic . " <p> When Jacques Chirac dissolved the parliament , in 1997 , Dominique de Villepin was one of the President 's top advisers . On a rainy afternoon , I went to see him at his office , on one of the grandest streets in Paris . Americans remember de Villepin as the most quintessentially French of politicians , publishing volumes of poetry and sparking the " freedom fries " foolishness of the early two-thousands with a now historic speech opposing the invasion of Iraq . Dressed in a suit and tie , his silver mane undiminished , he took my coat and offered me a glass of water , which an employee delivered as we settled into deep couches in a vast salon filled with sculptures and masks . <p> " We shoulda eaten them chickens ' fore the horses . " <p> Cartoon by Tom Chitty <p> Link copied <p> De Villepin , who later served as Chirac 's Prime Minister , told me that he had long believed Macron 's hauteur would be his downfall . Watching his showy , solitary stride across the Louvre courtyard on the night of his first victory , in 2017 , de Villepin recalled , " I realized that we were n't in France -- we were in Hollywood . " <p> De Villepin told me , " Lots of French people voted for him not because they supported him but by default , because they did n't have a good choice . And he never understood that . " Since his dramatic entry into electoral politics , Macron had explicitly positioned himself as a bulwark -- the bulwark -- against the extreme right . Yet although he owed both of his elections to a ramshackle coalition of voters , he had insisted on managing France " by certitude , " talking much but listening little to traditional partners such as local officials and trade unions . " He does n't change , he does n't learn , and he does n't draw lessons from his failures , " de Villepin said . <p> When I asked other political observers what had just happened and how to understand it , they , like de Villepin , often wanted to talk about Macron 's character . " I think he 's a narcissistic pervert , " Marine Tondelier , the head of the Green Party , told me . " He enjoys manipulating people . Everyone thinks it , but I 'll say it out loud . " At the end of the summer , Jean-Michel Blanquer published a juicy memoir of his five years as Macron 's education minister , recounting how his initial appreciation for the " snake charmer " President had given way to dismay at his egocentrism , his inability to know when enough was enough , and his willingness " to fly blindly without culture , without vision , and without values . " Blanquer writes , " Like a fallen angel of politics , Macron began to carry a black light . " Blanquer told me that the book could help people understand the masochistic side of Macron 's personality : " How could a strong , intelligent guy do something so destructive to himself ? " ( Macron 's office did not respond to requests for comment . ) <p> Several interlocutors insisted that Macron was " having a midlife crisis . " Others wanted to talk about the influence of Brigitte Macron , his wife , who , as the political debacle continued , attended a Dior fashion show in a branded look and appeared on " Emily in Paris , " agreeing to a selfie with the show 's protagonist , an apparently tolerable immigrant . " Can you imagine Mrs. Nixon starring in ' Columbo ' in the middle of the Watergate affair ? " Le Nouvel Obs wrote . <p> The word I heard about Macron more than any other was " isolated . " News reports , too , drew a picture of a sequestered and susceptible leader , huddled over late-night whiskeys with a dwindling boys ' club of flatterers . This was a far cry from the progressive , transparent leadership that Macron had once promised . When I interviewed him in 2019 , I was struck by his appetite for transgression . He had fallen in love with his high-school drama teacher and married her . He had backstabbed mentors and shunned traditional left-right party affiliations , blowing up the political system to launch his first Presidential bid . The dissolution seemed like confirmation of his tendency to think that he could always brazen it out . " I think we have a duty not to abandon any of our idealism but to be as pragmatic as the extremists are , " he told me in 2019 . " This is a battle . And , even if you die with good principles , you die . " <p> Macronology could go only so far , though , in explaining why France found itself in such a fix . De Villepin spoke emphatically about the President 's disconnect from " anxieties , concerns , and situations that he largely neglected " -- things like the plight of farmers and fisherman , who were fighting double crises of climate and inflation , or the prospects of residents of the banlieues , whom he had promised to " emancipate , " commissioning a major report that he then cast aside . Like many democracies , France is grappling with immigration , globalization , electoral polarization , and a changing media landscape that concentrates power in the hands of billionaires . Many people have the sensation that their quality of life is declining , that they are working harder for thinner rewards , while plutocrats skim the foam off the caf ? cr ? me . In 2018 , this phenomenon of d ? classement , or being downgraded , real and perceived , brought hundreds of thousands of French citizens into the streets during the " yellow vests " popular uprising . Macron threw money at the problem , granting tax concessions and wage increases to the protesters . He did the same during Covid , promising the French people that " the state will pay . " <p> Macron 's strategy of blunting financial pain through profligate spending allowed him to survive in the short term . Unlike the United States government , the French government responded to inflation by capping prices on energy and some food items , and , unlike Joe Biden , Macron was n't widely blamed for the cost of eggs , even as French people told pollsters that purchasing power was their top priority . However , Macron 's bills were coming due . With 2025 budget deliberations approaching , officials were projecting massive shortfalls , and Macron 's ability to buy his way out of a tight spot was clearly constrained . The looming fiscal crisis cast doubt on his mastery of the economy , previously his greatest strength . <p> On the evening of June 10th , a third earthquake rumbled the political landscape . After hours of deliberation , representatives of the major parties of the notoriously fractured French left emerged from the Green Party 's headquarters , in the Tenth Arrondissement , and announced to a vigil-keeping crowd that they had reached a surprise accord . In tribute to the antifascist Front Populaire of 1936 , they were forming a coalition , to be called the Nouveau Front Populaire . Its mission was " to avoid the trap that has been set for us " -- the forced choice between technocracy and demagoguery , rightish and righter , Macron and Le Pen . <p> Taken together , the six main left-wing parties had garnered about thirty per cent of the vote in the European Parliamentary elections . But few people -- including , putatively , Macron -- had guessed that they would succeed in putting aside their stark differences . For some mainstream leftists , Jean-Luc M ? lenchon , the leader of the hard-left party La France Insoumise , posed a particular obstacle . A former teacher and a Trotskyist , M ? lenchon is known for marrying erudition to aggression in fiery orations against finance , NATO , and American imperialism , while admiring Fidel Castro and Hugo Ch ? vez . He is one of few high-profile French politicians to treat French Muslims as a desired constituency , not as a problem to be solved . One poll suggests that sixty-nine per cent of Muslim voters supported his 2022 Presidential bid . M ? lenchon 's detractors accuse him of antisemitism , which he has denied , and point to a worryingly autocratic tendency . In 2018 , when police showed up to search his party 's headquarters on funding matters , M ? lenchon yelled into an officer 's face , " La R ? publique , c'est moi ! " ( He was convicted on charges of " intimidation and rebellion . " ) <p> In 2023 , a less ambitious leftist alliance exploded over M ? lenchon 's refusal , after October 7th , to denounce Hamas 's acts as terrorism . ( His party has called October 7th " an armed offensive by Palestinian forces " and prefers the designation " war crimes . " ) Yet now , in the span of twenty-four hours , every significant voting bloc to the left of Macron had joined together . " It was a miracle , even though I prefer not to use religious language , " Tondelier , from the Green Party , told me , leaning back in a chair in her office at the party 's headquarters . Over the summer , Tondelier emerged as one of the N.F.P. 's stars -- a hard-core tactician who was n't afraid to cry a few hot tears in public , or to wear a bright-green jacket everywhere if it helped get her point across . " We 're the anti-Macron and the anti-R.N. , " she told me . <p> Within days , the alliance settled on a single candidate for almost all of the country 's nearly six hundred legislative districts and hammered out a common platform , calling for a minimum-wage hike , a price freeze on energy bills , and the reinstatement of wealth taxes that Macron had cancelled . The former President Fran ? ois Hollande , a Socialist who had long refused to associate with M ? lenchon , emerged from political retirement to offer his benediction . Then , as Le Monde noted , he added " the final brick " to the coalition , announcing that he would return to public life , running in his home district as an N.F.P. candidate . The situation was " more serious than it has ever been , " Hollande told reporters . " Never has the extreme right been so close to power . " <p> Facing an unexpected threat from the left , Macron denounced the coalition as an " extreme " movement , to be ostracized and rebuffed in equal measure to the R.N. At Second World War commemorations in Brittany , Macron called the N.F.P. " totally immigrationist , " parroting a phrase used by the far right . He accused the coalition of being obsessed with identity politics , and said that it would encourage " grotesque things like going to change your sex at city hall . " <p> The first round of voting took place on June 30th . Turnout was enormous , the highest in more than thirty years . The R.N. emerged in first place , but another round of voting was still to come the following week , and in many districts three or four candidates qualified . Immediately , the N.F.P. , joined by Macron and most of the center right , called for the deployment of a front r ? publicain -- a sort of electoral firewall constructed by parties all along the spectrum to retract vote-splitting candidates and encourage people who would have voted for them to throw support to anyone but the R.N. <p> On Election Night , the R.N. invited supporters to a swank venue in the Bois de Vincennes . They were expecting a victory party . For months , Bardella and his colleagues had been putting together a " Matignon plan " ( referring to the Prime Minister 's residence ) , and there was hope that his group might even secure an absolute majority , giving the R.N. control of the Assembl ? e Nationale . The faithful gathered in cocktail attire , continually refreshing Swiss and Belgian Web sites , which are n't subject to a rule that restricts French outlets from reporting on election results until 8 P.M. But when the hour arrived , Le Monde reported , " there was a great silence in the ranks . " And then disbelief made itself heard : " The French are dumbasses ! " " Fuck , we 're third . " <p> Over at R ? publique , the square where the leftist coalition had gathered , a cheer went up . Not only had the front r ? publicain held but the N.F.P. -- the miracle alliance , the improbable and not entirely wanted child of electoral necessity -- had finished in first place . Supporters scaled the base of a statue representing Marianne , the personification of the French Republic , and hung an enormous French flag bearing the words " LA FRANCE EST TISSU DE MIGRATIONS . " The slogan meant " France is woven from migrations , " but it played on the phrase issu de l'immigration , a way of saying that a person or his parents were born abroad . The words affirmed the reality of French diversity , rebuking the R.N. 's racism and xenophobia . " Everyone hates fachos ! " the crowd chanted . " First generation , second generation , third generation -- who cares ! We 're chez nous ! " <p> It was a rapturous evening for the left , yet voters had n't handed the coalition a clean victory . The N.F.P. had won the most seats , but the new legislature was still almost evenly divided between the N.F.P. , Macron 's group , and the R.N. , leaving no faction with a majority . It was a three-way parliamentary stalemate . Instead of providing an indispensable clarification , the election had utterly muddied the situation . <p> The constitution gives the President the right to name the Prime Minister , but it specifies no criteria or timetable . Custom dictated that Macron nominate someone from the majority party , but , for the first time in the history of the Fifth Republic , there was n't one . The only thing constraining Macron , really , was what he could get away with . It was likely that , in nineteen days , the Paris Olympics would begin with no one at the wheel of the government . Would there be a sports minister ? Or , for that matter , anyone with the power to appoint one ? <p> In the absence of clear guidelines , M ? lenchon rushed to emphasize the importance of the N.F.P. 's first-place finish . " The President must invite the Nouveau Front Populaire to govern , " he proclaimed , standing behind a lectern at his party 's headquarters , in his signature carmine tie . His deputies , arrayed behind him , looked as though they could barely contain their glee as he thundered , " The Nouveau Front Populaire will implement its program , nothing but its program , and all of its program ! " <p> Instead of choosing a Prime Minister quickly , Macron dragged the process out through the summer , announcing a political " tr ? ve " -- a truce or rest period -- to last through the Olympics . It was a revelation to learn that someone could press Pause on politics -- the jockeying and squabbling and speculating -- and it would just go away , at least for nineteen days . There was hardly a public mention of the crisis , save for a sign that a pair of fans held up at the men 's two-hundred-metre breaststroke final , paying tribute to the star swimmer L ? on Marchand and to the rugby player Antoine Dupont , sometimes called Toto : " L ? ON , PRESIDENT . TOTO , PRIME MINISTER . " <p> " I agree with Saskia -- it was , over all , a somewhat predictable picaresque , but the part with the really big bus was good . " <p> Cartoon by Emily Bernstein <p> Link copied <p> The Olympics ended on August 11th , with Macron still no closer to resolving the dilemma of who would lead the government . At one point , Attal , the lame-duck Prime Minister , was spotted playing with a lightsabre in Matignon 's gardens . Some observers suspected that Macron was trying to run out the clock , hoping that the N.F.P. would fall apart . The coalition had first put forth Lucie Castets in late July , just an hour before Macron was scheduled to give a prime-time television interview . Asked whether he would appoint her , he brushed the possibility aside , saying that what mattered was n't a particular name but , rather , who could muster a working majority to pass legislation . N.F.P. leaders were livid -- they had finished first , they had found a candidate , and now Macron was shooting her down on live TV without so much as a discussion . Someone Castets knew offered her a back channel to communicate with the President , but she declined . " We took him by surprise , " she recalled . " I think he was embarrassed . Let him deal with it , right ? " <p> When I met Castets , on a sunny terrace at a local caf ? , she drank an espresso and reflected on her supposedly Warholian summer . It had been more of a grind than people imagined : with no formal staff or funding , she shouldered media requests and policy research largely alone , and the selection process dragged on so long that she was forced to resign from her job at city hall . The experience reminded her less of the Factory than of giving birth . " I just dissociated , " she said . <p> Within Macron 's camp , some agreed that he should appoint Castets out of respect for the election result , even though the numbers showed that the opposing parties could , and probably would , find the votes to oust her immediately . " It 's like a series , " Roland Lescure told me . " If you do n't have Season 1 , you ca n't have Season 2 . " Another point of view held that Macron should skip straight to a viable government that might be hospitable to preserving his most cherished policies . At the end of August , Macron invited Castets to the ? lys ? e . She arrived in black pants and boots , flanked by a dozen of her partners from the coalition . By all accounts , the ninety-minute meeting went smoothly and Castets confidently passed what the media called her " grand oral exam , " answering the President 's questions on everything from the budget to the French territory of New Caledonia . <p> Centrists accused the left of refusing to compromise . Castets told me that her most profound disagreement with Macron was about disagreement itself . " It does n't hold up for long to pretend that the right and left can be similar and that there is no conflict or interests in politics , " she said . " It 's all about conflict and interests . " Macron 's attempt to create a political synthesis , she continued , had accomplished the inverse of what he aspired to . His legacy , culminating in the dissolution , would be the repolarization of the electorate . She said , " I think he 's in a very bad position , and he did exactly what he wanted to avoid . " <p> Days later , Macron announced that , seeking " institutional stability , " he was eliminating Castets from the running . Le Gorafi , the French equivalent of TheOnion , captured the brutal anticlimax to the left 's remarkable run with the headline " Emmanuel Macron Asks Lucie Castets , Leaving the ? lys ? e , to Take Out the Trash . " As ever , personal explanations competed with political ones . Macronologists saw a control freak contending poorly with the attrition of his authority -- " a shrunken , confused power , who still dreams of himself as a Machiavelli , " as Le Figaro put it . People interested in policy pointed out that Macron was hellbent on protecting the reforms that had taken him years to pass -- particularly the retirement overhaul -- and that , even if an N.F.P. government was doomed to fall , Castets could have used executive orders to obstruct the reforms within weeks . <p> Whatever Macron 's rationale , the left argued , the decision amounted to a subversion of democracy . " I think that the President has decided to declare war , " Fabien Roussel , the head of the Communist Party , proclaimed . Sarah Bennani , a nineteen-year-old student who had found time between schoolwork and a nannying job to get out the vote in working-class areas like Seine-Saint-Denis , where the abstention rate had previously reached almost seventy per cent , told me that she felt " sad talking about what finally happened , " and even conflicted about having urged her friends and neighbors to vote . " Those arguments are n't valid anymore , " she said . " The government betrayed the people who we encouraged to give politics a chance . " <p> Macron continued to float names . So did the media . They were all over the place , in terms of both profile and ideology : younger , older , inexperienced , experienced , rural , urban , left , right , completely out of left field . The longer he procrastinated , the less time whomever he selected would have to try to put together a budget and a working majority to push it through . Talking with voters , I heard many versions of the same complaint : He gave us twenty-one days to keep the fascists out of power , but allows himself the luxury of eight weeks of deliberation . <p> Finally , on September 5th , Macron announced that he had come to a decision : the new Prime Minister would be Michel Barnier , a septuagenarian political hand who had previously served as minister of the environment ( 1993-95 ) , minister of European affairs ( 1995-97 ) , minister of foreign affairs ( 2004-05 ) , and minister of agriculture and fisheries ( 2007-09 ) before acting as the European Union 's chief Brexit negotiator ( 2016-21 ) . Barnier hailed from the traditional right and called himself a " social Gaullist . " Statuesque and snowy-haired , he was best known to many French people as the co-president of the Albertville Olympics , which took place in 1992 in his home region of Savoie . Despite a late-career anti-immigrant turn , he was a reasonably consensual figure , with a kitsch factor that worked in his favor . It was kind of like bringing back Bob Dole . <p> Yet , seen from a certain angle , Barnier 's appointment was a provocation . His center-right party had finished fourth in the snap election , garnering a mere five per cent of the vote . Worse still , his appointment required the blessing of Marine Le Pen -- who signalled that she would n't immediately vote to oust Barnier -- and the stability of his government would depend on the tacit approval of her deputies , who crowed that Barnier would have to work under their " surveillance . " Dominique de Villepin marvelled , " It proves the Gospels right -- the first will be the last , and the last will be the first . " Effectively , French voters had narrowly chosen the left-wing N.F.P. only to get a right-wing government , serving at the pleasure of Le Pen . <p> In October , I flew to Nice to attend an R.N. rally . I started the day at the market , where a man handed me a flyer encouraging me to say " no to the explosion of real-estate taxes . " I bought a slice of pissaladi ? re and a chard frittata and ate them on an embankment facing the Mediterranean Sea , then took the tram to the Palais Nika ? a , an exurban theatre where the R.N. 's stars , including Le Pen and Bardella , were set to appear for their first big event since the snap election . When I got there , another man handed me another flyer . It featured a lot of blue , white , and red and an angry-looking eagle hovering over a Marianne . " We are the best of the youth because we defend our COUNTRY , our frontiers , and our PEOPLE in the face of the system changes and the demography that lie in wait for them , " it read . <p> The theatre would soon be hosting a Beatles tribute band and a Celtic Legends dance performance . Inside , some five thousand people were settling into their seats as Charles Aznavour 's " Emmenez-moi " played on the sound system . In the row in front of me , three generations of one family -- grandmother , daughter , grandson -- nudged one another in excitement as a blockbuster-style trailer filled the screen . <p> Then a handful of deputies took the stage for panel discussions . The conversations were n't the barn burners one might have expected . They were heavy on acronyms , and on shopkeeperish concerns of neighborhood safety and personal finance . Anyone who had been following Le Pen , however , would know that this sandpapered discourse was the outcome of a decade 's work of d ? diabolisation , or " undemonizing " the party -- a campaign that had resulted in the R.N. 's legislative presence growing from eight deputies to a hundred and twenty-six in just seven years . Given these electoral successes and the unprecedented defection of mainstream politicians to the party , the d ? diabolisation phase was effectively over . Now it was all about d ? senclavement , or opening the party up to a wider audience . The journalist Tristan Berteloot writes in his new book , " La Machine ? Gagner " ( " The Winning Machine " ) , that the R.N. quietly maintains links with neo-Fascist and white-supremacist movements , but that recently it has been far more disciplined publicly as it tries " to break the ' glass ceiling ' that , according to it , has prevented it from gaining power . " ( The R.N. denied these claims through a spokesperson . ) <p> R.N. members now undergo media training . But , in the tumult of the snap election , dubious and outright vile comments came pouring forth . " I have a Jew as an ophthalmologist and a Muslim as a dentist , " one R.N. candidate asserted , by way of refuting accusations of racism . Others called immigrants " pieces of shit " and said French people of North African descent " did n't belong in high office , " railed against vaccines , and questioned the moon landing . Confronted in an interview , Bardella acknowledged that there were four or five " problematic " candidates , but minimized them as " casting errors , " the inevitable by-products of a rushed nomination process . <p> It was harder to minimize the damage inflicted by the party 's proposal to bar French citizens who hold other nationalities from certain public jobs . The party had floated the idea in the legislature early in the year , but by the summer it was obvious that the plan was widely unpopular . Le Pen then claimed that binational employment was " a completely microscopic subject " that would involve only about thirty jobs of high sensitivity , even though , in 2011 , she 'd advocated for doing away with dual nationality altogether . " We are Algerian or we are French , " she once declared . <p> Despite obvious commonalities with the U.S. Republican Party , it 's not entirely clear what stance the R.N. , should it come to power , would take toward a second Trump Presidency . Le Pen -- a cat lady , though not childless -- holds a breeder 's diploma and lives with six feline companions : Jazz , Paloma , Shad ? , Shalimar , Oural , and Piccolina . She has defended reproductive rights , writing that although she would like to reduce abortions , she finds it " ineffective and cruel to do so by coercive measures , " particularly when poor women are most likely to suffer . In 2016 , she welcomed Trump 's election fulsomely , but last month she offered only a bland tweet , and told a reporter , " At a moment when the United States is clearly going to defend its interests in an even more vigorous manner , Europe is going to have to wake up . " Drolet , the professor of politics and international relations , told me , " The French right is obviously pleased that you now have a much less Atlanticist America . Trump 's election also leaves more room for national autonomy and can be seen by the right as an opportunity for Europe to assert itself . " The belief that Le Pen and Trump hold most fervently in common is actually the one that is likeliest to keep them from ever becoming too cozy : nationalism is a zero-sum project . <p> At the rally , Le Pen spoke before Bardella . The fact that she was essentially serving as his opening act seemed to reflect an evolving power dynamic . Le Pen delivered a searing account of the political drama that had consumed the country since June 9th . " I 'm not going to go back into the delays and the tricks of these past few months , " she said , " but I believe that the French people will remember with acuity the manner in which the political class twisted their arms during the legislative elections and has sought to invisibilize them ever since . " She paused a moment , tucking a strand of hair behind her ear . " The aspirations of the French have been ghost ? es " -- ghosted -- " as the youth say . " <p> Then Bardella descended from the heavens -- or such was the implication , as he emerged from the upper reaches of the auditorium and floated down through the rows , flanked by bodyguards , while cheering fans waved flags and pawed at his clothes . As he strode onto the stage , resplendent in navy tailoring , I thought of him not as a well-scrubbed son-in-law but as a kind of launderer , spot-cleaning stains of racism and nepotism so that the R.N. would n't have to get new clothes . <p> Bardella said that he was there to speak to " all those whose heart bleeds when they look at the state of France . " <p> " The left to the guillotine ! " someone in the audience yelled . <p> Cartoon by Juan Astasio <p> Link copied <p> The R.N. , one former high-level civil servant told me , is " at a very different and quite difficult point in its life cycle . It has to remain the party of angry people while demonstrating that it can be relied upon to govern . " Macron 's position as the party 's primary villain , it seemed , was receding along with his share of votes . Bardella spent far more time talking about the danger of M ? lenchon 's " regressive left , " supposedly stuffed with asinine diversity hires and terrorism apologists swaddled in Palestinian flags . <p> " Dirty cunt ! " the grandmother in front of me cried out , slicing a hand through the air . <p> The atmosphere was growing febrile . I had the weird sensation that I 'd seen someone with a Confederate flag , and , indeed , it later turned out that a man had shown up in a jacket decorated with a patch featuring the Stars and Bars , posing for a picture with an R.N. deputy . " If it was n't for wokeism , nobody would care , " the man said . Bardella wrapped up his speech with a call for " the people " to keep pressing on , promising that " our victory is not cancelled but deferred . " <p> " We are impatient to govern , " he declared . " The time of power is not far off . " <p> The first weeks of December were supposed to be a triumph for Macron , a respite from the churning negativity of the political crisis . On the second Sunday of Advent , five years after a fire nearly burned Notre-Dame de Paris to the ground , the fully renovated cathedral was set to reopen to the public . The restoration was Macron 's personal project ; almost as soon as the flames were out , he promised that the cathedral would be rebuilt by 2024 . He had fulfilled that vow , and the result was a marvel , a vindication of French aesthetic splendor and technical prowess and even , yes , a certain headstrong style of leadership . Yet , in the first days of December , from the moment that the Monday-morning talk shows kicked off and the legislative session opened , it became clear that this accomplishment was likely to be eclipsed by a rapidly deteriorating situation at the Assembl ? e Nationale . <p> The immediate problem was the budget . In the fall , it emerged that the national deficit was even bigger than anyone had admitted publicly -- a gaping hundred and sixty-seven billion euros . Debt-related expenses were estimated to exceed next year 's education budget . Ratings agencies had downgraded France 's credit rating , and , at more than six per cent of the G.D.P. , the deficit considerably exceeded the European Commission 's three-per-cent cap . A government spokesperson admitted in October , " The risk , for France , is to become Greece in 2010 . " <p> The revelations only aggravated the instability of the Barnier government , built on the wobbliest base of any since the start of the Fifth Republic . The N.F.P. had already called for a no-confidence vote in early October , in protest of Barnier 's appointment . I sat down with Manuel Bompard , a deputy and the national co ? rdinator of M ? lenchon 's party , in his spartan office just before the vote . Even though the motion was almost certain to fail , and eventually did , Bompard saw it as a necessary riposte to the " democratic trauma " that he believed Macron had inflicted on the country . " The idea is not to do things only when we are sure that they will work , that they will succeed , but also to fight battles even when we 're not leading , or that we ca n't win , " Bompard told me . <p> Because the left-wing coalition had declared itself unwilling to work with Barnier 's government from the beginning , and the centrist bloc did n't have the numbers to go it alone , Barnier needed the support of the R.N. to pass a budget bill , which he had to do before the end of the year . He made significant concessions to the R.N. , agreeing not to raise taxes on electricity , and to remove a measure that would have reduced insurance coverage for some medications . His gestures , however conciliatory , were not enough to satisfy Le Pen . Without sufficient support , on December 2nd , Barnier resorted to a maneuver known as the 49.3 , by which a Prime Minister can push a bill through without a vote . " The French have had enough of being fleeced and mistreated , " Le Pen told reporters , outside the legislative chamber . " Maybe some thought that with Michel Barnier things would change -- well , it 's even worse than it was . " Her party would join the N.F.P. in voting to oust his government . <p> It behooved Le Pen to keep public attention focussed on the budget fight : she and twenty-four co-defendants are being tried in a Paris criminal court , accused of using the E.U. as a piggy bank for the party and funnelling funds to apparatchiks . ( The defendants have denied all allegations , and some of Le Pen 's supporters have complained that she is being targeted by " a government of judges . " ) In mid-November , prosecutors announced that they were seeking heavy penalties , including a two-year prison sentence for Le Pen and a ban on running for public office for five years , which would make her ineligible for the 2027 Presidential election . <p> After Le Pen 's announcement , time seemed to accelerate . By Wednesday , just forty-eight hours later , Barnier was up for a no-confidence vote . As the debate opened , the Assembl ? e was rowdy and restless , crackling with the heady feeling of history being made . The left spoke first , denouncing the government 's betrayal , its rebuff of the N.F.P. 's priorities , and its pandering to Le Pen . Then Le Pen got up , intense as ever , dismissing Barnier as an " optical illusion " and charging his group with displaying " intransigence , sectarianism , and dogmatism . " An impassioned last-minute plea by Attal to the conscience and sense of responsibility of the deputies -- " It 's not too late ! " he implored -- did nothing to forestall Barnier 's fate . Hours later , it was official : three hundred and thirty-one deputies had voted to support the motion , toppling the government for the first time since 1962 and rendering Barnier the shortest-lived Prime Minister in the Fifth Republic 's history . <p> " It 's a huge waste , " the centrist deputy Mathieu Lef ? vre told me . Barnier " tried to find the compromises necessary to construct a budget despite a very restricted timetable . Unfortunately , he had to face an alliance of opposites who are harmful to our country and its stability . " It remains to be seen whether France will descend , as some experts have predicted , into a deeper chaos of financial turbulence and social unrest . The Constitution contains provisions that prevent a total government shutdown in the absence of a budget , permitting the country to carry out basic functions such as collecting taxes and paying civil servants . But French people are likely to face uncertainty about pension payments and tax rates , as well as jittery financial markets . Farmers from the Burgundy area have already announced that they will pay " a visit " to deputies who voted to bring down the government and , in doing so , deprived them of eagerly awaited measures to ease their financial plight . Still , for some deputies , the prospect of starting over is cause for optimism . " I voted without hesitation , but with a certain gravity , " Arthur Delaporte , a Socialist deputy , told me . " It 's not an anodyne gesture , to topple a government . But it 's meant to enable the return of a regime that functions differently . " <p> Macron will have to appoint a new Prime Minister -- once again , of his own choosing . This time , he says , he will do it within days . If another government falls , however , calls for his resignation are likely to grow deafening , and he may have a difficult time justifying his viability as the head of an executive branch that changes Prime Ministers more often than many people see their hairdressers . In a recent poll , sixty-four per cent of French people indicated that they want Macron to resign , but he says unequivocally that he will finish out his term , which ends in 2027 . <p> Le Pen professes , for now , to be uninterested in forcing Macron out , but an early election could be advantageous , given her legal problems . Already her party has begun to deploy what one R.N. deputy called " the slow poison " of suggestion , letting the idea seep into the public consciousness that Macron should step down . M ? lenchon , who makes no secret of his desire to depose Macron ( " Even with a Barnier every three months , Macron wo n't last three years , " he quipped soon after the vote ) , is focussed on finally getting a left-wing Prime Minister . Only days ago , he vowed that the N.F.P. would insist that Macron appoint the candidate of its choice -- Lucie Castets . But in France at the moment , today 's ultimatum is tomorrow 's obsolescence . On Friday , the Socialists declared that they were ready to negotiate with Macron 's group and the center right , throwing the fate of the N.F.P. into question and rejiggering the political landscape once again . ? <p> Published in the print edition of the December 16 , 2024 , issue , with the headline " The Battle for France . " 
@@118600489 <p> Scandar Copti 's " Happy Holidays " won top honors at the Marrakech Film Festival on Saturday , capping an emotional and politically resonant ceremony , while adding Marrakech 's ? toile d'Or to a list of accolades for the film that also includes best screenplay from Venice 's Orizzonti and best in show from the Thessaloniki Film Festival . <p> The acclaimed title also claimed a shared best actress prize for leads Manar Shehab and Wafaa Aoun . <p> Split into four chapters , the Palestinian film follows an ensemble of characters -- Arab and Jewish alike -- living in contemporary Haifa . Family secrets and domestic tensions underscore scenes from everyday life as the film traces out an expansive social circle with a novelistic attention to cultural and interpersonal dynamics . <h> Popular on Variety <p> As she accepted the award on behalf of her filmmaking partner , screenwriter Mona Copti cast her joy for the accolades against the harsher reality of the ongoing war in Gaza . <p> " How did we get here ? " she asked . " How did dehumanization become normalized ? How have killing , destruction , and martyrdom become almost acceptable ? How did we lose our moral compass and reach this point of ethical collapse ? <p> " We hope this film offers some answers to these questions by shedding light on the repercussions of indoctrination in societies and its impact on individual behavior -- particularly in communities where women remain constrained by customs and traditions that deny them personal freedom above all else . Our struggle is interconnected , and true liberation can not be achieved in isolation . None of us is truly free until all of us are . " <p> " The Cottage " producer Mercedes C ? rdova and director Silvina Schnicer <p> Indeed , nearly all the night 's speeches carried a political charge . As director Silvina Schnicer accepted the jury prize for her film " The Cottage " -- an honor the film shared with Mo Harawe 's " The Village Next to Paradise " -- the Argentine auteur decried the heavy hand of her country 's Javier Milei government , specifically when it comes to cutting cinema funding . <p> Finally , Polish drama " Under the Volcano " was the night 's other big winner , claiming the director prize for filmmaker Damian Kocur and the best actor trophy for star Roman Lutskyi . In another riveting speech -- this time delivered via video -- the actor dedicated his award to the armed forces of Ukraine . <p> For its 21st edition , the Marrakech Film Festival exceeded 40,000 attendees , marking a 5,000-admission increase from the previous year 's record , with young adults and students from Moroccan film schools in large parts accounting for the surge . Alongside its wider outreach programs , Marrakech also introduced an expanded festival hub that spread out over a half-mile , incorporating new venues while fostering a more vibrant and encompassing atmosphere . <p> Mo Harawe <p> Awards season hopefuls like Walter Salles ' " I 'm Still Here " and Gints Zilbalodis ' " Flow " screened for rapturous crowds , while Jean-Claude Barny 's political biopic " Fanon " made its world premiere -- bolstering the festival 's reputation as a continental showcase for African cinema . <p> Pursuant to those goals , the festival will double down on its Atlas Distribution Award -- a recent initiative meant to fuel wider domestic and international distribution for the Moroccan , Arab and Pan-African films presented in Marrakech. 22 titles from this year 's selection will be eligible for Atlas support , including the night 's big winner . <p> " We realized that these projects , outside of their time in festivals , were often not distributed in the Arab world or in Africa , " says festival coordinator Ali Hajji . " To ensure the viability and longevity -- both culturally and economically -- we saw the need to create a distribution system to better reach those audiences . Quite simply , we want Arab and African audiences to see these films . " 
@@118600497 <p> Prominent industry insiders are gathering support for Oscar consideration for the documentary " We Will Dance Again , " which chronicles the horror that unfolded at Israel 's Nova International Music Festival on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Producer Marc Platt , Sean Penn , music mogul Scooter Braun and former HBO and MTV documentary chief Sheila Nevins are voicing support for the film , produced by Sipur , Bitachon 365 in collaboration with MGM Television , HSCC and Susan Zirinsky 's See It Now Studios with BBC Storyville . " We Will Dance Again " has aired on the BBC Storyville plaform in the U.K. and on Israel 's Hot Channel 8 . The 90-minute documentary , written and directed by Yariv Mozer and produced by HSCC 's Michal Weits , is available in the U.S. on Paramount+ . <h> Related Stories <p> Platt , Braun and others are hosting an invitation-only screening for the documentary on Sunday on the Paramount Pictures lot . A survivor of the terrorist attack by Hamas that ignited the war in Gaza will take part in a panel session after the screening . More than 360 people were killed and many more wounded when terrorists opened fire on the outdoor festival held in Re'im in southern Israel . <h> Popular on Variety <p> Penn , who produced the 2023 documentary " Superpower " about the war in Ukraine , is speaking out for " We Will Dance Again . " <p> " We bandy about the term ' must-see film , ' and yet rarely do films live up to that in any literal sense . As heartbreaking as it is revelatory , ' We Will Dance Again ' is truly a must-see film in our time , " Penn said . <p> Nevins emphasized that a documentary such as " We Will Dance Again " is the right vehicle to capture world-shaking events and also help with processing the trauma . <p> The film pieces together the savage attack with video footage from a range of sources , including some incredibly disturbing material released online by Hamas terrorists . The ensuing war in Gaza has created a global humanitarian crisis that has left more than 44,000 Palestinians dead . Nearly 1,200 Israelis died in the Oct. 7 attack and 63 people remain captive from the 251 hostages taken by Hamas on Oct. 7 . <p> Zirinsky , the longtime CBS News producer and former CBS News president , stressed that the film 's focus is on the young adults whose lives were shattered that day . <p> " This film is apolitical -- and the authenticity of the 12 survivors -- immersing you in events as they unfolded right before your eyes -- and that is why so many of Hollywood 's greatest storytellers have voiced their appreciations for having unraveled this tragedy as we honor the memories of the many lives lost , " Zirinsky said . 
@@118615796 <p> Trump spoke with NBC News for more than an hour in an interview that covered a range of topics . <p> President-elect Donald Trumps sits down for an interview Friday with Kristen Welker on " Meet The Press . " Meet The Press <p> Create your free profile or log in to save this article <p> Dec. 8 , 2024 , 5:00 PM UTC <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> President-elect Donald Trump , welcome back to Meet the Press . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Thank you very much . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Thank you so much for being here . You are the first president since Grover Cleveland to win non-consecutive terms . Republicans now have control of the House and the Senate . What do you plan to accomplish in your first 100 days in office ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , we 're going to do something with the border , very strong , very powerful . That 'll be our first signal -- first signal to America that we 're not playing games . We have people coming in by the millions , as you know , and a lot of people should n't be here . Most of them should n't be here . But we have jails being emptied into our country . We have mental institutions from all over the world being emptied into our country . So we 'll be doing that . We 're going to be extending within that period or as soon as we can the Trump tax cuts , because you know they 're coming due and they 're very substantial for people . It would be very -- and I think it will anger a lot of people , frankly , if we do n't get an extension of that . That 's what led us to one of the greatest economies ever . And those two things are going to be very vital , very important . We 're going to be focusing on crime in the cities , and we 'll work with Democrat governors . Most of them are , as you know , if you look at the 25 worst places , they 're just about all Democrat-controlled cities and states . And we 're going to be working with Democrat governors and Democrat mayors , and I look forward to doing it . But we have to do something about crime , and mostly in our cities . And we 're going to have a lot of other things . We 'll be working on nominations . We 're going to still be working on some nominations . I think they 're going very well . We have -- for the most part , I think they 're going extremely well . It looks like Pete is doing well now . I mean , people were a little bit concerned . He 's a young guy with a tremendous track record , actually . Went to Princeton and went to Harvard . He was a good student at both . But he loves the military , and I think people are starting to see it , so we 'll be working on his nomination along with a lot of others . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> We are going to delve into your nominations , but since you bring him up , do you still have confidence in Pete Hegseth ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yes , I do . I really do . He 's a very smart guy . I 've known him through Fox , but I 've known him for a long time . And he 's basically a military guy . I mean , every time I talk to him , all he wants to talk about is the military . He 's a military guy . I used to kid him about it . I did n't think we 'd be in this position where he may be , hopefully will be , secretary of defense . But every time I was with him , he was fighting for soldiers , where he said some soldier was unjustly put in prison because they were really doing what they were taught to do , in some cases . So yeah , I think he 's going to do fine . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> The fact that there are these allegations against him , misconduct , sexual misconduct , heavy drinking , the fact that he said to some senators , reportedly , he 'll stop drinking if he gets this job , does that worry you ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No . I think that everybody has something that they can stop . Some people can stop eating . I 'm lucky I 'm not a drinker , but I could stop eating . And we all want to stop doing something . And if he said that , I mean , that 's a nice thing to say . That 's a good thing to say . But he 's very respected . I can tell you I know a lot of the people at Fox , they think he 's fantastic . And the people that work with him , really , they love him . So I think , I think you 're going to have somebody that 's really terrific . And again , all he talked about with me , I said , " You know you 're not really a television guy . " Even though he did very well , as you know . " You 're really a military guy . " He said , " I 'm all about the military . " And I told him -- so he 's making a lot of money at Fox . They 're doing very well . And I said , " You know , if for some reason you do n't get this thing , you 're not going to be able to go back . And all that money you 're making , you can kiss it goodbye . " He said , " This is all about America . " You know he -- and he did n't say , " Well , let me think about it . Let me discuss it . " That was -- that 's a very big risky thing he 's doing . When he goes and he says , " I 'm going to give up , you know , millions of dollars in order to possibly become the secretary of defense , " a lot of people would say , it 's a great position , there 's probably almost no greater position , but a lot of people would say , " I have to think about it . " He said , " I do n't have to think about it . " <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> All right , we 're going to delve into your Cabinet just a little bit later . But I want to delve into one of your signature promises on the campaign trail , which was to end inflation , to lower prices . You are now proposing tariffs against the United States ' three biggest trading partners . Economists of all stripes say that ultimately consumers pay the price of tariffs . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I do n't believe that . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Can you guarantee American families wo n't pay more ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I ca n't guarantee anything . I ca n't guarantee tomorrow . But I can say that if you look at my -- just pre-Covid , we had the greatest economy in the history of our country . And I had a lot of tariffs on a lot of different countries , but in particular China . We took in hundreds of billions of dollars and we had no inflation . In fact , when I handed it over , they did n't have inflation for a year and a half . They went almost two years just based on what I had created . And then they created inflation with energy and with spending too much . So I think we will -- I 'm a big believer in tariffs . I think tariffs are the most beautiful word . I think they 're beautiful . It 's going to make us rich . We 're subsidizing Canada to the tune over $100 billion a year . We 're subsidizing Mexico for almost $300 billion . We should n't be -- why are we subsidizing these countries ? If we 're going to subsidize them , let them become a state . We 're subsidizing Mexico and we 're subsidizing Canada and we 're subsidizing many countries all over the world . And all I want to do is I want to have a level , fast , but fair playing field . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Sir , your previous tariffs during your first administration cost Americans some $80 billion , and now you have major companies from Walmart , Black &amp; Decker , AutoZone , saying that any tariffs are going to force them to drive up prices for their consumers . How do you make sure that these CEOs , that these companies do n't , in fact , pass on the cost of tariffs to their consumers ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> They cost Americans nothing . They made a great economy for us . They also solve another problem . If we were going to have problems having to do with wars and having to do with other things , tariffs -- I have stopped wars with tariffs by saying , " You guys want to fight , it 's great . But both of you are going to pay tariffs to the United States at 100% . " And -- they have many purposes , tariffs , if properly used . I do n't say you use them like a madman . I say properly used . But it did n't cost this country anything . It made this country money . And we never really got the chance to go all out because we had to fight Covid in the last part , and we did it very successfully . And when I handed it over to Biden , the stock market was higher than what it was just previous to Covid coming in . It was actually higher . Tariffs are a -- properly used , are a very powerful tool , not only economically , but also for getting other things outside of economics . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well , again , prices did go up on some goods in your first administration , washing machines , tires . Will you punish CEOs ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Oh , let me just explain to you . No . You mentioned washing machines . So you look at Whirlpool in Ohio . I got a call from Jim Jordan , one of the greats , congressman from Ohio . And he said they 're going out of business because South Korea and China are dumping washing machines into our country . And I put a 50% tariff on the washing machines coming in from China and South Korea , and Whirlpool and the companies that made washing machines , which are based in Ohio , largely based in Ohio , went through the roof . We saved thousands of jobs , tens of thousands of jobs . They were all going out of business because they were dumping washing machines . And when I put the tariffs on , they became successful businesses . No , not only did n't it cost people , it made our country stronger and more powerful and it kept jobs . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But how do you make sure that consumers do n't wind up paying more ? Will you punish CEOs who try to pass the cost of tariffs on to their customers ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , the market 's going to take care of it . I mean , actually , the market takes care of it . And if it does n't , we adjust it somewhat . But in the case of Whirlpool or , let 's say , companies that made washing machines , they were all being put out of business by the dumping from , in particular , South Korea and China . And when I put the tariffs on , very substantial tariffs -- although peanuts compared to what people do to us , what countries do to us -- it became a very , very powerful , successful company . Now , let 's say I did n't do the tariffs , it would 've gone out of business . You would 've lost tens of thousands of jobs . And you do n't include that in your equation . No , they make a lot of money . I 'll go a step further . Tariffs are going to make our country rich . Tariffs are going to help us pay off $35 trillion in debt . Tariffs are going to make our country safe because China , as an example , does n't want to play games with us if we 're going to do tariffs on them . They do n't want to play games . And we have a lot of games being played on us right now . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well , I think -- and that takes me to my next question . Are you actually going to impose these tariffs or are they a negotiating tactic ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , I 'll give you an example . With Canada , and in particular Mexico , we have millions of people pouring into our country . You agree with that . I spoke with the -- both -- I spoke with Justin Trudeau . In fact , he flew to Mar-a-Lago , within about 15 seconds after the call ended . It was at Mar-a-Lago , we were having dinner , talking about it . I said , " You have to close up your borders , " because they 're coming in the northern border too , a lot . Not like the southern border , but they 're coming in the Canadian border a lot . And drugs are pouring in . Almost as importantly , drugs are pouring in . Maybe more importantly . Drugs are pouring in at levels never seen before , 10 times what we had . They 're just pouring in . We ca n't have open borders . And I said to the president of Mexico and to Justin Trudeau , " If it does n't stop , I 'm going to put tariffs on your country at about 25% . That 's a very substantial tariff . And in the case of -- in both cases , but in the case where it was really visible , within ten minutes after that phone call , we noticed that the people coming across the border , the southern border having to do with Mexico , there was at a trickle . Just a trickle . In fact , I called the border . See , unlike my opponent , I do call the border a lot . And I said , " How 's the border looking today ? " They said , " There 's nobody here . " They could n't believe it . The military stopped these vast groups of people . You know , we call them caravans . But they had caravans of people , and they largely stopped them . Now , they 're going to have to continue that , but if they do n't continue -- and the other thing I told them is no more drugs . And I told that to China too . I had a deal with President Xi . Had the election been different -- I 'm going to be very nice because we do n't have to get into an argument over 2020 -- but had the election been different , the result been different , we would 've had China giving their maximum penalty , which is the penalty of death , to people that send fentanyl into this country . But Biden did n't , unfortunately , finish that discussion up . I had an agreement with President Xi , who I got along with very well . We 've had communication as recently as this week . And I had communication with him where they were going to give the death penalty to anybody sending drugs into the United States . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> This week you had that conversation ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Not that conversation , but I had other conversations . But in the past I 've had that conversation . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Let me ask you about another aspect of the economy , sir , the minimum wage . The federal minimum wage has been $7.25 since 2009 . There are 20 states that still have a federal minimum wage at $7.25 , and I actually have a map . Nineteen of these states actually voted for you , sir . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Right . Yeah . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> And you can see right here , I do n't know if you remember this , but during the debate in 2020 , I asked you if you would raise the minimum wage . You said you would consider it . And so my question for you is now that you are going back to the White House , for these 19 states that voted for you , are you going to raise the federal minimum wage ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> It 's a very low number . I will agree , it 's a very low number . Let me give you the down side , though . In California they raised it up to a very high number . And your restaurants are going out of business all over the place . The population is shrinking . It 's had a very negative impact . But there is a level at which you could do it , absolutely . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> What is that level , do you think ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I do n't know . I mean , I really do n't know . I can say this , you have a lot of businesses that are open and thriving because of the lower minimum wage . If you raise it too much -- and you understand this , California went crazy . They went crazy . And people -- the restaurants are closing all over . Many more people are hurt . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> So I hear you saying similarly to what you said in 2020 . Will you consider it ? Is this something you 're going to look at ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I would consider it . I 'd want to speak to the governors . And the other thing that is very complicated about minimum wage is places are so different . Mississippi and Alabama and great places are very different than New York or California , I mean in terms of the cost of living and other things . So it would be nice to have just a minimum wage for the whole country , but it would n't work because you have places where it 's very inexpensive to live , where a minimum wage which is at $8 or $9 might be , you know , might have very little effect because the cost of living in certain places is really low . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Before we move on to immigration , which I do want to talk about , the chairman of the Federal Reserve , Jerome Powell , said he will not leave his post even if you ask him to . Will you try to replace Jerome Powell ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No , I do n't think so . I do n't see it . But , I do n't -- I think if I told him to , he would . But if I asked him to , he probably would n't . But if I told him to , he would . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You do n't have plans to do that right now ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No , I do n't . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Okay . Let 's talk about mass deportation -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Okay . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- one of your big agenda items . You 've talked about prioritizing people who have criminal history . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Correct . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But is it your plan to deport everyone who is here illegally over the next four years ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , I think you have to do it , and it 's a hard -- it 's a very tough thing to do . It 's -- but you have to have , you know , you have rules , regulations , laws . They came in illegally . You know the people that have been treated very unfairly are the people that have been on line for ten years to come into the country . And we 're going to make it very easy for people to come in in terms of they have to pass the test . They have to be able to tell you what the Statue of Liberty is . They have to tell you a little bit about our country . They have to love our country . They ca n't come out of prisons . We do n't want people that are in for murder . So we had 11,000 and 13,000 , different estimates . 13,099 murderers released into our country over the last three years . They 're walking down the streets . They 're walking next to you and your family . And they 're very dangerous people -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> The 13,000 figure I think goes back about 40 years . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> It goes -- nope . No it does n't <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> That 13,000 figure . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> It 's within the three-year period . It 's during the Biden term . No , that was a fiction that they put that out . This was done by the border patrol . It 's 13,099 and it 's during the Biden period of time . And these are murderers , many of whom murdered more than one person . You do n't want those people in this country . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But you 're saying something , sir , that 's significant . So -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Go ahead . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> I just want to make sure I 'm clear , which is that you 're saying , yes , you 're going to focus on the people with criminal histories , but everyone who 's here illegally has to go , is what you 're saying . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I 'm saying this . We have to get the criminals out of our country . We have to get people that were taken out of mental institutions and put them back into their mental institution no matter what country it is . Do you know that in Venezuela their prisons are , are at the lowest point in terms of emptiness that they 've ever been ? They 're taking their people out of those prisons by the thousands and they 're drop -- and just to get back , because I know exactly what you 're getting at . Number one , we 're doing criminals and we 're going to do them really rapidly . We 're getting the worst gang probably with MS-13 and the Venezuelan gangs are the worst in the world . They 're vicious , violent people . And you 've seen what they 've done in Colorado and other places . They 're taking over , they 're literally taking over apartment complexes and doing it with impunity . They do n't care . They could n't -- they just are -- they 're in the real estate business , okay ? <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You know that local police say that is not the case in Colorado . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Oh , it 's totally the case . I mean , they have it on tape . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You do n't believe the local police ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I play it , I used to play it at my rallies every single night . No , it was breaking into doors . They 're taking over the building . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But sir , you raised the point -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> And by the way , the police , the police -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Yeah . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- are afraid to do anything . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You , you raised the point that the logistics are complicated . You said it yourself -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Sure they are . But everything 's complicated . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- yeah , you need 24 times more ICE detention capacity just to deport 1 million people per year , not to mention more agents , more judges , more planes . Is it realistic to deport everyone who 's here illegally ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> You have no choice . First of all , they 're costing us a fortune . But we 're starting with the criminals and we 've got to do it . And then we 're starting with others and we 're going to see how it goes . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Who are the others ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Others are other people outside of criminals . We have convicted murderers . And we do n't mean people that are even on trial . We have people that have murdered numerous people are on our streets and in our farms and we have to get them out of our country . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> What about dreamers , sir ? Dreamers , who were brought to this country illegally as children . You said once back in 2017 they , quote , " Should n't be very worried about being deported . " Should they be worried now ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> The dreamers are going to come later , and we have to do something about the dreamers because these are people that have been brought here at a very young age . And many of these are middle-aged people now . They do n't even speak the language of their country . And yes , we 're going to do something about the dreamers . And -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> What does that mean ? What are you going to do ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I will work with the Democrats on a plan . And if we can come up with a plan , but the Democrats have made it very , very difficult to do anything . Republicans are very open to the dreamers . The dreamers , we 're talking many years ago they were brought into this country . Many years ago . Some of them are no longer young people . And in many cases , they 've become successful . They have great jobs . In some cases they have small businesses . Some cases they might have large businesses . And we 're going to have to do something with them . And -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You want them to be able to stay , that 's what you 're saying ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I do . I want to be able to work something out , and it should 've been able to be worked out over the last three or four years and it never got worked out . You know , Biden could 've done it because he controlled , you know , Congress to a certain extent , right ? He could 've done something , but they did n't do it . I never understood why because they always seemed to want to do it , but then when it comes down to it , they do n't . I think we can work with the Democrats and work something out . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Let me ask you about another group of people , the estimated 4 million families in America who have mixed immigration status . So I 'm talking about parents who might be here illegally -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- but the kids are here legally . Your Border Czar Tom Homan -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> You 're talking about separation ? <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well , I mean there are two aspects to this . Your Border Czar Tom Homan said they can be deported together . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Correct . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Is that the plan ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , that way you keep the -- well , I do n't want to be breaking up families , so the only way you do n't break up the family is you keep them together and you have to send them all back . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Even kids who are here legally ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , what you 've got to do if they want to stay with their father -- look , we have to have rules and regulations . You can always find something out like , you know , " This does n't work . That does n't work . " I 'll tell you what 's going to be horrible , when we take a wonderful young woman who 's with a criminal . And they show the woman , and she could stay by the law , but they show the woman being taken out . Or they want her out and your cameras are focused on her as she 's crying as she 's being taken out of our country . And then the public turns against us . But we have to do our job . And you have to have a series of standards and a series of laws . And in the end , look , our country is a mess . We have the highest crime rate and during the debate a man whose ratings have gone way down , David Muir , said to me , " no , crime is .. " -- because I had to debate three people , not one . Debating one was easy . Debating three was actually pretty easy too , if you want to know the truth . But David , David Muir said , " The crime rates have gone down . " I said , " No , they 've gone up . " And then the following day they released the crime rates and they were way up . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Yeah , and the FBI statistics -- you 're talking about those FBI statistics which are -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah , well , no , but he gave the wrong answer . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- confusing based on what you 're looking at ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah , but a lot of that is migrant crime . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Let me ask you about another aspect of this -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> And Kristen , you know a lot of it 's migrant crime . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well , let me ask you about another aspect of this that I think a lot of people are really curious about . And 3% of the people who are here illegally have criminal histories . But in your first administration , you had the zero-tolerance policy , where we did see family separations . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You ended it . The purpose of that , though , to some extent , you talked about this at the time , was deterrence -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> And by the way , you also had it with Obama . You do know that . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> He did n't have a zero-tolerance policy . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> And you also know he built the jails for children . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> He did n't have a zero-tolerance policy . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> But in 2014 he built the jails . You know that . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> I want to ask you about the zero-tolerance policy -- I mean , he did n't have a systemic , " We 're going to separate families . " Families were separated when the parents were a threat to the kids . Let me ask you about this -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> We do n't have to separate a family . Excuse me , Kristen . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Yeah . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> We do n't have to separate families . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Yeah . Okay . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> We 'll send the whole family , very humanely , back to the country where they came . That way the family 's not separated . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> So no more family separations ? You 're not reviving the zero-tolerance policy ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , it depends on the family . The family may decide to say , " I 'd rather have Dad go , and we 'll stay here . " And in which case they have that option . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But you 're not going to revive your zero-tolerance policy , which was put in place as a deterrent ? Is there any universe where you would bring that back , sir ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> We need deterrence . Look , ready ? When somebody comes here illegally , they 're going out . It 's very simple . When they come here illegally , they 're going out . Now if they come here illegally but their family is here legally , then the family has a choice . The person that came in illegally can go out , or they can all go out together . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> So -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> And that was made very clear by Tom Homan . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> So you 're not , at this point in time , planning to revive that zero-tolerance policy where kids are separated ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , if you call it that -- yeah . I 'm doing what I just told you I 'm going to do . You know , I do n't want to send the family out . I do n't want to send anybody out . But I 'll tell you , we have to because otherwise we have no country . If we do n't have borders and if we do n't have voting , good voting , fair voting . Do you know they 're still counting votes in San Diego , California ? Listen , they 're still counting the votes . This is almost four weeks . They 're still counting the votes . If we do n't have fair elections and honest voting and machines that work quickly , if you had paper ballots every election would be over by 10:00 in the evening . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Sir , let me ask you -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> You understand what I 'm saying . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well , let me , before we get to -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> And you 'd get a much more accurate count . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Before we get to all of that , let me ask you about some of your other promises on this topic . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Okay . Yeah . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You promised to end birthright citizenship on day one . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Correct . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Is that still your plan ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah . Absolutely . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> The 14th Amendment , though , says that , quote , " All persons born in the United States are citizens . " <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Can you get around the 14th Amendment with an executive action ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , we 're going to have to get it changed . We 'll maybe have to go back to the people . But we have to end it . We 're the only country that has it , you know . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Through an executive action ? You 're going to -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> You know we 're the only country that has it . Do you know if somebody sets a foot , just a foot , one foot , you do n't need two , on our land , " Congratulations you are now a citizen of the United States of America . " Yes , we 're going to end that because it 's ridiculous . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Through executive action ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Do you know -- well , if we can , through executive action . I was going to do it through executive action but then we had to fix COVID first , to be honest with you . We have to end it . It 's ridiculous . Do you know we 're the only country in the world that has it ? Do you know that ? There 's not one other country . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well , what about the legal challenge , the inevitable legal challenges that will come ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , that 's the other thing . Do you know we have thousands of judges ? Somebody walks onto our land and we have to now say , " Welcome to the United States . " They could be a criminal or not a criminal . We release them into our country . It 's called catch and release . We release them into our country . Wait , just one second . And now they get them lawyers . And the lawyers are good lawyers . And everybody has a lawyer . And do you know how many judges we have ? Thousands . Thousands . Now , here 's what other countries do . They come onto the land and they say , " I 'm sorry , you have to go . " And they take them out . Okay , with us , once they touch our land , we 're into litigation that lasts for years . Costs us hundreds of billions of dollars . We have judges , and I 'm sure they 're all honest but I do n't know that for a fact , you can imagine what 's going on with the judges . But just so you -- because I have a lot of judges , I tell you what , I know more about judges than any human being in history . Look , we have judges . Every time somebody puts two feet or even one foot on a piece of our land , it 's welcome to long-term litigation . Other countries , every other country , when somebody walks on and they see that they 're here illegally , they walk them off , they take them back to where they came from . We have to get rid of this system . It 's killing our country . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Let 's talk about health care . I 've been talking to Republican lawmakers on Capitol Hill . They say it 's no longer feasible to repeal and replace Obamacare because it 's so entrenched in the system . Do you see it that way ? Is that now off the table , repealing and replacing Obamacare ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> So , when John McCain let us down by voting , and Murkowski and Collins , and whoever it was that voted against , but they really let us down . They did us a great disservice , because we would 've had great health -- Obamacare is lousy health care . It 's very expensive health care for the people . It 's also expensive for the country , but for the people . It 's lousy health care . When John McCain gave his thumbs down after saying for ten years that he wants to repeal and replace , okay , and then he came out , he put his now famous thumbs down and he became a hero to the left , just let me just tell you , if we find something better , I would love to do it . But unless we find -- but , one thing I have to say , I inherited Obamacare , or anything else you want -- it 's got about 20 names . But I inherited it . And I had a decision to make with health and human services . I had a big decision to make . Do I make it as good as we can make it or do I let it rot ? And a lot of political people said , " Let it rot and let it be a failure . " I said , " That 's not the right thing to do . " And I had very good people in the medical area that handled that . And I said , " What do you want to do ? " I said , " We really have an obligation to make it as good as we can , " and we did . We made it as good as we can make it . Instead of , instead of making it bad , where everybody would be calling for its repeal , I made it so that it works . Now , it works -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But you did try to overturn it , sir . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , it 's lousy . No , no . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You did try to overturn it . You did have your Justice Department try to direct the Supreme Court to overturn it . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No , we had a little bit of a surprising opinion , to be honest with you . If it would 've been overturned , we would 've had much better health care right now . But right now we have something that I made the best of . I could 've made the worst of it and it would 've fallen by the wayside . I did the right thing from a human standpoint . But , you know , I 'm sort of proud of my decision . At the same time , sometimes I regret it . I told the people and I gave them the money to do it . I said , " Fix it . Make it work . " Because people would 've suffered . But it 's too bad that they voted no . I wish John McCain , I wish -- he fought for ten years on repairing , replacing Obamacare . For ten years . And then he voted against . Nobody understands it . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Sir , you said during the campaign you had concepts of a plan . Do you have an actual plan at this point for health care ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yes . We have concepts of a plan that would be better . But -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Still just concepts ? Do you have a fully developed plan ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Let me explain . We have the biggest health care companies looking at it . We have doctors who are always looking . Because Obamacare stinks . It 's lousy . There are better answers . If we come up with a better answer , I would present that answer to Democrats and to everybody else and I 'd do something about it . But until we have that or until they can approve it -- but we 're not going to go through the big deal . I am the one that saved Obamacare , I will say . And I did the right thing . I could 've done the more political thing and killed it . And all I had to do is starve it to death . <p> No , no . Kill it from a legal standpoint . But from a physical standpoint , I made it work . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> In -- in your concepts of a plan , sir , will people with preexisting conditions still have coverage ? And can you guarantee their prices will not go up ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> The answer is yes , they 'll have coverage . You have to have it -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> And what about their prices -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- because you know what , it 's -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> What about their prices , sir ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I want the prices to go down . I want to have better healthcare for less money , and there are ways of doing it , I believe . And I have the -- I have the smartest people in that world . You know that 's a separate world unto itself . I have the smartest people in that world looking at it and trying . And if they come up with something , I will present it . Now , maybe you wo n't be able to sell it . But if -- if we get better healthcare for less money , I believe it 's very salable . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Just very quickly , when will we see your fully developed plan ? When are you going to -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , I do n't know -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- show the public that ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- that you 'll see it at all . I can only say that we have some of the best healthcare people . I 've always tinkered with it . I think -- it 's a little hard to explain . Obamacare , when I took it over , was a disaster . And I made it workable . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> It has insured 20 million people . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah , because of me . Because of me . If you look at what I did , I was the one -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But you tried to -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I made it good -- yeah legally -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You tried to repeal and replace . You tried to kill it , sir . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Because if I repealed it and replaced it , we would 've had a better system because we would n't have had healthcare . And the Democrats would 've been forced to do something . If we would n't have had it , the Democrats would 've been forced to do something that they would n't do if we have it . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Let me ask you about another aspect of healthcare . You talked about this on the campaign trail . IVF . You promised free IVF for all who want it , either through the government or through mandates with insurance companies . I 've been hearing from Republican senators , some of them , who say they 're not going to support that plan . How are you going to get that passed ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , we 're going to see . We want them to -- ideally the insurance companies to pay for it , the fertilization . I came out very early for a Republican , especially . And I think they were looking for my guidance , my great wisdom , right ? They were looking for it . And I got a call from Kate Britt , who is a terrific person , senator from Alabama . And she said , " Sir , we just had a really negative ruling from a judge in Alabama , conservative judge , that all of these clinics had to be closed . " And she said -- she went into great detail . And she said , " People are devastated over it . " And after literally speaking to her for five minutes , I issued a -- an order , really an order , in a sense , and it was a statement from the Republican Party that we are all for IVF and fertilization . Ok . The Alabama legislature met the following day and passed it . It was a beautiful thing to see . And I consider myself to be the father of IVF , in a certain way . And the Republicans were very strong on the issue . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But , sir , I want to understand where it falls in your list of priorities . I mean , is this something we can expect to see you try to move on in -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , we 're going to be -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- the first 100 days ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- we 're going to be talking about it and we 're going to be seeing . We have a lot of other things . I have tax cuts . You know , we 'll be submitting in either the first or second package to Congress the extension of the tax cuts . So that might very well be in there . Or , or it 'll come sometime after that . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Let 's talk about abortion , sir . You have taken responsibility for overturning Roe v. Wade . You 've said that abortion is now a state issue . There are steps that you could take , though , as president to restrict abortion through executive action without Congress . More than half of abortions in this country are medication abortions . Will you restrict the availability of abortion pills when you 're in office ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I 'll probably -- I 'll probably stay with exactly what I 've been saying for the last two years . And the answer is no . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You commit to that ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , I commit . I mean , are -- things do -- things change . I think they change . I hate to go on shows like Joe Biden , " I 'm not going to give my son a pardon . I will not under any circumstances give him a pardon . " I watched this and I always knew he was going to give him a pardon . And so , I do n't like putting myself in a position like that . So things do change . But I do n't think it 's going to change at all . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Ok . Let 's talk about some of your picks to fill out your administration . You named Kash Patel to be the next FBI director . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> He has a list in his book of 60 people that he calls members of the so-called " deep state . " It includes Democrats like Joe Biden and Hillary Clinton . It includes former members of your cabinet , from Bill Barr to Christopher Wray . You campaigned on destroying the deep state . Do you want Kash Patel to launch investigations into people on that list ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No . I mean , he 's going to do what he thinks is right . And I will -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well , do you think that 's right ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- and I will -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Do you think that 's right , sir ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> If they think that somebody was dishonest or crooked or a corrupt politician , I think he probably has an obligation to do it , but -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Are you going to direct him to do it ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No . Not at all . Not at all . We have two great people that -- we have him , and we have Pam . And Pam Bondi has been like a rocket ship . She 's very popular and very good and very fair . And Kash Patel is very fair . I 'll tell you . I thought Kash may be difficult because he 's , you know , a strong conservative voice , and I do n't know of anybody that 's not singing his praises . The other day , I was watching , and Trey Gowdy , who 's a moderate person and very smart and very respected in the party , he 's Kash 's biggest fan . He said , " This is the most misunderstood man in politics . He 's great . " I guess they worked together on the Russia hoax or something , and Trey Gowdy became a fan . Trey , you know , Trey Gowdy . Everybody respects him , and , you know , just like him , others also , I do n't know of one negative vote -- I do n't think he 's going to have any negative votes . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Is it your expectation , though , that Kash Patel will pursue investigations against your political enemies ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No , I do n't think so . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Do you want to see that happen ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> If they were crooked , if they did something wrong , if they have broken the law , probably . They went after me . You know , they went after me and I did nothing wrong . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well , let me ask you this . You said , President Biden , quote , that you 're going to appoint a real special prosecutor to go after Joe Biden . You said that during -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Where did I say that ? <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- the campaign <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Where ? <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You said that on Truth Social , June 12 , 2023 : " I will appoint a real special prosecutor to go after the most corrupt president in the history of the United States , Joe Biden -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , that part is true . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- and the entire Biden crime family . " Are you going to do that ? Are you going to go after Joe Biden ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I 'm really looking to make our country successful . I 'm not looking to go back into the past . I 'm looking to make our country successful . Retribution will be through success . If we can make our success -- this country successful , that would be my greatest , that would be such a great achievement . Bring it back . We have a country now that 's overridden with crime , that has millions of people that should n't be here , that should be in prisons in other countries , that should be in mental institutions . We have drug lords being dropped into our country and told never go back to their country . I 'm looking to make our country great . I 'm looking to get -- bring prices down . Because , you know , I won on two things , the border and more than immigration . You know , they like to say immigration , I break it down more to the border , but I won on the border , and I won on groceries . Very simple word , groceries . Like almost -- you know , who uses the word ? I started using the word -- the groceries . When you buy apples , when you buy bacon , when you buy eggs , they would double and triple the price over a short period of time , and I won an election based on that . We 're going to bring those prices way down . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> I want to pause here , because what you 're saying is significant . Because you wrote on Truth <p> Social in 2023 that you 're going to appoint a real special prosecutor to go after Joe Biden . Now you 're saying you 're not going to do that . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I will say this , no , I 'm not doing that unless I find something that I think is reasonable , but that 's not going to be my decision . That 's going to be Pam Bondi 's decision , and , to a different extent , Kash Patel , assuming they 're both there , and I think they 're both going to get approved . But I -- I -- you know , while you ask me that , what they 've done to me with weaponization is a disgrace . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> We 'll get to some of that , sir -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No , no , wait , wait , wait , you ca n't do one without the other . In the history of our country , nothing like this has ever happened . And I 've won these cases . I 've won every one and the rest are in the process of being won . Deranged Jack Smith is on his way back to The Hague where he can execute people . This is where he should have stayed . I do n't -- I think he 's dangerous even being there . But I 'll tell you what , what they 've done to me in terms of weaponization , indictments , impeachments and everything else . And in the end , it probably helped , because I got the biggest vote , the most votes any Republican 's ever gotten in history . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Do -- Pam Bondi talks about investigating the investigators . Do you want her to investigate Jack Smith based -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I want her to do what she wants to do . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- do you want to see Jack Smith investigated ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , I think he 's very corrupt , but I want her to do whatever she -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Are you going to direct her -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No , I 'm not , I 'm not <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- to prosecute Jack Smith ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> She 's a very smart person . She 's -- She was a great attorney general in Florida . She 's very experienced . I want her to do what she wants to do . I 'm not going to instruct her to do it , no . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Sir , are you going to fire the current FBI director , Christopher Wray , who you appointed ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , I ca n't say I 'm thrilled with him . He invaded my home . I 'm suing the country over it . He invaded Mar-a-Lago . I 'm very unhappy with the things he -- he 's done , and crime is at an all time high . Migrants are pouring into the country that are from prisons and from mental institutions , as we 've discussed . I ca n't say I 'm thrilled . I do n't want to say -- I do n't want to , again , I do n't want to be Joe Biden and give you an answer and then do the exact opposite -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> We 're going to talk about that -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- so I 'm not going to do that . What I 'm going to say is I certainly can not be happy with him . You take a look at what 's happened . And then when I was shot in the ear , he said , " Oh , maybe it was shrapnel . " Where 's the shrapnel coming from ? Is it coming from -- is it coming from heaven ? I do n't think so . So we need somebody to straighten -- you know , I have a lot of respect for the FBI , but the FBI 's respect has gone way down over the last number of years . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Do n't you have to fire him in order to make room for Kash Patel -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah , but -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- if he is , in fact , confirmed ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , I mean , it would sort of seem pretty obvious that if Kash gets in , he 's going to be taking somebody 's place , right ? Somebody is the man that you 're talking about . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Okay . Let 's talk about Project 2025 . This is the conservative policy blueprint . You disavowed it during the campaign . You called it a product of the radical right . You 've said some of their ideas -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No , not all . No -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- were abysmal -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- I said some of it is . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Okay . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Some of it is very good . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Okay . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Some of it 's very mainstream actually . Frankly , the Democrats should 've used some of it because they went , you know , with all the transgender that they were doing , or with the men playing in women 's sports , if they would n't have done that , maybe they would 've done better . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well , so you take me to my question . You 're now giving people involved in Project 2025 prominent roles in your administration . Are you changing your mind about Project 2025 -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Is this now the policy-- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- blueprint -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- for the second Trump administration ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No . Some people -- you take a look at the group , it was hundreds of people who were involved . And I was actually -- I reprimanded the whole group . I said , " You should n't have placed this document in front of the voters because I have nothing to do with it , and I 'm the one that 's running . You had no right to do this where you put a 1,000-page document in front -- and many of those things I disagree with . " Now , many of those things , I happen to agree with . Many of those things , Democrats should 've agreed to . And I think they would 've done much better in the election ' cause they got slaughtered . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well , I guess people -- people see the list , Russ Vought , Brendan Carr , Peter Navarro , John Ratcliffe , Pete Hoekstra , Monica Crowley , and they think , " These -- These are all of the people -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Sure , sure <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- who were involved in or writing Project 2025 -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> But , but they have -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> " This must be a blueprint for work requirements . Eliminating the Head Start Program , criminalizing pornography . " Is that what we can expect to see ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , I do n't know how they voted . I do n't know -- I did n't -- I never spoke to them actually about it . And I purposefully , and I told you , normally it would be just the opposite . I 'd review every page . I purposely did n't even want to see it because when somebody like you asks me a question about Project 2025 , I can honestly say I 've never seen it , I have nothing to do with it , I did n't read it . But I did hear some things in there that I would totally disagree with . And I said to the people that were really the people behind it , you know who those people are , I said , " You really had no right doing this to me because they used it as a sound bite , " the Democrats . And I do n't know , it could n't have been too effective because they got slaughtered , but they did use it as a sound bite . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But to people who see , " Oh , he 's bringing in all of these people from Project 2025 , he must know what it is -- " <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , you know -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- you say what ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- I do n't know what it is , no . I do n't know what it is . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You still do n't know what it is -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> But I heard certain things -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- all these people are coming in -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- that I did n't like . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- to your -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> And by the way , I heard certain things that are phenomenal , okay ? <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Like what ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Like law and order . We want law and order . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Okay . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Okay little things , like let 's put prisoners in jail . Let 's not let people come out and raid every drug store in Manhattan so that we have to put glass up and every store is going out of business . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Let me ask you about something you 've referenced a couple of times in this interview . I asked you last time we sat down for an interview if you were going to pardon yourself . You said no . But now that President Biden has pardoned his son Hunter , are you reconsidering ? Might you pardon yourself ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I did n't do anything wrong . I -- I was given the option , and the lawyers told me -- a very specific lawyer . I do n't have to go into who , but very high up in the -- in the administration , said , " Sir , if you pardon yourself , you 're going to look guilty , and you did nothing wrong . " Oh , I had that option . I could 've saved myself a lot of legal fees . But it turned out that I was right . Look at what 's gone on . Everything 's being dropped . I still have a -- Fani Willis , Fani , a total hoax . That 's a total hoax . Every -- it 's all being dropped . It 's all been discredited . It 's been dropped . There are those people that say , and this would be the first time in history , that all of those fake indictments , they were -- they were going after a political opponent . There are those that say that I actually did better in the election because of it . Now , that would be a first . I think you would agree because normally , that 's like , you go back to the microphones , you say , " I 'm leaving right now . I will leave office . I 'm going back to my family and I will fight for my name . " Well , I had to fight for my name in public because I did n't leave office . But no , I did n't want a pardon . And I did n't want to pardon myself . I had the option to pardon myself . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> And you do n't want one now ? You 're not going to pardon yourself now ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> What do I need one for ? First of all , I 've won almost all of the cases . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> What if President Biden -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> And the ones that I did n't win are on resuscitation . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> What if President Biden offered you a pardon , would you accept it ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I 've never even thought about it . I do n't think he 'll do it . Look , if he did , he 's the one that started this whole thing . He got the Justice Department to go after me . And the state cases are all being run by the Justice Department , which is illegal . They had their people from the Justice Department work for Alvin Bragg in order to get something going . They worked for Letitia James in the state . He had his people go from the federal government and take lesser jobs in the state in order to get Donald Trump -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> And you know he denies he had anything to do with it . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No , no -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> And there 's no -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> He ca n't deny it . You know why ? Because they were there . Wait a minute . Wait . You know , you have a tendency to sort of , like , slough over things . You just made a statement . His person , the top , maybe the third , or second or third person left the federal government , the DOJ and went to work for Letitia James . And then after they got that one started , went to work for the DA . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Let me ask you about some of this new reporting . NBC News is reporting that President Biden is considering giving preemptive pardons to the likes of Liz Cheney , Adam Schiff , and Anthony Fauci . If President Biden does n't issue those pardons , do you think they are going to wish that he had ? Are they going to be -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I do n't know . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- pursued ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I can tell you this about Cheney . And she 's a so-called Republican . I think she hurt the Democrats terribly . When I saw that Kamala put Cheney out on the campaign trail , I said , " That 's the end of Kamala . " I really did . I thought it was a terrible move , especially if you 're a Democrat . But Cheney did something that 's inexcusable , along with Thompson and the people on the un-select committee of political thugs and , you know , creeps . So the unselect committee went through a year and a half of testimony . Wait . They deleted and destroyed all evidence of -- that they found . You know why ? Because Nancy Pelosi was guilty . Nancy Pelosi turned down 10,000 troops . You would n't have had a J6 because other people were guilty . The people that said that I attacked two Secret Service agents in a car , I grabbed one around the neck . I was then rebuffed and I grabbed the other one . These are two of the toughest men anywhere on the planet . And they happen to slightly younger than me . You know , just a little bit . Let me just tell you . They testified . They said it was total bullshit . And all of this stuff came out . People lied so badly . Now , listen , this was a committee , a big deal . They lied . And what did they do ? They deleted and destroyed a whole year and a half worth of testimony . Do you know that I ca n't get -- I think those people committed a major crime . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Sir ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> And Cheney was behind it . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> And so was Bennie Thompson and everybody on that committee . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> We 're going to -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> For what they did -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Yeah -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- honestly , they should go to jail . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> So you think Liz Cheney should go to jail ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> For what they did -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Everyone on the committee you think -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I think everybody -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- should go to jail ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- on the -- anybody that voted in favor -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Are you going to direct your FBI director -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- and your attorney general to send them to jail ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No , not at all . I think that they 'll have to look at that , but I 'm not going to -- I 'm going to focus on drill , baby , drill . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> When you say that , it carries weight though . You know , you 've tapped these people to lead the Justice Department and FBI -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> They can do whatever they want . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Okay . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Biden can give them a pardon if he wants to . And maybe he should . Just remember , unselect committee . A year and a half of sworn testimony , and after getting all of the testimony , they deleted it , wait , and they destroyed almost everything . There 's nothing left . It 's unprecedented . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> And they deny doing that -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> If you do that in a civil case -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Yeah . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- you go to jail . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You know they deny doing that . And officials say that the order never came in for the National Guard -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> They put out a statement -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But -- On January 6th . Let me ask you this about January 6th -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Wait . Bennie Thompson -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> I think you 're going to want to answer this . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- wrote in his statement that he has destroyed all evidence . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Let me ask you this about January 6th -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> It 's amazing . I wish you could be a -- you know , you have such potential . If you could be just -- just non-biased . You hurt yourself so badly . I 'm telling you , they deleted and destroyed all the evidence . Everyone knows it . And you slough it off like it does n't mean anything . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> No . I 'm just saying they deny it . That 's all I 'm saying . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Kristen , if I did it , you would be standing up on that chair shouting at me . And you know what I 'd do ? I 'd say , " You got me . " <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Let me ask -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> They have done something so illegal . They have a committee sworn to , and because it was so bad -- the only reason they did it is because the testimony turned out to be in favor of me , like Secret Service testified and disputed everything . It made them into a bunch of liars . Not Secret Service , it made the people . They got rid of it because it made Nancy Pelosi , the mayor of D.C. , so many people look like criminals . And I will tell you , it 's illegal for them to delete and to destroy that evidence . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Let me ask you about January 6th in a different capacity , okay ? I think you 're going to want to answer this question . You promised to pardon those who attacked the Capitol on January 6th . Are you still vowing to follow through with that promise ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> We 're looking at it right now . Most likely , yeah . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well , you know -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Those people have suffered long and hard . And there may be some exceptions to it . I have to look . But , you know , if somebody was radical , crazy . There might be some people from Antifa there . I do n't know . You know , because those people seem to be in good shape . What ever happened to scaffold man ? You know who scaffold man was ? He stood on a scaffold telling everybody to go , and nothing happened to him . What ever happened to Ray Epps ? Now , I do n't know anything about Ray Epps , but it was sort of strange the way he was talking . Where is he ? What happened to him ? Because the people that did very little-- they arrested an old woman because she-- I do n't think she did anything . They do n't even know what she did . These people have suffered . Their lives have been destroyed . And yet in Portland , where they burned down half the city , they burn it down all the time , it 's like a , you know , routine occurrence , they do n't do anything . They attacked the courthouse , federal courthouse . You know , they always say federal building . Okay . They destroyed the beautiful limestone exterior of the courthouse in Portland . They killed people in Portland . Seattle , people got killed in Seattle . Seattle , they took over a big chunk of the city . They took it over . They took the city away . Minneapolis , it looked like when they said , " This is a friendly protest , " and yet over the poor slob from CNN , his shoulder , the entire city was burning down . It looked like World War II . Nothing happened . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Wait . Nothing happened . They took over the police statement -- they took over the police station in Minneapolis . They burned it down . Nothing happened to anybody . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> I just want to -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> And yet , these people -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Yeah . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- have been in jail . And I hear the jail is a hell hole . They 've done reports . And you would say that 's true . They 've done reports . This is the most disgusting , filthy place . These people are living in hell . <p> 900 pleaded guilty to other crimes . They 're also going to be eligible for a pardon from you ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Listen , it 's a very tough system . Do you know , almost nobody-- I saw people that did n't even go into the building and they were convicted . And you had the police saying , " Come on in . Come on in . " I mean , you know , the police are saying , " Come on in , everybody . Come on in . " They had people -- you know , you have a lot of cameras . They do n't want to release the tapes . They do n't want to release the tapes . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But you 're going to consider pardoning even those who pleaded guilty to crimes , including assaulting police officers ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , sometimes they say , " Here 's your choice . " <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You 're not ruling it out ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Look . I know the system . The system 's a very corrupt system . They say to a guy , " You 're going to go to jail for two years or for 30 years . " And these guys are looking , their whole lives have been destroyed . For two years , they 've been destroyed . But the system is a very nasty system . <p> You know , by the way , they 've been in there for years , and they 're in a filthy , disgusting place that should n't even be allowed to be open . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Let 's talk about your Cabinet picks . I know we started off talking about Pete Hegseth , but I just want to return to that very quickly . Have you gotten assurances from Senators that he 's going to be confirmed ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Do you think -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- he can make it ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No . I think he will , yeah . I 've had a lot of Senators call me up saying he 's fantastic . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You do n't drink yourself . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You 've talked about how devastating drinking can be . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> How concerned are you that the person who you picked for this top job at the Defense Department , at least according to those who 've worked with him , has struggled with drinking ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> But I 've spoken to people that know him very well and they say he does not have a drinking problem . And , you know , he has a lot of knives out for him . A lot of people do n't want to see the military made better . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Let me ask you about former Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard . You picked her to be the director of National Intelligence . In 2017 , she had two secret meetings with Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad . Do you have questions or concerns about those meetings ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No . And he 's got bigger problems right now -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well , do you think it makes it -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- because his country -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- hard for her ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- his county is collapsing . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Yeah . I mean , do you think it compromises her -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> You know , look -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- ability to handle that -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- I met with Putin . I met with President Xi of China . I met with Kim Jong-un twice . Does that mean -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> When you were president . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- that I ca n't be president ? <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well , when you were president . They were n't secret meetings . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No , but look , people meet . All these people meet . I mean , I see some of the most dishonest people . I 'll tell you , the 51 agents that said that the laptop was n't from Hunter , it was from Russia , what about them ? Tell me about them . Do you think they did something wrong ? Do you think they were all so stupid that they thought that the laptop from hell -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> So you have confidence in Tulsi Gabbard ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I do . I mean , she 's a very respected person . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Let me ask you about RFK Jr . He has obviously talked about his skepticism of vaccines . He 's expressed opposition to childhood vaccines . Do you want to see childhood vaccines eliminated ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> If they 're dangerous for the children . Look -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> So possibly ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- when you look at some of the problems , when you look at what 's going on with disease and sickness in our country , something 's wrong . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Are you talking about autism ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , if you take a look at autism . Go back 25 years . Autism was almost non-existent . It was , you know , one out of 100,000 . And now it 's close to one out of 100 . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I mean , what 's happening ? If they can find it . Now , I did something the other night that was a little unusual . At Mar-a-Lago , I called the drug companies , the top drug companies , and I called RFK Jr. , and Dr. Oz , and some of his people , and I said , " Let 's all get together and let 's figure out where we 're going because we 're going to do a lot of things . " Number one , we 're going to reduce prices because the middleman makes more money than the drug companies , in all fairness to the drug companies . There 's a middleman that nobody even knows who they are . And you look at our drug prices , they 're much higher than the prices for the same medicine , for the same stuff . So we met . And we were -- we met for a long time . And we talked about pricing . And we talked about vaccines , you know , in terms of what happens . We talked about pesticides . We talked about everything . And I think a lot of good things are going to come from him . And he 's , he 's not going to upset any system . He 's not going to upset the system . He 's not looking to reinvent the wheel totally . But when you look at the numbers , we really do n't have a very healthy country . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Sir , going back 25 years , studies show that there is no link between vaccines and autism . And yet , it sounds like you are open to the possibility of him looking at -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I 'm open to anything -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- getting rid of them ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I think somebody has to find out . If you go back 25 years ago , you had very little autism . Now you have it , I mean -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well , they say because they 're better at identifying it . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> One in 100,000 and now it 's one in 100 . That 's a pretty bad number . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Childhood vaccines have prevent -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I mean , something is going on . I do n't know if it 's vaccines . Maybe it 's chlorine in the water , right ? You know , people are looking at a lot of different things . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You know , childhood vaccines have -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I want them to look at everything . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Everything . So childhood vaccines have prevented about 4 million deaths around the world every year , sir , is n't that -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I think that 's great . I 'm all for it . I think it 's great . Hey , look , I 'm not against vaccines . The polio vaccine is the greatest thing . If somebody told me to get rid of the polio vaccine , they 're going to have to work real hard to convince me . I think vaccines are -- certain vaccines -- are incredible . But maybe some are n't . And if they are n't , we have to find out . But when you talk about autism , because it was brought up , and you look at the amount we have today versus 20 or 25 years ago , it 's pretty scary . <p> The drug companies are going to be working with RFK Jr . and , you know , he 's been an interesting guy to me . I 've watched him for 25 years . And he 's been an interesting guy . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Let 's talk about Elon Musk , another interesting person . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> He 's very interesting . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Last month , one of your allies said , quote , " He 's behaving as if he 's a co-president . " Will you favor Elon Musk over other leaders of -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- competitor companies , like Jeff Bezos , Mary Barra ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No , Jeff Bezos called me . We 're having dinner . As you know , Mark Zuckerberg came in . We had a really nice dinner . He asked to have dinner . I had dinner with him . I 'm having dinner with everybody . People like me now , you know ? It 's something going on that people -- I said , " Would you have come to dinner with me if I lost ? " I think the answer is no . You know , I said , kiddingly , of course , because I do n't want to sound foolish . But I say jokingly , " Would you have been here at dinner if I lost ? " And the answer was , " Probably not . " Look , I 'm getting called by everybody . It 's very interesting . It 's different than the first -- you know , when I won the first time , I was n't nearly as popular as this . And one thing that 's very important , in terms of the election , I love that I won the popular vote , and by a lot . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> 1.6 percent . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Because they would go with the other one . They say , " Well , he did n't win the popular vote . He won a lot of -- " you know , I won a lot of the Electoral College . But they would always preface it by saying -- now they say , " He won the popular vote and he won the Electoral College , and he won all seven swing states . " That was a great election . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Very quickly , because we 're going to talk about the election coming up , but you 've tapped Elon Musk , Vivek Ramaswamy to head up this Department of Government Efficiency -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Correct . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- which proposes cuts to the federal government . Think a lot of people hear that and they get concerned about Medicare and Social Security and Medicaid -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> You 're not going to have anything to do -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> And defense spending . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> We 're talking about -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You wo n't touch Medicare -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- theft -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- Social Security ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- abuse , fraud . No . I said to people we 're not touching Social Security , other than we make it more efficient . But the people are going to get what they 're getting . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Okay . Entitlements off the table ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> And we 're not raising ages or any of that stuff . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Ok . Off the table ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I wo n't do it . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Okay . Let 's turn to foreign policy . Should Ukraine prepare for less aid from the United States after you 're sworn in -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Possibly . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- to office ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah . Probably . Sure . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You 've said you can end the war in 24 -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> We 're in for $350 billion . And Europe is in for $100 billion . Why is n't Europe in for the same as us ? The one thing that should happen is that Europe should come in for -- they should equalize . And , you know , Biden , all he had to do , like I did with NATO , I said , " You 've got to pay your bills . " They were n't paying their bills . And as you know , the secretary general said President Trump got $600 billion -- no , 640 to be exact . And I used to use the $400 billion number . He corrected me . He said , " No , you actually got $641 billion put in " because I said , " You have to pay your bills . " We were paying for NATO . And you know why I got the money ? Because I asked for it . It was n't that complicated . Europe is in for a fraction . And war with Russia is more important for Europe than it is for us . It 's important for everybody , but it 's more important for Europe than it is for us . We have a little thing called an ocean in between us . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You said you can end the war in 24 hours . You 've even said you want to try to end it before you 're sworn into office -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , I 'm trying to . I 'm trying to end it if I can -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You 're actively trying to ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I am . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Have you talked to President Putin ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No , I have not . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You have n't talked to President Putin -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No , I have not . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- since you 've been elected ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I mean , no . Well , I do n't want to say that . But I have n't spoken to him recently . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> So you 've spoken to President Putin since you 've been elected ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I do n't want to say that . I do n't want to say anything about that because I do n't want to do anything that could impede the negotiation . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But you -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I want to stop-- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- have talked about -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Let me tell you what -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- the other world leaders . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- I have talked about . Let me tell . There are people being killed in that war at levels that nobody 's ever seen before . You have to go back to the Second World War , and even that , if you take a look -- and you know what it is ? It 's the soldiers largely . The cities have been emptied out and demolished . The country has been demolished . If I won that election , which you know how I feel about it . I wo n't get into it because we do n't need to start that argument . I think it 's an easy argument . It was really proven even more conclusively by the win that I had on this one . But-- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But you did go to -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- had I -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- court , sir . And you did n't -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah , well , that 's your opinion . But I disagree with it . Had I assumed , kept control . Number one , Israel would n't have happened . Number two , Ukraine would 've never happened . It would 've never happened , Ukraine , Russia . But the number of people that are being killed , soldiers , young , beautiful soldiers , hundreds of thousands of people are being killed . And , you know , it 's very interesting . It 's level . Totally level , the battlefields . Totally level . You know what 's happening ? The only thing that stops a bullet , you know what it is ? Is a body , a human body . And the people that are being killed , hundreds of thousands on both sides . Russia 's lost probably 500,000 -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> It 's devastating . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Ukraine 's lost higher than they say , probably 400,000 . You 're talking about hundreds of thousands of bodies laying all over the fields . It 's the stupidest thing I 've ever seen , and it should 've never been allowed to happen . Biden should 've been able to stop it . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Sir , will the United States stay in NATO while you 're in office ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> In where ? <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> NATO . Do you commit that the United States will remain a member of NATO while you 're in office ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Again , they have to pay their bills . If they play their bills , absolutely . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But not if they do n't pay their bills ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> But NATO 's taking advantage of us . Because we were -- look , two things . Number one , they take advantage of us on trade , meaning the European nations , okay , like terrible . They do n't take our cars , they do n't take our food product , they do n't take anything . It 's a disgrace . And on top of that , we defend them . So it 's a double-whammy . So let me just tell you , I was able to get hundreds of billions of dollars put into NATO just by a tough attitude . I said to the countries , " I 'm not going to protect you unless you pay , " and they started paying . And that amounted to more than $600 billion . That 's a big thing . Otherwise they would n't even be fighting . They would n't have any money to fight . If they 're paying their bills , and if I think they 're doing a fair -- they 're treating us fairly , the answer is absolutely I 'd stay with NATO . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But if not , you would consider the possibility of getting out ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Absolutely . Yeah , absolutely . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Let 's turn to the Middle East now , sir . There are still American hostages being held in Gaza . You said this week that if the hostages are n't released before Inauguration Day , quote , " There will be all hell to pay . " <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Correct . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> What exactly did you mean , and do you still think that the hostages are alive ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I 'm not a big believer in the fact that there are too many of them living , sadly . Because I 've seen the way they 've been treated . I talk about the young girl that was pulled by her hair violently and thrown into the back of a car like she was a sack of potatoes . And I said , " You know , that 's hatred . " And then I said , " How did that young girl do ? " Beautiful young girl , just dragged by her hair . You remember . Blood pouring all over her body . You can imagine the parents . Thrown into the back of a car by some horrible guy . And I said , " How is she ? " " She 's dead . She died , sir . " I do n't think you have as many . I mean , I hate to say it , I think you have far fewer hostages than people think . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Really ? Have you spoke -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> That 's what I think . It 's only my opinion , but I 've been right on just about everything . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Are you going to pressure Prime Minister Netanyahu , with whom you have a very good relationship , to end the war in Gaza ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah . Sure . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> And have you already started that process ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I want him to end it , but you have to have a victory . People forget about October 7th . That was as violent -- and you know what 's happening ? I noticed that a lot of people are saying , " Oh , it never really happened . " That 's like the Holocaust . You know , you have Holocaust deniers . Now you have October 7th deniers , and it just happened . No , October 7th happened . And I 've seen the pictures . It is -- what happened is horrible . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> If China invades Taiwan on your watch , are you committed to defending Taiwan ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I never say . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Still wo n't say ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I never say , because I have to negotiate things , right ? <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Can you just say if you 'll defend it -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I 'd prefer that they do n't -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> I 'm not saying if the U.S. military -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I 'd prefer that they do n't do it . I have a very good relationship with President Xi . We have been communicating with each other . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Since you were elected ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yes . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> And you sent that message ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Since , like , three days ago . Yes , we communicate . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> And you sent that message to him , " Do n't invade Taiwan -- " <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> We did n't talk about that . We talked about other things . But I have a very good relationship , and I hope he does n't do it . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> This week a federal court upheld a law that could result in TikTok being banned . You said you 're going to rescue TikTok when you get into office . Are you going to take steps to protect it ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , the problem with that is . Yeah , as you know -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You are ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- I used TikTok very successfully in my campaign . I have a man named TikTok Jack , he was very effective , obviously , because I won youth by 30 percent . All Republicans lose youth . I do n't know why . Maybe it 's changing . And last time we were down 30% with youth . This time we were up 35% with youth . And I used TikTok , so I ca n't really , you know , I ca n't totally hate it . It was very effective . But I will say this , if you do do that , something else is going to come along and take its place . And maybe that 's not fair . And really , what the judge actually said was that you ca n't have Chinese companies . In other words , they have the right to ban it if you can prove that Chinese companies own it . That 's what the judge actually said . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> So are you going to try to protect TikTok , just very quick -- once you 're in office ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I 'm going to try and make it so that other companies do n't become an even bigger monopoly . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Okay . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Because that 's what happens . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> We 're winding down , and I know you have a plane to catch . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I do . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> This is your first interview since you won the election . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Congratulations . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Yes , congratulations to you . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I hope you do well . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Yes . And sir , I do n't have to tell you this , because you 've talked about it . It comes at a time when the country is deeply divided , and now you 're going to be leading this country for the next four years . For the sake of unifying this country , will you concede the 2020 election and turn the page on that chapter ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No . No , why would I do that ? But let me just tell you -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You wo n't ever concede -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- when you say the country is deeply divided , I 'm not the president . Joe Biden is the president . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But you 're going to be the president . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No , no . I 'm not the president . So when you say it 's deeply divided , I agree . But Biden 's the president , I 'm not . And he has been a divider . And you know where he divided it more than anything else , and it probably backfired on him . I think definitely is weaponization . When he weaponized the Justice Department and he went after his political opponent , me . He went after his political opponent violently because he knew he could n't beat him . And I think it really was a bad thing , and it really divided our country . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Sir , Democrats have control of the White House now . They did n't in 2020 . If they are going around stealing elections , why did n't they do it this time -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> When you say Democrats have control now -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Of the White House . So why did n't they steal this election ? Since they have more power now ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Because I think it was too big to rig . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> So you wo n't -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> It was too big to rig . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> To the people who say that you 're now directing your Justice Department to investigate 2020 and they want to move on -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No , I think Pam is going to be great -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Is that a good use of precious resources ? Is that what you want them to do -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> By the way , just so you know , I have the right to do that but I 'm not interested in that . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Oh , you 're not ? You 're not going to do that ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I 'm not interested . I have the absolute right . I 'm the chief law enforcement officer , you do know that . I 'm the president . But I 'm not interested in that . You know what I 'm interested in ? Drilling , and getting prices down , and stopping people from pouring into our border that come from prisons and mental institutions . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Last two questions here . One of the things that made this campaign unprecedented and extraordinary were the horrific attempts against your life . Two assassination attempts . Do you feel safe going into the White House -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I do -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- for the next four years ? Why ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I have confidence in Secret Service . I know the people . I got to know a lot of them , and I have confidence . It was a bad moment . Something should n't have happened . But I have a lot of confidence , and they really stepped it up . They were restricted from giving the -- look , I do a rally , and you were at many of them . And I 'd have 50,000 people . Joe would have a rally and he 'd have 30 people . And he had more Secret Service than me . My Secret Service was always asking for more manpower slash woman power . They were asking for more and more , and more , and they could n't get it . I 'm not blaming them really , because they were always fighting for more people . And they would n't get -- now , boy , do we have it . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> I know it was hard on your entire family . What can people expect from the First Lady in this second administration ? What role will she play ? She obviously had her Be Best campaign . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> She 's very liked , loved , and she 's very respected , and she 's a very solid person . And she devotes a lot of time to helping children . You know what she does . And she 's got her Be Best deal that is incredible what she has done . The one thing I say , whether it 's the first lady or my children , my children did such a good job and they were treated very badly by the press and others . Ivanka was unbelievable , what she did . All she wanted to do was one thing , get people jobs . She could 've been the UN secretary . I said to her she would 've been unbelievable . She 's got the whole package for that , including right up there . She 's as smart as they -- she did n't want it . She said , " Daddy , I want to work on getting people jobs . " You know , she 'd go to Walmart , she 'd go to Exxon . She produced millions of jobs for people . Not glamorous . Most people did n't know she did it . And she was always being excoriated . And I said to my kids , " Do n't come in . Do n't come in . It 's just -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You said to them , " do n't come in ? " <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I said to them , yeah . I said -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But will you miss having them there ? Will it feel different -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I 'll miss them . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> They were your top advisors . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I 'll tell you what , I 'll miss them , and they are really competent . But I say , " Just go have fun , do your business , do whatever you want to do . But do n't come in . " Because no matter what they did , they did such a great job . Although I have to say , Lara did a phenomenal job as the head of the Republican National Committee , along with Michael . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> What will the First Lady 's role be , do you think ? Will she continue her Be Best campaign ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> She 's a very elegant First Lady , she was a very successful woman before that in the modeling and other things , but in the modeling very successful . The press I ca n't say treated her unfairly . You know why ? Because she 's very popular . You would think if the press was unfair , like to me the press was obviously unfair to me , the press -- no president has ever gotten treated by the press like I was . And yet I got more votes than any Republican candidate in history by far . It 's not even close . So you say what 's that all about ? The press has to straighten itself out , because honestly it 's lost all credibility . When that can happen -- based on the press I should 've gotten no votes , none . And yet I got the highest number ever . And the reason is , because I 'm able to go on a show even like yours , even though you 're very hostile , I 'm able to go on a show like yours -- no , you are . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well , hopefully you thought it was a fair interview . We covered a lot of policy ground here . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> It 's fair only in that you allowed me to say what I say . But you know the answers , the questions are , you know , pretty nasty . But look , because I 've seen you interview other people like Biden . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> I 've never interviewed President Biden , actually . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> When I say you , I 'm talking metaphorically . I 've seen George Stephanopoulos interview Biden , and he 's a tough interviewer . It 's the softest interview . I 've seen CNN interview him . They give these soft , you know , " What 's your favorite ice cream ? " It 's a whole different deal . I do n't understand why . You know , you would think the press would like to see strong borders , great education , a powerful military so we have a country left , and all these different things . And somehow they do n't want to see that . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Let me ask -- hopefully you think this interview was fair . We spent a lot of time talking about your policy and your second administration . I want to ask you , sir , one final question . What do you want to say to Americans who did n't support you in this campaign ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I 'm going to treat you every bit as well as I have treated the greatest MAGA supporters . There 's never been anything like MAGA in the history of this country . These people are so dedicated to making America great again . It 's very simple . And I 'm going to treat them just the same as I treat MAGA . We 're going to treat everybody good . We want success for our country , we want safety for our country . You know our country 's under threat , as you know . We have tremendous threat militarily because of the power of weapons and weaponry . There 's tremendous threat , nobody talks about it . But it 's tremendous threat . I want to treat everybody the same . I want to treat them well . And at the end of this four years -- and I have a big head start , because I was there for four years fairly recently . A lot of bad things were done during the four years that I was n't there . And mostly -- and what they 've done in terms of our reputation overseas -- our reputation is so bad , so shot . I got to bring it back , and I also have to , have to bring back civilization to our country . Our country is a crime pod and we have to get rid of crime . We have so many things to do . We have to do the prices , we have to do all of that . But we have to get the criminals out of our country . We have to bring down crime . People have to be able to walk across the street and buy a loaf of bread without being shot . And that 's going to happen . But what I say to them is I love you , and we 're going to all work together . And we 're going to bring it together . And you know what 's going to bring it together ? Success . I saw that just prior to COVID coming in , I had polls that were the highest anyone -- McLaughlin and Fabrizio said , " George Washington and Abraham Lincoln , if they came back from the dead and they ran as president and vice president , could n't beat you , sir . " We were doing so well . And I was getting along with the left . Let 's call it the left . We 'll be nice , okay ? We 're just going to call it -- but I was getting along with people that you would consider liberal or progressive , as they like to say , at levels that I never thought was possible . And you know what it was ? Success . Success was bringing the country together , and that 's what I want to do . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> We 'll leave it there unless you 'd like to say anything more . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I thank you very much . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Thank you very much for the honor of the first interview . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Very much , great honor . Thank you . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Thank you . Thank you so much . <h> WALK AND TALK INTERVIEW <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Sir , there is incredible unrest in Syria . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Do you think that Bashar al-Assad could fall ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , you know , it 's amazing because he stayed for years under you would think much more adverse conditions , and all of the sudden , just rebels are going and they 're taking over large pieces of territory . It 's -- it 's -- I do n't think it 's looking very good for him . Who would have thought that was going to happen ? Because for 10 years , I mean , the guy was fighting all odds , and all of the sudden , it 's like people are just taking over his country . So I do n't know , people have bet against him for a long time , and so far that has n't worked . But this seems to be different . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Let me ask you , sir , as you think about your inauguration . I remember your first inaugural address , you talked about American carnage . Have you thought about your message for your second inaugural address ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I have . It 's -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Can you give us a preview ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- unity . We 're going to have a message . It will make you happy : unity . It 's going to be a message of unity . And again , I think success brings unity , and I 've experienced that . I 've experienced it in my first term . As I said , we 're going to be talking about unity , and we 're going to be talking about success , making our country safe , keeping people that should n't be in our country -- we have to do that . I know it does n't sound nice , but we have to do that . But basically it 's going to be about bringing our country together , <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> And no American carnage ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No American carnage , no -- what is -- what do you mean by American -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> That -- that was one of the big quotes of your first inaugural address . It sounds like the tone -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> No . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- based on what I 'm hearing is going to be different from this inaugural address . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well , we had a very successful four years , actually , and the first admin -- we had a very , very successful -- if you look at what we 've done with the biggest tax cuts in history . We had safety and military that was incredible . We defeated ISIS , which nobody thought could be done in a short period . I did it in a matter of weeks , and people thought it was going to take five years to do . No , we did a lot of things . Rebuilding of our military was a big thing . Think of all the things that would n't have happened . Russia would n't have attacked Ukraine if I were president . Israel would n't have had October 7th . We would n't have had inflation because inflation was caused largely by energy prices . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Yeah . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> So many other things would n't have happened . You look at Afghanistan , that disaster . So we 're going to bring our country back , and we 're going to bring it -- we 're going to try and unify our country . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Sir , when you think about your time in office , you are making history for a range of reasons , including the fact you will be the oldest person to be sworn into office . Do you commit to releasing your medical records ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Sure , I do it all the time . I think I 've released four of them . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Not just a letter though . Your -- your full medical report . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah , I would , and I think anybody should . But I -- I mean , according to all the reports , I do n't want to -- where 's wood ? Is this a wood where I can knock on wood ? But my reports are very good , very strong . <p> Well , I have online -- I mean , I do n't know what 's to divest . All I do is I put out messages . I needed it for messages because , as you know , I was taken off Twitter , at the time it was called , and I was taking off all of the different -- so I actually created my own company , became Truth , and it was very successful . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Will you divest from that ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Well I do n't know how I can divest ? What does that mean ? I 'm not allowed to open it and use it ? I mean , all I do is -- I -- I do n't openly look at the -- the company . I 'm not even on the board of the company . I did n't want to be on the board . I have other people , and they run it , and they run it very well because Truth has become a very , very successful platform . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Are you planning to accept a salary as President ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I 'm not going to accept a salary , no . And I 'm giving up a lot of money , you know . Do you know -- it amaze me , and I -- maybe this is n't right , but other than George Washington , and they 're not sure about that , every President has accepted their salary , except me . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> And you will -- you did accept the pension , correct ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I do n't think so . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> You did n't accept your pension ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I do n't think I accepted anything . I did n't -- I get a salary -- the president gets about $450,000 a year , and I did n't take it . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> I want to ask you again about -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> By the way , I got no credit for that . That 's okay . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well , I -- I am asking you about it for that reason . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah , wait so -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- and -- and I think it 's notable -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- you -- you do know -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- you 're not going to accept a salary . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah , I do n't accept -- I 'm not -- I did n't , and I 'm not going to . And I do n't believe I got any credit for not , but I just feel it 's , for me , it 's -- it 's nice thing to do . I think -- I think this , and I was surprised , not one president has done that . I would have assumed Roosevelt would have not accepted salary or Kennedy . You know , Kennedy family is rich . I would have assumed that some of -- I 'm the only president that -- they say they think that George Washington , but those records are n't too good . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Sir , we talked about your family , and they were such a big part -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- of your first administration . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> And they did a great job . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Think of it , the Abraham Accords they did . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Well that 's what I 'm thinking of . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> The biggest -- like oh -- oh -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Will -- will Jared still be an advisor ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> -- tremendous -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Will he be someone who you turn to -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> I -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- particularly as you deal with what 's happening in the Middle East ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Jared 's a very smart guy , did a great job . He did the Abraham -- if he did nothing else , and that was a big thing . And you know , they should have built on it , but we 'll build on it now . We had four very powerful countries with Israel , and when you think of what that -- it really represented peace in the Middle East . That should have been filled out . It was n't , but we 'll get it filled out . But no , I 'm not going to have the family involved because I do n't -- I do n't think they were treated fairly . They did such a good job . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> But will it feel very different to be -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> A little bit , yeah . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- in the White House and not have them there ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Sure . It will feel a little bit different . But , I mean , think of what we did . We did the tax cuts , biggest tax cuts in history . We did the -- and that 's a big thing , and that also spurred the economy . But if you look at the Abraham Accords , if you look at peace in the Middle East , we would have had so many different things , and they had it really go through Russia , Russia , Russia , hoax . Guys like Schiff , who 's a real low life as an example . Adam Schiff . He 's a low life and now he gets elected senator , so sad , but -- but my kids got treated so unfairly , so I do n't want them to go through it . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Last question , because I 'm getting a wrap -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> I understand that on day one , you 're going to be signing a flurry -- <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yes . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> -- of executive orders . <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> A lot . <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> Can you give me just -- what are the top ones people should know about ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> A lot will have to do with economics . A lots going to have to do with energy . A lots going to do with having -- having to do with the border . We 're going to immediately strengthen up the border and do a real job and some of the basics . So we 're going to end the electric mandate immediately for the cars . It 's ridiculous . I -- we want it -- people to buy electric cars -- <p> KRISTEN WELKER : <p> All on day one ? <p> PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP : <p> Yeah , we want people to buy electric cars . But you know what ? They have to be able to , if they want gasoline powered , if they want hybrids , they got to have that . So we 're going to be ending that . We 're going to be ending a lot of the environmental things that were ridiculous , that hurt our country very badly and did n't do anything for the environment . So we 'll be doing , you know , standard things . 
@@118616182 <h> Conservative : Amnesty 's ' Genocide ' Game <p> Amnesty International " produced a report accusing Israel of committing genocide in Gaza " -- but , sniffs Commentary 's Seth Mandel , " a funny thing happened on the way to the forum . " <p> The group 's Israel branch , " the part of the organization that works on the ground in the country . . . disavowed the report . " Why ? " The report is a joke . It did n't take long for people to find the part where Amnesty explained that in order to find Israel guilty of genocide , the organization had to literally redefine genocide . " <p> " So Amnesty International dissents from international law . That 's fine . Just be up-front about it : Amnesty is not accusing Israel of ' genocide , ' it is accusing Israel of a different crime which Amnesty has named ' genocide , ' just so it could use that word . " <h> Libertarian : The Obama CIA 's Futile Syria Scheme <p> " From 2013 to 2017 , the CIA spent over $1 billion trying to strengthen ' moderate rebels ' against both Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and anti-American extremists in the opposition , " but " Abu Mohammed al-Jolani , former head of Al Qaeda in Syria " is now " accomplishing in a week what the CIA tried and failed to do for years " after he " organized a surprise offensive against the Syrian government , " reports Reason 's Matthew Petti . <p> " The collapse of Assad 's government " is " a sign of how futile U.S. intervention has been . The U.S. spent years paying Syrians to kill their countrymen without being able to shape the outcome , before giving up . " <p> Now , Jolani 's evil Levant Liberation Committee is calling the shots . <p> " All the American money spent and Syrian blood it paid to spill amounted to very little in the end . " <h> Foreign desk : Blame Macron for French Collapse <p> France faces " its most serious political , constitutional and economic crisis in decades , " warns Spiked 's Fraser Myers -- and President Emmanuel Macron is to blame , as it 's his " hand-picked prime minister , " Michel Barnier , just ousted by a no-confidence vote . <p> " Under the French constitution , legislative elections can not be held until the summer of 2025 , meaning Macron is stuck with a hung parliament that wo n't accept his austerity measures or pass a new budget , " making France " effectively ungovernable for the foreseeable future . " <p> Many " blame the ' populists ' on the left and the right for pulling the plug on Barnier 's ailing government . " <p> But France 's centrists deserve to be j'accused : " While it would be overstating it to say the French economy is on the verge of collapse , we are a very long way away from the dynamic , competitive ' start-up nation ' that Macron promised to build when he entered the ? lys ? e . " <p> If Biden goes along , it 'll " be another broken democratic norm , and another swirl into the lawfare spiral . " " Pre-emptive pardons for outgoing officials would be a bad precedent " and " a constitutional abuse . " <p> They risk " developing a culture of impunity , " with the next administration expecting the same for their guy . <p> To cool things , Biden could pardon Donald Trump for the two federal cases against him . <p> Note that Trump said in his debate with Biden that his only retribution will be to be successful . 
@@118619185 <h> Loading .... <p> The measure of U.S. Sen. Susan Collins ' career as a lifelong public servant , including five consecutive terms as U.S. Senator , could well be determined in the next few months by how she votes on President-elect Donald Trump 's cabinet nominees . <p> Trump has already announced his cabinet picks -- the officers who 'll be responsible for running the departments of the federal bureaucracy -- but they must still be approved by the Senate in its constitutional " Advise and Consent " role . Since the next Senate will be under Republican control by a margin of 53 to 47 , an honest review of these appointments by at least some Republicans will be critical . <h> Rearview Mirror <p> Trump 's selections , for the most part , lack any relevant experience or demonstrated competency , though that 's not even a threshold job qualification as far as he 's concerned . Trump wants appointees who are totally obsequious , belligerent and appear frequently as guests on Fox News . It 's also helpful if they 're tainted by scandal and at least somewhat unhinged . After all , the point is to plant minions in government who will wield a wrecking ball to their agency , attack Trump 's perceived enemies , garner constant media attention and boot lick the boss . <p> If history is any guide , Trump will get most of his picks approved because of the deference traditionally afforded to presidential nominations . Still , some areas of government , such as those involving national security , are far too important to be left in the hands of novices or people of questionable judgment , so Trump 's picks should be closely scrutinized by members of both parties . <p> Pete Hegseth , for instance , has been nominated to become Secretary of Defense , the official responsible for the military 's $800 billion budget and nearly 3 million employees , including over 1.4 million active duty service personnel . Though a former National Guard officer who served in Afghanistan and Iraq , Hegseth has absolutely no experience or training qualifying him to run an organization as complex as the DOD . He 's never led anything bigger than an infantry platoon . <p> In fact , it 's unlikely that he would have even come to the attention of Trump but for his appearances on Fox News criticizing " woke " policies at the Pentagon and his book , " American Crusade : Our Fight to Stay Free , " in which he labeled Democrats and progressives as America 's " internal enemies . " <p> Advertisement <p> It 's particularly important to have a highly qualified defense secretary serving in an era when warfare is undergoing enormous changes . As demonstrated by the conflicts in Ukraine , Gaza and Lebanon , drones and missiles have come to dominate a battlefield once controlled by tanks , artillery , foot soldiers and conventional aircraft . That has tremendous implications for weapons development and acquisition , force levels and deployments , training , strategy and tactics . <p> Not only does Hegseth lack qualifications for the job , he 's obsessed with the idea that females should play no role in combat and is hostile towards policies designed to protect minorities from discrimination . This is counterproductive , since the military is already having trouble meeting its quotas for recruitment , and women have demonstrated their mettle in combat in the U.S. , Israel and at least 15 other nations , while people of color constitute 43% of male and female active duty personnel . <p> Throughout her career , Collins , has been considered a GOP moderate , someone favoring smaller federal government , a pro-business agenda ( especially for small business ) , a strong military , and , whenever possible , political bipartisanship . She is essentially a traditional post-World War II Republican without the cultural warfare armament of many of her Southern and Midwestern colleagues . <p> Now that the MAGA movement has completed its hostile takeover over of the GOP , however , she 's become a vestige of an earlier era . Though still popular in Maine , her political survival depends , to a great extent , on her willingness to accommodate Trump and the MAGA heart of her party . <p> During President George W. Bush 's tenure and Trump 's first term in office , she often backed their legislative measures and nominees despite voicing " tsk-tsk " concerns or resorting to convoluted logic to justify her votes . <p> Collins expressed concerns about Bush 's proposed first-term tax cuts , citing their potential to generate budget deficits , but she voted anyway for their passage in 2003 and their renewal in 2006 . The cuts did , in fact , lead to significant deficits . In 2017 , she again voted for a Republican-engineered tax cut , this one backed by Trump , which greatly reduced corporate taxes and repealed the Affordable Care Act 's individual mandate . After the vote , Collins defended her decision by saying she had received advice from economists that the legislation would not increase deficits and assurances from congressional leaders that they would pass legislation to mitigate the adverse effects of the individual mandate 's repeal . No such legislation was ever enacted , and the cuts , as widely predicted , produced massive deficits . <p> Advertisement <p> Though pro-choice , Collins voted to confirm Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh in 2018 , claiming she believed he would not overturn Roe v. Wade because he had told her that he considered Roe to be " settled law . " She did so , despite the fact that Kavanaugh , in a speech before the American Enterprise Institute the prior year , had praised Justice William Rehnquist 's dissenting opinion in Roe . <p> During Kavanaugh 's confirmation hearing , he faced the shocking accusation that he had sexually assaulted Christine Blassey Ford while both were high school students . If determined to be true , this would almost certainly have been disqualifying . Ford , a reluctant witness , appeared before the committee to testify . Though Collins found Ford 's testimony credible , she nonetheless voted in favor of Kavanaugh 's confirmation , rationalizing that , although the incident likely occurred , Ford was somehow confused about her assailant 's identity . <p> To be clear , I 'm an admirer of Collins . She 's done a lot for her Maine constituents and has shown courage in breaking with her party to support marriage equality , reproductive rights and gun control . She was also one of only seven Republican senators who voted with Democrats to convict Trump on the impeachment charge of " incitement of insurrection " following the January 6 , 2021 attack on the Capitol . <p> But re-election in Maine has grown increasingly difficult for a moderate Republican , particularly as the Second District has moved towards the right . Moreover , Trump , who demands absolute fealty from Republicans in Congress , wo n't hesitate to retaliate if she defies him . <p> The question , then , is whether Collins is willing , if necessary , to put her own political career on the line for the good of the country . <p> Elliott Epstein is a trial lawyer with Shukie &amp; Segovias in Lewiston . His Rearview Mirror column , which has appeared in the Sun Journal for 17 years , analyzes current events in an historical context . He is also the author of " Lucifer 's Child , " a book about the notorious 1984 child murder of Angela Palmer . He may be contacted at epsteinel@yahoo.com <p> Comments are managed by our staff during regular business hours Monday through Friday as well as limited hours on Saturday and Sunday . Comments held for moderation outside of those hours may take longer to approve . 
@@118622186 <p> Iran is poised to " quite dramatically " increase its stockpile of near weapons-grade uranium as it has started cascades of advanced centrifuges , the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency warned Friday . <p> The comments from Rafael Mariano Grossi came just hours after Iran said it conducted a successful space launch with its heaviest payload ever , the latest for its program that the West alleges improves Tehran 's ballistic missile program . <p> The launch of the Simorgh rocket comes as Iran 's nuclear program now enriches uranium at 60% , a short , technical step from weapons-grade levels of 90% . While Iran maintains its program is peaceful , officials in the Islamic Republic increasingly threaten to potentially seek the bomb and an intercontinental ballistic missile that would allow Tehran to use the weapon against distant foes like the United States . <p> The moves are likely to further raise tensions gripping the wider Middle East over Israel 's continued war on Hamas in the Gaza Strip and as an uneasy ceasefire holds in Lebanon . However , Iran may as well be preparing the ground for possible talks with the incoming administration of President-elect Donald Trump , who in his first term unilaterally withdrew America from Tehran 's nuclear deal with world powers . <p> The U.S. intelligence community in a report released Thursday said that while " Iran is not building a nuclear weapon " it has " undertaken activities that better position it to produce one , if it so chooses . " <p> The Iranian debate over seeking the bomb " risks emboldening nuclear weapons advocates within Iran 's decision-making apparatus and shifting the thinking of current and future Iranian elites about the utility of nuclear weapons , " the report added . <p> Grossi , speaking to journalists in Bahrain , on the sidelines of the International Institute of Strategic Studies ' Manama Dialogue , said his inspectors planned to see just how many centrifuges Iran would be spinning after Tehran informed his agency of its plans . <p> " I think it is very concerning , " Grossi said . " They were preparing and they have all of these facilities sort of in abeyance and now they are activating that . So we are going to see . " <p> He added : " If they really make them turn -- all of them -- it 's going to be a huge jump . " <p> An IAEA statement issued shortly after Grossi 's remarks said Iran had begun feeding two cascades of advanced IR-6 centrifuges with uranium previously enriched up to 20% at its underground Fordo facility . That site is located under a mountain , protecting it from airstrikes . <p> Cascades are a group of centrifuges that spin uranium gas together to more quickly enrich the uranium . The IR-6 centrifuges enrich uranium faster than Iran 's baseline IR-1 centrifuges , which have been the workhorse of the country 's atomic program . Adding 20% uranium , as opposed to 5% uranium previously planned , further speeds up that process . <p> " The facility 's updated design information showed that the effect of this change would be to significantly increase the rate of production , " the IAEA statement said . Iran separately will start feeding natural uranium into eight other IR-6 cascades at Fordo as well to produce 5%-enriched uranium , it added . <p> The IAEA warned in late November that Iran was preparing to begin enriching uranium with thousands of advanced centrifuges . That came as a response to the Board of Governors at the IAEA condemning Iran for failing to cooperate fully with the agency . <p> Iran did not acknowledge the preparations . The Iranian mission to the United Nations did not respond to a request for comment . <p> Meanwhile , the launch Friday took place at Iran 's Imam Khomeini Spaceport in rural Semnan province , some 135 miles east of Tehran . That 's the site of Iran 's civilian space program , which has suffered a series of failed Simorgh launches in the past . <p> The Simorgh carried what Iran described as an " orbital propulsion system , " as well as two research systems to a 250-mile orbit above the Earth . A system that could change the orbit of a spacecraft would allow Iran to geo-synchronize the orbits of its satellites , a capability Tehran has long sought . <p> It also carried the Fakhr-1 satellite for Iran 's military , the first time Iran 's civilian program is known to have carried a military payload . <p> Iran also put the payload of the Simorgh at 660 pounds , heavier than all its previous successful launches within the country . State television carried footage of a correspondent discussing the payload just as the Simorgh lifted off into the sky , as people called out : " God is the greatest ! " <p> The U.S. military referred questions about the launch to the country 's Space Command , which did not respond . Space experts said tracking data appeared to show the launch successfully put objects in orbit . <p> The United States has previously said Iran 's satellite launches defy a U.N . Security Council resolution and called on Tehran to undertake no activity involving ballistic missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons . U.N . sanctions related to Iran 's ballistic missile program expired in October 2023 . <p> " Iran 's work on space-launch vehicles -- including its Simorgh -- probably would shorten the timeline to produce an intercontinental ballistic missile , if it decided to develop one , because the systems use similar technologies , " a U.S. intelligence community report released in July said . <p> Iran has always denied seeking nuclear weapons and says its space program , like its nuclear activities , is for purely civilian purposes . However , U.S. intelligence agencies and the IAEA say Iran had an organized military nuclear program up until 2003 . <p> Under Iran 's relatively moderate former President Hassan Rouhani , the Islamic Republic slowed its space program for fear of raising tensions with the West . The late hard-line President Ebrahim Raisi , a prot ? g ? of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei who came to power in 2021 , pushed the program forward . Raisi died in a helicopter crash in May . <p> Iran 's reformist President Masoud Pezeshkian , who has been signaling he wants to negotiate with the West over sanctions , has yet to offer a strategy when it comes to Iran 's ambitions in space . The Simorgh launch represented the first for his administration from the country 's civil space program . Iran 's paramilitary Revolutionary Guard conducted a successful launch of its parallel program in September . 
@@118652494 <h> Opinion Why An Unstable Middle East Is A Risk For India <p> In the past dozen or so years , India has effectively transformed its " Link West " policy into an " Act West " policy . The transactional partnerships of previous decades have been replaced by a comprehensive , strategic relationship , expanding , renewing , and reigniting the intensity of exchanges at the highest levels . <p> The six countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council ( GCC ) have clearly become a central focus , as these oil-rich nations have not only sought to enhance historic ties at the modern-day strategic level but have also adopted their own " Act East " policies , with visions extending to 2023 and even 2040 . This aligns with India 's goal of achieving a " Viksit Bharat " by 2047 . The blending of synergies and converging mutual interests has become the underlying theme of interactions . High-level committees have been established to monitor progress across all areas of individual relationships , often following the visits of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to many of these countries . Several of these countries have hosted him multiple times over the past decade , further strengthening a mutually beneficial partnership . <p> The UAE , with six visits , stands out and also happens to be India 's third-largest trading partner . Sheikh Zayed has visited India four times , including as the Chief Guest on Republic Day and for the G20 summit . Other leaders have shown a similar interest in India 's opportunities , as they follow their own brand of strategic autonomy in an increasingly fractured world . PM Modi has also become perhaps the first Indian leader to receive the highest honours from these nations , which is further testament to the importance they place on their relationship with India . <h> No More Shy Of Multilateral Frameworks <p> India is often criticised for lacking a strategic vision towards her extended neighbourhood , which is crucial to her own security and stability . Historically , relationships were mostly dealt with in a bilateral framework of cooperation , often with limited objectives . While this continues , recent years have seen a renewed focus on broader trilateral , quadrilateral , multilateral , sub-regional , and regional formats , such as the I2U2 ( India , USA , UAE , and Israel ) , IUSU ( India , UAE , Saudi Arabia , USA ) , India-GCC , IMEEC ( India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor ) , as well as participation in G20 and COP mechanisms , particularly those held in Egypt and the UAE . The BRICS and the SCO are other groupings in which several Middle Eastern countries have either become members or dialogue partners , further expanding the framework of cooperation with India . <p> However , the ongoing 14-month-long war in Gaza , along with escalating conflicts in Lebanon and Syria , as well as the rise of non-state actors , have raised the spectre of instability , volatility , and escalation . This will directly impact energy security , food security , economic engagement , maritime connectivity , and the welfare of 10 million Indian expatriates . <p> The region is concerned , and so is India , along with the rest of the world . The involvement of major powers appears to be at its lowest point , with their capacity to prevent wars or effectively intervene to reduce intensity or expansion scarce . <p> This may be due to short-sighted geopolitical manoeuvres . However , the costs will be high if a real escalation occurs . For New Delhi , nascent sub-regional and regional mechanisms are being adversely impacted , some even before they have fully taken off -- such as the IMEEC -- though India , the UAE , and Saudi Arabia are continuing their work and coordination . <p> In order to address various bilateral and regional projects and issues , recent engagements are noteworthy . External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar is touring Qatar and Bahrain from December 6-9 for the Doha Forum and to co-chair the fourth India-Bahrain High-Level Joint Commission . Qatar has become a key player in international negotiations , notably playing a central role in ceasefire efforts between Israel and Hamas . Consequently , foreign ministers from Turkey , Iran , and Russia were expected to meet on the sidelines of the Doha Forum for urgent discussions on Syria . During his visit , Jaishankar will have an opportunity to meet his counterparts and leaders from Qatar and other countries at this critical juncture . <p> Additionally , following the visit of the External Affairs Minister , Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Abdullah Ali Al Yahya led a delegation to India from December 3-4 to discuss bilateral and regional issues . The Joint Commission has been upgraded to the ministerial level , and several Joint Working Groups will be established to address various dimensions of the comprehensive relationship . A visit by Prime Minister Modi to Kuwait is also being discussed , which could not take place earlier due to scheduling issues.Similarly , the 13th round of Foreign Office Consultations was held with Egypt on December 5 . The 13th round of the India-Oman Strategic Consultative Group ( IOSCG ) meeting also took place on December 3 in New Delhi -- both at the Secretary level . During these meetings , bilateral and regional issues were discussed in detail . India and Syria also held the 6th round of Foreign Office consultations on November 29 . <h> More Frequent Meetings <p> Earlier , during his 10th visit , Jaishankar met with his counterpart , Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan , Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of the UAE . They reviewed the entire spectrum of the comprehensive strategic partnership , and the EAM expressed satisfaction over the continued exchange of high-level visits and the exponential growth of the relationship . They also discussed regional and global issues of mutual interest , which included a deeper discussion of the evolving situation in the region . <p> In discussions with another major strategic partner , the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia , talks were held during the visit of Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud , the Saudi Foreign Minister , to New Delhi on November 12-13 . During the meeting , both sides discussed avenues to strengthen the strategic partnership between India and Saudi Arabia in areas including trade , investment , energy , defence , security , culture , and consular matters . Both Foreign Ministers also exchanged views on regional and international issues of mutual interest at the second ministerial meeting of the Political , Security , Social , and Cultural Committee ( PSSC ) of the India-Saudi Arabia Strategic Partnership Council ( SPC ) . Prime Minister Modi also met Iranian President Dr. Pezeshkian in Kazan on the sidelines of the BRICS Summit . He urged all sides to exercise restraint and prioritize dialogue and diplomacy , while India continued to provide humanitarian assistance . <p> The frequency of these high-level interactions in less than two months highlights the importance of regional stability and security , and India 's commitment to this cause . The Indian Navy is already in the region ensuring the security of merchant shipping and maritime routes . But the region remains a powder keg , with numerous active conflicts , hotspots , and geopolitical fault lines that could become even more dangerous unless pragmatic approaches are adopted by major powers . 
@@118652593 <p> Thunberg was arrested on Sept. 4 while protesting with the group Students Against the Occupation , which called on Copenhagen University to cease all connections with Israel , including putting an end to several cross-university student programs . <p> She posted a photo of herself holding a sign reading " Stand with Gaza " just days after Oct. 7 , alongside a toy octopus -- which some read as an allusion to the Nazis ' antisemitic propaganda visualizing Judaism 's supposed network of control over the world . <p> Thunberg has faced backlash since October 7 , when she began openly supporting the Palestinians . Getty Images <p> Thunberg , who is on the autism spectrum , later removed the photo and claimed she was " completely unaware " of the historical use of antisemitic octopus imagery and clarified that she meant for it to represent her emotions . <p> " The toy in the picture is a tool often used by autistic people as a way to communicate feelings , " she said . 
@@118653096 <p> LONDON -- The stunning collapse of President Bashar Assad 's regime in Syria presents " a moment of historic opportunity , " President Joe Biden wrote on X on Sunday , as rebel fighters and Damascenes celebrated the end of their 14-year war against the authoritarian government . <p> But , the president added , " It is also a moment of risk and uncertainty . " <p> The uprising that began with a protest march in the southern city of Daraa in 2011 ended with celebratory gunfire in Damascus in 2024 . <p> The surprise rebel offensive that surged out of northwestern Idlib province last month showed the regime in Damascus to be hollow . Its backers in Moscow , Tehran and Beirut were unable or unwilling to respond , perhaps because their attention and resources having been sapped by wars in Ukraine , Lebanon , Gaza and elsewhere . <p> The story of the fall of Damascus was -- arguably -- written in Donetsk and Dahiya . The coup de gr ? ce , though , was inherently Syrian . <p> A Syrian anti-government fighter stand by large banner bearing a picture of Syria 's President Bashar Assad in Hama on Dec. 5 , 2024 . <p> Bakr Alkasem/AFP via Getty Images <p> The offensive that toppled Assad was led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , an Islamist group with roots in al-Qaeda . The group is listed as a terrorist organization in the U.S. and European Union . <p> White House National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said over the weekend that the group 's background " is a concern , " noting that elements of the group are affiliated with organizations " that have American blood on their hands . " <p> HTS leader Abu Mohammed al-Jolani has become the most recognizable face of the Syrian opposition . Speaking at Damascus ' 8th-century Umayyad Mosque on Sunday , Jolani said the opposition victory is " historic for the region " and that " Syria is being purified . " <p> It remains unclear whether and how Jolani -- who is increasingly using his real name of Ahmed al-Sharaa , rather than his nom de guerre -- will be able to exert control over the disparate groupings of rebel forces drawn from around the country . <h> What does the US think ? <p> American officials are concerned that the power vacuum will allow ISIS to reconstitute . The U.S. launched 75 strikes against ISIS targets in central Syria on Sunday in a move that Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said was designed " to keep the pressure on ISIS . " <p> " As this unfolds , there 's a potential that elements in the area , such as ISIS , could try to take advantage of this opportunity and regain capability , " Austin warned . <p> The future shape of U.S.-Syrian relations will depend on the composition and direction of the next government in Damascus . <p> The White House may be somewhat pleased by Jolani 's speech at the Umayyad Mosque on Sunday , in which he lamented how Syria became " a playground for Iranian ambitions . " <p> " We will remain vigilant , " Biden said on Sunday after Damascus fell . " Make no mistake , some of the rebel groups that took down Assad have their own grim record of terrorism and human rights abuses . " The president , however , added that the groups are " saying the right things now . " <p> President Joe Biden speaks about the sudden collapse of the Syrian government at the White House in Washington , D.C. , on Dec. 8 , 2024 . <p> Manuel Balce Ceneta/AP <p> " But as they take on greater responsibility , we will assess not just their words , but their actions , " Biden added . <p> Thomas S. Warrick -- a former deputy assistant secretary for counterterrorism policy in the Department of Homeland Security -- said the U.S. " has a huge stake in what comes next , " even if it was not directly involved in Assad 's ousting . <p> A more stable Syria " that frees itself from Iranian and Russian dependence " could , Warrick wrote , allow millions of refugees to return home , end its role as a Hezbollah conduit to threaten Israel and perhaps even join the Abraham Accords at some point in the future . <p> " All these unthinkable things are now possible , " Warrick -- now a nonresident senior fellow at the Atlantic Council 's Scowcroft Middle East Security Initiative -- wrote . " But this will not happen spontaneously , without outside help and support . Postwar planning for Syria needs to go into high gear . " <p> The incoming Trump administration will need to chart a policy approach to Syria . Some will be skeptical of success , but others -- Warrick wrote -- will note that " weakening Iranian influence , supporting Israel 's security , and peace in Lebanon are , collectively , one of the biggest wins that a Trump administration could hope to achieve . " <h> A Syrian power struggle <p> In a recent interview with CNN , Jolani said that Syrians should not fear HTS 's brand of Islamism . " People who fear Islamic governance either have seen incorrect implementations of it or do not understand it properly , " he said . <p> As the rebels reached Damascus , Assadist Prime Minister Mohammed Ghazi al-Jalali said the outgoing regime would " extend its hand " to the opposition and assist with the transition of power . Jolani said on Sunday that Jalali will remain in his post to supervise state bodies during the transition . <p> Jolani and his HTS will have competition for influence in the new Syria . <p> The Turkish-backed Syrian National Army also took part in the offensive , with fighting still ongoing between the SNA and the Kurdish Syrian Democratic Forces -- who are supported by the U.S. -- in the northeast of the country . Ankara enjoys significant control over the SNA and other groups and can be expected to seek influence over the future direction of its neighbor . <p> " The opposition is not a homogenous movement and there is a risk that internal fractures within the HTS-led umbrella movement -- which may become more salient in the weeks and months to come -- may lead to discord and threaten Syrian stability , " Burcu Ozcelik of the Royal United Services Institute think tank in the U.K. told ABC News . <p> " A new transitional Syrian administration will soon need to take on the task of state-building , including the rebuilding of a national Syrian security force and a constitution-building process , as the Syrian state has been painfully hallowed out by the Assad regime , " Ozcelik said . <p> The next government will also need to address the question of Russian presence in Syria . Russian forces retain control of Khmeimim Air Base and Tartus naval base on Syria 's Mediterranean coast , two key strategic facilities from which Moscow helped keep Assad in power . <p> " It is in Russia 's interest to seek to maintain access , but its ability to project power in and through Syria is now severely debilitated , " Ozcelik said . <p> " It will take time and negotiations with the new Syrian administration , a yet to be determined entity , before it is clear what Russia 's stakes in Syria will be , " Ozcelik added . " But this is now a radically transformed Syria , and Russia has no good options . " <p> Moscow is in touch with the opposition factions , Russia 's Foreign Ministry said in a Sunday statement . " All necessary measures are being taken to ensure the safety of our citizens in Syria , " it said . " Russian military bases in Syria are on high alert . There is currently no serious threat to their security . " <p> For Tehran , " there is no doubt that the fall of the Assad regime is a highly consequential defeat for Iran , " Ozcelik said . " Syria was the conduit for Iran 's systematic support for Hezbollah in Lebanon , this supply chain has now been cut off . <p> Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said Tehran is concerned about the " possibility of a renewed civil war or a sectarian war between different sects or the division of Syria and the collapse of Syria and its transformation into a haven for terrorists . " <p> Meanwhile , rebel-liberated territory is already being bombed by Israeli warplanes and occupied by Israeli soldiers . Israeli officials have said they intend to deny " extremist " elements access to the Assad regime 's advanced military capabilities . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the regime 's collapse " is a direct result of the blows we have inflicted on Iran and Hezbollah , the main supporters of the Assad regime . " <p> " The collapse of the Assad regime , the tyranny in Damascus , offers great opportunity but also is fraught with significant dangers , " he added . <h> Assad 's legacy <p> Assad fled the country for Russia in the early hours of Sunday , state-owned Russian media said , having resigned the presidency following negotiations with opposition factions , per a Russian Foreign Ministry statement . <p> Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov announced Monday that President Vladimir Putin would grant his longtime ally political asylum in the country . <p> Assad 's departure ended 24 years of his rule -- and 50 years of Assad family rule . Posters and statues of Assad , his brothers and his father , Hafez Assad , were being torn down by jubilant crowds around the country . <p> More than a decade of civil war left at least 307,000 people dead by the end of 2022 , per United Nations figures . The fighting forced around 12 million Syrians -- more than half of the country 's 2011 population of around 22 million -- from their homes , around 5.4 million of whom were still living abroad as of late 2022 . <p> Assad 's regime fought bitterly to retain control of much of the country during the hot phase of the civil war . But his victory proved a pyrrhic one . <p> The northern city of Aleppo fell to the Idlib rebels on Nov. 29 -- a shocking development that helped spark renewed rebel uprisings all across the country . <p> In Daraa -- known as the " Cradle of the Syrian Revolution " for its role in the 2011 unrest -- opposition groups rose anew and began their march on the capital . <p> " Damascus has been liberated and the tyrant Bashar Assad has been overthrown , and oppressed prisoners in regime prisons have been released , " a rebel spokesperson said at the state television headquarters in Damascus after opposition forces seized the building . <p> " We ask people and fighters to protect all property in Free Syria , " the spokesperson added . " Long live Syria free for all Syrians of all sects. " 
@@118654481 <h> Seeing Gaza from Berlin <p> A woman reacts during a demonstration in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza , ahead of the October 7 attack anniversary , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , in Berlin , Germany , October 5 , 2024 Christian Mang/Reuters <p> " Now you have a big family that is always by your side , " my Palestinian friend Nathmi Abushedeq wrote to me in September after I helped him with a personal matter . <p> On October 26 , almost half of my new " big Palestinian family " in Beit Lahiya , in northern Gaza , fell victim to Israeli bombs . Twenty-eight people were recovered dead , and many remained under the rubble . <h> The distant suffering feels close <p> I had met the Abushedeqs for the first time in March , after crying incessantly for months over the dystopian news and images from Gaza . To help alleviate my feelings of helplessness , I volunteered to collect medical supplies for Nathmi in Berlin , which he would later transport to Gaza . <p> I met Nathmi 's brother Ashraf and his cousin Weam , who had been living in Berlin for eight months . Compared to their calmness , my despair felt almost ridiculous . They are from northern Gaza , I learned from Weam . <p> Weam told me that his family , including his wife and three small children , were sheltering in a school in Beit Lahiya . I felt helpless , searching for words of comfort . Weam smiled gently and said , " Alhamdulillah for everything " -- praise be to God for everything . <p> Alhamdulillah -- this phrase concluded most of our conversations throughout the day . As Muslims , we believe that everything comes from God and has a purpose , even if we do n't understand it at the moment . God plans for the long term and always for our benefit . <p> We got to work , joking from time to time . My heart felt a bit lighter . I sensed the resilience often attributed to Palestinians , and I allowed myself to be uplifted by it . <p> The Palestinian poet Rafeef Ziadah wrote : <p> " We Palestinians teach life after they have occupied the last sky . We teach life after they have built their settlements and apartheid walls , after the last skies ... We Palestinians wake up every morning to teach the rest of the world life , sir ! " <p> Into the late evening hours , we transported donations through the city and talked . Our mood resembled a roller coaster -- with loops . Weam spoke about life in Gaza and here in Germany , and we joked repeatedly , supporting each other . He and Ashraf showed me photos of their wives and children , bombed houses , and exhausted relatives . <p> Ashraf had a phone call with his wife and small children , who had taken refuge in Rafah . It sounded painfully normal -- as if Dad was just on a business trip . Living under bombs had become a norm in Gaza . The men had endured six wars in their lifetimes . <p> Advertisement <p> Ashraf told me that his children had chicken that day -- for the first time since the beginning of this aggression . My heart sank again . Was it their only meal of the day ? Were they also living on just 200 calories a day like so many people in Gaza ? Were they cold at night ? How many dead and mutilated people had they already seen ? <p> " Alhamdulillah . May they always have enough to eat , " I said . <p> Weam talked a lot about his father , a man who had built a business in Gaza . When he said goodbye to him before going to Europe , he saw him cry for the first time . Yet his father , sad and at the same time determined , sent him through Greece to Germany . Life in Gaza had become too difficult -- they agreed on that . Neither father nor son suspected at the time how much hostility and repression Palestinians would experience in Germany after October 7 . <p> Two months passed after our first meeting . One day , I stopped by Nathmi 's , where I found him and his relatives preparing food . Weam greeted me somewhat reservedly . " They got his father , " Nathmi explained . <p> He had been killed three days earlier . I stammered a few words that seemed inadequate . <p> " Alhamdulillah , " replied Weam , tears in his eyes . The family wanted to spend the day together . <p> In the car , I also burst into tears . Nathmi had already told me earlier that they had lost many family members . How did they endure all of this ? What had they done to deserve all this apocalyptic suffering ? <h> Police violence against Palestinians <p> For months now , police brutality against Palestinians and solidarity activists has gone unchecked . German society has largely ignored it , just like it has the reasons for the protests . <p> Advertisement <p> I have attended only authorised demonstrations and adhered to all known regulations . Nevertheless , I have constantly feared for my safety . Where could I put my grief and anger ? Was there any space for it in this country ? <p> I have repeatedly observed at demonstrations how the police would violently storm the crowd . Sometimes it would be because some people had shouted prohibited slogans , like " From the river to the sea , Palestine will be free " . <p> Other times , there would be no reason . The police would pull people from the crowd and later let them go , unable to prove that they had committed a criminal act . <p> At none of the protests I have attended have I witnessed violence coming from the demonstrators . It particularly pains me to see police officers brutally attacking Palestinians while they peacefully express their despair over the horrors in Gaza . How many of them were also mourning killed family members at the protests ? <p> Amnesty Germany has repeatedly drawn attention to the disproportionate and racist police violence against peaceful Palestine solidarity demonstrators and demanded independent investigations . " Peaceful demonstrators of Muslim and Arab descent and their supporters are subjected to disproportionate police measures , " one statement warns . <p> The countless disturbing experiences I have had with the police at demonstrations -- along with the ongoing blanket criminalisation of all demonstrators -- ultimately led me to seek other forms of solidarity , away from the streets . <h> Alienation and new belonging <p> Advertisement <p> The Hamas attack on October 7 , 2023 was traumatic for Israeli society . Innocent lives were lost , and they are rightly mourned here , in Germany . <p> The Israeli war on Gaza has now been ongoing for 14 months , killing and maiming indiscriminately and erasing Gaza before our eyes . But German society has looked away , with few exceptions . Throughout my life , I had predominantly ethnic German friends . Today , there are very few . Even before October 7 , 2023 , the disregard for Palestinian suffering -- the displacement , the disenfranchisement , the racism , the apartheid -- hurt me . <p> With the onset of the war on Gaza , I distanced myself from all those who wanted to lecture me from the traditionally one-sided German perspective . I did not have the strength to fight against this position in my personal environment . <p> I was born in Bosnia , and the trauma of the ignored genocide against my people runs deep . Gaza pushed me to the limit of what I can endure and comprehend . I see history repeating itself , with a far greater intensity . It is now being livestreamed on our phones and yet it is still being ignored . <p> Our federal government has actively supported the destruction of Palestinian lives with arms shipments . And I myself have to fear that every word I say against this will be interpreted or even condemned as anti-Semitic or incitement to hatred . <p> Artists have been cancelled and numerous journalists have lost their jobs . Academics , politicians , employees -- anyone who shows solidarity with Palestinians risks their reputation , livelihood , and even a criminal record . <p> Advertisement <p> One member of the Bundestag or parliament , Aydan Ozoguz , had to apologise last month for sharing a post from Jewish Voice for Peace that featured an image of the Israeli bombing of Al-Aqsa Hospital compound in which at least five people were killed and 70 injured . <p> The post had caused outrage in Germany . <p> But where was the outrage for the Palestinians who burned alive in this fire ? Nineteen-year-old Shaban died in the flames still hooked up to an IV , but Germany chose to persecute those who tried to draw attention to his horrific death . <p> It is not just me who is staying away from ethnic Germans . A friend , who has been ostracised by her circle for speaking up for Gaza , has recently learned that her daughter 's teacher was told the girl needs special attention because the mother was supposedly " very unstable " at the moment . <p> These are just a few of countless examples that have psychologically paralysed me over the past year . And at this point -- 14 months into what genocide scholars , human rights organisations and the United Nations all describe as genocide -- it does n't matter whether the great silence in Germany arises from fear , convenience , or ignorance . Anyone who had gaps in their education has had enough time to inform themselves . In light of the unprecedented destruction and dehumanisation in Gaza , excuses , any selective humanity , and any cowardice are unacceptable . <p> I saw a video of the funeral of the Abushedeq family members . Their bodies , wrapped in blankets , were hastily placed in a mass grave amid the rubble . I cried all day . There was no compassion from the German society for Nathmi as he mourned . <p> Advertisement <p> Although I have never met the Abushedeqs who are in Gaza , I feel connected to them -- a closeness that I can hardly imagine in Germany anymore . It feels as though I have never truly known this country . <p> I see profound humanity in devastated Gaza , where death is omnipresent . For me , it has become more of a home than the country I have lived in for over 30 years . I never thought I would feel so alienated , unwanted , and persecuted in Germany . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@118654482 <p> This handout image released by the New York Police Department ( NYPD ) via X ( formerly Twitter ) on December 7 , 2024 shows the person of interest wanted for questioning in connection to the shooting of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson on December 4 AFP photo/NYPD <p> On the morning of December 4 , Brian Thompson , the CEO of UnitedHealthcare -- the largest health insurer in the United States -- was fatally shot in New York City . The suspect has yet to be apprehended and a motive has not been established , although the words " depose " , " deny " , and " delay " were found written in permanent marker on bullet casings at the crime scene -- a potential allusion to manoeuvres by health insurance companies to avoid paying for the things they are supposed to pay for . <p> In the social media world , the tears for Thompson were few and far between , with Fox News lamenting on December 7 that a commemorative Facebook post by UnitedHealth Group -- the parent company of UnitedHealthcare -- had already racked up more than 77,000 laughing emoji reactions . Other social media users scattered witty counter-condolences across various online platforms , such as " My empathy is out of network " and " I 'm sorry , prior authorization is required for thoughts and prayers " -- a reference to another common tactic employed by UnitedHealthcare and similar firms to decline coverage and increase profit margins . <p> Advertisement <p> Meanwhile , The New York Times notes that , while authorities are pleading for help from the public in tracking down the suspected perpetrator , " some seem more interested in rooting for the gunman , " who is being " venerated as something approaching a folk hero " . <p> And yet it 's not difficult to understand why many Americans would fail to mourn the death of a man who symbolised a willfully dysfunctional , for-profit US healthcare system that is literally deadly in itself . Back in 2009 , a Harvard Medical School study found that 45,000 Americans were dying every year for lack of health insurance . This , of course , does not include the countless insured Americans who die every year because their insurance companies opt to deny them life-saving treatment . <p> But that , after all , is how capitalism works : healthcare is a business , not a right , and human lives are expendable in the interest of ensuring that obscene wealth remains concentrated in the hands of an elite minority . Americans spend far more money per capita on healthcare than their counterparts in other developed nations -- but it 's not like you get what you pay for . Often , the US healthcare experience consists of jumping through hellish bureaucratic hoops , spending a good portion of your life on hold on the telephone , and battling insurance claims denials -- if you have the energy and time to do so . <p> Indeed , there 's no denying this claim : that it 's downright sick that people who are seeking medical treatment precisely because they are ill should be put through such mental and physical agony simply to obtain care . Public anger at the system is , therefore , absolutely logical -- you might even call it a preexisting condition . <p> Advertisement <p> Of all the predatory firms that comprise the multitrillion-dollar US healthcare industry , UnitedHealthcare has a particularly vampiric reputation for charging huge premiums while pathologically denying claims left and right . As per The Associated Press news agency , UnitedHealthcare raked in $281bn in 2023 , while Thompson himself enjoyed a $10.2m annual pay package . <p> This financial context is key when considering , for example , the recent case of a chronically ill college student in the US who was reportedly slammed with $800,000 in medical bills when UnitedHealthcare denied him coverage for the drugs his doctors had prescribed . Or consider the untold number of folks whose claims denials have ultimately constituted death sentences -- and all to sustain those billions in revenue and Thompson 's annual pay package . <p> I personally have no health insurance policy , which is part of the reason I avoid the US like the plague despite it being my birthplace . I do , however , have some personal experience with UnitedHealthcare , which was my father 's insurer at the time of his death last year of prostate cancer in Washington , DC . <p> My dad was enrolled in the government-funded Medicare Advantage programme for seniors , which allows private firms like UnitedHealthcare to overbill the government for its services while skimping on providing needed care to the country 's elderly . Denied insurance coverage for the prostate cancer drug Xtandi -- which , to add insult to injury , was developed with US taxpayer money -- my father was forced to seek foundational financial support in order to acquire the medication . Had he not succeeded , he would have been billed no less than $14,579.01 for a one-month supply , ie , more than the average annual income in some countries . <p> Advertisement <p> Obviously , Brian Thompson is not personally responsible for the terminally ill state of society in the US -- a country that managed to spend $916bn on its military in 2023 alone and that continues to fund Israel 's genocide in the Gaza Strip to the tune of tens of billions of dollars , all while poverty remains a leading cause of death among Americans . <p> But the man was in fact emblematic of the lethal inequality that underpins US corporatocracy , where the health insurance racket does its part to keep people so sick and debt-ridden that they ca n't pose a challenge to the system . And that , at the end of the day , is why the gunman is being " venerated as something approaching a folk hero " . <p> The New York Times quotes Alex Goldenberg , a senior adviser at a research institute that tracks online threats , on the perceived " lionization of the shooter " and the implications of Thompson 's killing : " It 's being framed as some opening blow in a broader class war , which is very concerning as it heightens the threat environment for similar actors to engage in similar acts of violence . " <p> But there is already a class war raging in the US , and the healthcare system is one of its most violent fronts . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@118668496 <p> How Syria 's revolution could reshape the Middle EastThe swift downfall of Bashar al-Assad is reverberating throughout the Middle East . Countries are urgently reassessing how to deal with a nation seeking to rebuild itself after years of civil war . <p> Syrians inspect documents in the infamous Saydnaya prison , just north of Damascus , on Monday . Crowds are entering the prison , known as the " human slaughterhouse , " following the ouster of Bashar al-Assad and the release of thousands of prisoners who were held by the regime . Hussein Malla/AP hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Hussein Malla/AP <p> The swift downfall of Bashar al-Assad is reverberating in Syria and throughout the Middle East . <p> Some changes are already apparent . Syrians who fled the country 's vicious civil war years ago are lining up at border crossings to return home . The gates are swinging open at the country 's notorious prisons , freeing thousands . Syrians are speaking freely after decades of repressive rule . <p> Many more developments are still to come . Here 's a preliminary look at what the upheaval could mean for a range of countries that have interests in Syria . <p> Sponsor Message <p> Loading ... <h> United States <p> The U.S. military carried out an unusually large airstrike Sunday on Islamic State bases in central Syria . The U.S. says this was done because a group of Islamic State fighters gathered to train , perhaps hoping to take advantage of the turmoil in Syria . The U.S. hit some 75 targets with a variety of aircraft , including massive B-52 bombers . <p> U.S. forces have been battling the Islamic State in Syria for a decade and largedly defeated the group five years ago . About 900 U.S. troops remain to prevent a resurgence of the extremist organization . Most of the Americans are in remote northeastern Syria , with others in the far south . <p> President Biden said Sunday the U.S. would maintain this military presence . He called Assad 's ouster both a moment of risk and opportunity , adding that the U.S. would work with Syrians as they try to put together a new government . <p> However , President-elect Trump is striking a different tone . He took to social media over the weekend and said Syria is not a U.S. problem , the U.S. should not get involved , and should just let events play out . <p> But the U.S. is already involved . Those U.S. troops are not just fighting the Islamic State , they 've also been protecting vulnerable Syrian civilians . <p> Sponsor Message <p> Mouaz Moustafa , with the Syrian Emergency Task Force , an American aid group , said the U.S. forces have supplied humanitarian assistance to displaced civilians in a barren area on Syria 's southern border . <p> " If you spoke to any of these people and you asked them about the United States military , and you asked them about the relationship between the two , those Syrians love the American military , " Moustafa said . <p> Syrians who have been refugees in Turkey arrive at the Turkey-Syria border crossing near the Turkish town of Antakya as they return to their homeland . Some 3 million Syrians have been living in Turkey . Metin Yoksu/AP hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Metin Yoksu/AP <h> Iran <p> Assad 's downfall is the latest in a series of major setbacks for Tehran . Persian Iran has spent the past four decades developing Arab partners and proxies in the region , collectively known as the " axis of resistance . " But in the past year , they 've been tumbling like dominos . <p> Iran was critical to Assad as he battled to stay in power during the country 's civil war that erupted in 2011 . Iran 's Revolutionary Guards maintained a strong presence in Syria until pulling out last week , just ahead of rebel advances . Iran also used Syria as a bridge to ship weapons to Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> But now Assad is gone , Hezbollah has been greatly weakened by its war with Israel , and another Iranian proxy , Hamas in Gaza , has been devastated by its own war with Israel . <p> " Losing Syria will deal a huge blow to Iran and its proxies in the region . And that 's why I think right now the leaders in Tehran must be feeling quite anxious , " said Gonul Tol , with the Middle East Institute in Washington . " This is a moment where Iran 's regional strategy has been dealt a huge blow , and at a time when the regime at home is being questioned by millions of Iranians . " <p> Syrians wave the Syrian opposition flag as they celebrate the ouster of former leader Bashar al-Assad in Damascus . Assad and his father , Hafez al-Assad , combined to rule Syria for more than 50 years . Omar Sanadiki/AP hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Omar Sanadiki/AP <h> Russia <p> Syria was Russia 's main partner in the region for decades . When the Syrian rebels were threatening Assad 's government in 2015 , the Russian air force heavily bombed rebel areas and helped secure Assad 's hold on power . <p> Sponsor Message <p> Russia 's President Vladimir Putin said this showed Russia 's commitment to supporting its allies . <p> But Russia is now preoccupied with the war in Ukraine and carried out only a few airstrikes as Assad 's regime collapsed , demonstrating it was not able or willing to provide significant support . <p> Russia places great value on the naval base and the air base it has on Syria 's Mediterranean coast . They are Russia 's only military bases in the Middle East , and now they are very much at risk . Russia 's previous bombing campaigns inflicted heavy punishment on the rebels -- and Syrian civilians -- and they may not be inclined to let Russia keep that military presence . <p> In addition , Russia has granted asylum to Assad and his family , which could be a point of contention with a new Syrian government . <h> Israel <p> Israel was always at odds with Assad , but considered him the devil they knew . Israel acknowledged that Assad kept the frontier with Israel largely calm , even when the wider region was aflame . <p> Israel will now face a Syria that 's highly unpredictable and where Islamist groups could assume a prominent role . For the past year , Israel has been fighting one such group to its south -- Hamas in Gaza -- and another to its north -- Hezbollah in Lebanon . Israel is wary of a similar group in Syria . <p> Israel captured the Golan Heights from Syria in the 1967 Mideast war and later annexed the strategic territory . Israel 's continued hold on the Golan Heights is certain to remain a major point of friction , regardless of who emerges in power in Damascus . <h> Turkey <p> Turkey 's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has multiple aims in Syria and is well positioned to play a leading role in its future . <p> " Turkey can become the kingmaker , " said Tol . " Turkey will stand to benefit both domestically and regionally from a new and , potentially , a very friendly government in Damascus . " <p> The Turkish leader would also like to see more than 3 million Syrian refugees in Turkey head home . Some have already begun doing so . In addition , Turkish construction companies are well placed to rebuild Syria , ravaged by more than a decade of war . <p> However , Erdogan 's ambitions will depend on Syria restoring relative stability . Under Erdogan , the Turkish military has often operated in Syria against various Kurdish groups that Erdogan views as a potential threats to his rule . If Erdogan chooses to operate against Kurdish factions in Syria , that could undermine efforts to rebuild Syria . 
@@118695984 <p> Syria 's main rebel leader has vowed to hold Assad regime officials involved in torture accountable , saying they would be named and that rewards would be offered for those " involved in war crimes . " <p> Abu Mohammad al-Jolani , head of the globally designated terrorist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , made the statement as a close ally was named the country 's caretaker prime minister for a transition government until March . <p> The Biden administration says it is considering removing HTS from its list of terrorist organizations . <p> Jolani 's extremist past raises questions about his future role in Syria after his fighters led the rapid offensive that toppled Assad and sent him fleeing to Moscow . <p> Families and rescue teams rushed to a notorious Damascus prison where civil defense workers said they found no evidence of detainees held underground . Many Syrians who disappeared under Assad emerged to reunite with their loved ones , while others still remain missing . <p> The Biden administration is exploring removing the foreign terrorist designation for HTS , the most powerful of the rebel groups thatunseated Assad , two current administration officials and a former senior U.S. official told NBC News today . <p> The aim of the discussions is to " create a pathway for the world to interact with the new government , " the former official said . While two officials said the administration is looking to lift the designation " soon , " another said the discussions were still in the early stages . <p> Removing the terrorist designation for HTS , which has historic links to Al Qaeda , would include taking the $10 million bounty off Jolani , the officials said . <p> National security adviser John Kirby said today that there were " no discussions right now about changing the policy with respect to HTS , but we are watching what they do . " <p> The administration wants to see how HTS rule plays out over the next few weeks . It is actively exploring options , though , and looking at what legal work needs to be done to delist it . <p> In recent years , Jolani has tried to distance himself from his Al Qaeda connections and emphasize HTS ' more inclusive stance on women and minorities . <p> In a recent CNN interview , he said that if his forces were successful , " Syria would transition into a state of governance , institutions . " <h> A top U.S. commander visits troops in Syria and Iraq <p> Mosheh Gains <p> Reporting from WASHINGTON <p> The top U.S. commander in the Middle East visited American military personnel and partners , including members of the Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS and the Syrian Democratic Forces , at several bases in Syria . <p> " The leaders discussed strengthening bilateral cooperation and regional security , the rapidly changing situation in Syria , as well as the defeat-ISIS operations in Iraq , " the statement said . " The leaders also discussed the continued partnership between Coalition and Iraqi forces . " <h> Israel 's U.N . envoy says incursion into Syria is temporary <p> Israeli Ambassador to the United Nations Danny Danon said Israel does not intend to stay in Syria permanently but " will not allow the Iranians " to return to their borders . <p> " We will have to be patient about it . We have no intention to stay in those positions forever , but we have to assure that we do n't see radical Iranian groups on our borders again , " Danon told NBC News . <p> Danon also called Jolani " a bad guy , " adding that Jolani " said that he 's changed all of a sudden . " <p> " I 'm not sure that is the case , but we would see what are the actions that he 's taking , " Danon said , adding that he 's not sure Syria will have a central government or whether it will be " a peaceful nation . " <p> Danon said Israel will continue to support Syria 's humanitarian needs . <p> Today , several thousand people were desperately looking for their loved ones . Some were convinced that secret chambers , hidden facilities and cells were buried under the prison . So they came with crowbars and pickaxes to dig . <p> Eventually , bulldozers arrived to help , but there were no signs of life . <p> Documents bearing the names of prisoners , former inmates and people transferred from the facility were strewn on the ground . A man walked out carrying nylon nooses , some with blood on them . <p> Another man demonstrated a medieval device called a " press " that would slowly crush people to death . <p> Some people were looking for relatives , most of whom have been missing since the start of the revolution in 2011 . <h> Drone video shows life in Damascus days after Assad was overthrown <p> NBC News <p> Drone video captured landmarks in the Syrian capital , where banks reopened for the first time since the overthrow of Assad , a major step toward restoring normal life . <h> Turkish army and rebels launch massive attack on Kobani , Kurds say <p> " There are currently fierce clashes between our forces and the Turkish-backed factions , " SDF said in a WhatsApp group . " They are supported by the Turkish warplanes and UCAVs that conducted dozens of airstrikes on the region of Kobani . " <p> The statement also said there were " large-scale arresting campaigns and lootings against the Kurds and their properties in the city . " <p> Turkey views the Kurdish People 's Protection Units , which leads the Syrian Democratic Forces , as a threat to its territorial integrity and an extension of the separatist Kurdistan Workers ' Party , which the U.S. considers a terrorist group . <h> Syria is ' going towards stability , ' rebel leader says <p> NBC News <p> Jolani has issued comments apparently aimed at reassuring Syrians and the rest of the world about the country 's stability . <p> " The country will be rebuilt , " he told Sky News reporter Zein Jaafar in Damascus . " The fear was from the presence of the regime . The country is moving towards development and reconstruction . It 's going towards stability . People are exhausted from war . So the country is n't ready for another one , and it 's not going to get into another one . " <p> Jolani said the people of Syria are afraid of Iranian militias , including Hezbollah , adding that " their removal is the solution for Syria . " <p> The international community heavily sanctioned the Assad regime , a close ally of Iran and Russia . However , some of the groups that toppled Assad , including HTS , which has historic ties to Al Qaeda and is a designated terrorist group , are also raising eyebrows around the world . <p> In addition , the chaos and disorder caused by 13 years of civil war and the end of the Assads ' rule has increased fears that the country 's weapons stocks , including chemical weapons , will fall into the wrong hands . <h> Assad has taken sanctuary in Russia , Moscow confirms <p> Keir Simmons <p> Russia is providing sanctuary to Assad , having transported him there " in the most secure way possible " after the swift collapse of his regime , Russia 's deputy foreign minister said in an exclusive interview today . <p> " He is secured , and it shows that Russia acts as required in such an extraordinary situation , " Sergei Ryabkov said , becoming the first Russian official to confirm Assad 's presence in the country . <p> Russia has been dealt a huge blow by the collapse of a regime it gave its full support to , helping Assad cling to power after Syria descended into civil war and maintain his family 's brutal dynasty , which began in 1971 . <h> Video shows strike on Syrian port <p> Footage taken by a witness shows the moment an overnight strike hit a port in the Syrian city of Latakia . <p> The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , a U.K.-based monitoring group said that Israel carried out the attacks . <p> NBC News has not independently verified this footage . <h> At least 800,000 people are newly displaced in Syria , U.N . says <p> Andrew Jones <p> At least 800,000 Syrians had been displaced by the recent fighting in Syria , Gonzalo Vargas Llosa , the U.N . refugee agency 's representative for the country said today . <p> " There is a situation of huge humanitarian needs and there is a situation of huge forced displacement , " Vargas Llosa told the BBC 's " Newsday , " adding that the situation inside the country was already dire with 16 million people in " urgent need of humanitarian aid . " <p> Vargas Llosa said that the U.N . was trying to resume activities that had been suspended by the fighting . <p> " Every little space that becomes secure then we immediately move in with our partners to try to fill that humanitarian void , " he said . <p> Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said today that he had ordered the military to establish a " sterile defense zone " in southern Syria as Israeli forces moved to seize control of the demilitarized and U.N.-patrolled buffer zone , established under a 1974 cease-fire agreement . <p> He said the zone would operate " without a permanent Israeli presence , in order to prevent the establishment and organization of terrorism in Syria . " <p> Katz added that the Israeli navy had destroyed Syria 's military fleet in the Mediterranean last night . <p> Photos showed sunken Syrian naval ships in the port city of Latakia , with smoke billowing from the wreckage after they were laid to waste by Israeli airstrikes . <p> Aaref Watad / AFP via Getty Images <h> U.K. , Germany , France and others suspend Syrian asylum applications <p> Freddie Clayton <p> Reporting from London , U.K. <p> A number of European nations have paused asylum applications from Syria following the ousting of Assad , a decision that affects tens of thousands of open claims . <p> A minister from the U.K. 's home office told the BBC this morning that the nation was no longer able to judge applications when Syria " is in such turmoil , " and when " the regime they fled from has disappeared . " <p> Germany , which is home to nearly a million Syrians , said yesterday it would not process requests until there was more clarity in Syria . Other countries including Norway , Italy , Austria and the Netherlands also announced suspensions of Syrian requests , according to the Reuters news agency . France said it hoped to announce a similar decision shortly . <h> Mohammed al-Bashir appointed caretaker prime minister <p> Hannah Peart <p> Mohamed al-Bashir has been named as the caretaker prime minister of Syria 's transition government until March 1 , 2025 , he said in a televised statement today . <p> Al-Bashir has close ties to Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , the group responsible for leading the overthrow of the Assad regime . He previously led the Salvation Government , affiliated with HTS , which governed parts of northwestern Syria and Idlib . <p> HTS is an internationally designated terror group , raising questions about its role in a future Syrian government . <p> While Syria celebrates overthrowing its longtime dictator , it is also being subjected to a new ground incursion and a wave of airstrikes from its neighbor Israel that drew growing international condemnation and concern Tuesday . <p> Explosions rocked Damascus overnight , smoke billowed from a research center north of the capital and destroyed naval ships sat in the western port of Latakia -- all while Israeli ground forces moved into Syrian territory.Read the full story here . <p> The Syrian Civil Defense , also known as the White Helmets , said this morning it found no undiscovered cells or secret tunnels in the notorious Saydnaya Prison , where many of Assad 's political opponents were imprisoned after disappearing . <p> " Specialized teams searched all sections and facilities of the prison , including its basements , courtyards , and external buildings , " it said . " No evidence was found to support the existence of secret or undiscovered tunnels , " it added . <p> Five teams participated in the search , it said , including two teams of trained police dogs , medical teams which tracked various ventilation openings , sewers and wirings . <p> After the collapse of Assad 's regime , many had rushed to the prison north of the capital Damascus to find their loved ones . The rebels have demanded information of secret prisons , saying informants will be generously rewarded and protected . <h> Israel denies moving tanks towards Damascus <p> Israel has refuted reports that its tanks were moving towards the Syrian capital of Damascus . <p> Earlier today , the Syrian Observatory of Human Rights , a U.K.-based monitoring group , said Israeli tanks were seen in the countryside to southwest of Syria 's capital , Damascus . <p> The city is nearly 30 miles away from a buffer zone in Golan Heights , which Israel has vowed to fully seize as a temporary but precautionary measure . <p> " The reports circulating in the media about the alleged advancement of Israeli tanks towards Damascus are false , " the IDF said in a statement , adding , " IDF troops are stationed within the buffer zone , as stated in the past . " <p> However , Israel ' Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has publicly said the IDF will move beyond the buffer zone . He said last night that he had ordered the IDF to seize the buffer zone " as well as the controlling positions close to it . " <h> Syrians collect unexploded munitions at site of Israeli strike <p> Men and children gather unexploded ammunition at the site of an Israeli airstrike that targeted shipments of weapons belonging to Syrian government forces in Qamishli , northeastern Syria this morning . <h> Netanyahu sets a new precedent with court appearance <p> Raf Sanchez <p> Reporting from Tel Aviv <p> Benjamin Netanyahu can claim many firsts . The first Israeli prime minister born after the foundation of the state . The first to hold the office for more than 15 years . <p> And today he sets another precedent : the first sitting prime minister to take the stand as a defendant in their own criminal trial . <p> As Syria convulses in revolutionary chaos and Gaza 's humanitarian crisis deepens , Netanyahu is in a stuffy Tel Aviv courtroom testifying in a criminal corruption trial . He stands accused of accepting nearly $200,000 in lavish gifts from businessmen in exchange for political favors and of offering to skew regulations for media moguls in exchange for favorable press coverage . <p> Netanyahu denies wrongdoing . There are no juries in Israel and the case is being heard in front a three-judge panel . The prime minister could face 10 years in prison if convicted . <p> Outside the courthouse , small groups of pro- and anti-Netanyahu demonstrators are chanting from opposite sides of a police barrier . " Hurting the prime minister helps the enemy , " read one placard from a Netanyahu supporter . <h> U.N . monitoring Israeli incursion into Syria ' extremely closely ' <p> Hannah Peart <p> Israel is in " violation of the disengagement agreement from 1974 , " which established a buffer zone between the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights and Syria , the United Nations envoy to Syria , Geir Pedersen said today . <p> The U.N . will " follow this extremely closely in the hours and days ahead , " Pedersen told a media briefing in Geneva . <p> His comments came after Israel carried out airstrikes and sent ground troops into Syria after rebels ousted the country 's long-time dictator Bashar al-Assad . <p> The Israeli government says this is a temporary action to stop chemical and biological weapons from falling into the wrong hands . <p> Israel seized a buffer zone in the Golan Heights established by this 1974 ceasefire agreement with Syria . <h> Netanyahu expresses frustration about court appearance <p> Raf Sanchez <p> Reporting from Tel Aviv <p> Netanyahu arrived in the court in a dark suit and blue tie and took the stand after being sworn in by one of the judges . <p> The prime minister instantly gave voice to his frustration that he was sitting in court and not dealing with national security issues -- specifically the chaos unfolding in Syria , which he described as one of the most important developments in the Middle East in a hundred years . <p> " The only thing in front of me is the future of the state , not my own future , " he told the court . He proceeded to describe how he works 17 hours a day in the service of Israel , rarely seeing his family . He added that it was " absurd " to believe he had time to enjoy a lavish lifestyle . <p> His testimony strayed far from the criminal matter at hand -- describing in detail how he argued with President Obama in the Oval Office about settlements in the occupied West Bank . <p> After his defense lawyer asked him if the allegations bothered him , he replied : " If I tell you it 's a drop in the sea , that would be an exaggeration . I 'm busy with matters of world importance . " <h> U.S. indicts 2 former Syrian officials , accuses them of torturing prisoners <p> Two former high-ranking Syrian military figures who played key roles in the now-deposed Assad regime have been indicted on war crimes charges in the United States and accused of torturing American citizens . <p> Jamil Hassan , 72 , and Abdul Salam Mahmoud , 65 , both former Syrian Air Force intelligence officers , were charged in connection with their roles at the Mezzeh Military Airport near Damascus . <h> Now 's the time for a ' deep analysis , ' Kremlin says <p> Russia is continuing its dialogue with all countries in the region , Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said today when asked his his country feared losing military influence in the Middle East following the departure of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad . <p> " We have intersecting interests with many countries , coinciding interests , " Peskov , adding that Moscow cooperated with a number of countries in the region " and we intend to continue all these processes . " <p> " Now is certainly the time for a deep analysis of the events taking place , " he said , adding , " It is difficult to predict the final forms that will follow after this period of uncertainty , " Peskov said . <h> Israel launches strikes , ground incursion into Syria <p> NBC News <p> After Syrian rebels took control of Damascus and forced out President Bashar al-Assad 's regime , Israel carried out strikes and launched a ground incursion into Syria . <p> The move has been criticized by several countries including Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates and the United Nations , but Israeli officials said it was a temporary measure to prevent chemical and biological weapons from getting into the wrong hands . <p> On a visit to the Golan Heights Netanyahu said he was briefed on the military 's deployment there . " I instructed the army to take the actions necessary to prevent harm to our security , " he added . <p> The move has been criticized by several countries including Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates and the United Nations has called the seizure a breach of its 1974 disengagement agreement with Syria that established the demilitarized buffer zone . <h> Netanyahu takes the stand in a corruption trial <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has started taken the stand in his corruption trial that began nearly five years ago . <p> Netanyahu will answer during his appearances to charges of fraud , breach of trust and accepting bribes in three separate cases . <p> He is accused of promoting advantageous regulation for media moguls in exchange for favorable coverage of himself and his family . <p> He is also accused of accepting tens of thousands of dollars ' worth of cigars and champagne from a billionaire Hollywood producer in exchange for assisting him with personal and business interests . <p> Netanyahu has denied any wrongdoing , saying the charges are a witch hunt orchestrated by a hostile media and a biased legal system that is out to topple his lengthy rule . <h> Smoke billows over the Damascus skyline following airstrikes <p> Max Butterworth <p> Omar Haj Kadour / AFP - Getty Images <p> Smoke from airstrikes billowed over Syria 's capital this morning . <p> There have been more than 300 Israeli strikes since Islamist-led rebels toppled the country 's longtime ruler Bashar al-Assad over the weekend , according to the U.K. based monitoring group , the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . 
@@118696482 <p> President Biden 's teleprompter apparently short-circuited Tuesday during one of his final speeches touting his economic record -- which included an abortive effort to massively expand rural high-speed internet -- forcing him to consult paper notes to make up for the technical difficulties . <p> " One of the things that 's going on here -- they just turned off my ... I lost electricity here , anyway , " Biden said , visibly taken off guard just 10 minutes into his speech at the Brookings Institution in Washington , D.C. <p> Some Americans who were promised broadband access in underserved and rustic locales as part of Biden 's $1.2 trillion infrastructure law -- but have yet to receive internet access -- have been similarly left in the dark . <p> The 82-year-old president continued impromptu for part of his more than 30-minute speech , fighting through a cold to deliver the address on what he called the " fairly strong economy " he was handing off to his predecessor " at least at the moment . " <p> " Most economists agree the new administration is going to inherit a fairly strong economy , at least at the moment , " Biden went on , in between coughs . " An economy going through fundamental transformation . It 's laid out a stronger foundation and a sustainable , broad-based , highly productive growth . " <p> " It is my profound hope that the new administration will preserve and build on this progress , like most great economic developments , this one is neither red nor blue , and America 's progress is everyone 's progress , " he added . <p> The president had a raspy voice and cough during his speech , and said he had a cold . Getty Images <p> " Of course , this economic growth is not without pain . The entire world faced a spike in inflation due to disruptions from the pandemic and Putin 's war in Ukraine , " he said , ignoring even left-of-center economists who faulted the trillions in federal spending passed during the first year of his administration for fueling a 40-year inflationary high . <p> " We acted quickly to get inflation down , " he claimed , " with the help of Republicans and Democrats , inflation came down to pre-pandemic levels . " <p> Part of that spending came from the bipartisan infrastructure bill , which included a $65 billion program for undeveloped regions to " ensure every American has access to high-speed internet . " <p> The lackluster execution of the multi-billion dollar project has left some fuming , as the timeline for completion was continually pushed back . <p> President Joe Biden delivers remarks on his economic accomplishments at the Brookings Institution on December 10 , 2024 in Washington , DC . Getty Images <p> " By the way , if you think about the high-speed internet systems , " Biden noted , seemingly unaware of his administration 's progress on the issue . " They 're as consequential to farmers as electricity was during the during the administration of former President Franklin D. Roosevelt . I 'm serious . " <p> The largest funding recipient of the high-speed internet rollout was the Broadband Equity , Access , and Deployment ( BEAD ) Program , which has $42.5 billion set aside for states to establish internet services . <p> But the BEAD program has had difficulty transferring the money to directly create internet opportunities , leading Sen. John Thune ( R-SD ) to say in September , " Three years and $42 billion later , not one person has been connected to the internet under the BEAD program . " <p> FCC Commissioner Brendan Carr , who was appointed by Trump in 2017 , has said the timeline for providing high-speed internet to the intended areas will not be completed until 2030 -- nine years after the bill was passed . <p> " There has n't been a single shovel 's worth of dirt that has even been turned towards connecting people , " Carr said , per the Washington Times . <p> BEAD program leader Alan Davidson responded in May the slow pace is due to " planning and preparation " and argued that it " is really a 2025 , 2026 shovels-in-the-ground project , " the outlet reported . <p> The timeline of the internet implementation may hit an even bigger snag in the Trump administration . <p> Sen. Joni Ernst ( R-Iowa ) has already urged Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy to get their Department of Government Efficiency ( DOGE ) to cut funding for the program . <p> " President Biden 's so-called infrastructure program provided $7.5 billion to build a nationwide network of electric vehicle ( EV ) charging stations and $42 billion to expand broadband , " Ernst ( R-Iowa ) wrote in a letter to the DOGE co-chairs , according to the outlet Broadband Breakfast . <p> " Three years later , just 17 EV stations are completed and not a single person -- not one -- has been connected to the internet yet . It 's time to pull the plug . " <p> The lame-duck president 's speech at the Washington think tank was bookended by demonstrations on another contentious issue for his administration : Israel 's war in the Gaza Strip . <p> Anti-Israel protesters camped out just one block from the venue , with one holding up a banner that implored Biden to " Stop Arming Israel " and others chanting " Genocide Joe " as they waved Palestinian flags . <p> At the close of his speech , Biden raised his voice and shouted in anticipation of the next administration : " If we do n't lead the world , who will ? " <p> The president was joined at the Brookings event by Rep. Brendan Boyle ( D-Pa. ) -- one of several Democrats who had not called for him to abandon his 2024 run -- and Acting Labor Secretary Julie Su , his only cabinet-level official not to receive Senate confirmation . 
@@118696693 <h> Loading .... <p> A big thank you to the city councils of Portland and Belfast for providing a clear moral compass for cities across the country by divesting from companies complicit in the ongoing genocide and humanitarian crisis in Gaza . <p> Contrary to what has been argued by some critics of divestment resolutions , it is both our right and moral obligation to always ensure that our money is responsibly invested , most especially in the middle of a genocide enabled by U.S.-supplied weapons manufactured by U.S. companies . <p> With our money and weapons , Israel has killed more than 11,000 children . Thousands more are wounded or missing , trapped in the rubble of their homes , or buried in mass graves . <p> Children in Gaza , which UNICEF describes as " the most dangerous place on Earth to be a child , " have lived their entire lives under a 17-year Israeli military blockade ; effectively an open-air prison about a tenth of the land area of Rhode Island . Now enduring their fifth war , they 've repeatedly lost family , friends , homes , schools and limbs . The U.N . reports that Gaza has the highest number of child amputees per capita globally , with many surgeries conducted without anesthesia . <p> Our city councils should never invest in companies that profit from such unimaginable crimes . My thanks to Portland and Belfast for leading the way . May all cities and towns in Maine and in the country find the courage to follow . <h> Maine Voices Columns <p> Maine Voices columns ( 550-650 words ) should include the author 's name , address and daytime phone number . They may be emailed to : **27;2228;TOOLONG . Columns may be edited for length and content . 
@@118698086 <p> His sons , ages 19 and 15 , made it onto the inlet 's rocks , one on Avon 's L jetty and one across the inlet on the Belmar side , police reports say , and Selmi described . <p> Salem Salah , who many called by the Arabic nickname Fadel , lived with his family for many years in Newark , where he also worked as a mechanic . His son said they moved to Pottstown about five years ago for better schools and healthcare , and less violence . <p> Now , Selmi , 21 , is running the shop , Amana Auto Repair , along with his 19-year-old brother -- who almost drowned -- and doing his best to support his family , which is a household of 10 . <p> His father 's loss has not only devastated him and their family , but gone are his father 's decades in the auto repair business , which Selmi was learning . It 's been a bit tough filling his father 's shoes , like dealing with bills and the non-auto side of the business , but he 's proud to have stepped up . <p> " I have to , I have to provide for my family , " he said during a recent phone interview from the shop , as he worked from the shop and clangs rang out in the background . <p> His father loved to fish , and usually went to lakes and fished from boats , Selmi said . In September , his younger brothers had been begging him to go to the ocean to fish . <p> Selmi did not make the trip . From his family 's accounts , and the police report , which NJ Advance Media obtained through a public records request , this is what occurred : <p> The family was at the L jetty , which is a popular beach for gathering and fishing . The ocean was rough that day , due to offshore weather . <p> Another family was present too , his father 's best friend , which Selmi described as so close they call him his uncle , and his children their cousins . <p> His uncle went to pray and was gone for five minutes when Selmi 's brothers started struggling in the water , at about 6:30 p.m . Selmi said his brothers were cooling off in a calm area near the L jetty , with little waves . <p> The L jetty is unique , as part of it runs perpendicular to the coast , acting as a breakwater and apparent protection for swimmers . However , Selmi said his brothers were eventually swept out and around the jetty . <p> Salah entered the water after them . <p> Moments later , his uncle returned to chaos , and " people screaming and yelling , " Selmi said . <p> A 911 call had reported three swimmers in distress , and a police officer arrived and found one was climbing back onto the L jetty . Police dispatched the ANSWER team , a joint , volunteer water rescue organization . <p> The other two -- Salah and a son -- were being carried south by the current , toward the opening of the inlet . <p> Three rescue swimmers entered the water as police officers signaled them to the victims , and they reached Salah as he was submerged , police said . The other son was swept into the rocks , and to eventual safety . <p> Officers and rescuers pulled Salah onto the rocks on the Avon side and performed CPR . <p> Selmi said his mother watched in horror as everything unfolded . <p> Rescuers put Salah into an ambulance , and all the family members in police cars and headed to Jersey Shore University Medical Center in Neptune , where Salah was pronounced dead . <p> Family friends helped Selmi and his mother lay Salah to rest in New Jersey , his son said . He hopes to one day raise some extra funds and get him a nice headstone . <p> But for now , he 's focusing on keeping the repair shop going and helping to care for his siblings . <p> Selmi said 2024 has been " heavy . " <p> The family is Palestinian and originally from Gaza . <p> Selmi said he was in Gaza last October with his newborn daughter when the war broke out with Israel . He literally had rockets landing around him , saw death often , and suddenly found himself trying to flee a war zone . <p> His father saved him in a way , Selmi said . <p> Salah contacted U.S. State Department officials , " over and over and over , " and worked to get Selmi 's name on a list that allowed him to cross the border into Israel , and to back to Pennsylvania . <p> " He did it , " Selmi said . " My dad got me out . " <p> " This year has been like the craziest year in my life , " he said . <p> Salem Salah , shown in a family photo , died while trying to save his sons in the ocean at the Jersey Shore in September 2024 . ( Family photo ) <p> If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site , we may receive compensation . By using this site , you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks , interactions , and personal information may be collected , recorded , and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy . 
@@118709988 <h> Thr stressed mother has not touched her son 's messy room since October 7 , and greets him every morning in his empty room . <p> Shelly Shem Tov , mother of 22-year-old Omer Shem Tov , who was abducted from the Nova music festival on October 7 , told the Jerusalem Post Miami Summit that since the 430 days since her son 's been held hostage she 's no longer counting the days , she 's counting the minutes . <p> " It 's more than half a million minutes that my sunshine is in captivity . People are asking me , how can you handle it ? So I am saying that every day , I am afraid to open my eyes because I do n't know what the day will bring , " Shelly said . " Then I am opening my eyes and I see daylight , and I 'm thinking about my Omer that did n't see daylight for 430 days . " <p> Shelly shared how she has n't touched Omer 's messy room since October 7 , saying that he will come home and clean it himself . <p> Shelly said she goes into Omer 's room every morning and says " good morning , love of my life , I know that you are strong , I know that you have faith . We are doing everything to bring you back home . " <h> Living in a nightmare <p> It 's a nightmare of more than half a million minutes in hell she does n't want any parent to experience . Dana Shem Tov , sister of Omer Shem Tov , 21 , an Israeli hostage kidnapped on the deadly October 7 attack on Israel by Palestinian Islamist group Hamas from Gaza , shouts slogans next to other relatives , friends and supporters during a rally calling for the hostages ' release , amid the ongoing conflict ( credit : CARLOS GARCIA RAWLINS/REUTERS ) <p> Shelly recounted learning about Omer in captivity from former hostage Itay Regev , a friend of Omer 's he who was abducted and held captive with , along with Regev 's sister . <p> Shelly learned how Omer and Itay observed Shabbat in Hamas captivity with a small bottle of grape juice , a piece of bread or even a piece of salt . They knew God was with them , she said . <p> " I 'm so proud about my son . They took his freedom , but they could n't take his faith , his soul , " Shelly said . " And for me , I know that my son is strong . He has faith . He knows that he 's waiting , that people , the soldiers will come to take him back home . And we are waiting , and we are praying every day that this miracle would happen . " 
@@118709990 <h> Israel 's frenzied reality : When destroying an enemy navy is n't the top news story - analysis <h> This astounding military achievement was relegated to a secondary headline . It was just one more story in a news cycle overflowing with drama . <p> A bombed hangar after the IDF hit weapons depots near the Mazzeh military airport , outside Damascus , on December 9 , 2024 ( photo credit : BAKR ALKASEM/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> " The IDF announced that it destroyed Syria 's navy , " the announcer of the KAN radio news bulletin said matter-of-factly at 11:00 am on Tuesday . <p> There were two astounding things about that announcement . <p> The first was that Israel had taken out the Syrian navy , with all its ships and sea-to-sea missiles . The second was that this item did not lead the news bulletin -- that distinction went to the courtroom drama of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , who took the stand for the first time in his more than four-year-old corruption trial . <p> Think about that for a moment . Israel had neutralized an entire enemy naval force , along with much of its air force , in what could only be described as a Six-Day War-style operation . And yet this astounding military achievement was relegated to a secondary headline . It was just one more story in a news cycle overflowing with drama . <p> This illustrates the relentless pace of life in this country right now . Israeli soldiers take a position in the Golan Heights , near the Israeli border with Syria , northern Israel , December 8 , 2024. ( credit : MICHAEL GILADI/FLASH90 ) <p> Meanwhile , the deaths of seven IDF soldiers in Lebanon and Gaza reported the day before did n't even make the 11:00 am bulletin . Their funerals and the circumstances of their deaths -- once events that would have gripped the nation -- were overshadowed by these other stories . <p> This unrelenting flood of events is not unique to this week . Consider just the past two months : A ceasefire with Hezbollah in Lebanon came into effect two weeks ago ; the IAF significantly degraded Iran 's air defense systems and ballistic missile program six weeks ago ; Israel killed Yahya Sinwar , the leader of Hamas in Gaza , eight weeks ago . Each of these is an earth-shattering event , yet they all blur into a whirlwind of historical moments , leaving little time to breathe in between , take them in , and process their significance . <p> No sooner is the nation processing one momentous event than another comes and pushes it to the side . <p> And then came the rapid collapse of the Assad regime in Syria on Sunday . Journalists rightly termed this as " historic " -- the downfall of a dictator whose family had brutally ruled the country for 54 years is indeed historic . But in the same breath , the term " historic " was also used to describe Netanyahu 's courtroom testimony , the first time a sitting prime minister has taken the stand in his trial . <h> Historic shift <p> Even though Netanyahu 's testimony was " historic " in the sense that something like this has never happened here before , using the same adjective for both events feels inadequate and even misleading . <p> The rebel takeover of Syria is a seismic shift with far-reaching regional consequences . Netanyahu 's testimony is unprecedented but will not have nearly the same impact on the country or the region . Its real significance will not be evident until a verdict is reached and the appeals process is exhausted -- a process that could stretch on for years . <p> Nevertheless , these days in Israel do have a " historic " feel , as if we are living through events that will be flagged and highlighted as highly significant in future history books . <p> The rapid-fire frequency of these formidable events creates a dangerous paradox : we become simultaneously desensitized to drama and addicted to it . When every headline screams " historic " or " dramatic , " it becomes difficult to distinguish the genuinely monumental from the merely momentary . <p> This addiction to action is n't just a feature of the news cycle ; it 's woven into the national psyche . If there is a world-stopping event leading the news daily , what do we do when there is n't ? Then , we tend to take a regular run-of-the-mill story and make it dramatic . <p> Yair Lapid 's father , the late justice minister Tommy Lapid , once captured this tendency perfectly in an op-ed in The Jerusalem Post . " If a drainage pipe bursts in Tel Aviv , the next day 's headline will declare that the country 's entire sewage system is on the verge of collapse , " he wrote . In a nation addicted to drama , even the mundane becomes magnified . Hamas released a video of slain hostage Eden Yerushalmi before her death , giving a message directed at Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. ( credit : Screenshot/Hamas Telegram ) <p> This tendency is amplified by a media landscape that thrives on hyperbole . Every political skirmish in the Knesset , every piece of propaganda released by Hamas , every disagreement with the US president , every arrest or protest is a crisis or something billed as dramatic . <p> But this addiction has a cost . The constant bombardment of high-stakes events erodes the public 's ability to process grief and celebrate victories . When tragedies like the deaths of seven soldiers barely register because other events drown them out -- in this case , genuinely significant ones -- it reflects a troubling , though understandable , numbness . <p> At the same time , our national addiction to drama creates a vacuum that demands to be filled -- often by overinflating and blowing up smaller stories into dramatic crises . <p> And yet , how can we help it ? Israel experiences in a month what other nations might in a year . The news cycle here is frenetic , like the pace of the collective life here itself -- filled with triumph , heartbreak , and tension , often all at the same time . 
@@118709996 <h> Two WCK workers , who spoke on condition of anonymity , said the termination was for " security reasons . " <p> The World Central Kitchen fired dozens of Palestinians working for the charity in the Gaza Strip , with the termination being for " security reasons , " two WCK workers , who spoke on condition of anonymity , said . <p> According to the two , the firing of the workers was based on an Israeli assessment of them . <p> In a message to staff , WCK confirmed that it had " made changes " after Israel demanded an investigation into its hiring practices in Gaza . <p> " This should not be taken as a conclusion by WCK that the individuals are affiliated with any terror organization , " it said . <p> It said it had taken the step " to protect our team and our operations . " A WCK spokesperson confirmed that 62 people had been let go . Humanitarian aid with the logo of World Central Kitchen ( WCK ) at the Kerem Shalom border crossing . May 1 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/EVELYN HOCKSTEIN/POOL ) <h> WCK employee identified as partaking in October 7 massacre <p> An Israeli security official told Reuters that Israel had demanded an investigation into staff potentially linked to the October 7 attack after it said a WCK employee identified as Ahed Azmi Qdeih took part in the attack . <p> The official said an Israeli security review found that 62 WCK employees had " affiliations and direct connections " with terrorist groups . <p> " Consequently , senior Israeli officials demanded that WCK terminate the employment of those workers , " he said . 
@@118709999 <h> Tuesday 's meeting will be the first for the families since the IDF last week confirmed that New York-born Omer Neutra was killed on October 7 and Hamas has held his body since . <p> U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan speaks at a press briefing at the White House in Washington , U.S. , October 1 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Annabelle Gordon/File Photo ) <p> National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will be meeting with the families of American hostages on Tuesday afternoon in Washington , DC , before leaving for his trip to Israel , NSC Communications Advisor John Kirby informed reporters during a briefing on Tuesday morning . <p> While Syria is certainly going to be at the top of Sullivan 's agenda with the Israelis , Kirby said without question the most important thing Sullivan is going to want to talk about is how to get a hostage deal in place so the families can get their loved ones home and get the answers they deserve . <p> Kirby reiterated that Sullivan regularly engages with the American hostage families . <p> Tuesday 's meeting will be the first for the families since the IDF last week confirmed that New York-born Omer Neutra was killed on October 7 and Hamas has held his body since . <p> A group representing the American families said in the meeting with Sullivan will be Adi and Yael Alexander , parents of New Jersey native Edan Alexander , who Hamas confirmed to be alive in a video released last weekend ; Ruby Chen , father of Itay Chen , an IDF soldier whose body is also being held by Hamas ; Jonathan Dekel-Chen , father of Sagui Dekel-Chen ; Iris Weinstein Haggai , daughter of Gad Haggai and Judy Weinstein ; and Liz Hirsh Naftali , great-aunt of released American hostage Abigail Mor Edan . Visitors at Hostage Square in Tel Aviv . September 25 , 2024. ( credit : MIRIAM ALSTER/FLASH90 ) <p> While in DC , the families will also be meeting with " allies of President-elect Trump , and members of Congress and their staff , " the group said in a statement . <h> ' An opportunity to get a hostage deal ' <p> " I am not in a position today where I can tell you that we have a deal that is on the brink of completion . That is not where we are , " Kirby said . " But it is fair to say that we are working this extremely hard . We do think there 's an opportunity here to get a hostage deal in place , to get these families reunited , to get a surge of humanitarian assistance into Gaza , but again , there 's an awful lot of work that still has to be done . Hamas continues to be the obstacle to that outcome , but we 're pressing on it really , really hard with that . " <p> Hamas has got to be looking at the world today and realizing that the cavalry is not coming to rescue them , Kirby added , saying one would hope the recent developments in Syria reinforce their increasing isolation for them . <p> Kirby acknowledged that Sullivan is going to talk about the potential for a new hostage deal with the developments of the last few days in the background . <p> " It remains to be seen whether Hamas will move , but they absolutely ought to move because there is nobody coming to their assistance there , " Kirby continued . " They ca n't rely on Hezbollah . They certainly ca n't rely on Iran . This is the time to make a deal . " 
@@118711789 <p> While Amnesty International was the first international NGO to declare what Israel is doing as a genocide , other groups have meticulously documented the country 's alleged war crimes . <p> One of the legal scholars who advocated for these charges against Israeli leaders was Theodor Meron , a man who oversaw the world 's first genocide trials . Meron was once an Israeli diplomat , then an American judge , and was himself a survivor of the Nazi genocide of Jews . <p> One thing these reports and these court rulings have in common is that they use the words of Israeli leaders , such as Gallant 's declaration about food and water being kept out of Gaza , as evidence of Israel 's intentions . But that 's not all . Both Amnesty International and the International Court of Justice have cited similar sources to allege that Israel is committing war crimes : Israeli soldiers bragging about it on social media . <p> This is evidenced by Amnesty International 's analysis of 62 videos , audio recordings and photographs posted online showing Israeli soldiers in which they made calls for the destruction of Gaza or the denial of essential services to people in Gaza , or celebrated the destruction of Palestinian homes , <p> mosques , schools and universities , including through controlled demolitions , in some cases without apparent military necessity . <p> It continued : <p> Of these , 31 called orally or in writing for the annihilation , destruction , burning or " erasure " of Gaza , or used other similar rhetoric . The existence of a large number of these public videos and statements highlights not only systemic impunity but also the creation of an environment that emboldens , if not tacitly rewards , such behaviour . <p> After Amnesty International 's report was released , Israel 's Foreign Ministry stated on X : " The deplorable and fanatical organization Amnesty International has once again produced a fabricated report that is entirely false and based on lies . " <p> But this report adds to a growing consensus among some experts about what has happened in Gaza over the last 14 months . When people say that this is " the first livestreamed genocide in history , " it 's not just Palestinians filming their own destruction for the world to witness , it 's Israeli soldiers doing so as well . <p> Last week , The Washington Post published a visual story titled " Revenge , fire and destruction : A year of Israeli soldiers ' videos from Gaza . " The Post reported even more evidence of Israeli soldiers destroying the homes and neighborhoods of private citizens , and in some cases , admitting that there is no military purpose or justification for what they are doing . One soldier told the Post , " I took these videos to raise the morale of the people at home , and I do n't regret it for a moment . " <p> The paper also reported on a sick genre of images that has become all too common in the past 14 months : Israeli soldiers filming themselves playing with Palestinian women 's underwear or lingerie . Regarding that video , the Israeli military told NBC News , they 've " taken action and will continue acting to identify misconduct and behavior that does not align with the expected morals and values of IDF soldiers . " <p> One soldier told the Post , " I took these videos to raise the morale of the people at home , and I do n't regret it for a moment . " <p> We 've also seen videos of Israeli soldiers destroying children 's toys and laughing at what was a Palestinian shop in Northern Gaza late last year . Regarding this video , the IDF told NBC News , " The behavior of the soldiers in the video is inappropriate and contrary to the values of the IDF , " and pledged to review the case accordingly . <p> A day after the American election , a video began circulating online of an Israeli soldier appearing to fire his gun indiscriminately and adding his commentary on the election results , remarking , " This is on the occasion of Donald Trump 's presidency . " Once again , the Israeli military told NBC News , " The soldier 's actions are severe and do not align with the values and orders of the IDF . The soldier will be disciplined by his commanders . " <p> But despite all of this -- despite an arrest warrant for Israel 's leader ; despite the charges of using starvation as a weapon of war ; despite women and children making up nearly 70% of the dead Palestinians in Gaza , according to a United Nations report ; despite the fact that more women and children have been killed in Gaza by Israeli military than any other recent conflict in a single year , according to Oxfam ; and despite a U.N . agency 's report that 10 Palestinian children lose one or both of their legs in Gaza every day -- The Financial Times first reported on Nov. 27 that the Biden administration has provisionally approved a new $680 million weapons sale to Israel . 
@@118712385 <h> David Ushery to succeed Chuck Scarborough at NBC New York 6pm news desk <h> Ushery will start the new role as co-anchor of " News 4 New York at 6 p.m. " on Monday , Dec. 16 <p> NBC 4 New York/WNBC has named David Ushery as the new co-anchor of " News 4 New York at 6 p.m. , " starting on Monday , December 16 . Ushery succeeds legendary journalist Chuck Scarborough at the 6 p.m. news desk ; a role Scarborough held for more than 50 years and will relinquish on Thursday , December 12 . Ushery will continue in his current role as co-anchor of the NBC 's flagship station 's 4 PM and 11 PM newscasts alongside Natalie Pasquarella , who he will also join at 6 p.m . <p> " David is the real thing . He is an excellent writer , a terrific reporter and an outstanding anchor who is at his best when news is breaking and there is no script . He is also committed to helping others and regularly spends time in our communities across the Tri-State , " said Eric Lerner , President and General Manager . " David is the perfect choice for our 6 p.m. newscast and will continue WNBC 's tradition of excellence " . <p> One of the most accomplished broadcast journalists in the Tri-State region , Ushery was chosen by his NBC 4 New York news colleagues to accept the prestigious Alfred I. duPont-Columbia University Award in 2021 , recognizing the station 's coverage of the COVID-19 outbreak across the Tri-State area . A mainstay at the 30 Rock anchor desk throughout the pandemic , Ushery 's decision to appear in-studio reflected a personal commitment to offering viewers a sense of visual familiarity during a very unfamiliar time . The duPont has long been recognized as the broadcast , documentary and on-line equivalent of the Pulitzer Prize , also awarded by Columbia University . <p> " For more than 20 years , covering everything from tragedies to triumphs , David has proven he can do it all , " said Amy Morris , Senior Vice President of News for NBC 4 New York and Telemundo 47 . " Ush , as he 's known in the newsroom , is an innovative journalist who connects with audiences on any platform . He 's a critical talent as ' News 4 New York ' continues to evolve and build for the future . " <p> Ushery is a member of the New York State Broadcasters Hall of Fame and the Silver Circle for the National Academy of Television Arts &amp; Sciences , New York Chapter . In addition to the Columbia-duPont award , Ushery has been honored with two National Edward R. Murrow Awards for WNBC 's October 2012 coverage of Superstorm Sandy and December 2019 coverage of the deadly Jersey City shootout . His work on Superstorm Sandy was also recognized with a National Emmy ? Award . <p> " In a time when the media industry is evolving on a near-daily basis , our responsibility as local journalists will never change : to verify the facts , to ask the tough questions and to deliver the news in a clear , honest and transparent manner worthy of our viewers trust , " said David Ushery . " That is exactly what we do at WNBC and for more than 20 years , I have been privileged to work alongside some of the finest journalists in our business right here at 30 Rock . I look forward to continuing this important mission every weeknight at 6 PM with my colleagues and friends Natalie Pasquarella , Janice Huff and Bruce Beck . " <h> Biography of David Ushery <h> News <p> David Ushery has offered WNBC viewers a front row seat to the biggest news stories of the day for more than 20 years . He has travelled around the world to report live from site of terror attacks in Paris and Manchester , England , the front lines in Gaza and the West Bank and the opening of the United States Embassy in Jerusalem . He has also made multiple visits to St. Peter 's Square in Rome where he covered the resignation of Pope Benedict XVI , the 2013 papal conclave electing Pope Francis and the canonizations of Pope Saint John Paul II and Pope Saint John XXIII . He has also moderated televised debates for New York City Mayor , New York City Comptroller and New York State Governor . <p> Throughout the pandemic and periods of civil unrest following the murder of George Floyd , Ushery was a daily presence in WNBC 's 30 Rock studios , delivering the latest information to viewers while frequently transitioning to daily press conferences hosted by federal , state and local officials . He also took a closer look at the relationships between law enforcement and communities of color during this time , which included exclusive interviews with top NYPD brass . Following the death of Civil Rights icon John Lewis , Ushery secured an exclusive interview with long-time friend and former Congressional colleague Charles Rangel , who described marching alongside Lewis from Selma , AL to Montgomery , AL and offered personal insights on their shared work that spanned more than half a century . <p> Passionate about service and helping those in need , Ushery has brought attention to the sacrifice and unique challenges facing local first responders . He has investigated the high rates of suicide among firefighters and placed an important spotlight on the emotional struggles faced throughout their lifetimes . He won a New York Emmy ? for his 2019 profile on 9/11 responder Michael Dorian , who was diagnosed with cancer following his service and later fought a challenging battle to secure the health benefits due to him under the law . Later that year , he conducted one of the last televised interviews with the late NYPD Detective Luis Alvarez , who helped lead the grassroots campaign which resulted in renewal of the federal Victim 's Compensation Fund . Ushery 's work with the first responder community was highlighted in Spike Lee 's 2022 documentary " NYC Epicenters 9/11 ? 2021 ? " <p> Following the big story across the Tri-State and throughout the country , Ushery reported from Houston following the death of former President George H.W. Bush , from Orlando following the deadly Pulse nightclub shooting and the White House for the transition between the outgoing Obama and incoming Trump teams . He covered Pope Francis ' 2015 visit to Washington D.C. and New York City live from the parade routes . Ushery also delivered live coverage following the 2012 Sandy Hook elementary school shooting and the miraculous 2009 landing of US Airways Flight 1549 in the Hudson River . He joined the station in 2003 following a decade at WABC-TV , where he rose from reporter to anchor . <p> Ushery is the recipient of three honorary degrees , earning honors from St. John 's University ( 2014 ) , St. Francis College ( 2018 ) and Fordham University ( 2019 ) . He is actively involved with both the New York Urban League and the Archdiocese of New York , and received numerous awards for community service , including from the Nubian Cultural Center , Consulate of Israel and Public Relations Society of America . He has received the McDonald 's Black Media Legends : Faces of Black History Award and the National Association of Black Journalists Award for his series of reports on children and violence . Ushery has also been named " 40 under 40 " from Network Journal and Black Professionals Business Magazine . <p> A Hartford-area native , Ushery graduated from the University of Connecticut and began his broadcast career at WFSB-TV , where he worked as the lead evening reporter . He also reported for the Hartford Courant and the Los Angeles Times . Ushery was 11 years old when he was selected from a search to host the Connecticut edition of " Kidsworld " , a nationally syndicated television show . One of his first interviews was with news icon Walter Cronkite , considered one of the most trusted men in America at the time . Ushery hosted " Kidsworld " until he was eighteen . 
@@118740889 <h> 2024 in Photos : A Look at the Middle Months <p> As the end of the year approaches , here is a look back at some of the major news moments of 2024 . Events covered in this essay ( the second of a three-part photo summary of the year ) include the opening of the Paris Olympics , widespread flooding in Brazil , an assassination attempt on the presidential candidate Donald Trump , and much more . Check back tomorrow for the last installment , and be sure to see the first part and our " Top 25 News Photos of 2024 . " <p> To receive an email notification every time new photo stories are published , sign up here . <p> A performer floats above supporters , attached to a cluster of helium balloons , above the Marques do Pombal Square in Lisbon , on May 6 , 2024 , to celebrate the champions of the Portuguese football league. # <p> The Crowder family sorts through and recovers items after their home was struck by a tornado on May 7 , 2024 , in Barnsdall , Oklahoma . Barnsdall , a town of about 1,000 people , was struck by an EF3 tornado just one week after the state was hit with a slew of deadly tornados. # <p> Medical students operate on a teddy bear together with children from the Weing ? rten day-care center in a real operating theater in a former emergency room at the University Hospital in Halle , Germany , on May 11 , 2024 . The Teddy Bear Hospital in Halle stands out because it uses an entire former hospital wing with several real operating theaters on the Steintor Medical Campus . The aim of the project is to playfully take away children 's fear of visiting a doctor. # <p> An aircraft sits on the flooded tarmac at Porto Alegre -- Salgado Filho International Airport , in Porto Alegre , Brazil , on May 20 , 2024 . More than 600,000 people were displaced by the heavy rain , flooding , and mudslides that ravaged the region for about two weeks. # <p> Leonie Hanne poses on the red carpet before the screening of the animated film La Plus Pr ? cieuse des Marchandises ( " The Most Precious of Cargoes " ) in competition at the 77th Cannes Film Festival , on May 24 , 2024. # <p> A young girl surrounded by people cries after identifying a member of her family among the dead at al-Maamadani hospital , following an Israeli strike that killed more than 90 people in a school sheltering displaced Palestinians , in Gaza City , on August 10 , 2024. # <p> Novak Djokovic of Serbia slides near the net for a forehand against Francisco Cerundolo of Argentina in a men 's singles fourth-round match during French Open at Roland Garros on June 3 , 2024 , in Paris. # <p> Bernard Morgan , 100 , a veteran of the British Royal Air Force , visits war graves in Bayeux , France , on June 5 , 2024 , ahead of the Royal British Legion Service 's plans to commemorate the 80th anniversary of D-Day. # <p> An unidentified fan is tased by a police officer as he runs on the field before the ninth inning of the game between the Cincinnati Reds and the Cleveland Guardians at Great American Ball Park in Cincinnati , Ohio , on June 11 , 2024. # <p> Supporters cheer as former U.S. President and Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump arrives to speak during a campaign rally at the Historic Greenbrier Farms in Chesapeake , Virginia , on June 28 , 2024. # <p> An armored woman on a robotic horse carries the Olympic flag across the Seine during the opening ceremony in Paris on July 26 , 2024 . The rider , played by Floriane Issert , a noncommissioned officer of the National Gendarmerie , was meant to represent the Olympic spirit and Sequana , goddess of the river and a symbol of resistance. # <p> Following the Parade of Nations on the Seine , athletes and spectators watch as lasers light up the sky around the Eiffel Tower , at the Trocad ? ro venue , during the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games on July 26 , 2024. # <p> Team Australia 's Kevin McNab , riding the horse Don Quidam , clears a fence shaped like a stag 's head during the equestrian cross-country leg during the Olympic Games at Chateau de Versailles , in Versailles , France. # <p> The journalist Evan Gershkovich , followed by his mother , Ella Milman , smiles as he arrives at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland on August 1 , 2024 . Gershkovich and fellow prisoners released by Russia landed in the United States late that day , as part of an extraordinary swap deal struck between Washington and Moscow . Gershkovich , the former U.S. marine Paul Whelan , and the journalist Alsu Kurmasheva landed at were greeted by President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris after landing. # <p> Vice President Kamala Harris speaks to supporters during a campaign rally at West Allis Central High School on July 23 , 2024 , in West Allis , Wisconsin . Harris was making her first campaign appearance as the Democratic Party 's presidential candidate , with an endorsement from President Joe Biden. # <p> Participants attempt to catch Asian carp in nets as they compete in Betty DeFord 's Original Redneck Fishin ' Tournament in the Illinois River on August 3 , 2024 , in Bath , Illinois . The annual tournament targets Asian carp ( also known as copi or silver carp ) , which is an invasive species in the river that has been destructive to the natural ecosystem and hazardous to boaters because of the propensity of the fish to leap up to 10 feet out of the water when spooked by vibrations from boat motors . Participants use only nets to try and catch the fish while they are airborne . Proceeds from the tournament are used to help homeless veterans , and the captured fish are processed into fertilizer. # 
@@118741386 <p> It was a tense and at times outright hostile hearing with lawmakers from both sides of the aisle ripping into the secretary for the lack of security and botched logistical planning that kept airplanes scrambling and hundreds of desperate Americans waiting for evacuation . <p> Blinken addressed Gold Star family members , relatives of those killed by a suicide bomber during the withdrawal , who were present at the hearing , with a personal apology , stating that he " deeply regrets we did not do more to protect them . " <p> Secretary of State Antony Blinken appears before the House Foreign Affairs Committee on the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan , at the Capitol in Washington , Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/J . Scott Applewhite ) <p> At the same time , Blinken defended President Joe Biden 's decision to withdraw from the country on the agreed timeline . <p> " Had Biden not followed through on his predecessor 's commitment , attacks on our forces and allies would have resumed and the Taliban 's assault on the country 's major cities would have commenced , " Blinken told the committee . <p> With only weeks to go until the end of the Biden administration , the hearing will likely be Blinken 's final word on the tragedy as secretary of state . <p> " As secretary of state , you were trusted with the protection of American interests and citizens overseas , " said committee Chairman Michael McCaul ( R-TX ) . " You ignored the Taliban 's violations of the Doha Agreement , you ignored objections by our NATO and Afghan allies , you ignored the security risks in keeping the U.S. Embassy in Kabul open despite warnings of our top military advisers . ... And now , tragically more than three years after this administration 's disastrous withdrawal , you 're finally here to take responsibility . " <p> McCaul , who will soon turn his chair over to Rep. Brian Mast ( R-FL ) , told Blinken that he believed the weakness shown in the final days of Afghanistan ultimately sparked the ongoing upheaval of global security in Ukraine , the Middle East , and elsewhere . <p> " This catastrophic event was the beginning of a failed foreign policy that lit the world on fire , " McCaul said . <p> It is the coda to a yearslong government scandal as lawmakers have struggled for transparency on the decision-making that led to the humiliating end of U.S. presence in Afghanistan -- a moment encapsulated in images of Afghan citizens plummeting to their deaths while trying to escape on the outside of departing planes . <p> A Gaza protester screams at Secretary of State Antony Blinken as he testifies during a House Committee on Foreign Affairs hearing on the US withdrawal from Afghanistan , Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 , on Capitol Hill in Washington . ( AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin ) <p> " Blinken failed in his duty as secretary of state to protect Americans abroad , overseeing catastrophic failures and lying about them on several occasions , " Rep. Corey Mills ( R-FL ) told the Washington Examiner . <p> During the hearing , Mills told Blinken that the State Department 's failures in Afghanistan and elsewhere forced himself and other veterans to render aid themselves . <p> " When the State Department abandoned Americans in Afghanistan , Israel , and Haiti , military veterans stepped up , " he told the Washington Examiner. 
@@118742687 <h> Former emissary to Saudi Arabia will write about foreign affairs . <p> From the fall of the Assad regime in Syria to Israel 's conflicts in Gaza and Lebanon , the Middle East is in the midst of what could be epochal change . And beyond that region , American interests are at stake in any number of foreign policy matters , from Venezuela to Ukraine . <p> Robert Jordan has spent decades deeply engaged in American concerns abroad . <p> Advertisement <p> Jordan was appointed U.S. ambassador to Saudi Arabia , a month after the attacks of Sept. 11 , 2001 . When Editorial Page Editor Rudy Bush and I had breakfast with Jordan last month , he reminded us that 15 of the 19 terrorists who attacked America that day were Saudi . Jordan was thrown into a crisis with many factions and competing interests . From that tangle of stakeholders , he managed to represent the values of the U.S. and the international community , and to enlist the cooperation of the Saudi government in countering terrorism and adopting reform . <p> Advertisement <p> Now retired from his law practice , Jordan is diplomat in residence and professor of practice at the John G. Tower Center for Political Studies at SMU . He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Dallas Committee on Foreign Relations and a past president of the Dallas Bar Association . <p> Jordan is a frequent commentator for international news outlets including CNN , Fox News , MSNBC , CNBC , Bloomberg and The New York Times . His memoir , Desert Diplomat : Inside Saudi Arabia Following 9/11 , was published in 2015 . <p> We are thrilled that Jordan has agreed to be a contributing columnist for The Dallas Morning News . We expect he 'll bring readers the same critical clarity about foreign affairs that he brought to the U.S. Embassy in Riyadh . 
@@118742989 <p> To place an obituary , please include the information from the obituary checklist below in an email to obits@pioneerpress.com . There is no option to place them through our website . Feel free to contact our obituary desk at 651-228-5263 with any questions . <p> General Information : <p> Your full name , <p> Address ( City , State , Zip Code ) , <p> Phone number , <p> And an alternate phone number ( if any ) <p> Obituary Specification : <p> Name of Deceased , <p> Obituary Text , <p> A photo in a JPEG or PDF file is preferable , TIF and other files are accepted , we will contact you if there are any issues with the photo . <p> Ad Run dates <p> There is a discount for running more than one day , but this must be scheduled on the first run date to apply . <p> If a photo is used , it must be used for both days for the discount to apply , contact us for more information . <p> Policies : <p> Verification of Death : <p> In order to publish obituaries a name and phone number of funeral home/cremation society is required . We must contact the funeral home/cremation society handling the arrangements during their business hours to verify the death . If the body of the deceased has been donated to the University of Minnesota Anatomy Bequest Program , or a similar program , their phone number is required for verification . <p> Please allow enough time to contact them especially during their limited weekend hours . <p> A death certificate is also acceptable for this purpose but only one of these two options are necessary . <p> Guestbook and Outside Websites : <p> We are not allowed to reference other media sources with a guestbook or an obituary placed elsewhere when placing an obituary in print and online . We may place a website for a funeral home or a family email for contact instead ; contact us with any questions regarding this matter . <p> Obituary Process : <p> Once your submission is completed , we will fax or email a proof for review prior to publication in the newspaper . This proof includes price and days the notice is scheduled to appear . <p> Please review the proof carefully . We must be notified of errors or changes before the notice appears in the Pioneer Press based on each day 's deadlines . <p> After publication , we will not be responsible for errors that may occur after final proofing . <p> Online : <p> All obituaries appear on TwinCities.com with a permanent online guestbook presence . If you wish to have the online presence removed , you can contact us to remove the guestbook online . Changes to an online obituary can be handled through the obituary desk . Call us with further questions . <p> Payment Procedure : <p> Pre-payment is required for all obituary notices prior to publication by the deadline specified below in our deadline schedule . Please call 651-228-5263 with your payment information after you have received the proof and approved its contents . <p> A letter expected to be shared with the St. Paul schools board of education Wednesday calls for the district to require staff training on Jewish identity and antisemitism following a resolution by a teachers ' union on the war in Gaza . <p> Organized by SPPS teachers and parents as well as the Jewish Community Relations Council of Minnesota and the Dakotas , the letter has been signed by 531 people since becoming available on Friday , according to Sami Rahamim , spokesperson for the council . According to its website , JCRC " fights antisemitism and prejudice , safeguards the Jewish community , advocates for Israel , provides Holocaust education , promotes tolerance and social justice , and builds bridges across the Jewish and broader communities . " <p> The letter refers to a resolution passed by the St. Paul Federation of Educators in November , which the letter describes as one that " erased Jewish experiences and promoted the terrorist organization Hamas ' narrative describing the October 7 , 2023 , invasion of Israel as ' multiple resistance organizations in Gaza revolting against Israel . ' " <p> " This narrative justifies the killing , kidnapping , and rape of innocent people , normalizing the worst antisemitic massacre since the Holocaust , " the letter states . Hamas has been designated as a terrorist organization by the U.S. , Canada and the European Union . <h> Resolution <p> The resolution passed by SPFE in November called for its national union , the American Federation of Teachers , to sign a national arms embargo letter to President Joe Biden and resolved that SPFE would sign the letter as a local union . The embargo letter calls for the Biden administration " to immediately halt all military aid to Israel as part of the work to secure an immediate and permanent ceasefire in the war in Gaza . " <p> Before voting on the resolution , Jewish SPFE members read a response from St. Paul rabbis expressing that the resolution made Jewish community members feel less safe . <p> " Regardless of intent , the impact of this resolution and the rhetoric surrounding it invites systemic isolation , exclusion , and dehumanization of Jewish voices and concerns in our schools , " Wednesday 's letter states . " And while SPPS has a longstanding commitment to fostering safe and inclusive learning environments for all students and staff , the painful and insulting erasure of consensus Jewish concerns in the SPFE discourse reveals a critical gap in the protection and support for our Jewish community members . " <p> A representative for SPFE could not be reached for comment Tuesday . <p> The letter urges SPPS to require staff training from JCRC on Jewish identity and antisemitism . <p> According to the letter , the training should " Raise awareness of the complexity of Jewish identity . " " Increase understanding of the unique ways anti-Jewish language , symbols , and behaviors manifest , and their impact on individuals and communities . " " Empower educators and staff to recognize and appropriately respond to incidents of antisemitism in classrooms , hallways , and online platforms . " " Foster inclusive practices that create a sense of belonging for Jewish students and staff , reinforcing their right to safety and respect within our schools . " And " Build stronger alliances between educators , parents , and community members to proactively combat hate and discrimination in all forms . " <p> SPPS teacher Tiffany Goldman , who signed Wednesday 's letter , said as an educator she thinks enlightening people and having discussions is always positive . <p> " As a Jewish woman , a Jewish teacher in St. Paul Public Schools , I want the best for every student and right now , I feel like our Jewish students , they 're not getting the best because there 's a lot of misinformation out there . And I think providing the training will help fill some of the holes that exist . And I think that it will support SPPS in being the best that it can be for all of our students , " Goldman said . <h> Response from SPPS <p> Views expressed or actions taken by any of the district 's labor unions are those of the union , according to a SPPS statement provided in response to Wednesday 's letter . <p> " The Saint Paul Federation of Educators ( SPFE ) is a labor union that represents Saint Paul Public Schools ( SPPS ) teachers , educational assistants , and school and community service professionals . SPFE , like all labor unions , operates independently and separately from the district , " the SPPS statement said . <p> " SPPS has clear policies and procedures in place regarding what is allowed and appropriate in the classroom . Our schools remain committed to maintaining learning and working environments that are free from discrimination , harassment , violence and retaliation . The ongoing Israeli-Palestinian conflict brings up many strong emotions . Resources are available for any SPPS students or staff who need support at school . " <p> The goal of the training the letter calls for is to give SPPS staff a window into the Jewish experience and what harmful ideas are circulating now , including in the district , Rahamim said . <p> " And what does it look like to show empathy for Israelis and Palestinians without reducing a complex , tragic conflict into a binary where one side is good and one side is evil , " Rahamim said . <p> Goldman said throughout the process with SPFE , district members have been supportive and she said she hopes things will continue to be positive . <p> " I feel like one thing we do as educators really well is , once we find something where we can do better , we do better , " Goldman said . " And so I think that that 's a powerful thing for educators to hold . And I think this is a place where we can do better . We can do better for , not just our Jewish students , but we can do better for all of our students . " 
@@118743684 <h> Iftikhar Gilani speaks to us about the factors behind the sudden overthrow of the Assad regime , and what the implications of this are for Russia and Iran , Assad 's biggest backers . <p> After battling insurgency for 13 years , the Bashar al Assad regime has collapsed in Syria . Assad and his family have fled to Russia where they have been given asylum . An Al Qaida affiliate that today goes by the name of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) has taken control of the Syrian capital Damascus . <p> The immediate future of Syria now depends on the leader of the HTS , Abu Muhammad al-Jolani , a man who was handpicked by Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi to establish a branch in Syria . <p> What were factors behind the sudden overthrow of the Assad regime , which not many had foreseen ? What are the implications of this for Russia and Iran , Assad 's biggest backers ? What are the implications for the various minorities such as Shias , Christians and the Syrian Kurds ? And what does this mean for Palestinians in Gaza and for Lebanon ? <p> Guest : Iftikhar Gilani , a senior journalist who has reported for three decades from South Asia and the Middle East and is currently based in Ankara . <h> Comments <p> Comments have to be in English , and in full sentences . They can not be abusive or personal . Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments . <p> We have migrated to a new commenting platform . If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in , you may continue to engage with our articles . If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments . Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. 
@@118745880 <p> FILE - In this photo released by the official website of the office of the Iranian supreme leader , Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , right , speaks with Syrian President Bashar Assad in a meeting in Tehran , Iran , May 30 , 2024 . <p> A woman holding a rifle borrowed from a Syrian opposition fighter poses for a picture , next to a government forces tank that was left on a street , at the Umayyad Square in Damascus , Syria , Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 . <p> An opposition fighter in military uniform stands next to a broken bust of the late Syrian President Hafez Assad , with a pair of shoes placed on top , at a checkpoint in Damascus , Syria , Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 . <p> A youth , holding a rifle borrowed from a Syrian opposition fighter people , poses for a picture on the top of a government forces tank that was left on a street , at the Umayyad Square in Damascus , Syria , Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 . <h> Middle East latest : UN General Assembly demands a ceasefire in Gaza <h> The U.N . General Assembly overwhelmingly approved resolutions Wednesday demanding an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and expressing support for the U.N . agency for Palestinian refugees that Israel has moved to ban <p> FILE - In this photo released by the official website of the office of the Iranian supreme leader , Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , right , speaks with Syrian President Bashar Assad in a meeting in Tehran , Iran , May 30 , 2024 . ( Office of the Iranian Supreme Leader via AP , File ) <p> A woman holding a rifle borrowed from a Syrian opposition fighter poses for a picture , next to a government forces tank that was left on a street , at the Umayyad Square in Damascus , Syria , Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Leo Correa ) <p> Leo Correa - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Syrians stand on the top of a government forces tank that was left on a road , on their way to Damascus , Syria , Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Leo Correa ) <p> Hussein Malla - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> An opposition fighter in military uniform stands next to a broken bust of the late Syrian President Hafez Assad , with a pair of shoes placed on top , at a checkpoint in Damascus , Syria , Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Hussein Malla ) <p> Leo Correa - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> A youth , holding a rifle borrowed from a Syrian opposition fighter people , poses for a picture on the top of a government forces tank that was left on a street , at the Umayyad Square in Damascus , Syria , Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Leo Correa ) <p> Secretary General of the United Nations , Antonio Guterres , during a visit in Pretoria , South Africa . Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Shiraaz Mohamed ) <p> Matias Delacroix - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Israeli army tanks maneuver near the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams , Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Matias Delacroix - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Israeli tanks maneuver next to the security fence near the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams , Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Matias Delacroix - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> A woman holds her child near the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams , Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> An Israeli army tank maneuvers near the so-called Alpha Line that separates the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights from Syria , in the town of Majdal Shams , Wednesday , Dec. 11 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> Mahmoud Illean - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Israeli security forces work at the scene of a shooting attack on a bus near the West Bank town of Beit Jala , early Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Mahmoud Illean ) <p> Mahmoud Illean - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Israeli security forces work at the scene of a shooting attack on a bus near the West Bank town of Beit Jala , early Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Mahmoud Illean ) <p> Mahmoud Illean - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Israeli security forces work at the scene of a shooting attack on a bus near the West Bank town of Beit Jala , early Thursday , Dec. 12 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Mahmoud Illean ) <p> The U.N . General Assembly overwhelmingly approved resolutions Wednesday demanding an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and expressing support for the U.N . agency for Palestinian refugees that Israel has moved to ban . General Assembly resolutions are not legally binding , although they reflect world opinion . <p> Israel has faced growing international criticism over its conduct in Gaza as it fights Hamas militants , especially when it comes to humanitarian aid for desperate people in the besieged and heavily destroyed territory . <p> Israeli airstrikes in northern and central Gaza killed at least 33 people overnight and into Wednesday , Palestinian medical officials said . Hospital records show one Israeli strike in northern Gaza killed 19 people in a home , including a family of eight -- four children , their parents and two grandparents . <p> The war in Gaza began when Hamas-led militants stormed into Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 people , including children and older adults . Around 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's retaliatory offensive has killed more than 44,800 Palestinians in Gaza , according to local health officials . They say women and children make up more than half the dead but do not distinguish between fighters and civilians in their count . Israel says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> Here 's the latest : <h> Shooting attack on Israeli bus leaves 3 wounded , including a child <p> JERUSALEM -- Israeli hospital officials say a young boy is fighting for his life after a shooting attack in the occupied West Bank . <p> An Israeli bus came under fire from a suspected Palestinian attacker late Wednesday , the military said , and Israeli forces are searching for the shooter . <p> Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem says at least three people were wounded in the shooting , which took place just outside the city in an area near major Israeli settlements . <p> The hospital says the boy , who is about 10 , is in grave condition . It says two other people , ages 24 and 55 , were also hurt . <p> General Assembly resolutions are not legally binding , though they reflect world opinion . There are no vetoes in the assembly . <p> Israel and its close ally , the United States , were in a tiny minority speaking and voting against the resolutions . <h> Israeli forces pull out of first Lebanese border town as part of ceasefire <p> BEIRUT -- Israeli forces withdrew from a strategic town in southern Lebanon and handed it back to the Lebanese army in coordination with U.N . peacekeepers , the two militaries said Wednesday , marking an important test of the recent ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah militants . <p> It appeared to be Israel 's first pullout from a Lebanese border town captured during this fall 's ground invasion , and comes as part of the initial phase of the ceasefire . <p> The Lebanese army said Wednesday it has deployed units to five positions around the town of Khiam coinciding with the Israeli army 's withdrawal . <p> Israel 's military confirmed this was the first town it has turned over to the Lebanese army under the truce , which -- if it endures -- would end nearly 14 months of fighting between Israel and Hezbollah . <p> Israel has said the truce deal gives it the right to use military force against perceived ceasefire violations . Israel has launched near-daily strikes , mostly in southern Lebanon , that have killed at least 28 people and wounded 25 others since the ceasefire took effect on Nov. 27 . Still , the shaky truce appears to be holding . <p> Five people were killed Wednesday by at least three Israeli strikes in different towns in the southern municipality of Bint Jbeil , Lebanon 's Health Ministry and state news agency said . <p> The Lebanese army warned civilians to stay out of Khiam until it can clear the area of any unexploded munitions . The strategic hilltop town , located less than 3 miles ( 5 kilometers ) from the border with Israel , saw some of the most intense fighting during the war . <p> Thousands of Lebanese displaced by the war returned home two weeks ago after a ceasefire took hold , driving cars stacked with personal belongings and defying warnings from Lebanese and Israeli troops to avoid some areas . <h> Russia has pulled its naval forces out of Syria , US official says <p> WASHINGTON -- All Russian naval ships that were docked at the Syrian port of Tartus have left and it appears Moscow is now looking for a new base along the coast now that its key ally , Bashar Assad , has been ousted a ruler of Syria , a U.S. official said . <p> It 's not clear where the ships will go , but Russia may seek a new port on the Mediterranean Sea along the African shoreline , said the official , who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss U.S. assessments . <p> The official did not say how many vessels Russia had in Syria at the time Assad was overthrown . Moscow has dedicated the bulk of its military assets to the war in Ukraine . <p> Asked about Tartus on Wednesday , Sabrina Singh , a Pentagon spokeswoman , said that the U.S. is seeing some Russian forces and naval vessels leaving Syria . <p> " They just had one of their key political allies , ousted , " said Singh . " We 're seeing Russia consolidate assets . " <p> -- By Lolita C. Baldor <h> Palestinians urge UN General Assembly to vote for an immediate Gaza ceasefire <p> UNITED NATIONS -- The Palestinians are urging United Nations member countries to vote in favor of resolutions demanding an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and supporting the U.N . agency helping Palestinian refugees , which Israel has moved to ban in Palestinian territories . <p> The Palestinian mission to the United Nations issued the urgent appeal to the 193 U.N . member nations ahead of Wednesday afternoon 's votes on the resolutions in the General Assembly , whose members have has been listening to two days of speeches overwhelmingly supporting the measures . <p> Israel and close ally the United States have spoken against the resolutions . <p> The Palestinians and their supporters went to the General Assembly after the U.S. vetoed a Security Council resolution last month demanding an immediate ceasefire in the war in Gaza . It was supported by the 14 other Security Councilmember nations , but the U.S. objected because the resolution did not include a link to an immediate release of Israeli hostages held by Hamas . <p> The General Assembly resolution being voted on Wednesday mirrors the Security Council language : It " demands an immediate , unconditional and permanent cease-fire to be respected by all parties , and further reiterates its demand for the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages . " <p> Unlike the Security Council , there are no vetoes in the General Assembly . But while council resolutions are legally binding , assembly resolutions are not , though they do reflect world opinion . <p> The second resolution being voted on supports the mandate of the U.N . agency caring for Palestinian refugees known as UNRWA which was established by the General Assembly in 1949 . <p> It " deplores " legislation adopted by Israel 's parliament , the Knesset , on Oct. 28 banning UNRWA 's activities in the Palestinian territories , which takes effect in 90 days . <p> It calls on the Israeli government " to abide by its international obligations , respect the privileges and immunities of UNRWA and uphold its responsibility to allow and facilitate full , rapid , safe and unhindered humanitarian assistance in all its forms into and throughout the entire Gaza Strip . " <p> JERUSALEM -- Israel has lifted restrictions on public gatherings and outdoor activities in areas near the Lebanese border in the northern Golan Heights , two weeks after a ceasefire with Hezbollah . <p> The army 's Home Front Command said it was changing its public safety guidelines to " full activity " from " partial activity . " <p> Israel had tightened restrictions on Nov. 25 , reflecting concerns that fighting could intensify ahead of any possible cease-fire between Israel and Lebanese militants . The truce went into effect on Nov. 27 . <p> In recent days , Israeli tanks and troops have advanced out of Israeli-held territory in the Golan Heights and pushed into a buffer zone inside Syria -- a move Israel said it took to prevent attacks on its citizens . <p> Israel captured the Golan Heights from Syria in the 1967 Mideast war and annexed it in a move not recognized internationally , except by the United States . <h> Palestinian factions in Syria form a united delegation to meet with country 's new rebel rulers <p> BEIRUT - Syria-based Palestinian factions have formed a unified delegation to meet with the country 's new rebel-led authorities . <p> The factions said in a statement after their meeting Wednesday at the Palestinian Embassy that they stand by the side of the Syrian people . <p> The factions condemned Israel 's airstrikes on Syria over the past few days that have destroyed much of the assets of the Syrian army . <p> The factions decided to form a joint committee to run the affairs of Palestinians in Syria as well as to be in contact with the new insurgent-led transitional government , following the ouster of President Bashar Assad . <p> Hundreds of thousands of Palestinians live in Syria , many of them refugees , and the factions that have been based in Damascus were close to Assad 's government . Hamas was based in Syria until it left in 2012 a year after the county 's civil war began . <p> PRETORIA , South Africa -- The United Nations chief says the fall of Syria 's authoritarian government has brought hope to the troubled Middle East , and pledged the global body 's support to the country 's new leaders to ensure a smooth transition . <p> Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said Wednesday that the U.N . wants to see " an inclusive political process in which the rights of all minorities will be fully respected , and paving the way towards a united sovereign Syria , with its territorial integrity fully re-established . " <p> The jihadi-led Syrian rebels took control of the capital Damascus after the Syrian army withdrew from much of southern part of the country , leaving many areas , including several provincial capitals , under the control of opposition fighters . A Kurdish-led , U.S.-backed force also controls large parts of northeastern Syria . <p> Guterres said he fully trusts the people of Syria to be able " to choose their own destiny " . <p> " I think it is our duty to do everything to support the different Syrian leaders in order to make sure that they come together and are able to guarantee a smooth transition , an inclusive transition in which all Syrians can feel that they belong , " Guterres said . " The alternative does not make any sense . " <p> Guterres is in South Africa to discuss the country 's role as it takes over the G20 presidency , among other issues . <h> Israeli airstrike kills four people in central Gaza <p> Those killed and injured were taken to Awda Hospital after the strike hit a house in the urban Nuseirat refugee camp , according to the press center at the hospital . <p> Since Israel 's war in Gaza began in October last year , at least 44,805 people have been killed and 106,257 others have been injured , according to the latest update by the Gaza Health ministry . <h> Top US military commander in the Mideast visits Lebanon for talks with army chief <p> BEIRUT -- The top U.S. military commander for the Middle East was in Lebanon on Wednesday meeting with the head of the Lebanese army . <p> In the wake of shocking overthrow of the government in neighboring Syria , the two military leaders discussed the security situation in Lebanon , a statement from the country 's army said . <p> U.S. Army Gen. Erik Kurilla , who leads U.S. Central Command , met with the head of the Lebanese army Gen. Joseph Aoun to discuss ongoing American support for the implementation of the U.S.-and French-brokered ceasefire agreement , which ended more than a year of war between Israel and the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah . <p> Israel has said the truce deal gives it the right to use military force against perceived ceasefire violations . Israel has launched near-daily strikes , mostly in southern Lebanon , that have killed at least 28 people and wounded 25 others since the ceasefire took effect on Nov. 27 . Still , the shaky truce appears to be holding . <p> Five people were killed Wednesday by at least three Israeli strikes in different towns in the southern municipality of Bint Jbeil , Lebanon 's Health Ministry and state news agency said . <p> On Tuesday , Kurilla was in eastern Syria visiting U.S. military bases and meeting with members of a Kurdish-led Syrian force that is backed by the U.S. He was assessing what CENTCOM described as efforts to counter a resurgence of the Islamic State group . He also visited Baghdad for talks with Iraqi officials on regional security and counter-IS operations . <h> Syrian rebels work to get the capital 's airport up and running again <p> DAMASCUS -- With the fall of Damascus , security forces of the deposed Bashar Assad government and staff withdrew from the Damascus International airport , grounding flights and stranding passengers . The airport has not been functional since . <p> Now , security members of the rebel alliance in control of Syria have taken control of the airport , hoping to restore security , a sense of confidence , and the legitimacy needed to restart flights out of the capital , and from one of the country 's three international airports . <p> " Damascus international airport is the heart of the city because it is the gateway for international delegations and missions , " Omar al-Shami , a security official with Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , the faction that led the shock offensive that led to the fall of Assad , told The Associated Press , calling it " the passage for Syria to breathe . " <p> Al-Shami said security was restored at the international airport nearly 12 hours after the fall of Damascus . The factions entered the capital before dawn , and security members of the rebel alliance took charge before sunset on Sunday . He said he hoped the airport would be operational in less than a week . <p> On Wednesday , a handful of engineers were inspecting four planes that were on the tarmac . Cleaning staff were removing broken furniture , glass windows , and trash from ransacking by looters following the fall of Damascus . The attack , reportedly by mobs and looters from the neighboring areas , left parts of the airport halls destroyed , with smashed furniture and merchandise . <p> " There was a lot damage in the airport 's equipment and facilities in 90% of the sections , " Anis Fallouh , the head of the airport , told the AP . <p> Fallouh said the operations to clean up the airport aim to convince international airlines to resume their flights to Damascus . " Soon in the coming days , flights will resume when we reopen air traffic to Syria and inform countries that Damascus airport is operational . We may start with domestic or test flights to ensure that everything in the airport is operational and avoid any mistakes . Then we can resume international flights . " <p> Engineers were inspecting the four planes on the tarmac , from two Syrian airlines . Some administrative staff were visiting the airport as the new administrators of Damascus work to convince state officials to return to their posts . <p> " We are on the Airbus 320 , the technical team . Because of the security vacuum that happened on Sunday , some ill-intentioned people tried to cause damage but thank God the plane is fine -- the body , the engines and its systems . Some things are missing and we are trying to fix that , " said Bassam Radi , the engineer in charge of maintenance , said . <h> Germany says it 's looking for ways to work with Syria 's new rulers <p> BERLIN -- German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock on Wednesday addressed Berlin 's reservations but also willingness to work the Syrian militant group in control of Damascus , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or HTS . <p> " Nobody overlooks the origins of HTS in the al-Qaeda ideology . It is therefore clear that we will measure HTS by its actions , " Baerbock told reporters in Berlin . " Any cooperation presupposes that ethnic and religious minorities are protected , women 's rights are respected and acts of revenge are prevented . " <p> She said that " whether we like it or not , the HTS militia ... is one of the decisive actors for the future of Syria . " <p> " Together with our partners , we are therefore looking for an adequate way of dealing with HTS , with whom many have had no direct contact for good reasons , " she added . <p> Ahmad al-Sharaa , the insurgent leader also known by his nom de guerre Abu Mohammed al-Golani , has renounced longtime ties to al-Qaida and depicted himself as a champion of pluralism and tolerance . <h> Israeli airstrike in southern Lebanon kills 1 , state news agency says <p> BEIRUT -- An Israeli airstrike near the southern Lebanese town of Bin Jbeil killed one person and wounded another , the state news agency reported . <p> National News Agency said Wednesday 's airstrike hit a home . It gave no further details and there was no immediate comment from Israeli military . <p> More than a dozen people have been killed in Israeli airstrikes since a ceasefire went into effect on Nov. 27 , ending the 14-month Israel-Hezbollah war . <p> Assad 's departure has sparked new fears of instability in the region now wracked by three conflicts despite a ceasefire agreement in Lebanon . <p> Blinken will travel to Jordan and Turkey on Thursday and Friday for talks expected to focus largely on Syria but also touch on long-elusive hopes for a deal to end the fighting in Gaza that has devastated the territory since October 2023 . <p> The State Department said Blinken would meet Jordanian officials , including King Abdullah II , in the port of Aqaba on Thursday before flying to Ankara for meetings with Turkish officials Friday . <p> Other stops in the region are also possible , officials said . <p> Blinken " will reiterate the United States ' support for an inclusive , Syrian-led transition to an accountable and representative government , " department spokesman Matthew Miller said in a statement . <h> Insurgents set fire to Hafez Assad 's tomb , a war monitor says <p> BEIRUT -- Insurgents have set on fire the tomb of Syria 's former President Hafez Assad in his hometown in the northwest , a war monitor and a local journalist said Wednesday . <p> Hafez Assad had ruled Syria for 30 years until his death in 2000 , when his son , Bashar , succeeded him . Both ruled Syria with an iron fist and were blamed for crackdowns that left tens of thousands dead , mainly in the central city of Hama in 1982 , and in much of the country since the civil war in 2011 . <p> Bashar Assad was ousted over the weekend and fled to Russia where he was given political asylum . <p> Rami Abdurrahman of the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights and Syrian journalist Qusay Noor told The Associated Press that the tomb was set on fire Wednesday in the town of Qardaha in Latakia province . <p> JERUSALEM -- The United Nations is asking donors for over $4 billion to fund humanitarian operations in the Palestinian territories , most of it earmarked for war-ravaged Gaza . <p> The U.N . Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs also called for the " lifting all impediments to the entry of aid " in its appeal issued Wednesday . <p> U.N . agencies say aid operations in Gaza are hindered by Israeli restrictions and the breakdown of law and order . Israel says it allows enough aid to enter and blames the U.N . for not distributing it within the territory . <p> The appeal for 2025 includes $3.6 billion for Gaza and about $450 million for Palestinians in the Israeli-occupied West Bank . <p> Israel 's offensive , launched after Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack , has destroyed vast areas of the besieged territory and displaced around 90% of its population of 2.3 million . Many have been displaced multiple times and are now crammed into squalid tent camps with little in the way of food or other essentials . Most of the population relies on international aid . <p> JERUSALEM -- The president of Paraguay addressed the Israeli parliament Wednesday ahead of the reopening of the country 's embassy in Jerusalem . <p> The decision to reopen the embassy in Jerusalem and recognize the city as the capital of Israel is a diplomatic win for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , and puts Paraguay in a small group of countries that have taken the move . <p> Israel annexed east Jerusalem in 1967 but it was n't recognized by the international community , and most countries run their embassies out of Tel Aviv . <p> " Without Jerusalem , the land of Israel is a body without a soul , " President Santiago Pe ? a said in a speech to the Knesset . " So I say here today that without an embassy in Jerusalem , diplomatic relations with Israel do not have a real heart . " He said he hoped the move would inspire other countries to do the same . <p> The embassy is set to open Thursday . <p> Pena 's move was welcomed by Netanyahu , Israeli President Isaac Herzog , along with other Israeli leaders . <p> " Tomorrow we will inaugurate together the embassy of Paraguay in our eternal capital , and that will happen not for the first time , but for the second time , " Netanyahu said . <p> Paraguay had an embassy in Jerusalem in 2018 , under Former President Horacio Cartes . That embassy was moved back to Tel Aviv by Cartes ' successor , Mario Abdo Benitez , prompting Israel to close its embassy in Asuncion . <p> Israel reopened its embassy in September . <h> Russia says it 's in touch with new authorities in Syria <p> MOSCOW -- Russia said Wednesday it has maintained contacts with the new authorities in Syria . <p> Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that " we are monitoring most closely what is happening in Syria . " <p> " We , of course , maintain contacts with those who are currently controlling the situation in Syria , " Peskov said in a conference call with reporters . <p> " This is necessary because our bases are located there , our diplomatic mission is located there and , of course , the issue related to ensuring the security of these facilities is extremely important and of primary significance . " <p> Peskov would n't give details of those contacts , saying only that Russia has contacted " those who are controlling the situation on the ground . " <p> He would n't give the number of Russian troops in Syria . <p> Asked to comment about Israel 's seizure of a buffer zone on the border with Syria , Peskov called them destabilizing . <p> " The strikes and actions in the Golan Heights area , in the buffer zone area , are unlikely to help stabilize the situation in an already destabilized Syria , " he said . <p> Russia has granted political asylum to ousted Syrian President Bashar Assad and his family after they fled rebels who seized Damascus over the weekend . <h> Iran 's supreme leader says fall of Syrian government was part of joint plan by US and Israel <p> TEHRAN , Iran -- Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei says the recent events in Syria , including the fall of its government , were part of a joint plan by the United States and Israel . <p> " There should be no doubt that what has happened in Syria is the result of a joint American and Zionist plan , " Khamenei said in a speech in Tehran on Wednesday that was broadcast on state TV . " We have evidence , and this evidence leaves no room for doubt . " <p> The Supreme leader added : " A neighboring state of Syria has played a clear role in this matter , and it continues to do so . Everyone can see this . " <p> Khamenei also rejected speculation by analysts who have said that Iran will be weakened by the fall of Syrian President Bashar Assad 's government . <p> " Those ignorant analysts are unaware of the meaning of resistance . They think that if resistance weakens , Islamic Iran will also weaken . But I say , with the help and power of God -- by the will of Almighty Allah -- Iran is powerful and it will become even more powerful , " he said . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@118785888 <h> 2024 in Photos : Wrapping Up the Year <p> As the end of the year approaches , here is a look back at some of the major news moments of 2024 . Events covered in this essay ( the last of a three-part photo summary of the year ) include Hurricanes Helene and Milton striking southeastern United States , a famous pygmy hippo named Moo Deng , the fall of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad , and much more . Be sure to check out the first part , the second part , and our " Top 25 News Photos of 2024 . " <p> To receive an email notification every time new photo stories are published , sign up here . <p> Gold medalist Mauricio Valencia of Team Colombia poses for a photo during the medal ceremony for the men 's shot-put F34 final on day 10 of the Paris 2024 Summer Paralympic Games , on September 7 , 2024 . Valencia had his canine teeth modified to look like fangs in order to break down any stereotypes people may have about Paralympic athletes . He says , " I did n't want to have the same smile as the rest of the world . I 've always said that Paralympic sport has to be a spectacle . " # <p> A man takes cover behind a column as an explosion blasts out dust and debris during an Israeli strike that reportedly targeted a school in the Zeitoun district , on the outskirts of Gaza City , on September 1 , 2024. # <p> Andre Summermatter , a shepherd and an agricultural engineer , leads sheep up a steep climb during the annual " Sch ? ful " sheep drive in high alpine meadows , near the Oberaletsch and Grosser Aletsch glaciers , in Switzerland , on September 7 , 2024. # <p> Competitors practice their moves before taking part in the U.K. Hobby Horse Championship at Bury Farm Equestrian Center on September 8 , 2024 , in Slapton , England . Although hobbyhorsing as a form of play has been around for centuries , the modern-day interpretation of the sport originated in Finland . Hobbyhorse competitions feature young enthusiasts trotting , galloping , and cantering on toy horses in various disciplines , such as jumping and dressage . Its popularity has surged in recent years , especially during the early pandemic. # <p> A former prisoner of war returns to meet his family on September 14 , 2024 , in the Chernihiv Region , Ukraine . This was the 57th exchange of prisoners since the beginning of Russia 's full-scale invasion of Ukraine. # <p> Starship 's Super Heavy Booster is grappled at the launchpad in Starbase , near Boca Chica , Texas , on October 13 , 2024 , during the Starship Flight 5 test . SpaceX successfully " caught " the first-stage booster of its Starship megarocket as it returned to the launchpad after a test flight , a world first in the company 's quest for rapid reusability. # <p> The Duke Energy project manager Tiger Yates ( at center in bottom of photo ) walks among hundreds of lineman trucks staged at the Villages , Florida , on October 8 , 2024 . Thousands of trucks were staged and deployed after Hurricane Milton hit Florida. # <p> A polar bear and its cub search for scraps in a large pile of bowhead-whale bones left over from the village 's subsistence hunting , at the end of an unused airstrip near the village of Kaktovik , Alaska , on October 15 , 2024. # <p> Olya , a member of the Gang of Angels , a volunteer group that makes camouflage netting for the Armed Forces of Ukraine , poses with a sniper camouflage net on October 13 , 2024 , in Odesa , Ukraine . Demand for these nets is high , with numerous orders from brigades stationed on the front lines . Soldiers send photos of their surroundings , and the volunteers select fabric colors to match the environment when creating the camouflage netting. # <p> A man prepares to toss a bag of bread to another person , as people crowd while queueing for bread outside a bakery in Khan Younis , in the southern Gaza Strip , on October 23 , 2024 , amid a flour shortage during the ongoing war between Israel and Hamas. # <p> Fans Austin Capobianco ( left ) and John Peter ( right ) interfere with Mookie Betts of the Los Angeles Dodgers as he attempts to catch a fly ball in foul territory during the first inning of Game Four of the 2024 World Series against the New York Yankees , at Yankee Stadium , on October 29 , 2024 . The play resulted in an out , and the two fans were ejected from the stadium and banned from attending the following game. # <p> Supporters of former U.S. President Donald Trump celebrate as Fox News declares him the next president of the United States , during an Election Night event at the West Palm Beach Convention Center , in West Palm Beach , Florida , on November 6 , 2024. # <p> Indigenous activists stage a protest to demand action on climate change , holding large cutouts of the heads of U.S. President Joe Biden , Chinese President Xi Jinping , European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen , Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi , Russian President Vladimir Putin , and Japanese Prime Minister Shigeru Ishiba on the waters of Botafogo Bay , ahead of the G20 Summit , in Rio de Janeiro , Brazil , on November 16 , 2024. # <p> A drone view shows supporters of Senegal 's prime minister and Ousmane Sonko , the head of the ruling Pastef party , attending a campaign rally for the upcoming early legislative election , in Guediawaye , on the outskirts of Dakar , Senegal , on November 13 , 2024. # <p> Crowds gather during a protest near the parliament building over the results of last month 's parliamentary election , on December 6 , 2024 , in Tbilisi , Georgia . The country 's president , Salome Zourabichvili , alleges that last month 's parliamentary election , which was won by the ruling Georgian Dream party , was " stolen " amid Russian interference. # <p> An aerial view of traffic around Umayyad Square , in Damascus , Syria , on December 10 , 2024 , as residents gathered to celebrate the end of the regime of President Bashar al-Assad , after he fled the country following a rapid advance by rebel groups. # 
@@118786399 <p> A new study revealed " alarmingly high " exposure to antisemitism among Jewish medical professionals , resulting in over a quarter of them reportedly feeling " unsafe or threatened " in the workplace . <p> Led by StandWithUs 's data and analytics department , the Journal of General Internal Medicinestudy published Wednesday found that 39.2% of Jewish medical professionals , mostly physicians , reported " direct exposure " to antisemitism in their professional or academic settings , with 26.4% feeling unsafe due to the prevalence of antisemitic incidents . <p> " This study identified alarmingly high reported experiences of antisemitism by Jewish healthcare professionals , and found that few organizations address antisemitism in anti-bias training , " the authors wrote . <p> Only 1.9% of the 645 Jewish medical professionals representing 32 states reported antisemitism being included in antibias training , and 71.6% of respondents agreed that antisemitism should be included . <p> The study specified several kinds of reported conduct deemed antisemitic by the respondents in their testimonials . One example of conduct involved healthcare professionals saying " Zionists " should be denied medical care while discussing a Jewish patient . The majority of Jews believe in Israel 's right to self-determination , otherwise known as Zionism . <p> Respondents also reported " social and professional isolation " from their peers based on their Jewish identity , " hateful speakers " present at professional conferences , and being placed on a " do not call or hire " list based on Jewish identity or connection to Israel . <p> They also reported comments from coworkers " justifying the October 7 massacre " and unequal acknowledgment by medical institutions about Israeli and " Palestinian trauma . " The rape , slaughtering , and kidnapping of Israelis were allegedly ignored in favor of the plight of Palestinians in Gaza following the attack . <p> Medical schools and hospitals also reportedly ignored complaints about antisemitism and advised Jewish healthcare professionals to refrain from speaking publicly on the matter . Jewish students who felt unsafe were allegedly told that they needed to be " more comfortable being uncomfortable , " and department chairs at medical schools dismissed reports of antisemitic statements . <p> Of the 645 respondents , 74% are physicians , and 52.1% are in academia . StandWithUs was joined by four medical schools , a school of social work , and a pediatric care network to author the study . <p> " There should be zero tolerance for all forms of hate , particularly in healthcare organizations , " the authors wrote . " The resurgence of antisemitism , the world 's oldest form of hatred , in the US , in general , and in medicine since Oct 7 , 2023 , requires urgent action by medical schools and healthcare organizations . " <p> " Based on our results , incorporating education about antisemitism into existing anti-bias training and/or into diversity , equity , and inclusion paradigms is a currently untapped opportunity for medical schools and healthcare organizations to potentially mitigate existing and emerging discriminatory and hateful conduct , " they added . 
@@118788188 <h> 10 Stunning Things We Learned From Trump 's Time Interview <p> ByMargaret Hartmann , senior editor for Intelligencer who has worked at New York since 2012 <p> President-elect Donald Trump rings the opening bell on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange after being named 2024 " Person of the Year " by Time . Photo : Spencer Platt/Getty Images <p> Time magazine has named Donald Trump 2024 " Person of the Year , " finally giving the president-elect some much-needed attention . This is a big deal for Trump , who has a long-standing , retro obsession with the magazine : He 's previously lied about how often he 's been on Time 's cover , put himself on fake covers displayed in his golf clubs , and lashed out at Taylor Swift when she won " Person of the Year " in 2023 . <p> The Trump Time interview is also a big deal for the American people . Sure , after years of campaigning , other major post-election interviews , and constant social-media updates , most of us are pretty clear on Trump 's views . But the Time interview did include a few stunning reveals . Here 's what we learned . <h> Trump has bruised hands from an imaginary hand-shaking incident <p> Sadly Trump hurt himself while interacting with his many adoring fans , even though handshakes do n't usually bruise , he has n't had a rally since the election , and he generally is n't big on touching people . PerTime : <p> Sitting under bright lights for a 30-minute photo session ahead of a 65-minute interview , he 's asked to explain the bruising on his right hand . " It 's from shaking hands with thousands of people , " he says . <h> Trump ca n't magically bring down grocery prices <p> During the 2024 campaign , Trump repeatedly promised to bring down the price of groceries , among many other things . For example , he said at an August rally : " Vote Trump , and your incomes will soar . Your net worth will skyrocket . Your energy costs and grocery prices will come tumbling down . " <p> But now he 's clarified that he 'd like to bring prices down , but " you know , it 's very hard . " From the Time interview transcript : <p> If the prices of groceries do n't come down , will your presidency be a failure ? <p> I do n't think so . Look , they got them up . I 'd like to bring them down . It 's hard to bring things down once they 're up . You know , it 's very hard . But I think that they will . I think that energy is going to bring them down . I think a better supply chain is going to bring them down . <h> Trump will decide which vaccines we 're scrapping <p> Hundreds of studies have shown that childhood vaccinations are safe , and the link between autism and vaccines has been debunked . But President Trump may ban some of those shots anyway , " if I think it 's dangerous , if I think they are not beneficial " : <p> One of them who is controversial , who I just want to ask you a quick question about , is RFK Jr , who is a noted vaccine skeptic . If he moves to end childhood vaccination programs , would you sign off on that ? <p> No , I 'm going to be listening to Bobby , who I 've really gotten along with great and I have a lot of respect for having to do with food , having to do with vaccinations . He does not disagree with vaccinations , all vaccinations . He disagrees probably with some . But we 'll have it . We 're going to do what 's good for the country . <p> So that could include getting rid of some vaccinations ? <p> It could if I think it 's dangerous , if I think they are not beneficial , but I do n't think it 's going to be very controversial in the end . <p> Do you agree with him about the connection between vaccines and autism ? <p> I want to see the numbers . It 's going to be the numbers . We will be able to do -- I think you 're going to feel very good about it at the end . We 're going to be able to do very serious testing , and we 'll see the numbers . A lot of people think a lot of different things . And at the end of the studies that we 're doing , and we 're going all out , we 're going to know what 's good and what 's not good . We will know for sure what 's good and what 's not good . <h> Family Separation Was All Democrats ' Fault <p> When asked if he 'd go back to separating migrant families at the border , the president-elect claimed this notorious Trump-era policy was Obama 's . He added , " By the way , when you talk about separation , we have 325,000 children here during Democrats . And this was done by Democrats , who are right now slaves , sex slaves or dead , and they were allowed . " <p> How did you miss this horrific story ? Because it 's made up , as a Timefact check explains : <p> There is no evidence that 325,000 immigrant children are slaves , sex slaves , or dead . These numbers likely refer to an August 2024 report from the Department of Homeland Security 's Office of the Inspector General stating that the government failed to " monitor the location and status of unaccompanied migrant children " after they were released from government custody . That report covered a period from October 2018 to September 2023 , which includes more than half of Trump 's first term . According to the report , some 320,000 unaccompanied migrant children did not receive a notice to appear in immigration court , or they received a notice but did not make their court appearance . Experts say this does n't necessarily mean the children are " missing " or exploited . Rather , this is likely a bureaucratic failing . Nevertheless , the report says , children who are unaccounted for are at higher risk for trafficking , exploitation , or forced labor . <h> Trump does n't trust Benjamin Netanyahu <p> Not for all the reasons one should n't trust the Israeli prime minister , but because he 's paranoid : <p> Do you trust Netanyahu ? <p> I do n't trust anybody . <h> Achieving peace in the Middle East will be ' easy ' <p> When asked about ending the war in Gaza , Trump said that will be simple : <p> I think that , before I talk about that , I think that the Middle East is an easier problem to handle than what 's happening with Russia and Ukraine . Okay , I just want to say that up front . The Middle East is going to get solved . The Middle East has been -- it 's a horrible thing . October 7 was a horrible thing . Everyone is forgetting conveniently about October 7 , but that was a horrible day for the world , not for Israel , for the world . And I think the Middle East is going to get -- as we speak , things are happening very productively on the Middle East . I think the Middle East is going to get solved . I think it 's more complicated than the Russia-Ukraine , but I think it 's , it 's , it 's easier to solve . <p> Unfortunately he did n't elaborate , so the conflict is going to have to keep raging for a few more weeks . <h> We may be going to war with Iran <p> Though " the Middle East is going to get solved , " it seems Trump has n't ruled out getting into a new conflict in the region : <p> Iran recently plotted to have you assassinated . What are the chances of going to war with Iran during your next term ? <p> Anything can happen . Anything can happen . It 's a very volatile situation . <h> Transgender rights are both insignificant and a massive problem <p> Trump was asked why he made opposing transgender rights a huge 2024 campaign issue , despite saying in 2016 that trans people can use whatever bathroom they choose . He declined to answer , saying twice that transgender people make up a tiny part of the population : <p> I do n't want to get into the bathroom issue . Because it 's a very small number of people we 're talking about , and it 's ripped apart our country , so they 'll have to settle whatever the law finally agrees . I am a big believer in the Supreme Court , and I 'm going to go by their rulings , and so far , I think their rulings have been rulings that people are going along with , but we 're talking about a very small number of people , and we 're talking about it , and it gets massive coverage , and it 's not a lot of people . <p> A few minutes later , Trump explained that he won the election because " all of this transgender " has " just taken over " : <p> It 's really , I think our people want common sense applied to their life , and they do n't want to see a girl be beat up in a boxing ring by a man , as happens . They do n't want to see somebody in a weight lifting contest , a woman against a man . It makes no sense . They do n't want to see , you know , men playing in women 's sports . They do n't . They do n't want to see all of this transgender , which is , it 's just taken over . <h> Trump 's mother was a woman <p> When asked to discuss his mother , Trump delivered his version of the Uncle Mo eulogy from Succession : <p> You get some things from your father . What do you get from your mother ? <p> So my mother was a woman . She was born in Scotland . She had great respect for the queen , Queen Elizabeth . It was a long time . She was there for 75 years . And she liked the pomp and ceremony . She thought it was a good thing , not a bad thing . But she was glamorous and my father was hard nosed . It 's sort of an interesting combination . Maybe there 's a combination . Here we sit in Mar-a-Lago . Maybe there 's a combination of that . <h> Trump thinks his kids are ' capable ' ... of capitalizing on their last name <p> He loves all his nepo babies equally , from Ivanka ( " a great person " ) to Eric ( " a very different type " ) to the other girl ... Lara ? But let 's not forget who deserves the most credit here : <p> Do you think he might have a future in politics ? <p> I think Don Jr . would do well , especially in certain areas . I think he 'd do very well . I think he 's a very capable guy . Eric is very capable , and a very different type . Lara . You look at some of these people . Ivanka would be , if she wanted to be , would be a superstar in politics . I think she , she , she 's a great person . I think she probably , she 's so family-oriented , Ivanka , and I understand that also it makes it more difficult . It makes it definitely more difficult . But , you know , they 're very capable people . Well , they have a name , which seems to be a very good name . 
@@118795181 <p> Little did I know then that this tall , thin man dressed in a suit would one day be the fiercest opponent of the Arab Spring , surviving where other regional strongmen fell by unleashing a ruthless crackdown that plunged his country into 13 years of civil war , only to then see his dynastic rule collapse in a matter of days . <p> I was with a group of more than a dozen correspondents and editors from National Public Radio . A fleet of black limousines escorted by motorcycles brought us from a luxury Four Seasons Hotel in Damascus to a mansion on a hill overlooking the city . <p> During an hour-long discussion conducted almost entirely in English in 2007 , Assad flatly denied various allegations against his regime . <p> No , Syria had no role in a series of assassinations of critics in neighboring Lebanon . He denied the existence of a pipeline of jihadi fighters traversing Syria to fight in Iraq . In response to questions about Syria 's lack of press freedoms and system of one-party rule , he engaged in classic " whataboutism . " He exhibited absolutely no responsibility nor remorse about Syrian human rights violations , instead deflecting and highlighting examples of US abuses in Iraq . <p> An armed man walks through the Presidential Palace in Damascus , Syria , on December 10 , 2024 . <p> Ali Haj Suleiman/Getty Images <h> Palaces and prisons <p> Assad was n't nearly as ostentatious as his fellow dictator Saddam , whose monstrous palaces in Iraq were slathered with tacky gold . <p> But the Syrians now exploring Assad 's abandoned properties have revealed that the former **32;2064;TOOLONG certainly had his own taste for luxury . <p> One video showed dozens of luxury cars parked in the president 's garage , including a red Ferrari F50 , a Lamborghini , a Rolls Royce and a Bentley . <p> Meanwhile , his regime 's reputation for absolute brutality was cemented long ago , during the civil war that ground on for 14 bloody years . <p> Basat al reeh . Dulab . Falaqa . These were Arabic names for torture techniques repeated to me by Syrians who had been jailed during the regime crackdown on the anti-government uprising that erupted across the country in 2011 . We soon became familiar with them . <p> " We suffered torture all the time , " said Tariq , an opposition activist from the port city of Latakia who recounted to me the 40 days he spent in solitary confinement . <p> People inspect documents they found in the infamous Saydnaya military prison , just north of Damascus , Syria , on December 9 , 2024 . <p> Hussein Malla/AP <p> Dulab , Tariq explained from exile in Turkey , involved forcing a victim 's head into a car tire and beating them . Basat al reeh was when a prisoner was tied to a board and beaten . Falaqa involved beating a victim 's feet . <p> In the opposition-held province of Idlib , I interviewed a dentist in 2012 who was arrested for secretly providing medical care to wounded demonstrators . <p> He said he endured beatings , near-drownings in buckets of toilet water and electric shocks to his genitals during a 45-day stint in a prison cell built for 60 people , but crammed full of 130 prisoners . <p> Eventually , Assad 's forces , backed by Iran , Russia and Lebanon 's Hezbollah , succeeded in regaining control of much of Syria . <p> The prisons stayed full of inmates and the torture continued . <p> Then , in late November , as the saying goes : " There are decades where nothing happens ; and then there are weeks where decades happen . " <p> A rebel offensive disintegrated Assad 's regime in just under two weeks . <h> Cynicism and hypocrisy <p> During the Assad dynasty 's 53 years in power , Damascus played an incredibly cynical game of regional politics . <p> This fiercely secular government which bombed its own city of Hama in 1982 to crush a Muslim Brotherhood uprising later funneled Sunni jihadi fighters to Iraq to battle the US occupation . Some of these militants returned to eventually battle the Syrian government . Meanwhile Syria 's closest allies were also Iran - a theocracy - and Hezbollah , Lebanon 's Shiite " party of God . " <p> For decades , Damascus acted as a patron for Kurdish PKK separatists in a long-running insurgency against the government in neighboring Turkey , while also denying many Syrian-born Kurds the full rights of citizenship . <p> And Syrian officials constantly denounced the Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories , even as the Syrian military and secret police tormented ordinary people at checkpoints in Lebanon during a Syrian occupation that lasted nearly 30 years . <p> These ideological contradictions were astounding . They also served to project Syrian power and influence far beyond the country 's borders . <p> The hypocrisy and cynicism displayed by Assad was a family business . <p> In a 2009 interview with CNN , the president 's British-born wife Asma condemned allegations of Israeli military human rights abuses committed in Gaza and talked about the responsibilities of being a First Lady . <p> " What do you do in the position that you hold ? " she said . " As a mother and as a human being , as I said , we need to make sure that these atrocities stop . " <p> But three years later , she proudly stood by her husband 's side , ignoring the horrors inflicted by Syrian government forces during the civil war , which included the repeated bombing of hospitals . <p> In this photo released on the official Facebook page of Syrian Presidency , Syrian President Bashar Assad , second left , and his wife Asma , center , and their children Zein , left , Karim , right , and Hafez walk outside the Great Mosque of Aleppo in the Old City of Aleppo , Syria , on July 8 , 2022 . <p> Syrian Presidency Facebook page/AP/File <p> There is one memory of a reporting trip to Damascus that still haunts me . <p> In 2005 , I went undercover , posing as a tourist visiting a nightclub on a hill overlooking the city . <p> There , amid strobe lights and booming dance music , I spoke with 14 and 15 year old girls from neighboring , war-torn Iraq who worked as prostitutes . Some of the boys and girls laboring in this brothel were even younger . <p> The nightclub stood just a few miles from Assad 's presidential palace . <p> In a country as ruthlessly controlled by the Syrian secret police - where any sign of dissent was swiftly crushed - it is impossible to imagine that the authorities were unaware of the club 's existence and the work the children were doing there . <p> It was hard to imagine the slender , lisping man I met ruling this kind of system , and yet Assad governed as president for 24 years . <p> A wiser person than me , Hannah Arendt , wrote about the banality of evil . <p> Based on what I saw long ago during my hour-long audience with a dictator , Bashar al-Assad personified this . 
@@118795186 <h> The Assignment with Audie Cornish <h> Every Thursday on The Assignment , host Audie Cornish explores the animating forces of this extraordinary American political moment . It 's not about the horse race , it 's about the larger cultural ideas driving the conversation : the role of online influencers on the electorate , the intersection of pop culture and politics , and discussions with primary voices and thinkers who are shaping the political conversation . <p> The killing of UnitedHealth CEO Brian Thompson , and the arrest of his alleged killer , has been met with online memes , TikTok songs , and even celebration . So how does the response to this brazen murder reflect a wider cultural phenomenon ? Audie talks with journalist Samantha Cole , the co-founder of 404 Media , to understand how the reaction to the killing is echoing both on and offline . <p> We now know the name . And we have a clear look at the face of the man whose search has captivated the nation over the last week . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:00:09 <p> The arrest of Luigi Mangione , let 's say , escalated the discourse to celebratory rage coming from just about every corner of the Internet over the murder of UnitedHealth CEO Brian Thompson . <p> Social media <p> 00:00:21 <p> You can not celebrate the killing of an innocent man . No , it is n't . No , it is a no , it is n't . This is a dude whose job it is , is to commit murder behind a corporate veil . <p> Social media <p> 00:00:32 <p> As a normal , sane human being . What happened to the United Health care CEO is awful . But as someone who has had united health care . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:00:41 <p> There were sarcastic thoughts and deductibles , tweets , comments on news articles attesting the evils of capitalism and greed of corporations . The Johnny Cash style acoustic ballads turning the accused killer into something of a folk hero . . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:01:04 <p> Now , some are calling the reactions gross , even dangerous . <p> Social media <p> 00:01:08 <p> This killer is being hailed as a hero . Hear me on this . He is no hero . Do not lionize murderers or elevate psychotic screeds into a manifesto . This is insane . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:01:24 <p> ' But the tsunami of content reveals widespread anger at this country 's health care industry . And it seems to be coming from people across the political spectrum . And that 's a rare thing in today 's world that suggests that there might be something deeper at play in the response . So how does the Internet 's reaction to this brazen murder reflect a wider cultural phenomenon ? Where else can we see this fury ? And what does the online response mean for our lives offline ? I 'm Audie Cornish . And this is The Assignment . So we 're going to start with this . Brian Thompson , the United Healthcare CEO , was 50 years old when he was killed . He grew up in Iowa , lived in Minnesota . He was a husband and a father of two . People who knew him say he never missed his son 's lacrosse games . These are the details that , of course , is missing in a lot of the online discourse . I mean , they 're not too interested in it . My guest today , Samantha Cole , is the co-founder of 404 Media and a journalist who writes about all things internet culture from , quote , the farthest reaches of the Internet . She 's been covering this closely . We 've talked to her in the past about all kinds of things . And Samantha Cole , welcome back to the assignment . <p> Samantha Cole <p> 00:02:42 <p> Thank you so much for having me back . It 's so good to talk to you again . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:02:44 <p> So I 'm going to start with a quote from someone , Tina Brown , kind of , you know , legacy media journalist . And she says , " What does it say about a moment in time when the most bonding topic of national discourse is the latest murder and everyone retreats to their news silos and trusts nothing outside them . True crime gurgling forth from every streamer , podcast and news platform is the last safe refuge of community . " The reason I 'm bringing this quote to you is because you actually dig around in the corners of the Internet . And is there something to what she 's saying about the fact that we 're all in our silos ? We 've been this we 're in this fractured media landscape . And true crime , oddly , is something that becomes a monoculture moment . <p> Samantha Cole <p> 00:03:30 <p> Yeah . I mean , I think just based on that , I think it 's probably a bit of an oversimplification . I just from what I 've seen , first of all , this is something that is not just like people enjoy true crime and want to see true crime stories being told and making up conspiracies and things like that . I think people were responding to frustration with the system and not morbid curiosity about a murder that happened to someone else , you know , far away . And also , it 's it 's something that lots of people had a very similar opinion . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:04:04 <p> One of the things I 've thought about is the fact that the internet , it 's a gathering place for so many communities . But health care issues are very isolating and a lot of people share their thoughts and experiences online . Right ? That 's where they find their communities connected to their illnesses . And in a way , like it makes sense that the Internet would be where you would see this sort of disproportionately visceral reaction . <p> Samantha Cole <p> 00:04:35 <p> Yeah , that 's such a good point . It 's something I 've been thinking about , too , is just the way that the Internet in general brings people together to kind of get support or even just commiserate about what 's going on with their lives . Like , I have migraines , so I 'm in like migraine subreddits trying to , like , talk to people about answers to that . But I do n't cross over to other kind of disabilities or illnesses or anything like that . But this is something that unites a lot of people . It 's like whether you have migraines or , you know , any other kind of like illness and you 've dealt with or interacted with the health insurance industry , you kind of have the shared frustration of banging your head against a wall and saying , I need this to live . I need this for my quality of life , and you 're not giving it to me for arbitrary reasons . I think that 's something that people share and that 's that 's why it 's crossing a lot of these lines . Yeah . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:05:22 <p> Like the algorithm then can pick it up , right ? Because you 've got these many audiences and it 's kind of like a wave . Yeah . Are there other corners of online dialog that maybe the rest of us do n't know about or are kind of unseen that you think are worth pointing out here ? <p> Samantha Cole <p> 00:05:38 <p> I mean , something that I wrote about recently is the phenomenon of deleted threads on Reddit . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:05:46 <p> So let me just slow that down for a second . So on Reddit , where there is in the past , you know , big giant , the front page of the Internet , it calls itself , there has been in the past a lot of conversations around moderation . How do you moderate discussions so they do n't get wildly off track or wildly down racism , classism , whatever ism kind of rabbit hole . How how does the idea of a deleted thread become significant in that world ? <p> Samantha Cole <p> 00:06:15 <p> Because this is an issue that so many people are talking about and so many people , like you said , are finally breaking out of this isolation that they felt saying , my God , everyone has the same problem . It 's just this huge kind of swell of people telling stories and , you know , horror stories , honestly , everyone from people in the in the medical community and also outside of it , patients . So moderators are having to work within platform terms of use , which often say no celebrating or glorifying violence . So they have to kind of do this weird like is this post about this shooting glorifying what happened or is it commentating on what happened ? And they 're put in a weird position where they have to either like delete the post or let it stay up and let people kind of riff off each other endlessly . And maybe it does become a celebration . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:07:04 <p> Yeah , no , but also it means fellow redditors are doing the deleting or the moderating . This leads me to another question , which is , So what 's going on with the big media companies like your Metas , your your Xs , like this this must be a challenge to free speech in a lot of ways . <p> Samantha Cole <p> 00:07:23 <p> Yeah , it 's become this kind of meta moment where we 're talking about the response to the response and not the what sets up the response , you know , does that make sense ? It 's this weird Russian doll of like , what are we actually talking about here ? The thing that ca n't be contained almost . I mean , I saw on Facebook and LinkedIn that United Healthcare closed comments on their posts about the shooting . They had posted like a grieving or mourning kind of post about Brian Thompson , a very standard thing . And they closed the comments on that because I assume people were giving their opinions about health care . But you can see still there 's tens of hundreds of thousands of likes of laughing emojis . People are still finding ways to break through , even though they 're getting kind of tamped down and shut down by either social media managers that are trying to keep this under wraps or moderators or the platforms themselves . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:08:19 <p> I love that you said Russian doll , because I think that 's one of the things the Internet is better at than traditional media , which is unpacking tangled threads like everyone can look at the story and pull on a thread , and together the collective decides what the narrative is . All of a sudden you 're talking about like big systemic societal questions about how we take care of each other . An issue that is so thorny that like , you know , Republicans were trying for almost , what , 15 years now to get rid of Obamacare . It 's like one of the rare times where the Venn diagram is just a circle . But for like ten different communities . <p> Samantha Cole <p> 00:09:03 <p> Yeah , yeah . I mean , it 's like , how do we take care of each other and how have we collectively been failed by these industries and systems that should have been taking care of us , that promise to take care of us and did n't ? I think that is a really powerful thing to come together and say , We 're not just here to like bitch about our coverage . We 're here to say you 're not alone in that . And it 's not your fault . And we 're all experiencing it at the same time all the time . I think it 's really powerful for a lot of people . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:09:36 <p> You mention this thing about taking down comments . What other kind of actions have , like health insurance companies had to take ? Or like , do you see any other ways that they 're feeling the impacts of this attention ? <p> Samantha Cole <p> 00:09:51 <p> ' Yeah . So a couple of days after the shooting , I noticed that the United Healthcare leadership page , which would list , you know , like CEO , everyone in executive leadership , was taken down . And I was like , well , that 's weird that that 's probably they 're probably trying to figure out what to do with it because their CEO is now dead . And then I saw someone else had noticed on Twitter that a couple others had also taken on their leadership pages . And I was like , Well , that 's weird . It turns out that I counted nine so far have completely removed their leadership and executive board , you know , pages that would lead to anyone at that level . And their names are pictures , things like that from their own websites Like they 're they 're taking down the redirecting to home page that either return error or they just say you 're not authorized to see this page , which I think is very interesting and very telling both , you know , of a corporation 's reaction to something like this being immediately we have to kind of remove publicly accessible information from our own control , from our own what is within our own control , which would be their own website . But also just like the idea that maybe no one would notice that they did that or that it would n't become its own story and kind of amplify it more . Because now lots of people are aware that you can look at like SEC filings of some of these companies and see who the executive leadership is . It 's not hidden information . It 's on the Wayback Machine on archives . But that immediate reaction , that kind of Band-Aid over safety for executives and leadership at these places , I think is really telling of where their heads are at , that they 're just kind of scrambling to figure out what to do . And fearful . Yeah , fearful , placating executives , probably . I mean , I 'm assuming . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:11:38 <p> But like not a wild thing to be fearful . Yeah . I do n't mean I do n't want to laugh about it just because , like , yeah , you , you things can happen in real life . <p> Samantha Cole <p> 00:11:47 <p> Yeah , for sure . Yeah . I mean it 's definitely , it 's understandable that they would do that . It 's also . It 's like not really thinking ahead in any sort of way about what would happen if someone actually wanted to hurt someone on your leadership team . So yeah , it 's it 's kind of a it 's a move from there and that 's very visible whether they realize it or not . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:12:11 <p> I 'm talking with Samantha Cole of 404 Media . We 're going to take a quick break . Stay with us . There was a report that came out last week from the Network Contagion Research Institute , which I had not heard of , but they were talking about this phenomenon of online accounts glorifying the shooter as a cause for concern . But the reason why I 'm noting this is because they said it . They believe it mimics the type of response typically seen on fringe platforms like 4Chan and 8Chan in the wake of mass shootings . And like after a mass shooting , those extremist spaces light up . Yeah , because people cite the manifesto . See , people like it does follow certain beats of performance when it comes to violence . <p> Samantha Cole <p> 00:13:01 <p> Yeah , for sure . I mean , I think generally it 's like you said , it 's like the whenever there 's a clear motivation that people can get behind , they do get behind it and they say , you know , we 're aware that we stand with the shooter . I think those kind of posts are definitely I 've seen a lot of those . But again , it 's like we 're talking about something deeper and more systematic than just I love to see people get shot . You know , it 's I think most people are going to agree that that 's not really what they want to see happen on the streets of New York all the time . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:13:33 <p> I think I mean , the Unabomber was talking about eco terrorism , right ? Like he was talking about industrialization and the future of the American worker . But he also killed three people and injured two dozen doing it . <p> Samantha Cole <p> 00:13:48 <p> Yeah , I do n't know . I do n't know if I 'm ready to draw a Unabomber comparison yet . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:13:52 <p> Well , I 'm bringing it up because he drew a comparison . Yeah , right . Like he cited , he , like , left a review on Goodreads . Yeah . So obviously it came up in his brain . Yeah . I mean , this is also part of the Internet story is mining everywhere online for what that person thought about and participated in and that that 's supposed to reveal a profile about them . I do n't think that 's always true . But like , I think that 's something the Internet does . Yeah . And has applied it in this case . <p> Samantha Cole <p> 00:14:23 <p> Yeah . And I mean , that does that kind of goes back to what you were saying about , you know , people getting behind it . It 's like people are looking for themselves a lot of the times in these stories . So I think people are kind of looking for a mirror to their own experience a lot of the time when this happens and saying , you know , what does this align with what I feel or does it not ? And I do n't know if that 's necessarily a useful exercise in general . I 've seen a lot of other journalists try to do that , and it 's strange to me to try to do that , but . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:14:53 <p> Say more . <p> Samantha Cole <p> 00:14:53 <p> I mean , it 's like , you know , I think people are doing some weird , like borderline numerology with like Proverbs and Pokemon . Based on his Twitter header , people are drawing like a lot of strange conclusions from his various social media accounts , digging up his yearbooks , digging up Tinder accounts , things like that . It 's like , sure , like we can kind of try to like group solve a murder over the Internet . But at the end of the day , we do n't really know this person . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:15:21 <p> There are ways that it feels like the Internet is very suited to this story in that it can amplify a ton of voices all at once . You can have reporters who are n't bound to old ideas about propriety , and I 'm just going to say it that way . Like these weird kind of unwritten ideas about how you report on certain stories and the freedom in that and the ways that it 's not as helpful as well . Right . Which is to like foment this kind of like frothy fury that dissipates and never actually deals with the issue at hand . You know what I mean ? Like , is this going to be yet another micro trend ? Is this coconuts from the summer just around big naughty issues ? <p> Samantha Cole <p> 00:16:11 <p> No , do n't trigger me with coconuts . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:16:14 <p> But , right , like the fury or even the way people were talking about Gaza , you know , a year and a half ago , like the energy does not sustain . And I guess I 'm kind of coming to you as an Internet person to understand like , is this how it is now ? You know what I mean ? Like , is it a tsunami , which means it comes , it takes things down , we think about it , but then it , like , recedes . <p> Samantha Cole <p> 00:16:38 <p> Yeah . Goes back to sea . Yeah . I mean , I think just in general , posting feels good , but it 's not enough to actually change anything . Most of the time I think you actually do have to talk to your elected officials , unfortunately , and speak to them about the things that you care about . And even then it 's that does n't feel like enough sometimes , which I think is where you get a lot of this going to this upswing of frustration is it feels like nothing that we do is enough . But posting definitely is n't enough when it comes to these really big issues , these big systematic issues . But I will say , I 'm sure you saw the Blue Cross Blue Shield had introduced this new policy , that they were going to cut short coverage of anesthesia if it went over time and people freaked out because they timed that announcement very poorly around this this big news story about health care and people lost it online and understandably so . And that got the attention of lawmakers who said , our constituency is really mad about this thing . Let me get a win . And made it happen that I think New York and Connecticut no longer , that 's no longer the case . Blue Cross walked it back , which I think does feel a little bit like getting loud and mad works . I think that is a little bit of like , maybe it does work . But ultimately it 's up to your lawmakers and and electeds to figure this stuff out . And that 's who we need to be loud and mad about . And if we do n't like the way things are going and the way things are being run and an Instagram story is not actually going to , it might make you feel good , but it does n't actually do anything on the larger scheme of things . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:18:16 <p> Well . Samantha Cole , thank you so much for speaking with us . <p> Samantha Cole <p> 00:18:18 <p> Yeah , Thank you so much for having me . <p> Audie Cornish <p> 00:18:20 <p> ' Samantha Cole is a journalist and co-founder of 404 Media . The assignment is a production of CNN Audio . This episode was produced by Jesse Remedios . Our senior producer is Matt Martinez . Dan Dzula is our technical director and the executive producer of CNN Audio is Steve Lickteig . We had support from Haley Thomas Alex Manasseri , Robert Mathers , John Dianora , Leni Steinhardt , Jamus Andrest , Nichole Pesaru , and Lisa Namerow . And special thanks to Katie Hinman . And I want to thank you for listening . 
@@118831082 <h> September 5 Is Almost Nauseatingly Suspenseful <p> Peter Sarsgaard captures the right pitch for this type of role : a soft-spoken single-mindedness that can quickly shift to outrage or bewilderment . Photo : Paramount Pictures <p> Tight as a drum and almost nauseatingly suspenseful , Tim Fehlbaum 's September 5 presents an unexpected angle on a familiar event . The violent standoff at the 1972 Munich Olympics , which saw the Palestinian terror group Black September take a group of Israeli athletes hostage -- an incident that resulted in the shocking deaths of all the captives and most of the captors -- has been well documented on film , most notably in Steven Spielberg 's Oscar-nominated 2005 drama Munich . Fehlbaum returns to the event via its on-the-ground transmission : the ABC sports team that , while providing round-the-clock live coverage of the Olympics that year , suddenly found itself in one of the biggest , most dramatic news events of its time . <p> This approach is filled with potential pitfalls . At heart it 's kind of an underdog story , about sports guys , chroniclers of the frivolous , punching above their weight when given the opportunity . Make it too much of one , however , and you undermine the deadly gravity of the situation . At one point , network headquarters suggests to ABC sports chief Roone Arledge ( Peter Sarsgaard ) that they let the news team handle this one , and he refuses ; his guys found the story , they have access to the satellite link , and they 're the ones on the ground . Sarsgaard , who gave his greatest performance more than two decades ago in another true-life journalism drama , Shattered Glass , once again captures the right pitch for this type of role : a soft-spoken single-mindedness that can quickly shift to outrage or bewilderment as the situation demands . You can imagine this guy , with those seemingly kind eyes that also look like they could slice right through you , leading a newsroom . ( The actor , who won the Volpi Cup at Venice last year for Memory , probably deserves a bit more recognition these days as one of the best we 've got . ) <p> The movie stays largely within the confines of ABC 's remote studio in Munich , which Fehlbaum and his crew have scrupulously re-created , reportedly down to the tiniest details . Its dark , cramped corridors and control rooms absorb the sinister mood of the events happening outside ; every decision begins to feel like a life-and-death matter , even though in many of these cases it 's just journalists and technicians pressing buttons and saying words . Much of the suspense derives from the ways that the studio crew , led by Geoffrey Mason ( John Magaro ) and Marvin Bader ( Ben Chaplin ) , figures out how to cover the unfolding story , from tapping into radio frequencies being used by the police to dressing up a crew member as an athlete so he can smuggle canisters of film in and out of the now-cordoned-off Olympic Village . At 94 minutes , the film races by , but it also demonstrates a patience and fascination with the process -- with the whirr of tape reels , the tangle of cables , the lumbering weight of cameras -- that enhances the tension . By focusing so intently on this particular group of people covering this broader event , Fehlbaum finds his way into an otherwise pre-determined drama . We know what happened at Munich , yet we find ourselves living through the events as if their outcome was unwritten . <p> The film also takes on the quality of a conjuring . Fehlbaum has also remained ruthlessly faithful to the facts , interweaving acres of real , contemporaneous television footage with this modern-day reconstruction , so that his actors are interacting with actual images from the era . When they talk to the legendary sportscaster Jim McKay , we 're seeing the actual McKay ( who died in 2008 ) as if he were responding in real time ; when an Israeli athlete who got away from the kidnappers comes into the studio for an interview , we 're seeing the real guy . That may not sound like such a dramatic aesthetic gambit , but the incorporation is so thorough , so constant , that the movie starts to feel like a conversation with the past . Which it is : We forget , perhaps , that the presence of Israeli athletes at Munich was a big deal in 1972 , just a generation and a half removed from World War II , in a landscape where the shadow of the Holocaust still loomed large . <p> Of course , September 5 comes at a time when it 's bound to become part of another conversation , about what 's currently happening in Palestine . The film serves as an important reminder that civilians have died on both sides of this conflict for decades -- that nobody anywhere , really , has a monopoly on the murder of innocents . And while September 5 was filmed before the events of October 7 and Israel 's subsequent attack on the Gaza Strip and beyond , the filmmakers did n't walk into this guilelessly ; the struggle in the Middle East might sometimes exit the news cycle , especially in the U.S. , but it 's been an ongoing debacle for most of our lifetimes . <p> The hermetically sealed quality of Fehlbaum 's film perhaps prevents us from reading too much into it about contemporary politics -- or maybe it invites us to read whatever we want . But of course , such a framing can itself reveal the real-time political machinery of a historical event . Within this heated environment , we see how attitudes and language become codified . At one point , there 's even an internal conversation about whether to refer to the Black September captors as " terrorists . " We know how that one turned out . September 5 reminds us -- as did Munich , as does No Other Land , for that matter -- that it 's the drip , drip , drip of small , seemingly minor decisions and actions that wind up determining how we see , experience , and understand history . 
@@118831199 <h> Scream 7 Adds Former Marvel Star ( and Will They Be Ghostface ? ) <p> Scream 7has added actress Mckenna Grace to its cast ; Grace is best known for her role in the rebooted Ghostbusters franchise ( Afterlife and Frozen Empire ) , as well as playing a young Carol Danvers in Marvel 's Captain Marvel movie . There is no word on who Mckenna Grace will be playing in the slasher film satire , but as with any Scream casting , there will be fan theories about whether or not she 'll be revealed as Ghostface -- or at least one of the killers . It 'll be another notch in Mckenna Grace 's horror franchise belt , which already includes Ghostbusters , The Conjuring Universe release Annabelle Comes Home , The Bad Seed remake and its sequel , James Wan 's Malignant , Netflix 's The Haunting of Hill House , and more . <p> Scream VII has had a winding path through development , originally slated to be a sequel to Scream VI , the second installment of a rebooted storyline following Sam Carpenter ( Melissa Barrera ) , the illegitimate daughter of the original Ghostface , Billy Loomis ( Skeet Ulrich ) . After surviving a Ghostface resurgence in Woodsboro ( during Scream V ) , Sam and her sister Tara moved to NYC with their surviving friends ( the " Core Four " ) so Tara could attend university . The Carpenter sisters were again targeted , this time by the family of one of the killers they dispatched in Scream V ; they turned the tables , embracing their own dark bloodline and cutting down a father-son-daughter team of Ghostface killers in a brutal , bloody , final showdown . The epilogue of Scream VI teased Sam possibly slipping into her own murderous psychosis , after two rounds of killing killers , guided by the ghost of her dad . <p> Offscreen , Melissa Barrera was fired from Scream 7 for posting some divisive commentary on the conflict in Gaza . Scream 6 directors Radio Silence , and Barrera 's co-star Jenna Ortega all walked after her firing , and Scream 7 has since been rebooted as a project that will return focus to Neve Campbell 's Sidney Prescott . Campbell returned for a limited cameo in Scream 5 , but chose to skip Scream VI , with Sidney being written off as caring for her new family instead of coming to NYC . <p> Scream 7 has a mix of new cast members like Isabel May ( 1883 ) as Sidney 's daughter , while there are rumors in the air that Courtney Cox could once again return as Gale Rivers , and Patrick Dempsey could reprise his Scream 3 role as Sidney 's now-husband , detective Mark Kincaid . <p> Even Melissa Barrera has been unwilling to close the door completely on the idea of seeing Sam Carpenter make a comeback , if all parties can move on : " I 've learned to never say never , but also a lot of things would have to happen for Sam to come back , " Barrera said earlier this year . " For now , next page , next chapter , and then we 'll see what the future holds . " 
@@118831998 <h> North Gaza Neonatal Intensive Care Unit Hit With Evacuation Order <p> 3 minute read <p> Premature babies evacuated from Kamal Adwan Hospital in Jabalia due to Israeli attacks are receiving care at the Patient Friends Association Hospital , which opened a dedicated section for them in Gaza City , Gaza on Oct. 14 , 2024 . Momen Faiz -- Anadolu/Getty Images <p> Northern Gaza is facing a catastrophic collapse in neonatal care after Israel 's latest evacuation order , according to doctors and aid groups . The order affects an estimated 20 to 25,000 people in the Al-Remal and Sabra neighborhoods , which includes the ? ? Patient 's Friends Benevolent Society Hospital . It has the only neonatal intensive care unit ( NICU ) in northern Gaza that receives premature babies . <p> The evacuation order came from IDF Spokesperson Achivay Adraee 's X account Thursday evening . The post , originally in Arabic , reads : " This is a warning before an attack ! Terrorist organizations are firing rockets again from this area . This specific area has been warned several times in the past . For your safety , move immediately to shelters in Gaza City Center . " <p> " It 's not a game when they throw leaflets or when they announce that there are evacuation orders , " Mahmoud Shalabi , Deputy Director of Programmes at Medical Aid for Palestinians ( MAP ) told TIME from Gaza City . Shalabi and his family have been internally displaced for more than seventy days . <p> " The evacuation order ? is like spreading fire in hay . Everything starts spreading immediately over social media , " Shalabi said . MAP , a private British aid group , has provided assistance with essential staffing and resources to PFBS since August 2024 . Its NICU started operations in October , with incubators salvaged from other hospitals -- including Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahia to the north . That facility , which the chief of the World Health Organization says still has 96 patients , remains besieged by Israeli forces operating in the area , and CNN reported that a hospital official said four doctors were among dozens killed around the compound on Friday . Shalabi says some of the half-dozen incubators now at PFBS came -- babies included -- from Kamal Adwan . <p> The only other Gaza City hospital with a NICU , Al-Sahaba hospital , operates under limited capacity , and is only able to offer basic ? level one care to infants -- those without complex or intensive medical needs . PFBS also provides gynecology , delivery and general surgery services . Many of the patients can not be moved in their condition . This fall , when the facility began providing life-saving treatment for premature infants in a region where the health care system has been steadily dismantled , patient visits surged , climbing from 7,320 in July to 42,999 by October . <p> All health care professionals in Gaza , including the five doctors and ten nurses working at the NICU , are at personal risk . As of summer 2024 , nearly 500 healthcare workers had been killed in Gaza since the conflict began . On Thursday , Dr. Saeed Jouda , the last orthopedic surgeon in northern Gaza , was killed by an Israeli drone near Kamal Adwan . <p> " Gaza is very tiny . There are n't many options left for the health authorities to decide where we want to move services , " Shalabi says . " ? Much of the space has been taken out and has been reduced to smithereens . So there is no place left for people to go . " <p> The buzz of a drone that Shalabi described as " armed to the teeth " was audible as he spoke to TIME . ? " It has been a constant feature in our lives , you know , drone sounds ... but not as intense as what 's happening during this war , not as intense as it is right now . " 
@@118873089 <h> Only 20% of university faculty say a conservative would fit in well in their department : report <p> A new report shows that only 20% of university faculty believe a conservative would fit in well in their department . <p> The report comes from the Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression ( FIRE ) surveying 6,269 faculty members at 55 major colleges and universities over a three-month period . <p> " Respondents were also more likely to express skepticism that conservatives would be welcomed within their departments . While 71% of faculty said that a liberal individual would fit into their departments either ' very ' or ' somewhat ' well , only 20% said the same of a conservative individual , " the report stated . <p> FIRE 's report " discovered a fraught campus atmosphere in which wide swaths of those surveyed admitted to hiding their political views to avoid censure . " <p> Students chant during a pro-Palestinian protest against the war in Gaza at Emory University on April 25 , 2024 , in Atlanta , Georgia . ( Photo by Elijah Nouvelage / AFP ) ( Photo by ELIJAH NOUVELAGE/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> " The McCarthy era is considered a low point in the history of American academic freedom with witch hunts , loyalty tests , and blacklisting in universities across the country , " Honeycutt said . <p> " That today 's scholars feel less free to speak their minds than in the 1950s is a blistering indictment of the current state of academic freedom and discourse . " <p> Furthermore , conservative faculty were far more likely than their liberal and moderate colleagues to report self-censoring . More than half of conservative faculty expressed that they occasionally had to hide their political beliefs to keep their jobs . <p> However , only 17% of liberal faculty felt that they had to hide their political views . <p> " There are very few conservative faculty , " Honeycutt said . She continued , " If they 're not expressing their views , then students are even less exposed to conservative perspectives than one might expect based on the numbers . " <p> Other findings in the report show that 87% of faculty found it challenging to have an honest and open conversation about " hot-button political topics " on campus . <p> A new report shows that only 20% of university faculty believe a conservative would fit in well in their department . <p> More professors have toned down their published works since the 1950s . The report stated that 35% expressed having to tone down their written works to " avoid controversy , " which is four times more than what social science faculty reported regarding the same question in the 1950s . <p> State officials said hundreds of thousands of Rhode Island residents could be affected by a cyberattack on the state 's online portal for social services , with a " high probability " that personally identifiable information was breached . According to an update from Governor Dan McKee 's office , the attack targeted RIBridges , which Rhode Island residents use to apply for and access programs such as Medicaid and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program ( SNAP ) . The attack also targeted the Healthsource RI insurance marketplace . <p> After famed investor Marc Andreessen met with government officials about the future of tech last May , he was " very scared " and described the meetings as " absolutely horrifying . " What scared him most was what some said about the government 's role in AI , and what he described as a young staff who were " radicalized " and " out for blood " and whose policy ideas would be " damaging " to his and Silicon Valley 's interests . <p> Klarna CEO Sebastian Siemiatkowski recently told Bloomberg TV that his company essentially stopped hiring a year ago and credited generative AI for enabling this massive workforce reduction . The company 's CEO also said he believes AI can effectively replace workers . <p> In the wake of the release of OpenAI 's o1 , a so-called reasoning model , there 's been an explosion of reasoning models from rival AI labs . In early November , DeepSeek , an AI research company funded by quantitative traders , launched a preview of its first reasoning algorithm , DeepSeek-R1 . Well , for one , the search for novel approaches to refine generative AI tech . 
@@118873090 <p> Last November , Hani Almadhoun mourned the deaths of his brother Majed , his sister-in-law and three of his nephews who were all killed by the Israeli army in Gaza . This November -- just a few days after Thanksgiving -- Almadhoun lost another brother : chef Mahmoud Almadhoun , who was targeted in a drone attack . <p> Mahmoud , a father of seven and a beloved name across North Gaza , was best known for his efforts to uplift his local community . Alongside Almadhoun , Mahmoud co-founded the Gaza Soup Kitchen , which provides fresh-cooked meals to displaced individuals across the area . He also opened a medical clinic -- supplying countless patients with essentials like baby formula , medicine , blankets and diapers -- and launched a small school . <p> Despite the ongoing atrocities , Mahmoud always led with compassion and gratitude . Prior to his death , the chef was detained in northern Gaza by the Israeli military and subsequently released both times . His killing was n't a mere accident , Almadhoun alleges . <p> " Mahmoud 's killing was n't just an attack on my family ; it was a message . He was n't a fighter -- he was a father , a humanitarian , and a man devoted to his community , " Almadhoun wrote in a memorial for his younger brother published in The Nation . " His only ' crime ' was slowing the ethnic cleansing of northern Gaza through tireless efforts to organize aid , deliver meals , and sustain those around him . " <p> He continued , " I believe his killing was not an accident ; it was meant to silence the helpers -- the humanitarians who stand in the way of Gaza 's complete erasure . " <p> Almadhoun , director of philanthropy at UNRWA USA , spoke with Salon about the death of his late brother and the future of the Gaza Soup Kitchen . <p> The following interview has been lightly edited for clarity and length . <p> Take me back to when you and Mahmoud started the Gaza Soup Kitchen . <p> Around December last year , Mahmoud and I were helping our community by doing two things . One , buying ready-made meals from somebody who was still cooking rice . We would buy bags of cooked rice and give it to people in bundles . And two , sourcing food packages so we could buy canned food , wipes , lentils or pasta -- whatever we could find . <p> A few months later , the rice person who we used to buy rice from said he could no longer provide it because he could n't find rice and afford it . So , Mahmoud figured , ' Hey , what will we do now ? ' He improvised a plan to start cooking for people . Our kitchen used to be in the old market ( located in the center of Bethlehem ) . Mahmoud bought three pots and made a stew out of veggies -- mostly from cans , like peas and carrots -- fresh tomatoes , seasonings and salt . He provided meals for about 120 families on the first day he cooked . I believe the first day was February 14 , Valentine 's Day . <p> Mahmoud and I eventually decided that the kitchen was going to be a sustained effort for the time being . Mahmoud started going into the local farms , specifically in Beit Lahia , and buying anything he could find . There were some potatoes . Because it was winter , they had n't spoiled . There were some zucchinis that were intended to be small but had become overgrown . There were also some carrots . Mahmoud would buy large volumes of food , store them in his warehouse and then cook stews . He did that for about a month until the new season brought more greenery and fresh crops , including melons and persimmons . That sustained the operation for a few more months . <p> In February , the local media was celebrating the kitchen 's initiatives because , at the time , the North was being intentionally starved . And in March , the kitchen garnered attention from the international media . Amid our operation , Mahmoud and I lost our brother , Majid . Mahmoud himself had been detained , abducted and released . People found something poetic about our story . The operation was to stay for 10 months until Mahmoud was killed in November . <p> The soup kitchen is described as " more than just an initiative , it 's a personal vow , " per its website . Tell me more about that message . <p> We cook for our neighbors . We are struggling , like all of them . We are not on an organization 's payroll . We just cook for our neighbors . And our vow is to not close shop when things get difficult . We continued to operate until , literally , the bombs fell outside the kitchen . We ca n't disappear because this is our neighborhood . We 're not going to hide because this is where we live . If we do n't cook for others , we ourselves do n't eat . <p> It 's also a testament that Chef Mahmoud was assassinated . I ca n't believe I said the words " chef " and " assassinated " all in one line . We continue to do the work and provide meals in different parts of Gaza , the North and the South . At the end of the day , people still need us . There are hungry children in Gaza that need support , and we will be there for them . <p> Is there a fond memory you shared with your brother while working in the kitchen together ? <p> Mahmoud was always proud of the solutions he provided . He was also proud of being the person who provided meals for up to 700 families per day . Mahmoud would call me in the morning and say , " Hey Hani . Can we do X , Y and Z ? " And I 'd say , yes . In one instance , Mahmoud told me that he was going to grill some meat . I was like what the heck is he going to grill ? Because meat is banned . It 's restricted . You ca n't bring in meat from outside . Mahmoud got canned meat , which he sliced and seasoned . He cooked it in olive oil , grilled it and came up with a new dish . We call it Canned Meat Shawarma Wraps . People keep asking for it because they 're tired of eating pasta and lentils for four months . That 's one of the dishes that Mahmoud created and became known for in North Gaza . <p> I read your recent memorial for Mahmoud that was published Wednesday in The Nation . You mentioned that your brother did n't just focus on food . He also opened a medical clinic and started a small school . Mahmoud 's efforts truly showcase his immense bravery , grit and fearless dedication . <p> Mahmoud decided to open up a medical point . He hired three nurses and one doctor . The medical point operated for a little bit more than three months before it was targeted . When the hospitals were under siege , victims were brought to the medical point for first aid . Mahmoud helped those victims . That was a very proud moment for him and a big deed that he 's done in the community . <p> He also opened a school . I remember he used to run away from school as a kid . About 560 kids were enrolled at the school . Some students attended for as long as a month before the school was targeted on November 3 . When Mahmoud built the school , he put up a sign that read , " Please Do Not Bomb " in Hebrew alongside the U.S. flag . That was one of the ways he wanted to keep the school safe and the young children out of harm 's way . <p> Mahmoud would always find ways to solve problems for the community . About two weeks before he was murdered , Mahmoud figured out a way to get clean drinking water in the North . He found a water pump that had solar panels . Mahmoud purchased some of that water and gave it away to the town . <p> When he could no longer cook because his staff ran away for their lives , Mahmoud said he would deliver food , lentils , blankets , diapers and baby formula to Kamal Adwan Hospital . He 's got a soft spot in his heart for the hospital , so whenever they ask for something , he would deliver it . He 's been helping the hospitals as much as he can and we , as his family , think that 's why he was targeted by the Israeli Army . One day , Mahmoud was walking to the hospital to check if the produce he had delivered reached its destination . He was walking to the hospital , 30 yards outside of his house , when he was killed on the spot . There was no crossfire . It 's an assassination . We know it was . <p> No matter how dire his situation was , Mahmoud made an effort to document his community efforts and share a simple yet kind message : " I send this video with love and thanks to my friends in the United States . " He was always incredibly grateful . <p> There 's a long history of Mahmoud , his videos and the work he 's done on the Gaza Soup Kitchen 's Instagram page . So far , the Israeli army has not provided an explanation for Mahmoud 's killing . We 're not holding our breath . We know the IDF had his phone number . They have my phone number . They could have called and said , " Hey Mahmoud , we do n't want you to be here . " He would 've gladly left . Mahmoud is a father of seven . He was n't trying to be a hero . He was just solving problems for our neighbors . <p> Now , if there is anybody who thinks Mahmoud has a secret life , it has been proven that he has been taken twice by the Israeli army , like all the men in North Gaza , and released within hours . I 've seen comments by the trolls claiming he was part of Hamas . I assure you , he had nothing to do with that . Mahmoud was just a business guy . He was selling and buying food , then pivoted to cooking and opening a school and delivering water every morning in North Gaza . <p> Through the soup kitchen , food was providing sustenance , but I 'd say it was also utilized as a symbol of resilience and hope . <p> The soup kitchen became a ritual for the day for the people in North Gaza . Mahmoud started cooking every morning at nine . People came to receive food and hang out . The speakers would be blasting music . Kids danced Dabke , sang and played while waiting for the food to be ready . You know , agencies may deliver civilians a bag of flour , but they 're not going to eat spoonfuls of plain flour . There is no gas to cook with . So people rely on a community kitchen that cooks for them . <p> Mahmoud was celebrated because he was doing one thing that a lot of people who were watching from afar wanted to do , and he sustained it . Some people cook for a day or a month and then they leave . We kept our operation going . This is the story of Mahmoud . He loved to cook . He used every Friday to make the family meal , which was always some form of rice and chicken . At the kitchen , he continued to do that on a much bigger scale . He really helped people stay in the land until the Israelis needlessly took him out . He should n't be where he is now . It 's been a difficult reality to live in . <p> Tell me more about the family dinners . <p> So , Friday is the day that people do n't open their shops . Mahmoud would n't go to work on Friday , he would sleep in and wake up around 11 or 12 . He would then season the chicken , cook it in the oven and make the rice or couscous for our family . Mahmoud liked to eat . He had a very good appetite . He would feed our parents , his kids -- whoever lives in our area . That 's his passion . <p> Mahmoud was making stews at the soup kitchen for the longest time until our older sister , who is a culinary wizard , started making more sophisticated menu items like Palestinian Rummaniyeh and other local dishes . She was known for making Palestinian couscous from scratch . When our sister started making more dishes , Mahmoud focused on managing the business and buying medicine for the medical point . <p> What legacy will Mahmoud leave behind ? And what is the future of Gaza Soup Kitchen ? <p> This morning , I woke up to pictures of Mahmoud 's kids helping their uncle distribute food parcels in memory of their father . We 're continuing to connect with my brother by doing the things that he would have enjoyed doing for the family . We hope his kids realize how important his work was and continue to help their community . <p> As far as our soup kitchen operation , we 're still cooking for our neighbors . We 're not shrinking . We 're expanding , unfortunately . It 's bittersweet because expanding the soup kitchen means more people need it , but people should have food at home . We currently have three soup kitchens in North Gaza and two in the South , where we 're also doing food parcels . In Al-Zawaida , we were cooking for approximately 400 families . Now , we 're cooking for 600 to 700 families . That number is growing because food is very expensive and people ca n't afford it . They 're displaced , they 're living in tents . <p> We want to honor Mahmoud 's memory by serving our fellow neighbors . This is not to make a political statement . Yes , we 're Palestinian . Yes , we 're resilient , but we 're mourning his death . Just because we are continuing to cook does n't mean we are n't sad . Every day , a memory or video pops up and we start tearing up . We 're humans . But at the end of the day , people who are not in Gaza need to see a glimmer of hope . <p> State officials said hundreds of thousands of Rhode Island residents could be affected by a cyberattack on the state 's online portal for social services , with a " high probability " that personally identifiable information was breached . According to an update from Governor Dan McKee 's office , the attack targeted RIBridges , which Rhode Island residents use to apply for and access programs such as Medicaid and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program ( SNAP ) . The attack also targeted the Healthsource RI insurance marketplace . <p> After famed investor Marc Andreessen met with government officials about the future of tech last May , he was " very scared " and described the meetings as " absolutely horrifying . " What scared him most was what some said about the government 's role in AI , and what he described as a young staff who were " radicalized " and " out for blood " and whose policy ideas would be " damaging " to his and Silicon Valley 's interests . <p> In the wake of the release of OpenAI 's o1 , a so-called reasoning model , there 's been an explosion of reasoning models from rival AI labs . In early November , DeepSeek , an AI research company funded by quantitative traders , launched a preview of its first reasoning algorithm , DeepSeek-R1 . Well , for one , the search for novel approaches to refine generative AI tech . 
@@118902596 <p> " Israel has a vision of alternative lists of Palestinian prisoners , including people who were recently arrested , " reports quoted the source as saying . <p> Israel has also requested that some Palestinian prisoners be sent abroad instead of to the West Bank or Gaza , " which may be accepted by the mediators as a compromise to end this new obstacle , " the official said . <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's Middle East envoy , Steve Witkoff , left , reportedly spoke with MBS about the Israel-Hamas war and other issues . REUTERS <p> Talks continued in Cairo Saturday between Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi and US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan and US Middle East envoy Brett McGurk , el-Sissi 's office said . <p> Sullivan on Thursday said Israel has " negotiated hard to defend and justify its position in this negotiation . " Hamas , however , " has been deeply intransigent , " the Times of Israel reported . <p> Separately , President-elect Donald Trump 's designated Middle East envoy , Steve Witkoff , met with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman this week , the first time a member of the incoming administration has met with the Saudi Arabian leader since the election . 
@@118903586 <h> ' Trump has been explicit about revenge ' : Asif Kapadia on his new film about the threat to democracy <p> The man behind Amy and Senna has turned his attention to ' techno-authoritarianism ' in the genre-defying 2073 . He talks to our journalist -- one of the movie 's unlikely stars -- about the events that fed his dystopian vision <p> It was some time in the early 2000s and Asif Kapadia , already a successful film director , a wunderkind whose first feature in 2001 , The Warrior , won the Bafta for outstanding British film , was travelling back from New York . <p> " There 's a beautiful , gorgeous sunset over Manhattan . I 'm in a limo being taken to the airport . And I was taking photos of Manhattan because I was driving over Brooklyn Bridge and it 's just all so cinematic and I became subconsciously aware of the driver watching me in the rear view mirror . <p> " I get to the airport and I 'm in the Virgin lounge when my name is called out . And I thought : ' Have I left a bag or something ? ' But then five or six people come : homeland security . And they stop me in the lounge in front of everyone , the only person of colour in there , and empty out my bag , and they say : ' Someone 's reported you . ' <p> " ' You 've been acting suspicious . ' And it 's like : ' Who are you ? Why are you here ? What were you doing ? ' " <p> An itinerary of his trip and its purpose proved his credentials and he was eventually allowed to go and boarded his flight . But for nearly a decade afterwards , he found himself on a " watch list " . " I would get stopped and interviewed two times before I got on a plane , pulled out in a room . I started realising that every time I show my boarding pass , instead of a green light going off , a red light goes off , and then you have to be taken somewhere for an interview . " <p> He avoided the US and when he could not avoid it , for example when he was working on his documentary Amy , about the singer Amy Winehouse , which wowed audiences and critics alike and which went on to win an Oscar , " I had to get a letter from my teacher " . <p> " Everyone else in the crew would go through and I 'd get pulled up . I had to get a letter from the head of Universal to say : ' Asif is working on this project for us . ' " <p> Kapadia is three years into making his new film , 2073 , when he tells me this story for the first time ; how " being watched and paranoid " became his normal . He 's feeling it again . It 's a month or so after the atrocities of 7 October and the invasion of Gaza and every day feels like a new chapter in a global horror show . For Kapadia , an outspoken child of Muslim Indian immigrants working in a notoriously elitist and cowardly industry , it feels like there are extra dangers to navigate for anyone who speaks out . <p> He has invited me to his office in Somerset House because he wants to show me something . I 'd met him a few years earlier and knew that he 'd been working on a new project , set in 2073 , and had got a message . He 'd edited together some sequences . " And I thought I 'd better show you , " he says as I sit down on a sofa and he turns on the screen . " Because you 're in it . " <p> It 's a plot twist I had n't seen coming , as I 'd not sat down for an interview or done any filming , but the whole film is a plot twist : an urgently prescient and genre-defying sci-fi film set in " New San Francisco " in 2073 . It 's a hugely creative blend of drama and documentary that unpicks the reasons behind a civilisational catastrophe . It 's called " The Event " in the film and we never find out what it was -- nuclear war ? climate collapse ? -- but Kapadia follows a thread that weaves together populist politicians , demagogues and tech billionaires to show how close to this disaster we already are . <p> Trump had just lost the election when we started . Everyone was saying : ' Why do you have shots of him in the film ? He 's finished ' <p> It opens in cinemas in the US on 27 December and the UK from 1 January and although I am in it -- more of that later -- when I finally watch it , it 's the story of what happened to Kapadia after 9/11 that keeps coming back to me . His experience of being data-harvested , profiled and treated as " suspicious " , which is fed so directly into the film . <p> Ghost , the central character , played by Samantha Morton , lives underground in a deserted shopping centre . She is attempting to remain off the grid , out of sight , unprofiled . She has stopped speaking and we hear only an interior monologue . It 's 37 years after " The Event " , the unspecified cataclysm that upturned the world as we know it . And outside , the streets are dangerous : there are facial recognition cameras on every corner , drones flying overhead , armed police . It 's a world destroyed by terrifying fires , flood , war . Chairwoman Ivanka Trump is now in her 30th year of power . <p> The twist is that this is n't the future . Much of the footage is archive taken from the present day : women and children on the Hong Kong subway being beaten by armed officers , drone shots of street after destroyed street in Gaza , biblical floods sweeping away blocks of flats . And in between these dramatic scenes with Morton , isolated and alone , able to trust no one , are documentary sequences that Kapadia calls " time capsules " . <p> " I hope someone finds this , " Ghost says . " No one did anything to stop them . It 's too late for me . I was alone . It may not be too late for you . " <p> It 's the " time capsules " that transport us squarely back into the present . Kapadia conducted interviews with dozens of journalists , activists and technologists that he interlaces with clips that take us from the populist politics of Nigel Farage , Donald Trump and Narendra Modi to the Silicon Valley bro-sphere -- Elon Musk , Peter Thiel , Mark Zuckerberg . " How did we get here ? How did we let that happen ? " asks Ghost as we see her walking through New San Francisco 's streets , the sky a deathly orange , real footage from the fires of two years ago . <p> It 's a dazzlingly creative work . Kapadia started out directing fictional features but he is best known for his hugely popular and critically acclaimed sort-of trilogy of documentaries : Senna , Amy , DiegoMaradona . He pioneered a new aesthetic : gorgeously cinematic and defiant of the usual rules . And until 2073 , in which he broke his own rule , his documentaries involved no talking heads , just archive overlaid with the voices of those who knew his subjects best , racing driver Ayrton Senna , singer Amy Winehouse and footballer Diego Maradona . <p> The works defy genre , he points out . And the more I speak to him , the more it seems this may be Kapadia 's core value : he himself defies genre . He charts his own course . Growing up in Hackney before the oat milk lattes arrived , his parents immigrants from India , he found himself in a notoriously tough comprehensive school in a tough neighbourhood where " you had to either be tough or loud to survive , and I was n't tough " . <p> He broke the rules from the off with his debut feature The Warrior , which he describes as a western , filmed in India , with a non-English speaking cast . Kapadia 's recent work has been commercially successful as well as being critically acclaimed , but early screenings of 2073 left his financiers puzzled . <p> One of Kapadia 's early successes was the 2010 study of Formula One driver Ayrton Senna . Photograph : Alamy <p> The film directly challenges the Silicon Valley technology companies , and here is the central problem for anyone trying to make films or TV shows about such issues : US streaming platforms are themselves tech companies . " Well , you 're never going to sell that to Amazon , " said one of his backers after watching a sequence with its founder , Jeff Bezos , launching a rocket into space . <p> In fact 2073 will be available on Amazon and other platforms . But including Bezos , as well as the likes of Indian PM Modi and former Brazilian president Jair Bolsonaro in his techno-authoritarian fable was a brave and principled decision , given the streamers ' commercial interests in the booming markets of India and Brazil . But it also reinforces the whole point of the film . <p> " I honestly thought , I do n't know what this is , I do n't know what 's going on in the world , I do n't fully understand it , but part of me kept thinking , this could be the last film that I made . And when I started making it , a lot of the things that are happening right now in the world , had n't actually started then , right ? But I just got this feeling , this is quite serious and heavy . <p> " Generative AI did n't exist when we started this film . Trump had just lost the election . Every American was saying : ' Why do you have shots of him in the film ? He 's finished , he 's old news . Everyone 's sick of him . ' And then by the time the film 's come out , he 's just won the election . " <p> I watch 2073 for the first time in the summer with an invited audience of journalists and activists who in some way helped and even though they all know some bits of the story , they 're still shocked by having it threaded together in a way that seems new and revealing and alarming : populist politics plus surveillance technology plus climate emergency equals our dystopian future -- which is actually our dystopian present . <p> Kapadia explains how even the interrogation that Ghost receives after being profiled and targeted as " suspicious " is based on questions posed to Uyghur detainees in de-extremification and re-education camps in China . <p> I first met Kapadia in 2019 and he started talking about the project , but he had no idea what he was doing . " What is it ? " I asked . I do n't know , he replied . " It 's sort of about everything that 's happening now . " <p> He began by just pulling on threads . " My family is from India , from Gujarat where Modi is from , so I was aware of what was happening there . How Muslims are being dehumanised , treated as animals . People are getting lynched . Then I was in America before the 2016 election . And I 've worked in Brazil . I 've worked in Argentina . My composer is Brazilian and his father was locked up in the dictatorship and the younger people on the Maradona crew were really nice people who kept saying : ' It 's got so dangerous and so violent , we need a dictator , a strong man . ' " <p> And where he landed was to try to show that his future imaginary American dystopia has already happened : in other countries such as India and the Philippines , where within just six months of being voted into power , Rodrigo Duterte crushed a democracy and launched a " war on drugs " . That war involved executing people in the streets while paid-for bots and trolls took it online against his enemies , the press . <p> He was drawn to the story of Rana Ayyub , a Muslim investigative journalist in India , who has been harassed and targeted through lawsuits and prosecutions and relentless , overwhelming online abuse -- and yet still carries on reporting . And Maria Ressa , the brilliantly articulate Filipino journalist , former CNN bureau chief and now Nobel peace prize laureate , who found herself arrested and facing prison after Duterte came to power . And , there was a third story that he wanted to cover , that of Brexit and the disruptive power of technology . It had been part of the unease that had fuelled his desire to make the film . <p> What I discover is that I 'm the third of three female journalists he features . And it 's weird in a way I ca n't quite explain because Kapadia , the expert collagist whose artistry restored Amy Winehouse from the raddled drug addict of the tabloid press to the talented tragic victim of a misogynist corrosive culture , has assembled , magpie-like , fragments of my work and woven them into his . <p> At the start of the project , during lockdown , he 'd asked for a chat , a Zoom call , he 'd recorded for research purposes . It 's 2020 and we 're living in another kind of sci-fi dystopia . Generally , for an official meeting , I position myself at a desk with a classic bookshelves/plants backdrop and will make an effort to at least brush my hair . But if I 'm chatting informally , I quite often lounge at my kitchen table , as it turns out I did with Kapadia , not expecting four years later for that to turn up as a scene in a documentary . <p> " It was my editor who did it . He realised these overlaps in your experience with Maria and Rana . I had no idea that you knew each other . The interviews were done years apart . " He 'd treated the research Zoom as found footage and cut it into the film with clips of my 2019 Ted Talk , entitled Facebook 's Role in Brexit and the Threat to Democracy . There 's a lesson in here about treating every Zoom call as though someone is recording it but I mostly felt -- feel -- a sense of relief . It 's the first time that a film-maker of Kapadia 's talents has turned his attention to a story that I 've been desperate to see told . <p> An acute sense of urgency sustained him as he has navigated the long haul of getting it made . It is so unlike his other work , overtly political , engaged with the now , an epic , global big-picture view of what is happening in the world . And it 's landed at a moment when it could n't be more needed . <p> I watch it for the first time before Trump 's victory and for a second , afterwards , and it 's uncanny how prescient it is : tech bro in chief , Elon Musk , and the man behind the throne , Peter Thiel , both feature prominently . Thiel 's company Palantir , a defence contractor specialising in data profiling that works for the US state and now the NHS , is name-checked in 2073 , its signs looming over the streets in New San Francisco while the voice of privacy campaigner Silkie Carlo talks of the " totalitarian architecture " of our digital world . " You only need a change of government , " she says . " And then it 's too late . " <p> Kapadia , right , with Diego Maradona during an interview for the documentary he made about the footballer . Photograph : Courtesy of Asif Kapadia <p> Last week , I caught up with Kapadia by phone while he was waiting for a plane at JFK , the same place where he was picked out and placed on a watch list for a decade . If there 's one lesson from the film , it 's that the harvesting of our data puts us all on a potential watchlist . Kapadia has been at screenings in New York and LA and the film has become real for an audience there in a way it would not have done even a few weeks earlier . <p> " They really get the power of the tech bros now . Peter Thiel , Elon Musk , Jeff Bezos ... they see this now . It 's happening right in front of their eyes , " he says . In Spain , recently hit by devastating floods in Valencia , it 's the climate sequence that the audience picked up on . The film , he says , is a " mirror " for the spectator . " I always watch it with the audience and everywhere I go , people respond differently . " <p> The comment stays with me because the lesson for me , and the power of it , is the emotion . Even though Ghost is a woman who has elected to stop speaking . " I kept on thinking , how do you make this feel like an emotional journey ? " says Asif . " A story in order to affect change . Amy and Senna are both very , very emotional films . " <p> Some of the richest and most powerful people in world are in power now with someone who said ' I 'm going to be a dictator ' <p> And so is 2073 , even with the spareness of Morton 's character and the minimalist dialogue ; her face and voiceover are pure emotion . Kapadia says that when Morton read the script she identified with the character immediately . " She said : ' I grew up in children 's homes , that was my life . I had just a few belongings . I was always on the move . ' " <p> There are so many layers . Kapadia includes clips from Morton 's own past in the film , memories that surface during sleep , including ones from her role as a psychic or " pre-cog " in the 2002 film Minority Report , in which she could predict the future . Ghost , explaining what happened to her grandmother -- a woman from our own time -- says that she defied the attempted to wipe out memory . <p> Ghost is an outsider . Kapadia ' admits that such figures recur in his work . It was a tutor at art school who first noticed that about his writing . " She said , they 're always about outsiders taking on power in some way , or some sort of system . And that 's before I 'd made any long films , but they basically all have that thing . They 're always about people standing up to power . And sadly , it does n't always turn out that well for people . " <p> The outsiders are characters but maybe more than in his other films , it strikes me that Kapadia is the central character in this one . The industry outsider trying to warn the world , regardless of the personal cost . He could be directing Hollywood movies , or Netflix biopics . But , with every technology , the first victims are always people of colour , Muslims , women . And he too is a " pre-cog " ahead of the curve in understanding the trajectory we 're on . And the lesson he learned on the streets of Hackney is that survival depends on speaking up and out . <p> I notice also how he describes leaving school and falling into a job working on student films aged 17 as " running away " , like Ghost . During his GCSEs his mother , a machinist , who had schizophrenia , worsened and was sectioned . The experience made him decide to refuse to do A-levels . He did n't want to be judged forever on a single day 's performance but on work created over a long period and vowed that he 'd never take another exam . <p> Not only did he penetrate the rarefied world of film-making , getting to film school and art school , but he was a success from the off . He tells me how it 's " conscious " that the central characters in the film are women . " Everyone notices that . How it 's women who are taking on the fight . " <p> It does n't feel like a coincidence that growing up , the youngest of five , it was three feisty , political older sisters who got him reading first the Mirror , later the Guardian , and introduced him to Malcolm X , a copy of whose biography is a leitmotif in the film . " There was also a very kind of , like , strong female kind of presence in my life . And they very much were the ones that were very political , growing up in Hackney , they were all quite strong feminists , well read and well educated . " <p> His school was a huge melting point of cultures and languages and part of his mission is to bring that world to audiences in the US , UK and elsewhere . Techno-authoritarianism is here . That 's the message of the film : that it has already happened in many countries around the world . And there 's a terrifying and all too believable roadmap for Trump that is clearly laid out in 2073 . <p> " Trump has been explicit about getting revenge on people . And now you have some of the richest and most powerful people in the world who became so through the collection of data . They 're now in power with someone who said , ' I 'm going to be a dictator ' . It 's like Covid . When it happened in certain parts of the world , people kept thinking , we 're immune to it . It 's never going to happen . And it came and it rolled its way around the whole globe . " <p> It does n't always turn out that well for his subjects , says Kapadia . He 's thinking of Ayrton Senna , killed in a horror crash , Amy Winehouse , destroyed by drugs and alcohol , Ghost , who 's detained and interrogated . But what he 's suggesting in 2073 , is that it 's almost too late -- but not quite -- for the rest of us too . 
@@118903783 <p> Al-Louh , who worked as a cameraman for Al Jazeera alongside other media outlets , was killed on Sunday in the strike on the Civil Defence post in the central Gaza camp , according to medics and local journalists . <p> The attack occurred as Israeli military strikes across the Gaza Strip killed at least 28 Palestinians on Sunday , medics said . Allouh is the third journalist killed in Gaza in the last 24 hours . <p> Al Jazeera Arabic reported that Al-louh was working while killed , wearing a press vest and helmet . He was taken to Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital in Gaza 's city of Deir el-Balah . <p> Al Jazeera Media Network condemned Al-Louh 's killing , and called on human rights and media organisations " to condemn the Israeli Occupation 's systematic killing of journalists in cold blood , the evasion of responsibilities under international humanitarian law , and to bring the perpetrators of this heinous crime to justice " . <p> Advertisement <p> " We urge relevant international legal institutions to take practical and urgent measures to hold the Israeli authorities and all those who are responsible accountable for their heinous crimes and to adopt mechanisms to put an end to the targeting and killing of journalists , " the network added . <p> Al-Louh had been covering Israel 's war on Gaza when it first began in October 2023 , embedded with the Gaza Strip 's Palestinian Civil Defence teams , Al Jazeera 's Hind Khoudary said . <p> " It 's another heartbreaking day for Palestinians , Civil Defence teams , journalists . We have been wondering , how many times are we going to continue reporting on the killings of our colleagues and beloved ones ? " Khoudary said , reporting from Deir el-Balah . <p> Gaza 's media office said the head of the civil emergency service in Nuseirat , Nedal Abu Hjayyer , was also killed in Sunday 's attack . <p> " The civil emergency headquarters in Nuseirat camp was hit during the crews ' presence . They work around the clock to serve the people , " said Zaki Emadeldeen from the civil emergency service to reporters at the hospital . <p> " The civil emergency service is a humanitarian service and not political . They work in war and peace times for the service of the people , " he said , adding that the place was hit directly by an Israeli air strike . <p> The Israeli military said they were looking into the attack . <p> Several other Palestinian journalists were killed this past week , with 195 killed in Gaza since Israel 's war began , Khoudary said . <p> Advertisement <p> Al Jazeera 's Hani Mahmoud said earlier on Sunday that Palestinian journalist Mohammed Jabr al-Qrinawi was killed along with his wife and children in an Israeli air attack that targeted their home in Bureij refugee camp , in central Gaza , late on Saturday . <p> Earlier on Saturday , Al Mashhad Media said its journalist Mohammed Balousha was killed in an Israeli attack in Gaza . <p> Several Al Jazeera journalists have been killed since the start of Israel 's war on Gaza , including Ismail al-Ghoul , Rami al-Rifi , Samer Abudaqa and Hamza Dahdouh . <p> Also on Sunday , an air strike hit people protecting aid trucks west of Gaza City . Medics said several were killed or wounded but exact figures were unavailable as of yet . <p> Residents also said at least 11 people were killed in three separate Israeli air strikes in Gaza City . Nine were killed in the towns of Beit Lahiya , Beit Hanoon and Jabalia camp when clusters of houses were bombed or set ablaze , and two were killed by drone fire in Rafah. 
@@118903788 <p> Druze women walk near the fence leading to the buffer zone that separates Israeli and Syrian forces in the occupied Golan Heights Jalaa Marey/AFP <p> Published On 15 Dec 202415 Dec 2024 <p> Israel 's government has approved a plan to increase the number of settlers in the illegally occupied Golan Heights , days after seizing more Syrian territory following the toppling of Syria 's longtime leader Bashar al-Assad . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's office said the government had " unanimously approved " the " demographic development " of the occupied territory , which would seek to double the Israeli population there . <p> The new plan is only for the portion of the Golan Heights that Israel has occupied since 1967 . In 1981 , Israel 's Knesset moved to impose Israeli law over the territory , in an effective annexation . <p> The plan does not relate to the portion of Syrian land seized by Israel in the wake of al-Assad 's toppling a week ago . The seized area , which had been demilitarised as part of an agreement reached after the 1973 war , also includes Mount Hermon overlooking the Syrian capital Damascus . <p> In a statement , Netanyahu praised the plan , which provides more than 40 million shekels ( $11m ) to increase the settler population . <p> Advertisement <p> There are about 31,000 Israeli settlers spread across dozens of illegal settlements in the Golan Heights already . They live alongside minority groups , including the Druze , who predominantly identify as Syrian . <p> " Strengthening the Golan is strengthening the State of Israel , and it is especially important at this time , " Netanyahu said . " We will continue to hold onto it , cause it to blossom , and settle in it . " <p> Reporting from Amman , Jordan , Al Jazeera 's Nour Odeh said the approval comes at what Israel views as an " opportune moment " . <p> While Israeli occupation of the Golan Heights is illegal under international law , during his first term in office , from 2017 to 2021 , US President-elect Donald Trump made the United States the first country in the world to officially recognise Israeli sovereignty over the area . <p> Trump is set to retake office again on January 20 after winning the US presidential election in November . <p> " Netanyahu is using this moment to announce more settlement activity in order to entrench that occupation and make it permanent , " Odeh said . " Much like he 's doing in the occupied West Bank : land grab , settlements , permanent occupation . " <p> Meanwhile , Netanyahu 's office said he had discussed the situation in Syria during a phone call with Trump on Saturday . He also discussed efforts to reach a ceasefire agreement in Gaza . <p> Despite Israel launching hundreds of strikes on Syrian sites since opposition groups led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) overthrew al-Assad and moved to create a transitional government , Netanyahu said : " We have no interest in conflict with Syria . " <p> Advertisement <p> He said the attacks were to " thwart the potential threats from Syria and to prevent the takeover of terrorist elements near our border " . <p> On Sunday , Saudi Arabia was among the first to condemn Israel 's new plan to increase the number of settlers , while accusing Israeli leaders of seeking to sabotage Syria 's fledgling transition . 
@@118903794 <h> Israel to close embassy in Ireland after Dublin backs Gaza genocide case <p> Irish Prime Minister Simon Harris called the decision to close the embassy ' deeply regrettable ' <p> People protest calling for the Irish government to impose sanctions on Israel , during a demonstration in solidarity with Gaza and Lebanon , in Dublin , Ireland , November 9 , 2024 File : Clodagh Kilcoyne/Reuters <p> Published On 15 Dec 202415 Dec 2024 <p> Israel says it will close its embassy in Ireland , citing Dublin 's recognition of a Palestinian state and support for South Africa 's genocide case against Israel at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) for its actions in Gaza . <p> " The decision to close Israel 's embassy in Dublin was made in light of the extreme anti-Israel policies of the Irish government , " Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar said in a statement on Sunday . <p> " Ireland has crossed every red line in its relations with Israel . Israel will invest its resources in advancing bilateral relations with countries worldwide , prioritising those that align with Israel 's interests and values , " Sa'ar added . <p> " I utterly reject the assertion that Ireland is anti-Israel . Ireland is pro-peace , pro-human rights , and pro-international law , " Harris added . " Ireland wants a two-state solution and for Israel and Palestine to live in peace and security . Ireland will always speak up for human rights and international law . Nothing will distract that . " <p> Advertisement <p> Last week , Ireland announced that it supported South Africa 's legal action against Israel at the ICJ , adding to Israel 's growing international isolation , even as it refuses to end its attacks on Gaza and its illegal occupation of the West Bank . 
@@118903797 <h> The genocide kills dreams , not just people <p> The last illustration published by Mahasen Al-Khateeb ( right ) was of Shaban Al-Dalou burning in the yard of Al Aqsa Hospital Al Jazeera Arabic <p> Over the past 20-odd years , I have written a series of poems . I have kept them locked away in a folder , dreaming of publishing them accompanied by illustrations that would bring each poem to life . I needed someone to help transform my words into powerful images . <p> One October evening , earlier this year , I was scrolling through Instagram when I came across a beautiful image of Palestinian journalist Wael Dahdouh embracing his daughter . <p> It was the work of Mahasen al-Khateeb , one of Gaza 's most prolific artists . One post led to another and I soon found myself pulled deep into her art . <p> Until that moment , I had never heard of her . But the more time I spent on her page , the more I felt a connection to her simple yet powerful and vibrant drawings . Like most of her followers , I felt the art Mahasen produced struck a chord deep within . I later wondered if it was time to retrieve my old folder and rekindle the almost-forgotten dream of publishing my works . Perhaps Mahasen could illustrate them ? <p> I quickly made a note of her name on my phone and decided to reach out as soon as the war would end , excited by the prospect of collaborating with her . <p> Advertisement <p> Just a few days later , on the night of October 18 , Israel launched an air strike and killed Mahasen . She is one of tens of artists , designers and documentary filmmakers Israel has killed in the last 14 months . Mahasen was in the north , in Jabalia , where there was no media or ready access to aid groups or food and water . <p> Every death is a tragedy without measure . Mahasen was killed with her entire family ; another 20 people were also slaughtered in Jabalia that same night . But Israeli bombs did not just kill Mahasen ; they also killed her art , her aspirations and her hopes -- along with those of every single victim who was murdered with her . <p> Per official statistics , more than 45,000 Palestinian lives have been lost in the ongoing genocide . What this number does not capture is the ripple effect every single death has on the living -- on those who loved the victim , who relied on them , who found hope in their being . Reflecting on this reality plunges the mind and heart into a painful rupture . <p> I did not know Mahasen , but was greatly affected by her death . I can only imagine how those who knew felt . <p> How many more dreams will perish in this war ? How many aspirations , scribbled in the margins of notebooks , jotted down in diaries , or tucked away in a quiet corner of the mind , will be reduced to nothing in an instant ? The bombs do not only shatter buildings and refugee camps . They also obliterate dreams . <p> Dreams of children too young to understand . Dreams of education in schools completely eviscerated . Dreams of jobs and careers . Dreams of travel outside the narrow streets of refugee camps buried under smoke and rubble . Dreams of success of a small business that collapsed in the blink of an eye . Dreams of love and companionship smothered by weddings postponed indefinitely or cancelled forever . <p> Advertisement <p> We are painfully aware of all this death . Life in Gaza comes in fragments , brief moments that we try to grasp fully . We do not plan because we do not know if there will be tomorrow . <p> And yet , we still dream . We draw , write , love , and resist . Every smile we share , every story we tell , every poem we write , is an act of defiance , a declaration that , despite the destruction , life continues to beat in our hearts . <p> Our dreams are not grand or dangerous . But somehow , they terrify our oppressors . They fear our dreams because we seek freedom and persist against all odds . They fear our dreams because they challenge the status quo . But dreams can not be suppressed forever , no matter how much blood is spilled . <p> As I now put my folder of poems back to where I had kept it , a part of me realises the need to seize every moment before it is taken from us by a missile , a shell , or a bullet . <p> I continue to dream of the day Gaza will transform from a battleground into a destination of beauty , a city that stands tall , having survived annihilation . And with me , all Palestinians continue to dream of breaking free , even when that seems distant and impossible . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@118908282 <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Sunday that he had a " very warm " phone call with US President-elect Donald Trump , during which they spoke about the need for Israel 's victory in its war on Hamas in Gaza and its stance on Syria . <p> In a video statement , Israel 's leader said he discussed a range of issues with Trump during the call on Saturday evening , including Israel 's commitment to preventing Lebanon-based Hezbollah from rearming and Israel 's conflict with Hamas , which has killed nearly 45,000 Palestinians in the besieged Gaza strip . <p> The leaders also spoke of the need to bring home the remaining hostages in Gaza , Netanyahu said . <p> " I discussed all of this again last night with my friend , US President-elect Donald Trump , " Netanyahu said . <p> " It was a very friendly , very warm and very important conversation . We spoke about the need to complete Israel 's victory , and we also spoke at length about the efforts we are making to free our hostages . " <p> Hamas and other groups are believed to still be holding 100 hostages in Gaza , including seven Americans . All but four of the hostages were captured during Hamas ' attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 . <p> Netanyahu said that Israel continues to " work tirelessly to bring our hostages home , both the living and the dead . And I add , the less we talk about it , the better , and so with God 's help , we will succeed . " <p> CNN has reached out to the Trump transition team for comment . <h> ' No interest in confronting ' Syria <p> Regarding Syria , where a rebel coalition overthrew the regime of President Bashar al-Assad last weekend following a lightning advance through the country , Netanyahu said that Israel had " no interest in a conflict " the country , but would adjust its policy according to the " emerging reality on the ground . " <p> His latest comments come after Israeli forces following Assad 's fall took control of a long-standing buffer zone that had separated Israeli and Syrian forces for decades -- a move the rebels now in charge of Syria and some of the country 's neighbors have criticized . <p> Israeli officials have said the measure is temporary and Netanyahu has previously insisted Israel has " no intention " of intervening in Syria 's internal affairs . <p> However , in his statement Sunday , the Israeli leader noted that Syria had " allowed Iran to arm Hezbollah through its territory " and said Israel was committed to preventing the militant group from rearming . <p> " This is an ongoing test for Israel , we must meet it -- and we will meet it . I say to Hezbollah and Iran in no uncertain terms -- to prevent you from harming us , we will continue to act against you as much as necessary , in every arena and at any time , " he said . <p> Israel reached a ceasefire agreement with Hezbollah in November after a 13-month conflict largely fought along Israel 's border with Lebanon which saw Israel kill a string of high-ranking Hezbollah commanders . Continuing tit-for-tat strikes have put strain on the deal . <h> Plan to expand Golan settlements <p> Israel 's control of the buffer zone has added to tensions with Syria over its decades-long presence in the Golan Heights , a strategic plateau in southwestern Syria that Israel has occupied since a war in 1967 . Syria attempted to retake the territory in a surprise attack in 1973 , but failed , and Israel annexed it in 1981 . <p> Since the fall of Assad last week , the Israeli military has also taken control of Mount Hermon , which abuts the Golan Heights and lies within the buffer zone that had previously separated the two sides ' troops . <p> Despite Israel 's insistence the move is temporary , several Arab states have accused Israel of exploiting instability in Syria to execute a land grab , while the rebel coalition now in charge of Syria has accused it of " crossing the lines of engagement . " <p> Adding to those tensions , the Israeli government on Sunday approved a plan by Netanyahu to expand settlements in the occupied Golan Heights , according to a statement from the prime minister 's office . <p> " In light of the war and the new front against Syria , and out of a desire to double the population of the Golan Heights , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu today submitted for government approval the first amendment to the plan to encourage demographic growth in the Golan Heights and Katzrin Heights , " the statement said . Katzrin is an Israeli settlement in the Golan . <p> The plan " will assist the Golan Regional Council in absorbing the new residents who will arrive , " the statement added . <p> " Strengthening the Golan Heights is strengthening the state of Israel , and it is especially important at this time . We will continue to hold on to it , make it flourish , and settle it , " Netanyahu said , according to the statement . <p> The occupation is illegal under international law , but the United States recognized Israel 's claim on the Golan during the Trump administration in 2019 . Israel does not view its presence in the Golan as settlements . <p> Saudi Arabia , the UAE and Qatar condemned the plan to expand the Golan settlement . Qatar said it considered the expansion plan a " blatant violation of international law " and a new aggression on Syrian territories ; Saudi Arabia said the move would derail Syria 's chances of restoring security and stability . 
@@118911385 <h> Qatari state-owned network Al Jazeera claimed that Ahmed Bakr al-Lawh worked as a journalist and cameraman for the network and said that he was wearing a press vest and helmet . <p> The Israeli air force struck Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad terrorists who were operating a command center embedded in the offices of the " Civil Defense " organization in Nuseirat in the Gaza Strip , the military said on Sunday . <p> The IDF said the command center was used by terrorists to plan and carry out attacks against soldiers . One of the terrorists eliminated was Ahmed Bakr al-Lawh , who served as a platoon commander in the Islamic Jihad 's Central Camps Brigade , the military noted . <p> In a statement , Hamas said that the Civil Defense director of the Nuseirat refugee camp , Nidal Abu Hajir , and five others were killed in an airstrike . <p> " The targeting by the criminal occupation this evening of a Civil Defense point in the Nuseirat refugee camp , in the central Gaza Strip , which resulted in the death of the camp 's Civil Defense director , Officer Nidal Abu Hajir , and five of his colleagues , represents the fascist occupation army 's insistence on violating all rules and laws by deliberately striking Civil Defense personnel , rescue workers , paramedics , and all groups protected in wars under international law , " the terror group said . <p> Qatari state-owned network Al Jazeera claimed that Ahmed Bakr al-Lawh worked as a journalist and cameraman for the network and said that he was wearing a press vest and helmet . The entrance to the Al Jazeera studios is seen through a cactus garden in Doha November 30 , 2005. ( credit : REUTERS ) <h> Al Jazeera claims al-Lawh was a journalist for the network <p> According to Al Jazeera , al-Lawh had been covering the Israel-Hamas war since 2023 and has been embedded with the Gaza Strip 's Palestinian Civil Defence teams . <p> Al Jazeera did not address the IDF 's announcement stating that al-Lawh was a PIJ terrorist but instead wrote that " the Israeli military said they were looking into the attack . " 
@@118911386 <h> Three weeks into the ceasefire with Hezbollah in Lebanon , the IDF said it had confiscated over 10,000 Hezbollah weapons across its southern region . <p> Ten weeks into the invasion of Lebanon and about three weeks into the ceasefire , the IDF said on Sunday that it has confiscated over 10,000 Hezbollah weapons in a large number of different districts of southern Lebanon . <p> More specifically , IDF Division 91 has operated in more than 10 different districts , while Division 98 has operated in at least six -- though there probably was also some overlap between the two divisions . <p> Division 91 reached all the way to the Litani River and the Saluki parts of southern Lebanon which are deeper into the country . <p> Some of the areas Division 98 operated in were Khiam , Al-Adaysseh , Rab Al-Tlatin , Marjayoun , Al-Taybeh , and Al-Khiam . <p> In addition , Division 91 said it had destroyed 1,000 Hezbollah sites , while Division 98 said it had destroyed more than 300 . Hezbollah weapons and equipment seized by IDF soldiers during extensive operations in southern Lebanon . ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> While Division 98 was the first IDF division to enter Lebanon and handled some of the toughest initial fighting in light of its status as a de facto special forces division , it eventually handed off much of the rest of the operation to Divisions 91 , 36 , and 146 . <p> On October 8 , the Jerusalem Post embedded with Division 91 Commander Brig. -Gen . Shai Kleper along with a small number of other Israeli media outlets and he said , " We are standing in one of the battle areas on the Lebanese front . We are acting to harm , neutralize , and destroy Radwan operatives and their attack plan in terms of their capabilities and infrastructure . " <h> Radwan forces store military equipment in civilian homes <p> " We are in a weapons storage area for Radwan inside a village civilian house . You can see hundreds of vests , mortars , mines ... all the weapons they need . An operative could show up here in jeans and sandals , receive all of his war supplies , a map , and a plan of attack for which he was pre-trained , " he continued . <p> At the end of last week , the IDF started to withdraw from portions of southern Lebanon as part of its commitment for a full withdrawal by around January 26 . <p> IDF sources have said that the Lebanese army is starting to take control of the areas where the IDF withdraws from , though it remains unclear whether that military will be able to hold on to those areas versus Hezbollah once the full IDF withdrawal has occurred and Jerusalem 's attention is elsewhere . <p> To date , though the IDF has killed as many as 40 Hezbollah fighters who it said were trying to sneak into southern Lebanon or prepare to carry out other ceasefire violations , mostly Hezbollah has respected the ceasefire . <p> Prior to November 26 , Hezbollah was firing around 100-250 rockets a day on around one third of the country , including the very populous Haifa region.In northern Gaza , IDF soldiers from the Givati Brigade under the 162nd Division , in coordination with the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) , carried out a series of targeted operations to eliminate Hamas terror cells , the military announced on Sunday . <p> Acting on prior intelligence , troops also raided a known terrorist meeting point in the Beit Hanoun area . The operations , which involved cooperation with the IAF , resulted in the elimination of dozens of Hamas terrorists and the arrest of additional terror suspects - a larger quantity of Hamas fighters in a short time than the IDF is generally getting in this time period when large scale fighting is less frequent . <p> In the neighboring Beit Lahiya area , IDF soldiers located and dismantled large quantities of weapons , including explosives and dozens of grenades . These efforts are aimed to curtail the operational capabilities of terrorist groups in the region . <p> In a separate operation earlier Sunday , the IAF , guided by IDF and Shin Bet intelligence , struck a Hamas command and control center situated in a compound that previously housed the Abu Shabak clinic in northern Gaza . The IDF said that the facility was being used to store weapons and coordinate attacks against IDF soldiers and Israeli civilians . <p> According to foreign media , some of these raids may also have killed Palestinian civilians , potentially in the double digits , though it was unclear from the reports what the claims were in terms of the quantity of fighters killed versus civilians . <p> The IDF did not issue a specific response to the claims of civilian harm , but said that it had taken measures to reduce the potential harm to civilians and that some of the terrorists were involved in imminent efforts to attack IDF forces . 
@@118911388 <h> The operations also led to the elimination and arrest of dozens of Hamas terrorists . <p> IDF soldiers from the Givati Brigade under the 162nd Division , in coordination with the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) , carried out a series of targeted operations to eliminate Hamas terror cells in thein the Gaza Strip , the military announced on Sunday . <p> Acting on prior intelligence , troops raided a known terrorist meeting point in the Beit Hanoun area . The operation , which involved cooperation with the IAF , resulted in the elimination of dozens of Hamas terrorists and the arrest of additional terror suspects . <p> In the neighboring Beit Lahiya area , IDF soldiers located and dismantled large quantities of weapons , including explosives and dozens of grenades . These efforts aimed to curtail the operational capabilities of terrorist groups in the region . <p> In a separate operation earlier Sunday , the IAF , guided by IDF and Shin Bet intelligence , struck a Hamas command and control center situated in a compound that previously housed the Abu Shabak clinic in northern Gaza . The facility was being used to store weapons and coordinate attacks against IDF soldiers and Israeli civilians . <h> IAF conducts precise strikes <p> On Saturday night , the IAF launched precision strikes on a terrorist cell in Gaza City . The cell was actively planning imminent attacks against Israeli targets . The strikes , conducted across three separate locations , neutralized the cell and removed the immediate threat . <p> Throughout these operations , the IDF implemented extensive measures to avoid civilian casualties . These included the use of precise munitions , real-time aerial surveillance , and thorough intelligence assessments . The IDF remains committed to combating terrorism while minimizing harm to civilians in its operational zones . 
@@118911390 <h> It is time to hold Hamas accountable for its lies and ensure that the narrative surrounding this conflict is grounded in facts , not fabrications . <p> Palestinian crowds gather in the eastern city of Khan Yunis , in the southern Gaza Strip , on November 10 , 2024 ( photo credit : ABED RAHIM KHATIB/FLASH90 ) <p> The Gaza Health Ministry 's widely cited casualty figures , which claim over 44,000 deaths since the start of Israel 's military response to Hamas 's October 7 attacks , have come under scrutiny for being significantly inflated and misleading . <p> Research by the Henry Jackson Society and the Fifty Research Group , published on Saturday , reveals systematic manipulation of these numbers , contributing to a distorted conflict narrative . <p> The HJS report accuses the Hamas-controlled Gaza Health Ministry of inflating its figures by including natural deaths , combatant deaths , and even fatalities predating the war . " The Ministry of Health , operating under Hamas , has systematically inflated the death toll by failing to distinguish between civilian and combatant deaths , over-reporting fatalities among women and children , and even including individuals who died before the conflict began , " it states . <p> In addition , The Fifty Research Group ( FRG ) , in its study " Mislabeling on the Battlefield : How Mass Media Misrepresents Combatant Casualties as Civilian Deaths in Gaza Coverage , " analyzed 1,378 articles from major global media outlets , including the BBC , CNN , and The New York Times . <p> It found that 98% relied on casualty figures provided by the Gaza Health Ministry , while only 5% cited data from Israeli or US intelligence sources . The research notes , " This overwhelming reliance on Hamas-controlled data has created a narrative that disproportionately portrays Israel as targeting civilians . " DISPLACED PALESTINIANS who fled Rafah , after the IDF began evacuating civilians , travel on a vehicle in Khan Yunis in the southern Gaza Strip in May . While relocations are unfortunate , they have been distorted by Hamas , which frames Israel 's actions as brutal , the writer argues . ( credit : Ramadan Abed/Reuters ) <p> The findings also challenge claims that most of the casualties in Gaza are civilians . Israeli and US intelligence data , corroborated by the Henry Jackson Society , estimate that nearly 17,000 of the reported deaths are Hamas fighters . Andrew Fox , the lead author of the HJS report , explained : " The failure to separate civilian and combatant casualties contributes to a narrative that civilian populations , particularly women and children , bear the brunt of the conflict , influencing sentiment and media coverage . " <p> FRG also criticized leading media organizations for perpetuating this skewed narrative . " The data shows a systemic failure to scrutinize casualty figures and source information from both sides , " the report states . For instance , The New York Times and other outlets have frequently quoted the Gaza Health Ministry 's figures without contextualizing them or verifying their accuracy . " Casualty reports play a critical role in shaping international perception , and misrepresentations only deepen the crisis , " the research noted . <h> Far-reaching consequences <p> This manipulation has far-reaching consequences . Priti Patel , the UK 's shadow foreign secretary , said , " The manipulation of events and facts on the ground throughout this conflict confirms that a terrorist organization like Hamas will distort the truth to further their aims . " She added , " The media must be alert to this and report information and events taking place in a responsible and balanced way . " <p> The Henry Jackson Society report noted that these tactics are designed to provoke international condemnation of Israel , even as they violate international law . <p> Despite these realities , the media 's overwhelming reliance on Hamas-controlled data has fueled accusations against Israel , including claims of " genocide " and " crimes against humanity . " The society 's report warns , " The skewed narrative shapes public opinion and international policy based on incomplete or manipulated data . " <p> The Fifty Research Group 's findings also highlight that casualty figures often fail to account for deaths caused by Hamas itself . One example cited is the case of 17-year-old Ahmed Shdad Halmy Brika , who was reportedly shot by Hamas while attempting to collect humanitarian aid for his family . The report observed that incidents like these are routinely omitted from mainstream media narratives . <p> The Jerusalem Post calls on the international media to exercise greater caution when reporting on casualty figures , ensuring their information is sourced from reliable , verified data rather than propaganda tools controlled by terrorist organizations . Journalistic integrity demands that all sides of the conflict be accurately represented , allowing for a clearer understanding of the complexities . <p> Furthermore , we urge policymakers , journalists , and the public to reject narratives rooted in manipulation and misinformation . The truth matters -- not only for the sake of Israel 's right to self-defense but also for the credibility of the media and the pursuit of peace . It is time to hold Hamas accountable for its lies and ensure that the narrative surrounding this conflict is grounded in facts , not fabrications. 
@@118913780 <h> Share this : <p> In this Wednesday , Sept. 21 , 2016 file photo released by the Syrian Presidency , Syrian President Bashar Assad speaks to The Associated Press at the presidential palace in Damascus , Syria . ( Syrian Presidency via AP , File ) <p> President-elect Donald Trump is famous for relishing an opportunity to make a deal . With the stunning collapse of Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad 's regime , Trump now has the opportunity to make the deal of a lifetime . <p> Indeed , Assad 's collapse -- which also exposed the weakness of his backers in Russia and Iran -- presents the chance for Trump to reshape the Middle East in a way that protects America 's interests , strengthens our allies , and weakens our enemies . <p> Put another way , working with allies in the region -- Israel , Saudi Arabia , and the United Arab Emirates -- Trump can build a stable , peaceful Middle East that demands fewer American resources , forges ties between Israel and Saudi Arabia , and improves America 's geopolitical position at the expense of our enemies ' . <p> At the same time , while Trump has said that he does not think getting involved in Syria 's issues is within America 's interest , the reality is that a stable Syria is squarely within our interests . <p> U.S. involvement can prevent an Islamist takeover in Syria akin to what happened in Afghanistan , and Assad 's ouster gives Trump a critical opportunity to further isolate Iran , America 's top adversary in the Middle East . <p> As Tehran -- undoubtedly the biggest loser from the Assad regime 's collapse -- rapidly approaches the ability to build nuclear weapons , Trump should ratchet up the pressure on a regime that is increasingly vulnerable following the loss of its most important regional ally . <p> Ideally , this would take the form of enhanced sanctions and a clear warning that American or joint American-Israeli strikes on Iran 's nuclear program -- and the regime itself -- are imminent unless the regime changes its behavior . <p> In addition to bringing maximum pressure to bear on Iran , the historic opportunity created by Assad 's collapse presents a number of steps the U.S. can take to significantly shape the wider region to our advantage . <p> First , the incoming Trump administration needs a policy to deal with the Syrian transitional government . <p> The overarching question regarding Syria 's new government is whether Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) -- the group primarily responsible for Assad 's defeat -- has genuinely renounced its terrorist roots and will establish a government that respects women and minorities . <p> If HTS is sincere in its commitment to tolerance and forswears terrorism , Trump should offer to rollback sanctions on Syria . This should be done in stages , so that the U.S. can verify progress before further easing . <p> To do this effectively , Trump will have to work with Turkey , a key supporter of the Syrian opposition . While Turkish President Recep Erdogan has often antagonized the U.S. , as a NATO country , Turkish influence is preferable to Russian or Iranian . <p> Second , Trump has an opportunity to expand the Abraham Accords -- the historic peace deal brokered in 2020 between Israel , the U.A.E , and Bahrain -- to include a deal between Israel and Saudi Arabia . <p> That these accords have held throughout Israel 's war in Gaza demonstrates the very real possibility of lasting peace between Israel and moderate Arab nations . <p> By using the opportunity created by Assad 's fall to deepen relationships between Jerusalem and Riyadh , Trump could broker the most important deal in the modern history of the Middle East . <p> In that same vein , a deal between Israel and Saudi Arabia would bring the Middle East 's two most powerful countries together , another blow to Iran . <p> Regarding Israel , the Trump administration should fully empower Jerusalem to take unilateral action if it sees growing threats from Syria , Gaza , Lebanon , or elsewhere . This includes letting Hezbollah know that Washington wo n't restrain Israel should the Lebanese terrorist group violate the ceasefire reached earlier this month . <p> To be sure , the Israeli military has already done the world a great favor in the days before and since the collapse of the Assad regime . <p> In decimating Hezbollah and effectively deterring Iran , Israel prevented Assad 's allies from intervening to save his regime , directly contributing to the end of Assad 's rule . <p> Similarly , by destroying roughly 80% of Assad 's conventional and chemical weapons after the regime fell , Israel prevented these from falling into the hands of terrorists . <p> Finally , outside of Syria , Assad 's fall carries the most severe implications for Iran . <p> Tehran backed the Syrian dictator as a critical key in the Iranian-led " axis of resistance " that stretched from Lebanon through Syria and into Yemen . <p> Conversely , with Iran reeling from its conflict with Israel and now the loss of its two most important allies -- Hezbollah and Assad -- Trump would be wise to double down on his " maximum pressure " strategy . <p> Under President Biden , Iran flouted sanctions , all while developing the ability to develop a nuclear bomb in mere days or weeks . Trump must reverse course and tighten the noose on Iran 's economy and nuclear program . <p> He can do this with a full embargo on Iranian oil , including threats of sanctions against countries which continue buying from Iran . <p> On the nuclear issue , Trump should recommit to doing whatever is necessary to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons . If suffocating Iran 's economy via sanctions is not enough , the military option must be on the table . <p> Following Israel 's destruction of Syrian air defenses , which blew open the path to Iran 's nuclear facilities , Israel is reportedly considering striking . Doing so would be a gift to the U.S. , and indeed , the world . Trump should fully support our ally if Israel does in fact go forward . <p> To be clear , this is not calling for preemptive strikes on Iran at this point . Rather , strikes can not be ruled out -- as President 's Biden and Obama essentially did -- as well as stating the absolute need to prevent the marriage of radical Islam with nuclear weapons . <p> Ultimately , recent events in the Middle East present the United States and incoming President Trump with a historic opportunity . <p> Quite simply , Trump has a chance to leave a bigger impact on the Middle East than any of his predecessors , specifically former Presidents Nixon , Carter , Reagan , Bush I , Clinton , Bush II , Obama , or Biden ever had . Should Trump seize this chance , his legacy will stand above theirs . <p> Handled correctly , the United States and our allies will be stronger , while our enemies -- Iran , Russia , and radical terrorists everywhere -- will be permanently weakened , all without risking another " forever war " in the Middle East . <p> Douglas Schoen is a longtime Democratic political consultant . Saul Mangel is a Senior Strategist with Schoen Cooperman Research . 
@@118965497 <p> Israel 's defense minister has vowed that it would maintain " full freedom of action " in the Gaza Strip after fighting ends in the Palestinian enclave , a day after raising hopes that a ceasefire and hostage deal was imminent . <p> Israel was " closer to a ceasefire deal than we have ever been , " Defense Minister Israel Katz said during a closed-door parliamentary committee hearing Monday . The comment was confirmed to NBC News by an Israeli lawmaker who was present . <p> While ceasefire talks have broken down multiple times in the past , two U.S. officials and an Israeli official last week told NBC News that Hamas relented on key points to securing an agreement . <p> According to the officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity , Hamas agreed that Israeli forces would remain in Gaza temporarily after the end of hostilities , and Hamas would provide a comprehensive list of hostages , including American citizens , to be released . Hamas would also see a large number of Palestinian prisoners released by Israel as part of the deal , the sources said . <p> An anti-government protest in Tel Aviv on Tuesday calling for action to secure the release of hostages.Jack Guez / AFP via Getty Images <p> The Wall Street Journal first reported these concessions . Hamas has not confirmed to NBC News or others ' reporting that it has agreed to Israeli troops in Gaza . <p> Hamas said Tuesday that " serious and positive discussions " had taken place in Doha , Qatar , with Egyptian and Qatari mediators , and that reaching a ceasefire agreement and prisoner exchange was possible if Israel " stops setting new conditions . " <p> On Tuesday morning , Katz said Israel would maintain control over Gaza after the fighting ends . <p> " After the military and governmental power of Hamas in Gaza is defeated , Israel will securely control Gaza with full freedom of action " he posted on X , likening this outcome to Israel 's current control over the occupied West Bank . <p> Katz did not immediately respond to NBC News ' request for details on what " full freedom of action " would mean . But the comparison to the West Bank underscores a key concern for Palestinians and their supporters : the fear of prolonged Israeli military presence in Gaza , akin to the West Bank , where Israel maintains ultimate control over territory and settlements , and carries out regular raids in the area . <p> Yossi Mekelberg , a senior consulting fellow with Chatham House 's Middle East and North Africa program , said Katz ' comparisons with the West Bank suggest that Israel is " going to have full control entering by any means at any given time . " <p> " That 's a completely fair enough interpretation , considering that we know what happens in the West Bank , " he said . " Is that what a ceasefire agreement is going to say ? I have my doubts . " <p> Smoke and flames rise from a residential building following an Israeli attack in Gaza City on TuesdayHamza Z. H. Qraiqea / Anadolu via Getty Images <p> Gershon Baskin , an Israeli hostage negotiator and frequent critic of Netanyahu 's government , said he did not believe Katz ' remark that Israel had never been closer to a ceasefire . <p> " I have difficult accepting that Hamas has dropped its fundamental demand of an obligation to end the war including full Israeli withdrawal , " he told NBC News via WhatsApp . <p> President-elect Donald Trump has injected urgency into negotiations , repeating Monday his threat that there would be " hell to pay " if no deal was in place by the time he was inaugurated Jan. 20 . <p> A senior administration official told NBC News on Friday that Trump 's pressure was a major factor in Hamas relenting on two key issues during ceasefire and hostage-release talks with Israel . <p> " There is a confidence we have not seen since May when " President Joe Biden " presented his proposal , " the official told NBC News , acknowledging that Trump 's warning that he wants to see a deal before he takes office was " a big factor " in recent concessions . <p> The U.S. hopes to secure a ceasefire agreement before the end of the month , national security adviser Jake Sullivan said last week in a press conference in Tel Aviv . <p> Recent developments in the region , including the weakening of Iran , the longtime backer of the terrorist group , the degradation of Hezbollah and the fall of Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad , also contributed to the compromise by Hamas , the senior Biden administration official said . <p> Negotiations to secure the release of the remaining hostages captured by Hamas during the Oct. 7 , 2023 , terror attack have languished for months . According to Israeli officials , around 1,200 people were killed in the country during the attack and around 250 people were taken hostage -- dozens of whom are still being held by Hamas and other militant groups . <p> More than 45,000 people , more than half of them women and children , have been killed in the Gaza Strip in Israel 's military campaign following the attack , according to the enclave 's health officials and aid organizations . Much of the Palestinian enclave has been destroyed and a majority of the population driven from their homes . 
@@118965694 <p> Iran 's Axis of Resistance , an informal coalition of anti-Western and anti-Israeli militias , was already having a terrible year . But the loss of the Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad may have dealt the knockout blow . <p> Syria was both the organizing ground and the proof of concept for the Axis . Assad owed his throne to its armies , which helped him kill hundreds of thousands of civilians in the civil war that began in 2011 . Unlike other members of the Axis , Assad was n't an Islamist . He also had real differences with Hamas ( the only Sunni member of the Axis ) and the Yemeni Houthis . But other than Iran itself , Syria was the only United Nations member-state to be considered part of the Axis , and its territory was crucial . Iran passed supplies through Syria to Hezbollah , in neighboring Lebanon , and used it to gather its multinational , mostly Shiite armies of militants from Afghanistan , Pakistan , Iraq , and elsewhere . <p> The Axis has come under pressure before , but never like this . In 2020 , an American drone killed Qassem Soleimani , the commander of the expeditionary arm of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and the Axis 's fabled leader . The Iranian regional project suffered a blow then , but a survivable one . In a rousing speech at her father 's funeral in Tehran , Soleimani 's daughter Zeynab promised that three of her honorary " uncles " would exact revenge for her father 's death : the Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah , the Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh , and Assad . Within the past four months , all three of these avengers have been dispatched from the scene -- Haniyah and Nasrallah killed by Israel , and Assad now a refugee in Moscow . <p> With Assad gone , Iran faces a reckoning . Why did it spend tens of billions of dollars and thousands of lives on a regime that collapsed like a house of cards ? Iran 's supreme leader , Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , delivered a defiant speech last Wednesday , insisting that the Axis was alive and well . He chalked up the fall of Assad to an " American-Zionist plot " and said that Tehran would have saved his regime if it could have , a significant admission of his own regime 's weakened capacities . He called on his supporters to " not fall into passivity " and pledged that the " resistance " would yet expel the United States from the region and " uproot Zionism , with the grace of God . " But Khamenei 's bravado is n't fooling anyone . Israel had already battered the Axis , and Syria 's Turkey-backed Sunni Islamists have completed the job . Khamenei is barely able to respond to Israel 's repeated attacks on Gaza , Lebanon , Syria , and even Iran itself . His policy has failed . <p> The end of the Axis is good news . Iranian-backed militias have brought little but misery to the region . They 've undermined the sovereignty of several Arab countries and intensified religious hatred and sectarianism . Iran 's rulers once claimed to offer an exportable Islamist model that could rival both capitalism and communism . But then they went and governed their own country as a corrupt and repressive oligarchy , giving the lie to such pretenses . All that remained to unite the Axis members was the quest to destroy Israel . As a result , instead of building a better life for their constituents , the Axis members made their countries into Iranian beachheads in a shadow conflict with the United States and Israel . <p> Iranian leaders often boasted that they controlled four Arab capitals ( Damascus , Beirut , Sanaa , and Baghdad ) . Last week , the Axis lost Damascus . The others are also slipping from Tehran 's grip . In Beirut , Hezbollah has lost many of its field commanders in its war with Israel , and the Lebanese people are running out of patience with the militia . In Baghdad , Prime Minister Mohammed Shia ' al Sudani 's government enjoys the support of several Iranian-backed militias , but seems not to feel overly constrained by Iranian interests : Iraq did not lift a finger last week to save Assad , and it has maintained close ties with Western allies in the region , such as Jordan , Saudi Arabia , and Egypt . The Houthi-led statelet in Yemen remains profoundly anti-Israel and anti-Semitic , and it continues to threaten international shipping in the Red Sea , but it has always been a local movement with looser ties to Tehran than the other members of the Axis . Finally , recent reports suggest that Hamas has agreed to cede the future administration of Gaza to a committee that would include both it and its rival , Fatah -- a sign that just over a year after its murderous attack on Israel touched off the most recent conflagration , Hamas , too , is on the back foot . <p> But the most important capital to be affected by the fall of the Axis is Tehran . Khamenei 's regional policy was supposed to keep the U.S. and Israel at bay . It appears to have done the opposite . In the past 14 months , Israel has battered the Axis and directly attacked Iranian territory for the first ( and second ) time . Tehran never even answered the Israeli strikes of October 26 , because it knew it had few palatable options for doing so . Its bluff called , Iran is now in a corner . And to make matters worse , next month Donald Trump will return to the White House , likely bringing his policy of " maximum pressure " on Iran back with him . <p> Khamenei 's 35-year rule over Iran has impoverished and isolated his country while making it ever more politically repressive . His hard-line faction is also politically marginalized at the moment , as both the president and the conservative speaker of Parliament have made clear that Iran 's priorities need to be economic development and making a deal with the West . Some believe that the fall of the Axis might persuade Iran to dart toward a nuclear bomb . But decision makers in Tehran know that this would likely incur a ferocious response from the U.S. and Israel , and they may well prefer to take their diplomatic chances on striking a deal with the new American administration . <p> Nobody will miss the Axis of Resistance . But the history of the Middle East has demonstrated that the demise of a bad actor is not sufficient to produce better ones . The Axis will leave a vacuum that other unsavory forces could fill . What the affected countries will need to avoid that outcome is a combination of foreign direct investment and the will to mediate their internal differences . The two are linked : Disputes are much easier to solve when all parties have a reasonable prospect of prosperity . <p> There is a public appetite for this agenda . In 2019 , the peoples of both Iraq and Lebanon rose up in movements with two central demands : to end the sectarian power-sharing system that empowered the Axis militias in these countries , and to build effective public services . The most conspicuous symbols of the two movements were their countries ' national flags . These were anti-Axis uprisings , in which Iraqis and Lebanese sought to prioritize their own countries over the Axis 's plans for revolutionary havoc in the region . <p> Suppose that , following the Axis 's collapse , the region became one of stable , cohesive nation-states that pursued economic development rather than war . The democratic dreams that fueled the 2011 Arab Spring would still remain distant -- but Iran 's revolutionary project for the region would at last come to a definitive end . 
@@118967884 <p> Five Palestinians in Gaza , the occupied West Bank and the United States are suing the US government to try to cut off American assistance to the Israeli military over its involvement in serious human rights abuses . <p> The lawsuit , announced on Tuesday , accuses the Department of State of failing to implement a federal law that prohibits the transfer of funds to foreign military units engaged in gross violations such as extrajudicial killings and torture . <p> " The State Department 's calculated failure to apply the Leahy Law is particularly shocking in the face of the unprecedented escalation of Israeli gross violations of human rights since the Gaza War erupted on October 7 , 2023 , " the lawsuit reads . <p> Israel 's bombardment and ground operations in Gaza have killed more than 45,000 Palestinians since early October 2023 , and the United Nations and the world 's leading rights groups have accused the Israeli military of carrying out war crimes , including genocide . <p> The lead plaintiff in the case , a Gaza teacher referred to by the pseudonym Amal Gaza , has been forcibly displaced seven times since the war began and 20 of her family members have been killed in Israeli attacks . <p> Advertisement <p> " My suffering and the unimaginable loss my family has endured would be significantly lessened if the US stopped providing military assistance to Israeli units committing gross violations of human rights , " she said in a statement accompanying the lawsuit . <p> Contacted by Al Jazeera for comment , the State Department said it does not comment on pending litigation . <h> Leahy Law <p> The case centres around what 's known as the Leahy Law , a federal regulation that bars the US government from providing funds to foreign military units when there is " credible information " implicating them in gross violations of human rights . <p> Those violations include torture , extrajudicial killings , enforced disappearances and rape , the US State Department says in a factsheet explaining the law . <p> " We 're asking the government to obey the law , " Raed Jarrar , advocacy director at DAWN , a US nonprofit that campaigns for democracy and human rights in the Arab world and is supporting the plaintiffs in the case , told Al Jazeera . <p> For months , lawyers and human rights advocates have urged President Joe Biden 's administration to restrict assistance to the Israeli military amid multiple reports of violations against Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank . <p> Rights groups have documented Israel 's use of US-made weapons in several deadly attacks in Gaza , including indiscriminate strikes that killed dozens of Palestinian civilians . <p> Palestinians in the West Bank have also experienced a surge in deadly Israeli military and settler violence since the Gaza war began with the UN 's humanitarian office reporting that 770 Palestinians were killed there from October 7 , 2023 , to the end of November 2024 . <p> Advertisement <p> The US provides Israel with at least $3.8bn in military assistance annually , and researchers at Brown University in Providence , Rhode Island , recently estimated that the Biden administration provided an additional $17.9bn since the start of the Gaza war . <p> Observers said that if the US were to cut off that assistance , Israel would not be able to continue with its war effort . <p> " The violations committed by Israel are so widespread -- very severe -- that most if not all Israel 's army units will actually be deemed ineligible for US military assistance " if the Leahy Law were applied , Jarrar said . <p> " If the US were to stop sending weapons , there is no way for Israel to continue its military operations , " he added . <h> Special procedures for Israel <p> But efforts to pressure Washington to apply the Leahy Law to Israel have largely failed . <p> This year , the Biden administration considered cutting off assistance to an Israeli army unit notorious for its use of violence against Palestinians in the West Bank as well as its involvement in the death of an elderly Palestinian American . <p> However , the State Department ultimately determined that the Netzah Yehuda Battalion could continue to receive American military aid after it said allegations of abuse had been " effectively remediated " . <p> The Leahy Law includes an exception that allows the US to resume assistance if the secretary of state determines -- and reports to Congress -- that the foreign government has taken " effective steps to bring the responsible members of the security forces unit to justice " . <p> Advertisement <p> State Department spokesman Matthew Miller said in August that Israel had provided new information in the Netzah Yehuda case , but he did not provide details . The decision to continue funding the unit fuelled widespread criticism . <p> While the Leahy Law should be applied equally to countries around the world , experts say Washington has created a specific set of procedures -- via what 's known as the Israel Leahy Vetting Forum ( ILVF ) -- that benefits the top US ally . <p> The US applies " a unique , complex , time-consuming , high-level Leahy process " for Israel , Charles Blaha , a former State Department official who was responsible for implementing the Leahy Law , explained in a June column on the website Just Security . <p> For example , while Leahy Law decisions are typically made by lower-level US government experts , in the case of Israel , the vetting involves higher-level , in-person meetings as well as formal requests for information to the Israeli government that slow down the process . <p> Blaha also explained that " information that for any other country would without question result in ineligibility is insufficient for Israeli security force units " . <p> As a result , in the four years since the ILVF held its first meeting , the process " has failed to approve the identification of a single ineligible Israeli unit " , Blaha said . <h> ' Constant fear ' <p> Ahmed Moor , a Palestinian American plaintiff in the case , said he got involved in the proceedings over fears for his loved ones in the Gaza Strip . <p> " My surviving family members in Gaza have been forcibly displaced four times , ... living in constant fear of indiscriminate Israeli attacks carried out with American weapons , " Moor said in a statement . <p> Advertisement <p> " The US government 's military assistance to these abusive Israeli forces , which our own laws prohibit , is enabling these Israeli harms to me and my family . " <p> Ultimately , the lawsuit is asking a US federal court judge to declare the State Department 's actions as well as its ILVF procedures " arbitrary , capricious , an abuse of discretion " and not in accordance with the law . <p> It is also asking the judge to order the US government to send Israel a list of military units that are not eligible to receive American assistance and issue an injunction prohibiting Washington from providing aid to units that have committed rights violations . <p> While other legal attempts to end US support for Israel have been blocked by the courts on the grounds that the judicial branch has no say over foreign policy decisions , Jarrar noted that the case is asking for an administrative law to be applied . <p> Tuesday 's lawsuit was filed under what 's known as the Administrative Procedure Act . " This is not an issue of foreign policy . It 's not an issue of politics , " Jarrar said . <p> " We 're just asking the judge to instruct the State Department to obey the law . " 
@@118967887 <p> On Monday , following Israel 's decision to close its embassy in Ireland , the newly appointed Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar lashed out at Ireland 's Taoiseach ( Prime Minister ) Simon Harris , accusing him of anti-Semitism . " There is a difference between criticism , " Saar said , " and anti-Semitism based on the delegitimisation and dehumanisation of Israel and double standards towards Israel as opposed to other countries . This is how Ireland allowed itself to behave towards Israel . " <p> Responding to the furore , Harris told reporters in Dublin that Ireland would not be silenced , stressing Ireland had remained consistent throughout the war in its support for Israel 's " right to defend itself " within the limits of international law . <p> However , " You know what I think is reprehensible ? , " Harris caveated , " Killing children , I think that 's reprehensible . You know what I think is reprehensible ? Seeing the scale of civilian deaths that we 've seen in Gaza . You know what I think is reprehensible ? People being left to starve and humanitarian aid not flowing . " <p> Advertisement <h> Support during war <p> Irish politicians have largely provided vocal criticism of Israel 's war on Gaza , but this is a reflection of the wider sentiment in Ireland , where much of the public sees Israel 's occupation of the Palestinians as a mirror of the centuries-long English occupation of Ireland . Even if their actions sometimes fall short , Ireland and Irish politicians have provided vocal criticism of Israel throughout its war on Gaza , reflecting a feeling polls show to be widespread across a society that finds much in Palestinian history to mirror its own . <p> " People say they understand it right away , " said Fatin Al Tamimi , the Vice Chair of the Ireland Palestine Solidarity Campaign ( IPSC ) . <p> Al Tamimi 's own sister is currently trapped in Gaza , and even with Harris 's criticisms of Israel she still wants his government to do more and end trade with Israel . But among the Irish public , Al Tamimi said she has always felt a kindred spirit . <p> " As soon as they find out I 'm Palestinian , they immediately say they get it , but I still have to explain what the occupation and apartheid means and the scale of the genocide being carried out in Gaza , " Al Tamimi said . <p> In November 2023 , just a month after the Hamas-led attack on Israel and the start of Israel 's war on Gaza , former Irish leader Leo Varadkar characterised Israel 's actions as " approaching revenge " . A month later , Ireland , with the backing of Spain , Belgium , and Malta , urged other countries within the bloc to call for a ceasefire , admitting there was " some truth " in accusations from the Global South that the European Union was employing double standards in its position on the wars in Ukraine -- where it was clear in its condemnation of Russia 's invasion and occupation -- and Gaza . <p> Advertisement <p> However , it was n't until May of this year that Ireland , along with Spain and Norway recognised Palestinian statehood , eliciting the fury of the Israeli government , which temporarily recalled its ambassador , Dana Erlich . <p> " Irish support for Palestine is longstanding and widespread , " Ray Murphy , professor at the Irish Centre for Human Rights , University of Galway told Al Jazeera , " It cuts across all social classes , ages and political allegiances . " <p> " I think politicians , even those known for traditionally supporting Palestine , were surprised by the strength of feeling on the doorstep , " Murphy said , referring to Ireland 's November general election , and the practice of politicians knocking on household doors to elicit support . <p> " Palestine is an issue people here care deeply about . It 's one of the few issues where there are no grey areas ; people see it as just right . " <h> Israeli anger <p> Coverage of Ireland 's decision to join the South African case has been limited , if barbed , within the Israeli media , left-wing Israeli legislator Ofer Cassif told Al Jazeera . <p> On Tuesday , the widely read Times of Israel ran a blog piece entitled , Why the Irish Hate the Jews , in which the author Lisa Liel stated that it was Ireland 's ingrained Christianity , a religion she characterised as " inherently anti semitic " that had led to it objecting to Israel 's killing of more than 45,000 Palestinians in Gaza . <p> The same day , Israeli author Saul Sadka took to social media to wryly compare and conflate years of Irish migration as a result of famine , poverty and colonisation to criticism of Israel for colonising Palestinian land . <p> Imagine being Irish and accusing others of being " settler colonialists " ? <p> But this explains why Ireland , with only 2,000 Jews , has nevertheless become a primary exporter of Jew-hate . If your brightest 50% escape every generation , for 10 generations , you are left with Ireland . **26;1134;TOOLONG <p> The row with Ireland " definitely does n't undermine the government or the support to Netanyahu " , Cassif said , " And even the media hardly covers it . You know , it is the usual , the ordinary drill : every time that there is a criticism from one angle or another it is immediately branded anti-Semitism and all that hogwash , " he said . <h> International relations <p> However , while the current row with Israel may win Dublin some domestic support , it nevertheless casts Ireland , and to a lesser degree Spain , as outliers within an EU that typically backs Israel . <p> Germany has been a strong backer of Israel , clamping down on pro-Palestinian activism in the country . Meanwhile , the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen has repeatedly backed Israel , leading to a letter of complaint from hundreds of EU officials . <p> " I understand that some EU countries , such as Germany , have their own reasons for supporting Israel , but I 'm not so worried about the EU , " Murphy said . <p> " The EU is bound by treaties and conventions and protocols , so that 's not much of a concern , " Murphy added . " What is concerning is the US , which is Ireland 's largest overseas investor and what this might mean for the future of that relationship , especially with the incoming Trump administration . " <p> While the degree of direct support offered by the US to Israel by a Trump administration is unlikely to vary greatly from his predecessor , the incoming president 's previous use of trade and tariffs as a means to secure international political advantage is concerning , Murphy said . <p> Advertisement <p> Despite its relatively small population , Ireland attracts a considerable level of direct foreign investment from the United States , ranking sixth , above Italy , South Korea and Mexico ; countries with populations far in excess of Ireland 's 5 million . <p> Will that be enough to change Ireland 's official positions if the US increases its pressure ? That will depend on how far the next US administration is willing to go for Israel , and how resolute Ireland and its politicians prove to be . <p> But many Irish are unwavering . And in Al Tamimi 's case , the connection is personal , and one that speaks to both sides of her identity , and that of her three Irish-born and bred children . <p> " They want to see Palestine , " she explained . " Of course , they 're Irish citizens . They could go there to visit , but that 's not the same . They 're Palestinian . They want to go there and live . " 
@@118975581 <h> Why is Christian Science in our name ? <p> Our name is about honesty . The Monitor is owned by The Christian Science Church , and we 've always been transparent about that . <p> The Church publishes the Monitor because it sees good journalism as vital to progress in the world . Since 1908 , we 've aimed " to injure no man , but to bless all mankind , " as our founder , Mary Baker Eddy , put it . <p> Here , you 'll find award-winning journalism not driven by commercial influences -- a news organization that takes seriously its mission to uplift the world by seeking solutions and finding reasons for credible hope . <p> The Christian Science Monitor is an international news organization offering calm , thoughtful , award-winning coverage for independent thinkers . We tackle difficult conversations and divisive issues -- we do n't shy away from hard problems . But you 'll find in each Monitor news story qualities that can lead to solutions and unite us -- qualities such as respect , resilience , hope , and fairness . <h> Deepen your worldview with Monitor Highlights . <h> Christmas light for Gaza <p> Christian leaders in Jerusalem set a message of light in a region seeking its way out of war . <p> <p> REUTERS <p> Pastor Munther Isaac lights a candle near an installation with a figure of baby Jesus lying amidst rubble at the Evangelical Lutheran Church , in Bethlehem in the Israeli-occupied West Bank Nov. 25 . <p> Loading ... <p> By the Monitor 's Editorial Board <p> Dec. 17 , 2024 , 3:30 p.m . ET <p> Earlier this week , various Christian denominations in Jerusalem joined in an appeal for their congregations to " testify to the sacred light of Christ " during this Christmas season . At a time of violent conflict in the Holy Land , their shared message marks something of a course correction . <p> Last year , these church leaders urged a muted celebration of Christmas in support of " the multitudes suffering from the newly erupted war " in Gaza . The message of Christmas -- one of a light coming to the world -- was " diminished , " they stated , especially among people in the region where Jesus was born . <p> This year 's call for illumined thought has several echoes . In a Christmas message from the White House , President Joe Biden and his wife , Jill , called on Americans to observe a " Season of Peace and Light . " Pope Francis , in an address on St. Peter 's Square on Dec. 1 , said " the quest for peace " requires " a light heart , a wakeful heart , a free heart . " Perhaps he also meant a heart alighted . <p> In September , photographers and artists in Iraq gathered works that depicted the word " peace " in various forms of light . The Peace Against War project was meant to express a " desire for a society free from conflict -- one where everyone enjoys equal rights and opportunities , " the United Nations reported . <p> In March , the annual Women 's World Day of Prayer focused on forgiveness and forbearance toward others . That theme resonated deeply among Palestinian women , according to the Rev. Sally Azar , the first female Palestinian pastor of the Evangelical Lutheran Church . <p> " They were asking , Is it now our Christian brothers and sisters here in this land ? Is it our literal neighbor ? Is it the Israelis ? Is it the Jews ? Is it the Muslims ? So all these questions arose when talking about bearing one another in love , " she told Deutsche Welle . <p> " This ancient path of redemption , " they wrote , " sparked a spiritual revolution that continues to transform countless hearts and minds towards the ways of justice , mercy , and peace . " <p> The war in Gaza continues , now into its second year . Some see a faint light for peace in the latest talks between Israel and Hamas . Others , meanwhile , find peace already lit in their hearts , a testimony to the Christmas message . <p> You 've read of free articles . Subscribe to continue . <h> Help fund Monitor journalism for $11/ month <p> Monitor journalism changes lives because we open that too-small box that most people think they live in . We believe news can and should expand a sense of identity and possibility beyond narrow conventional expectations . <h> Digital subscription includes : <p> What is the Monitor difference ? Tackling the tough headlines -- with humanity . Listening to sources -- with respect . Seeing the story that others are missing by reporting what so often gets overlooked : the values that connect us . That 's Monitor reporting -- news that changes how you see the world . <p> About a year ago , I happened upon this statement about the Monitor in the Harvard Business Review -- under the charming heading of " do things that do n't interest you " : <p> " Many things that end up " being meaningful , writes social scientist Joseph Grenny , " have come from conference workshops , articles , or online videos that began as a chore and ended with an insight . My work in Kenya , for example , was heavily influenced by a Christian Science Monitor article I had forced myself to read 10 years earlier . Sometimes , we call things ' boring ' simply because they lie outside the box we are currently in . " <p> If you were to come up with a punchline to a joke about the Monitor , that would probably be it . We 're seen as being global , fair , insightful , and perhaps a bit too earnest . We 're the bran muffin of journalism . <p> But you know what ? We change lives . And I 'm going to argue that we change lives precisely because we force open that too-small box that most human beings think they live in . <p> The Monitor is a peculiar little publication that 's hard for the world to figure out . We 're run by a church , but we 're not only for church members and we 're not about converting people . We 're known as being fair even as the world becomes as polarized as at any time since the newspaper 's founding in 1908 . <p> We have a mission beyond circulation , we want to bridge divides . We 're about kicking down the door of thought everywhere and saying , " You are bigger and more capable than you realize . And we can prove it . " <p> If you 're looking for bran muffin journalism , you can subscribe to the Monitor for $15 . You 'll get the Monitor Weekly magazine , the Monitor Daily email , and unlimited access to CSMonitor.com. 
@@118980381 <h> What are our choices if Iran sprints to obtain a nuclear weapon ? <h> " If Israel concludes that it can not effectively strike the Iranian nuclear program alone and needs the United States , its options become much more limited . " <p> Republican presidential nominee and former U.S. President Donald Trump raises his fist during a " Fighting Anti-Semitism in America Event " with Dr. Miriam Adelson and Jewish leaders in Washington , U.S. , September 19 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/PIROSCHKA VAN DE WOUW ) <p> According to Michael Mandelbaum , professor emeritus at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies , if " the Islamic Republic should acquire nuclear weapons , as it is actively seeking to do , its capacity to harm America 's friends and American interests would expand dramatically . The most important task for American Middle East policy is ... to prevent that from happening . This is especially the case insofar as the American government actively discouraged Israel from hitting Iran 's nuclear installations . " <p> With its proxies severely degraded and Israel destroying much of the Iranian **26;1865;TOOLONG systems while disabling advanced warning radar systems in Syria and Iraq , Israel 's retaliation for the two largest missile barrages in modern history has left Iran 's other military assets wide open to be hit if Israel should have occasion to attack Iran again in the near future . <p> Israel would not need a first wave of fighter jets to destroy an already disabled Iranian anti-missile array . In that case , it could use more aircraft and missiles to target everything from the American-designated terrorists in the IRGC infrastructure , to the morality police who terrorize the Iranian people , to Iran 's energy infrastructure that supports its terror mechanism , to the holy grail of targets -- Iran 's nuclear facilities . <p> However , if Iran now feels defenseless to another attack , it may decide its best option is to create a nuclear weapon as quickly as possible . It would need to accelerate the last phase of its nuclear program , the weaponization of an atomic device , and could decide to test it to prove its capabilities . If the Iranians think the time course to go nuclear is too long , they could also clandestinely transfer a few North Korean nuclear weapons and tell the world that Iran has now joined the nuclear club ; game over . <p> According to American academic Walter Read Russell , " There are two key questions now . Will Tehran turn to a nuclear breakout to compensate for the inferiority of its conventional weapons ? If it does , will the fear of an Iranian nuclear weapon be enough to lead Washington to support Israel even at the risk of Washington 's engagement in another war ? ... The nuclear breakout option seems easier for Tehran to accomplish and more strategically compelling than ever before . " If Iran wants to restore deterrence , it may logically conclude that only possessing nuclear weapons will save its regime for the long term . <p> Knowing this , should Israel strike Iranian nuclear facilities sooner than later , and is it capable of mowing the nuclear grass enough to delay Iran 's atomic program for at least five years ? <p> The pressure from the US on Israel to avoid a preemptive strike on Iran 's nuclear facilities would likely be enormous . A nuclear Iran may be an existential threat to Israel but is not considered a primary threat by the isolationist Right or the anti-Israel Left in America , both influential in their parties . <p> As for Americans in the middle , they , too , are still traumatized by the cost and poor outcome of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and dislike the thought of being drawn into another Middle East war , which they fear would compel the need for American boots on the ground . A BILLBOARD message congratulates president-elect Donald Trump , in Tel Aviv , the day after the presidential election , earlier this month . Many believe that in Trump 's America , Israel will be strengthened in every way possible , states the writer . ( credit : Chen G. Schimmel ) <p> Let 's suppose that American and Israeli intelligence conclude that Iran has made the strategic decision to possess nuclear weapons , and intelligence strongly believes Iran has begun a dash to the bomb . As Uri Friedman , writing in The Atlantic , said , " Newly threatened , the Iranian regime might pursue a bomb to try to salvage its national security . " The first question to ask is whether America would join Israel in a preventative kinetic strike , which is questionable , despite the declarations of each of the recent US administrations that it would never let Iran have a nuclear weapon.The second question Israel must ask is whether it has the capability , acting alone , of significantly degrading Iran 's nuclear facilities enough that it will take a long time to reconstitute them . <p> Israel 's strike on Iran in October actually targeted some Iranian nuclear infrastructure in Parchin and the Shahroud Space Center in Semnan Province " used to build solid-propellant rocket motors ... for ballistic missiles , " according to The New York Times . Ballistic missiles are the primary way to deliver an atomic weapon . <p> Parchin is the secretive military facility identified with the Iranian nuclear program . President Barack Obama was so anxious for a deal with Iran in 2015 that he agreed to have no inspections at Parchin and other joint use military sites . Israel 's astounding caper in 2018 , stealing the Iranian atomic archives , proved that the Islamic Republic had plans for a nuclear weapon for decades . <p> Even if Israel believes it can unilaterally strike Iran 's nuclear program successfully , it still has to weigh the damage it could do to the US-Israel relationship , as an unapproved strike might infuriate an American administration , which might choose to punish Israel , especially if it drags America into an unwanted regional war . However , a senior American official disclosed in early November to Walla that the US told Iran that if it strikes Israel a third time , it will not be able to restrain Israel 's response . <p> However , if Israel concludes that it can not effectively strike the Iranian nuclear program alone and needs the United States , its options become much more limited . <p> An article by Toby Dalton , co-director of the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment , and Eli Levite , a nonresident senior fellow in the Nuclear Policy Program , states : " The best option already has a successful playbook from 2013 . " They recommend a " secret US-Iran dialogue , facilitated in and by Oman , that yielded an interim nuclear restraint agreement in 2013 and led ultimately to the JCPOA . " <p> They advocate going around the Senate , saying it would n't " require sign-off from the US Congress , " just as Obama refused to bring the JCPOA ( Iran nuclear deal ) to the Senate , a brazen undermining of our constitutional checks and balances , usurping power for the executive branch . If Iran dashes toward an atomic bomb , this will be an ineffective and counterproductive option . <p> I wrote about another choice in a previous article , where I stated the case for those who want to minimize the chance of a preventative strike on Iranian nuclear facilities is to have America transfer bunker-buster 30,000-pound bombs to Israel with the means to deliver them by forward staging B-2 and B-52 American bombers that could carry that payload . A headline on November 3 in The Jerusalem Post read : " B-52 Stratofortress arrives in Middle East area from US amid Iranian threat " under CENTCOM command . <p> Beyond the usual cyber attacks and targeted assassinations , the need to prioritize destabilizing the regime is still the best path to long-term regional stability and preventing the US from being pulled into a war . Helping the Iranian people rise against their tyrannical overlords and take charge of their lives to chase the mullahs out of town should become a coordinated US-Israeli policy . <h> American leadership <p> The incoming Trump administration should articulate a new strategic policy with Iran : regime change . Enforcement of the maximum sanctions that the Biden administration abandoned would decrease Iran 's financial support for its terrorist proxies in Lebanon , Iraq , Yemen , Syria , the West Bank , and Gaza . <p> Israel , too , has a role to play to destabilize the Iranian regime . Israel 's kinetic options to weaken the government would entail targeting the lifeblood of its economic survival , the energy infrastructure , and container ports for commerce . If Iran strikes Israel a third time , this is a legitimate response . <p> The key is for America to signal to the Iranian people that we are with them , unambiguously pro-Iranian -- that is , pro-Iranian people . American policy should lead fellow democracies in a call for a referendum on what type of government they want to lead them . <p> If the people do rise in protest , there 's little doubt that the Iranian morality police , along with the IRGC , will clamp down on the Internet and begin another campaign of intimidation , terror , and arrests reminiscent of the previous brutal crackdown that occurred in 2009 during their Green Revolution and most recently after the Women , Life , Freedom Protests that followed the killing of the young woman Mahsa Amini , accused of not wearing her hijab head covering properly . <p> The Green Revolution was ignited by fraudulent election outcomes , allowing the vicious Iranian President Ahmadinejad to be re-elected . To America 's shame , the Obama and Biden administrations , both in turn , abandoned the Iranian people , undermining US values as a beacon of light to those repressed by authoritarian regimes . No boots on the ground were necessary ; only American leadership in speaking truth to the world . <p> If Iran does develop or acquire a North Korean nuclear weapon , then the best and perhaps the only path to defang the regime from intimating its neighbors and preventing a nuclear arms race would be regime change . It is believed that the vast majority of the Iranian people yearn to be free of the repressive government , which prioritizes hegemony and destroying Israel over the people 's needs . Regime change would bring chaos and unintended consequences , but the risks outweigh the challenges . <p> In theory , an Iranian government not run by fanatical zealots could be trusted with a well-regulated and inspected civilian nuclear program that enriches uranium outside of Iran . American security interests would advance if China and Russia lost an Iranian client state . <p> Every option to deal with an Iran dashing to a nuclear weapon has risks . The only greater risk is accepting Iran with atomic weapons . As in 1981 and 2007 , when Israel struck the Iraqi and Syrian nuclear programs , if Israel believes it can effectively strike the Iran nuclear program , now may be the time to do it and deal with the diplomatic fallout later , including the risk that striking enrichment sites might cause significant environmental contamination there . <p> If the regime falls or Israel defangs its nuclear program , do n't expect anyone in the international community to give Israel credit , but do expect sanctions on Israel and being tossed from the UN for choosing offensive options . It may be a small price to pay to survive to fight another day , as Israel is a one-bomb country , as a former Iranian president put it . A defensive shield can not block all incoming missiles . An Iranian barrage of 1,000 missiles , ten of them nuclear-armed , would be likely to get one of those past the THAAD and Arrow systems . <p> The new US administration needs to have strategic empathy for Israel , knowing it is at war with an enemy who is committed to one thing : its extermination . Our choices must take that into account when we decide how to respond to an Iranian dash to an atomic bomb . ? <p> Eric Mandel is the director of the Middle East Political Information Network and Mandel Strategies , and regularly briefs members of the US Congress and their foreign policy aides on the Middle East . 
@@118980382 <h> Irish Prime Minister Simon Harris said the decision was deeply regrettable and rejected assertions that Ireland was anti-Israel . <p> A man holds Irish and Palestinian flags as people protest calling for governments around the world to stop arming Israel during a demonstration in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza , amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas , in Dublin , Ireland , June 15 , 2024 ( photo credit : Clodagh Kilcoyn/Reuters ) <p> The Irish Jewish community expressed concern about the deterioration of Irish-Israel ties following Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar 's decision to close the Israeli embassy on Sunday , calling on the Irish and Israeli governments to pursue reconciliation and more constructive relations . <p> Irish Chief Rabbi Yoni Wieder said that Ireland had not engaged constructively with the Israeli government since the eruption of the multi-front war with Hamas and Iranian proxies , instead vilifying and criticizing the Jewish state . <p> " Irish political leaders have routinely failed to acknowledge that Israel is waging war against jihadist terrorist organizations intent on its destruction , " said Wieder . " The anti-Israel narrative in Ireland has become extremely hateful , and full of disinformation and distortions . And already in the immediate aftermath of the October 7 massacre , whilst many other European countries flew Israeli flags above government or public buildings -- no such solidarity was shown in Ireland . " <p> Jewish Representative Council of Ireland chair Maurice Cohen expressed concern about the diplomatic tiff in a Sunday statement , noting that the circumstances leading Israel to the measure to include the Irish government 's intervention in South Africa 's International Court of Justice genocide case against Israel -- with the Irish Foreign Affairs Department calling for the broadening of the definition of genocide . " While Ireland has always championed human rights and the rule of law , this intervention risks oversimplifying a highly complex and tragic conflict , unfairly isolating Israel , and undermining the integrity of the term ' genocide . ' Ireland 's moral voice carries weight globally , and it is crucial that it reflects a fair and balanced approach , fostering dialogue rather than deepening division , " said Cohen . The inauguration ceremony of Rabbi Yoni Wieder as chief rabbi of Ireland was held at the Dublin Hebrew Synagogue , May 21 , 2024. ( credit : Ros Kavanagh/ Courtesy Office of the Chief Rabbi of Ireland ) <p> " We call on both the Irish and Israeli governments to seek pathways to rebuild trust and to ensure that avenues for diplomatic engagement remain open . Ireland has the potential to play a constructive role on the global stage , and it is our hope that this potential will be directed toward fostering understanding and reconciliation . " Wieder and Cohen said the closure of the diplomatic mission would have ramifications for Israelis living in Ireland , who the rabbi said " contributed tremendously to the Jewish community in Ireland . " <p> Cohen explained that many members of the Jewish community were born in Israel and had become Irish citizens . <h> Not only a symbolic blow <p> " The closure of the embassy represents not only a symbolic blow but also a practical disadvantage . Consular services provided by the embassy are vital for those maintaining connections with family , culture , and heritage in Israel . Losing this resource will leave many feeling unsupported and aggrieved , " said Cohen . " Diplomatic missions play a critical role in building understanding , providing essential services , and maintaining communication even during times of political tension . Closing the embassy risks alienating a significant segment of Irish society and sends a message that dialogue is being replaced by disengagement . " <p> Sa'ar had said on Sunday that the Irish government had engaged in antisemitic rhetoric and actions to delegitimize and demonize the Jewish state . " Ireland has crossed every redline in its relations with Israel , " said Sa'ar.Irish Prime Minister Simon Harris said the decision was deeply regrettable and rejected assertions that Ireland was anti-Israel . <p> " Ireland is pro-peace , pro-human rights , and pro-international law , " Harris said in a social media post.Foreign Affairs Minister Miche ? l Martin said Sunday that there were no plans to close the Irish embassy in Israel and that Israel would continue to maintain diplomatic relations . 
@@118980383 <h> Hamas , Hezbollah , and several other groups are listed as terrorist organizations , and it is prohibited to display their symbols for purposes such as incitement . <p> A protester wears a ' Free Palestine ' face mask during a demonstration in support of Palestinians , on the day of the one year anniversary of the October 7 attack , amid the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict , in Manchester , Britain , October 7 , 2024. ( photo credit : PHIL NOBLE/REUTERS ) <p> The Australian state of Victoria is committed to banning Hamas and Hezbollah flags , masked protests , and restricting demonstrations as houses of worship in a bid to counter rising extremism and antisemitic incidents in the country , Victoria Premier Jacinta Allan announced on Tuesday . <p> The Victorian government said that while the peaceful protest was protected under the 2006 Charter of Human Rights and Responsibilities Act , the right had to be balanced with the right to safety . <p> According to it , demonstrations since October 7 had seen " extreme , dangerous , and radical conduct " where antisemitism thrived . <p> " Antisemitism thrives in extreme and radical environments , and we are giving police more power to control protest , making it harder for agents of violence and hate to hide , " Allan said in a press release . <p> Victoria lists Hamas , Hezbollah , and several other groups as terrorist organizations and it is prohibited to display their symbols for purposes such as incitement , but Allan 's Labor government said that it would completely ban the symbols . <p> The police will potentially have the power to " stop , search , and seize " in response to any display of an icon or flag of a terrorist organization . <p> A mask ban was proposed , as police told the government that identity concealment was used to hamper crowd-control operations and identify criminal offenders . The press release noted that exemptions would be made to wearing a mask in the case of health , religious , or cultural reasons . <p> A Palestinian flag flutters next to the protest encampment in support of Palestinians in Gaza at The University of Sydney , amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas , in Sydney , Australia May 3 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/ALASDAIR PAL ) <p> " Masks are n't a free pass to break the law . There should be no place to hide in this state if you 're a racist stirring up hate on the streets , " the government said . <p> Police will also gain new powers to confiscate items like glue , rope , chains , and locks that activists have reportedly been using to attach themselves to objects to prevent movement and access . <p> " They put people in harm 's way , make it harder for the police to do their jobs -- and make heroes out of morons , " it added . <h> Seeking to limit demonstrations at religious sites <p> Noting the prevalence of protests outside synagogues , such as the December Great Synagogue protest in Sydney and last November 's Central Shule Melbourne rally in Caulfield South , which resulted in an evacuation , the Allan government said that it would seek to limit demonstrations at religious sites . <p> The proposal did not offer definitive answers on the extent of the restrictions but said it could include the establishment of " safe access areas " or the prohibition of disturbances at religious gatherings . <p> " Some of these reforms are complex because they involve a balance of fundamental rights . But we are committed to consulting with the community and delivering them as soon as possible , " Police Minister Anthony Carbines said in a press release . <p> Victoria 's government also sought to create a new liaison group to open regular communication channels with the Jewish community . The Local Escalation and Help Group could include government department representatives , Jewish community organizations , and security groups . <p> " This is n't about the Middle East , " said Allan . ' This is about Victoria . This is about our values and the right of anyone in this state to live , work , and pray freely without fear of intimidation , fear , and violence . " <p> The Zionist Federation of Australia ( ZAF ) and Zionism Victoria welcomed the package of reforms , with ZFA president Jeremy Leibler saying that " these reforms will not only help to make Victoria safer and more welcoming for Jewish people but for all Victorians . " <p> Zionism Victoria leader Elyse Schachna said on social media , " People who want to protest about an issue should do so without their faces covered by a mask ; this promotes transparency and accountability and ensures that individuals stand by their actions and words . " <p> The reforms came after a string of antisemitic incidents in Australia , including an arson attack in December against the Adass Israel Synagogue in the suburb of Ripponlea , in Melbourne . 
@@118980388 <h> Regulators will be urged to bring disciplinary action against doctors or nurses who express " racist or extremist views . " <p> Chancellor of the Exchequer Rachel Reeves ( R ) and Health Secretary Wes Streeting ( C ) speak with members of the staff as they visit St. George 's Hospital , on October 28 , 2024 in London , England . ( photo credit : Leon Neal/Getty Images ) <p> The UK 's Health Secretary , Wes Streeting , has called on regulators to strike off doctors who express extremist views about Gaza in the workplace , he told The Telegraph on Saturday . <p> This comes as part of Streeting 's attempt to crack down on antisemitism in the NHS , and to enforce a " zero tolerance approach to anyone who uses the conflict in the Middle East as a pretext to attack communities in the NHS . " <p> Streeting said he would urge regulators to bring disciplinary action against doctors or nurses who express " racist or extremist views " about the Israel-Hamas war . This could escalate in some circumstances to the staff member being struck off the medical register , he added . <p> " I expect regulators to investigate any concerns suggesting patient safety is at risk due to discrimination or misconduct by a healthcare professional , " he told The Telegraph . <p> " Any worker espousing racist or extremist views should know they could end up in front of a disciplinary panel . " <p> Streeting added that patients and members of the public can raise concerns about professionals with the regulator directly , and there is then a statutory duty to investigate the complaints . Health workers wearing medical scrubs take part in a solidarity protest with 173 Palestinian medical workers being held by Israeli authorities , including surgeon Khaled Al Serr who was detained at the Nasser Hospital in Khan Younis , outside of od St Thomas ' Hospital in London on August 30 , 2024 ( credit : Benjamin Cremel/Reuters ) <p> " Any patient racially or violently abusing NHS staff , who are simply trying to do their jobs and care for us , can and should be turned away , " he added . <h> Antisemitism in the NHS <p> In the twelve months following October 7 , the Jewish Medical Association submitted 28 complaints to the General Medical Council ( GMC ) in relation to antisemitism . In the year before October 7 , it submitted only one . <p> However , Dr Fiona Sim , a member of the Jewish Medical Association ( JMA ) and a former chairwoman of the Royal Society for Public Health , said that while only 28 cases were formally submitted to the GMC by the JMA , she was aware of over 100 cases . However , the JMA chose to only submit " the really serious ones , " she told The Times . <p> There have been multiple incidents of antisemitism and extremism within the NHS since the start of the Israel-Hamas war . <p> At the start of 2024 , the NHS suspended Dr Wahid Asif Shaida , a GP who led the UK branch of the Islamist group Hizb ut-Tahrir before it was banned . <p> Shaida described the Oct 7 massacre as " a welcome punch on the nose " but was nevertheless reinstated as the NHS claimed there was insufficient evidence to support Shaida being unfit to practice . <p> In November , NHS consultant neurologist Dr. Rehiana Ali was found to have tweeted that Israel 's killing of Yahya Sinwar had turned him into a " male role model . " <p> In September , the Central and North West London NHS Foundation Trust , one of the UK 's biggest , said it had " determined that antisemitism training advertised to staff may be inappropriate . For this reason , we advise staff members not to attend this training . " <p> Also , this year , a tribunal stated regarding Dr. Psaroudakis , a former consultant gynecologist for The Evewell fertility clinic , that it made " no finding that Dr. Psaroudakis is a racist but is satisfied that he is someone who is quite comfortable with using discriminatory language . " <p> Other incidents reported by CST include a couple who were asked if they were Jewish when they inquired about treatment , before being told " Well , you 'll have lots of money for care , Jewish people are very rich . " <p> In May , a staff member shouted , " Get your Jewish ambulance to come and get you , " at a Jewish woman leaving a hospital . 
@@118980392 <p> Maj. ( res . ) Moshiko Maxim Rozenwald , 35 , and Sgt.-Maj. ( res ) . Alexander Anosov , 26 , both from Modi'in , were killed in Rafah deep in southern Gaza , the military announced Tuesday . <p> Rozenwald and Anosov served in the Engineering Battalion within the Nahal Brigade . Two other soldiers were wounded in the same incident.Initial estimates were that the incident involved the collapse of a structure that the soldiers were inside . <p> Also , initially , the IDF did not say anything specific about how the structure collapsed , including whether it was from an attack from Hamas , but a later update said it was unrelated to any attack.IDF troops operate in the Gaza Strip . December 2 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> Rather , the later update said the frequent movements of large tanks and other vehicles in the area and the fact that it was less stable from the start , led to its collapse . <h> IDF probing incident <p> The IDF said it was still probing why the soldiers were in the structure if it was known that it was less stable and whether the frequent movement of vehicles could have implications for other structures potentially collapsing.There have been general stability problems with many of the buildings in Gaza , which have seen extensive damage from the war . <p> The Hamas-run Health Ministry announced late Monday that the number of Gazans killed had crossed 45,000 . While Hamas does not distinguish between civilians and fighters , it said over 12,000 were women and over 17,000 under the age of 18 . That would leave another 16,000 male adults . <p> Incidentally , Israel has estimated that it has killed between around 17,000 ( IDF estimates ) to 20,000 ( Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu estimates ) Hamas fighters.The 45,000 could still be exaggerated and Hamas has armed a significant number of minor teenagers to fight IDF soldiers , who could be considered fighters , but the above Israel and Hamas numbers might also at this point be fairly consistent.Israel has admitted to Palestinian civilians unintentionally being caught in the crossfire given that Hamas systematically embeds itself within the civilian population and in humanitarian safe zones . <p> In addition , Hamas has claimed 106,000 wounded Palestinians . Neither Hamas nor Israel has kept reliable numbers distinguishing between wounded Gazan civilians and fighters other than at the earliest stages of the war . <h> Briefing on Mount Hermon <p> Also , Netanyahu , Defense Minister Israel Katz , and IDF Chief of Staff Lt.-Gen . Herzi Halevi held a briefing on the Syrian side of Mount Hermon , a strategic location overlooking Damascus , a statement from the Prime Minister 's Office said on Tuesday.Katz said , " The top of the Hermon is the eyes of the State of Israel for identifying dangers near and far . We can observe Hezbollah on the right side , Damascus on the left side -- and on the other side , the State of Israel . " He said the IDF 's placement in a buffer zone in Syrian territory in general , and on the Syrian side of the Hermon in particular , both objectively makes Israeli border villages safer from potential invasion and subjectively should increase their feeling of security.Next , there were multiple foreign reports on Tuesday of IDF forces going somewhat beyond the buffer zone in Syria , which it mostly took over around December 7-8 . Some said the IDF controlled certain areas around the Yarmouk River and the al-Wada Dam . The IDF would not confirm any specific locations but confirmed that in certain areas where the geography of maintaining a sound defensive position required , some forces had proceeded somewhat beyond the initial buffer zone.No one gave a clear explanation about why the move was made on Tuesday , around 10 days after the initial incursion.There is an ongoing debate in Israel and the West about whether Syrian 's new rulers , the Ha'yat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , can be trusted to maintain a quiet border with Israel -- as Bashar al-Assad generally did -- or whether their jihadist beliefs might lead them to be more aggressive about attempting an invasion.To date , HTS has said it does not have the time or energy to fight with Israel , but no formal talks have started to resolve the border stability issue.Still , in general , Israel has said it does not seek to stay in Syria any longer than necessary to ensure that there will be no invasion . 
@@118980395 <h> ' We are all Jews here ! ' : Volunteering with Sar-El during Israel 's worst war <h> How many dead Jews will it take for the world to stand up and declare , " We are all Jews here " ? <p> By GINETTE WEINER DECEMBER 17 , 2024 19:03 <p> The scene where Israelis were killed by Hamas on a main road near the southern Israeli city of Sderot , October 7 , 2023 ( photo credit : JAMAL AWAD/FLASH90 ) <p> My three weeks of volunteering with Sar-El -- the National Project for Volunteers for Israel from December 31 , 2023 , to January 18 , 2024 , will stay with me forever . I will tell you what motivated me to go ; the response of the people I met ; what I think I may have contributed ; what I gained ; and why you should go . <p> The second I learned of Hamas 's attack on October 7 , I dropped everything and went to Israel , by myself , as did so many others . My husband , family , and friends understandably expressed concern about my safety . I told them that while I was n't looking to be in harm 's way , Israel was the only place to be because " Never again is now . " <p> At Sar-El , you experience every range of emotion , and some you did n't know you had . I met people from all over the world -- France , South Africa , the UK , Germany , New Zealand , Australia , many of whom were not Jewish but simply felt a need to help Israel . You work from Sunday to Thursday on tasks which help to relieve the IDF reservists . My first week involved packing medical kits ; second week , making food packages ; third week , sorting soldiers ' uniforms and sleeping bags . <p> As I was loading IV bags into a medical pouch , I asked the woman next to me what she does for a living . She said she had a PhD in pharmacology . I smiled and asked myself what country , other than Israel , can manage to get PhDs to drop everything , travel at their own expense , and load items for hours on a fast moving assembly line ! The medical pouches you pack are in a certain order -- i.e. , sutures first , then surgical scissors , etc . That is because a physician may be treating a wounded soldier in darkness and can therefore depend upon the order in the pouch to quickly reach for which instrument is needed.A group of Sar-El volunteers in 2019 ( credit : Courtesy ) <p> You meet before work for flag raising . A moment of silence is held for soldiers who were just killed . The ache you feel stays with you in a place you try to keep compartmentalized so that you can get on with it . But the ache never goes away fully . Nor should it . You will see the hustle and bustle of daily life in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem , people at the beach , shopping , going to work , and be humbled by the resilience of the Israelis while they carry the burdens and joys of being a Jew with dignity , courage , determination , and pride . <p> Lunch is a delicious buffet , in a large cafeteria with soldiers and other volunteers . I sat next to soldiers who were as eager to hear my thoughts as I was to hear theirs . Almost all began the conversation by telling me how much they appreciated my being a volunteer . I told them it is a privilege to be able to volunteer ; it is the least I could do . Some worried that Israel is becoming isolated in the world . A few asked if the majority of Americans still support Israel . They said that seeing the volunteers helps them to sustain hope for the future . I told them I have my own blog in The Times of Israel and am a regular contributor to The Jewish Voice newspaper in Brooklyn , New York , and have given talks for Israel . They were surprised and said how much hearing that meant to them . I wanted to help them feel they are not alone , that we support them . I hope I succeeded in this small way . When I went to shake their hands goodbye , I always got a big hug right after the handshake , which will stay with me forever . I met a soldier from Chechnya . I said , " You 're a long way from home . " He said , " This is my home . " I can still see each and every one of their faces . <p> On Wednesday evenings , the team gathers after dinner to express their thoughts and feelings about volunteering . I asked , and was given permission , to present a piece I wrote to our group . " I said , ' My story is our story . I am a retired social worker . My husband tells me that retired social workers are a dangerous lot -- always up to something ! " <h> " We are all Jews here " <p> My mother was a French Moroccan Jew in Casablanca during World War II . She met my father , who was a soldier . They fell in love . He sent for her to come to America as a war bride . She spoke French and Arabic . When Israel became a nation , her two sisters fled Casablanca . One went to Israel and the other to France . I was in Israel for the first time in 1969 . My cousin was a paratrooper in the Six Day War . In 2015 , I visited my 95-year-old uncle , Samuel , and aunt Juliette in their nursing home in France . The nursing home was guarded by French soldiers , as were all Jewish facilities at that time , which were under attack . Samuel 's entire family was killed in the Holocaust . During World War II , as a Jewish soldier in France , he fled to Morocco . In Casablanca he joined the Resistance , was captured and tortured , but he survived . And so this war hero , some 70 years later , required armed guards in order to survive , and all because ... he is a Jew . Today , we see young Israeli soldiers , with M-16 rifles slung over their shoulders , the dust still visible on their boots , who should be going to parties , planning their lives , but instead are forced to defend against Hamas 's threats of genocide , to be repeated again and again . <p> In 2014 , after Operation Protective Edge in Gaza , I heard the chants of " Jews to the gas chambers ; Hitler should have finished the job . " I told myself I had to do something . So I went , by myself , on HonestReporting 's 2015 Mission to Israel to learn techniques to combat media bias . And while there , at a dinner , I sat next to a young soldier . His best friend had been killed because they went house to house rather than conduct larger scale operations in Gaza to avoid civilian casualties , despite the greater risk to themselves . And for that they were still blamed . He asked me , his voice cracking with anguish , why the media blame Israel for defending itself . I had no words for him , other than to gently take his arm , and say , " If they sent all the Jews to Mars , they 'd still be blaming us for the world 's woes . " <p> Nothing changes . Today Israel is once again blamed for defending itself against Hamas 's butchery . <p> We need to pay homage to a soldier who defined bravery for all of us . In We Are All Jews Here , Lee Habeeb observes , " ' Courage , ' Aristotle wrote , ' is the first of human qualities because it is the quality which guarantees the others . ' And courage is precisely what was on display in a German prison camp over seven decades ago , when one brave American soldier did the unthinkable : Staring down the barrel of his Nazi captor 's pistol , he refused to identify which of his fellow prisoners of war were Jewish , declaring : " We are all Jews here ! " His act of defiance would save nearly 200 Jews and earn him , posthumously , the Righteous Among the Nations medal . Only five Americans have earned the distinction . Only one was a soldier . His name was Master Sergeant Roderick " Roddie " Edmonds . <p> In every town hall , at the US Congress , the Senate , every mayor , governor , every house of worship , every mosque , every church , in every nation , it is time for all to stand up and say , " We are all Jews here . " <p> Every Jew , everywhere , should take one action , each week , make one phone call , write one letter to combat the Big Lies echoed by mainstream media and hold their representatives , and their Jewish leaders , accountable.How many dead Jews will it take for the world to stand up and declare , " We are all Jews here " ? <p> When I said all this in my talk to Sar-El , I was met with applause , hugs , and was told how " inspiring " it was . Each person in turn told how moving it was to meet so many people who did n't know each other but instantly felt their commonality of purpose , making us feel like family . <p> Why you should go to Sar-El : I brought with me an exquisite silver mezuzah , thinking I would simply give it to a needy Israeli family who has suffered loss . A volunteer said she knew a soldier who was shot , still in the hospital recuperating , and how much this would mean to him . I try to imagine his face when receiving this random act of kindness and only hope it helped to make his burdens a little lighter for that moment . We are all feeling , at times , hopeless and helpless . Volunteering is one deeply symbiotic , meaningful way to do something concrete to help . Israelis need to see you , hear you , share with you , your support , your appreciation , your willingness to travel to Israel , and give of yourself . Become a volunteer to celebrate the truth and beauty of Israel with Israelis from all walks of life , from the soldiers , to store clerks , to your fellow volunteers from all over the world . <p> Our hearts , which were broken after the barbaric massacre , will never be entirely healed . Nothing will ever be the same . But your heart will be made warm again , your resolve fortified with a renewed sense of purpose and meaning . Go . You will have the journey of a lifetime that you will take home with you in your heart . A part of me is still in Israel . And will always be . ? <p> Ginette Weiner is a published commentator in Jewish and mainstream newspapers , and lecturer on strategies for combating media bias , antisemitism , and BDS . She has an MSW . She resides in Arizona and returned to Israel in November to volunteer again . <p> For information on volunteering for Sar-El , go to https : //www.sar-el.org/. 
@@118980396 <h> As improved relations quaver , a new guide aims to educate Catholics about antisemitism <h> In the document published last week , the AJC 's " Translate Hate " ongoing glossary -- which has entries on antisemitic terms -- has been appended with Catholic commentaries on 10 of those entries . <p> By BEN SALES/JTA DECEMBER 16 , 2024 19:41 <p> Members of the Palestinian embassy to the Holy See give a keffiyeh , a traditional Palestinian scarf , to Pope Francis during a Christmas ceremony at St Peter 's Square at the Vatican , Dec. 7 , 2024. ( photo credit : Andreas Solaro/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> ( JTA ) -- When the American Jewish Committee began working with US bishops years ago to educate Catholics about antisemitism , they did n't anticipate a global spike in the hatred they were trying to combat . <p> Nor did they know that just weeks before they would ultimately publicize their work , Pope Francis would suggest that Israel is guilty of genocide in Gaza . <p> But when Rabbi Noam Marans and Bishop Joseph Bambera came together last week to launch a glossary of antisemitic terms , annotated by Catholic commentary , that was the context . Marans described the glossary as a " milestone " ahead of the 60th anniversary of the church 's landmark declaration that Jews did not kill Jesus . And he noted that while relations between Catholics and Jews have massively improved from centuries past , they 're facing new stresses . <p> " It 's easy to lose perspective on an event like this , which was surely unimaginable to my grandparents in Bialystok , Poland , " Marans said at the launch event on Wednesday . " This has been a complete transformation in the relationship that has benefitted both communities . " <p> Referring to the Jewish blessing to mark significant occasions , he said , " It 's a shehechiyanu moment . " <h> Translate hate <p> In the document published last week , the AJC 's " Translate Hate " ongoing glossary -- which has around 60 entries on antisemitic terms -- has been appended with Catholic commentaries on 10 of those entries . The commentaries were written by the US Conference of Catholic Bishops ' Committee on Ecumenical and Interreligious Affairs , which Bambera chairs . <p> The entries with commentary range from " Blood libel " to " From the river to the sea , " a common chant at pro-Palestinian rallies that the AJC and other Jewish groups say is a call for Israel 's annihilation . <p> For example , in the entry on " Blood libel , " the canard that Jews kill Christian children and use their blood for ritual purposes , the Catholic gloss notes that the church has long rejected the idea , but that it still pops up in some Catholic discourse . <p> " Today , this charge may disguise itself in less traditional forms that must also be disavowed , such as the idea that the Jewish people support abortion as a means of ritualistic child sacrifice , or that Jews are intent on spilling the blood of their enemies for its own sake , " it says . <p> The entry on " From the river to the sea " says the church endorses the two-state solution and " encourages Catholics to understand and respect the deep religious connection Jews feel towards Israel . " <p> And in the entry on " philosemitism , " the Catholic commentary notes that the church has advised against seders that appropriate Jewish tradition . " The best way for Christians to experience the Seder meal is to observe it by invitation from a Jewish family or organization that welcomes non-Jews to this central celebration of Jewish life , " the commentary says . <p> The guide comes at a time when , perhaps awkwardly , the topic of Catholic antisemitism could hardly be more topical . <p> The adherence of J.D. Vance , the US vice president-elect , to a strain of traditional Catholicism has renewed attention to varieties of Catholic belief . ( Vance has weighed in on church debates , saying , for example , that while he is " not a big Latin Mass guy , " he did not support the church 's recent effort to restrict the traditional liturgy that prays for Jews to convert to Christianity . ) Both Marans and Bambera said antisemitism exists in the traditionalist wing of the church but portrayed it as a fringe attitude . <h> Pope Francis <p> Meanwhile , a series of recent statements by Pope Francis has provided a case study in the way Catholic values and scriptural citations can grate on Jewish ears . <p> Last month , Francis cited experts saying " what is happening in Gaza has the characteristics of a genocide , " and called for the charge -- which Israel strenuously rejects -- to be " carefully investigated . " Then , this month week , he attended the inauguration of a nativity scene at the Vatican that positioned baby Jesus on a keffiyeh , or Palestinian scarf -- a nod to activists who have identified Jesus , a Jew born in Roman times , as a Palestinian . Both incidents drew outcry from Jewish groups , and the nativity scene has since been removed . <p> Earlier , in a letter to Middle Eastern Catholics on Oct. 7 , the one-year anniversary of the Hamas attack , Francis denounced " the spirit of evil that foments war , " and quoted a passage from the Gospel of John to call it " murderous from the beginning " and " a liar and the father of lies . " The quote raised eyebrows because , in the New Testament , it is spoken by Jesus to a group of Jews , whom he calls children of the devil . <p> The word choice drew criticism from Philip Cunningham , a theology professor specializing in Jewish-Catholic relations at St. Joseph 's University . <p> " It is perilous to cite polemical words out of context , particularly words that have consistently sparked enmity toward Jews for centuries , " he wrote in America , a Jesuit magazine . " There is also something peculiarly surreal about this in a letter dated Oct. 7 . " <p> A considerable portion of Wednesday 's event was taken up with Marans and Bambera discussing -- and not quite seeing eye to eye -- about Francis ' recent comments . ( The pope has also issued statements condemning antisemitism , including during the current Gaza war . ) Marans , AJC 's director of interreligious affairs , said in an interview that Francis has demonstrated his opposition to antisemitism -- but added that his conduct has precipitated a " crisis " borne of " a lack of proper attention to Catholic-Jewish relations . " The genocide accusation , Marans said , was the most problematic . <p> " Whimsical use of the word ' genocide ' against the Jewish people is dangerous because it characterizes the only Jewish state in a way that is grist for the mill of Jew-haters -- which Pope Francis is absolutely , unequivocally not , " Marans said . " How does one rationalize those disappointments in speech and action with that overwhelming commitment to opposing antisemitism ? " <p> For Bambera , the pope 's statements are simply expressions of the Catholic emphasis on the value of peace and human life . Francis ' statements stem from his concern for " the dignity of the human person , " the bishop said , including both Palestinians and Israelis . <p> " When he reflects upon the suffering of people who are victimized by terrorism and war , whether it be the Jewish people or countless others around the world , he will always speak of the value of human life and the need to preserve and protect it , " Bambera said at the event . He also reiterated Francis ' opposition to antisemitism . <p> But while Bambera and Marans read Francis ' words differently , they agreed on the path forward : more dialogue . <p> " I absolutely understand and appreciate the reaction of the Jewish community , the concern , perhaps the hurt , perhaps a worry about what this says about our relationship , " Bambera said in an interview . " One of the most significant things about the relationship that we have established , and that quite frankly Pope Francis supports and encourages , is the fact that we Jews and Catholics alike can talk candidly about this . " <p> The AJC has promoted Catholic-Jewish dialogue for more than half a century . It was active in shaping the 1965 church declaration that rejected antisemitism and said the Jews did not kill Jesus , called " Nostra Aetate " and adopted as part of Vatican II . The group consulted on the document , bringing on Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel as an adviser . <p> Marans said the relationship has only improved since then . He added that -- even in light of the pope 's statements on Israel -- Catholic attitudes toward Israel are in a better place than those of some liberal Protestant denominations that have weighed divestment from Israel . <p> " It is a different universe on the Catholic side because there is such commitment to Catholic-Jewish relations , " he said . " It is a given of the Catholic Church today that it is supportive of Catholic-Jewish relations wholeheartedly . " <p> The AJC touted plans to translate the Catholic edition of its glossary into more languages , including Spanish and Polish , and hopes to use it as a model both for Protestant denominations and other religions . Holly Huffnagle , the AJC 's US director for combating antisemitism , said the group 's core goal is to teach people what antisemitism is and how to recognize it . <p> " People are more likely to listen to those they know , those they trust , " she said . " If you are Catholic , you 're more likely to listen to your priest than a Jewish leader . " <p> Working with interfaith partners , she said , has become especially important as those ties have frayed recently , in a moment where protest of Israel 's actions , and antisemitism , have been on the rise . <h> A break in relations <p> " The Christian space is a natural partnership , " she said . " What does it look like to go to other faiths and figure out how to do this project jointly ? We have to take a step back in this moment , as we 've seen real relationship decline . " <p> Both Bambera and Marans said the key to success in this project would be Catholic leadership using the glossary and imparting its message to the rank-and-file . Bambera said the archbishop of a major American archdiocese asked if he could distribute it to his clergy -- a good sign . <p> He added that he hopes to have " more conversations about hard questions " between Catholics and Jews . <p> " Those hard questions should n't stop the dialogue , " he said . " They should be able to grow because the dialogue is rooted in mutual respect and understanding . " 
@@118991096 <h> Share on Social Media <p> France 's " Emilia P ? rez , , " " Germany Germany 's 's " " The The Seed Seed of of the the Sacred Sacred Fig Fig " and Brazil 's " I 'm Still Here " have been named to the shortlist in the Oscars ' Best International Feature Film category , retaining their frontrunner status in a race that had fewer high-profile contenders than usual this year . <p> " Flow " is the only animated film on the list , while " Dahomey " is the only documentary . The Palestinian selection , " From Ground Zero , " is the most unusual of the shortlisted films , consisting of 22 separate short films made over the last year by directors living in Gaza . <p> As usual , the list was heavily European , with 10 of the shortlisted films coming from Europe , two from Asia and one each from North America , South America and Africa . <p> While Palestine and Thailand were in some ways the unlikeliest nominees , the list for the most part stuck to the films that were favored going into the vote . The most notable contenders not to make the shortlist were Mexico 's " Sujo , " Sweden 's " The Last Journey , " Portugal 's " Grand Tour , " Belgium 's " Julie Keeps Quiet " and India 's " Lost Ladies , " which that country 's submission committee chose over the critical favorite " All We Imagine as Light . " <p> Two of the films come from directors who 've had movies nominated for Oscars in the past : The director of " Emilia P ? rez , " Jacques Audiard , also directed " A Prophet , " which was nominated in the category in 2009 , while " I 'm Still Here " director Walter Salles ' " Central Station " was nominated in 1998 . <p> Another of the shortlisted directors , Halfdan Ullmann T ? ndel ( " Armand " ) , is the grandson of Ingmar Bergman , whose films won this award three times ( " The Virgin Spring , " " Through a Glass Darkly " and " Fanny and Alexander " ) , second only to four-time winners Vittorio De Sica and Federico Fellini . <p> This year 's field consisted of 85 films , the fewest to qualify in the category in nine years . <p> The selections were made by volunteers from all branches of the Academy , who were separated into seven groups and assigned 12 or 13 films as required viewing . Voters who watched everything from their group were also free to see and vote for any films from other groups , with the 15 films that scored best using ranked-choice voting advancing to the shortlist . <p> In the past , an executive committee would look at the voters ' choices and add three additional films to the list , a system designed to let more challenging films advance . But with those executive committee " saves " no longer possible , the list of shortlisted films has become fairly predictable , with the highest-profile films almost invariably advancing . <h> Subscribe to Breaking News . <p> Steve Pond has been writing about film , music , pop culture and the entertainment industry for more than 40 years . He has served as TheWrap 's awards editor and executive editor , awards since joining the company in 2009 . Steve began his career writing about music for the Los Angeles Times , where he remained a contributor for more ... 
@@118992487 <h> 2 men , including Natick resident , charged in connection with Iran drone strike that killed US service members <p> BOSTON ( AP ) -- Two men , including a dual Iranian American citizen , have been charged with conspiring to export sensitive technology to Iran that was used in a drone attack in Jordan that killed three American troops early this year and injured dozens of other service members , the Justice Department said Monday . <p> The pair were arrested after FBI specialists who analyzed the drone traced its navigation system to an Iranian company operated by one of the defendants , who relied on parts and technology funneled into the country by his alleged co-conspirator , prosecutors said . <p> " We often cite hypothetical risk when we talk about the dangers of American technology getting into dangerous hands , " U.S. Attorney Joshua Levy , the top federal prosecutor in Massachusetts , said at a news conference announcing the charges . " Unfortunately , in this situation , we are not speculating . " <p> The defendants were identified as Mahdi Mohammad Sadeghi , who prosecutors say works at a Massachusetts-based semiconductor company , and Mohammad Abedininajafabadi , who was arrested Monday in Italy as the Justice Department seeks his extradition to Massachusetts . <p> Prosecutors allege that Abedininajafabadi , who was also called Adedini in court documents , has deep connections to the Iranian government . They say his Tehran-based company manufactures navigation systems for the military drone program of Iran 's paramilitary Revolutionary Guard and that he conspired with Sadeghi to circumvent American export control laws , including through the creation of a front company in Switzerland , and procure sensitive technology into Iran . <p> Sadeghi , a naturalized U.S. citizen , was arrested Monday in Massachusetts and was ordered to remain detained following a court appearance . His lawyer did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment . <p> Both men are charged with export control violations , and Abedini separately faces charges of conspiring to provide material support to Iran . <p> Three Georgia soldiers -- Sgt. William Jerome Rivers of Carrollton , Sgt. Breonna Moffett of Savannah and Sgt. Kennedy Sanders of Waycross -- were killed in the Jan. 28 drone attack on a U.S. outpost in northeastern Jordan called Tower 22 . U.S. officials have blamed it on the Islamic Resistance in Iraq , an umbrella group of Iran-backed militias that includes Kataib Hezbollah . <p> In the attack , the one-way attack drone may have been mistaken for a U.S. drone that was expected to return back to the logistics base about the same time and was not shot down . Instead , it crashed into living quarters , killing the three soldiers and injuring more than 40 . <p> " To the people who were injured by this attack , to the loved ones and family members of the people who lost their lives , as the son of a combat veteran I humbly hope that today 's charges bring some measure of justice and accountability , " Levy said . <p> Tower 22 held about 350 U.S. military personnel at the time . It is strategically located between Jordan and Syria , only 10 kilometers ( 6 miles ) from the Iraqi border , and in the months just after Hamas ' Oct. 7 attack on Israel , and Israel 's blistering response in Gaza , Iranian-backed militias intensified their attacks on U.S. military locations in the region . <p> Following the attack , the U.S. launched a huge counterstrike against 85 sites in Iraq and Syria used by Iran 's Revolutionary Guard and Iranian-backed militia and bolstered Tower 22 's defenses . <p> This is a developing news story ; stay with 7NEWS on-air and online for the latest details . <p> ( Copyright ( c ) 2024 Sunbeam Television . The Associated Press contributed to this report . All Rights Reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten , or redistributed. ) 
@@119014383 <p> Thank you for visiting nature.com . You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS . To obtain the best experience , we recommend you use a more up to date browser ( or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer ) . In the meantime , to ensure continued support , we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript . <p> Military spending is fuelling wars such as the one in Sudan , forcing people to flee.Credit : Luis Tato/AFP/Getty <p> The fall of the regime of former Syrian president Bashar al-Assad , which brought widespread joy and optimism , was a rare and welcome development in what has mostly been another devastating year of violence and conflict around the world . <p> Wars in Gaza , Ukraine and Sudan have made the past year one of the deadliest in recent times , according to the latest Armed Conflict Survey ( see go.nature.com/3z565x ) , produced by the International Institute for Strategic Studies ( IISS ) , based in London . Worldwide , nearly 200,000 people were killed between 1 July 2023 and 30 June 2024 , a 37% rise from the previous 12-month period . Mark Rutte , the former Netherlands prime minister , now head of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) , said last week that NATO must prepare for a " wartime mindset " , and urged member states to allocate more money to military budgets . In 2023 , according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute , world military spending had risen to an all-time high of nearly US$2.5 trillion , the ninth consecutive annual increase ( see go.nature.com/4gggmuf ) . In Africa , military spending was one-fifth higher than it was in 2022 . But are more wars inevitable ? Why ca n't peace be more of a priority ? These questions need to be asked , and they make a new initiative called Science 4 Peace Africa all the more timely . <p> At last week 's African Academy of Sciences ( AAS ) general assembly in Abuja , Nigeria , Lise Korsten , president of the AAS , which is headquartered in Nairobi , and Sara Clarke-Habibi , a peace-building specialist at the United Nations Institute for Training and Research ( UNITAR ) in Geneva , Switzerland , outlined a way for the African scientific community to work with stakeholders in the pursuit of peace and in achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals ( SDGs ) . <p> Korsten and Clarke-Habibi have set themselves a monumental task , and they are asking the right questions . Perhaps most importantly , their plan does not assume that wars are inevitable . Africa 's leaders and their international partners need to sit up and listen to what they are proposing . <p> Science 4 Peace Africa aims to establish the main drivers of conflict in the continent and see how science cooperation can address them . The approach has two aspects : first , specialists across disciplines and sectors , including research , policy and humanitarian relief , will map existing peace-building initiatives that involve the scientific community and highlight future opportunities . This will then feed into more-detailed consultations for each region . The second aspect is capacity-building : the initiative will train students and researchers in using peace-building tools in education and scholarship . " Research , innovation and teaching can actually reinforce conflict drivers when not developed in a conflict-sensitive way , " Clarke-Habibi and Korsten write in the project 's concept note . <p> This is important work not just for the knowledge and skills it will generate , but also because it will give scientists visibility in fields in which they can lack influence . Science is often not well represented in diplomacy or peace-building , a point also made in a Communications Engineering comment article published last month ( M. M. L ? pez et al . Commun . Eng.3 , 159 ; 2024 ) . The authors of the article say that peace-building efforts are led by people with backgrounds in social and political sciences , law , diplomacy and humanitarian relief . Those with backgrounds in science , engineering and technology need to be among those doing strategic planning . Peace itself is foundational to the SDGs , not least SDG 16 : peace , justice and strong institutions . " When regions are destabilized , research is often interrupted , resources diverted , partnerships falter and knowledge exchange and innovation uptake come to a halt , " say Clarke-Habibi and Korsten . <p> Peace-building organizations such as the Pugwash Conferences on Science in World Affairs were established by scientists in the wake of previous global conflicts . But , they are finding it tough to be heard amid the constant and rising drumbeat of war . The AAS and UNITAR have an innovative plan . It has seed funding from South Africa 's government , and now needs support from other funders and policymakers . There is no law of nature that says that there must be more conflicts and that more people must lose their lives . 
@@119015082 <p> On October 7 , as Israel began its latest war on Gaza following Hamas 's incursion into southern Israel , the European Union 's position was immediately clear . <p> " Israel has a right to defend itself -- today and in the days to come , " European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen posted on X , alongside an image of her office 's headquarters lit up with Israel 's flag . " The European Union stands with Israel . " <p> Israel has since been placed on trial for genocide at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) at The Hague and its leaders -- as well as a top Hamas commander -- have been indicted by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) . Yet the EU continues to partner with Israeli institutions under its " Horizon " scheme , a programme that funds research and innovation . <p> Data collected by the European Commission and analysed by Al Jazeera shows that since October 7 , the EU has awarded Israeli institutions more than 238 million euros ( $250m ) , including 640,000 euros ( $674,000 ) to Israel Aerospace Industries ( IAI ) , a top aerospace and aviation manufacturer supplying the Israeli army . <p> Advertisement <p> While guidelines regulating the Horizon framework require funded projects to be " exclusively focused on civil applications " , they acknowledge that a " considerable number of technologies and products are generic and can address the needs of both civil and military users " . <p> Technology that can serve both civil and military uses -- so-called " dual use " -- may qualify for EU funding as long as the stated objective is civil . <p> But in July , when about 40,000 people had been killed in Israel 's genocide against Palestinians in Gaza , more than 2,000 European academics and 45 organisations petitioned the EU to end all funding to Israeli institutions , saying the Horizon framework had played " a critical role in the advancement of Israeli military technology " by transferring knowledge to the defence industry . <p> " These funding schemes directly support projects developing Israeli military and weapons capabilities , " the petition said . " Given the scale , duration and nature of human rights violations by the Israeli government , Israeli institutions ' participation in European research and education programs must be suspended . " <p> That call went unanswered . <h> Funding Israel 's military apparatus <p> The EU 's support for Israel has been a fixture of its foreign policy since long before the Hamas attack , during which 1,139 people were killed and more than 200 Israelis were taken captive . <p> The bloc has channelled vast sums of public money since 1996 to Israel through research and innovation programmes . Israel is not an EU member , but participates as an associated country in funding initiatives . <p> Advertisement <p> Under the Horizon 2020 framework programme that ran between 2014 and 2020 , Israeli organisations received a total EU contribution of 1.28bn euros ( $1.35bn ) . Since Horizon Europe was launched in 2021 , it has so far been granted over 747 million euros ( $786m ) . <p> IAI , which exports weapons systems worldwide , received 2.7 million euros ( $2.8m ) under Horizon Europe and over 10.7 million euros ( $11.2m ) under Horizon 2020 , European Commission data shows . <p> Elbit Systems , the Israel-based military company whose biggest single customer is the Israeli Ministry of Defence , was awarded grants for five projects under Horizon 2020 for a total 2.2 million euros ( $2.3m ) . <p> All funded projects have a stated " civilian " theme -- such as border protection , disaster control and maritime surveillance -- and are subject to ethics assessments to review their compliance with EU values . <p> But there is no EU mechanism that forbids the use of cutting-edge technology acquired with the funds for military applications in parallel or at a later stage . <p> IAI was granted 1.4 million euros ( $1.47m ) under the ResponDrone project launched in 2019 to develop 3D mapping for drone technology to " provide accurate location information to first responders " . <p> Under a scheme named COPAC , launched in 2017 , Elbit Systems and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem received over one million euros ( $1.05m ) for work on engineered quantum dots , technology that centres around ultrafast computers performing tasks such as breaking , disrupting or eavesdropping on present-day security systems . <p> Advertisement <p> Al Jazeera filed a freedom of information request seeking the results of ethics assessments of projects involving Israel . The European Commission denied the request , saying their disclosure would " seriously undermine the Commission 's functioning and internal decision-making process " . <p> In March , the Commission responded to The Left group in the European Parliament , which asked why the grants were signed off for IAI amid the war in Gaza . <p> The bloc maintained that it " does not fund actions for the development of products and technologies prohibited by applicable international law " . <p> The office of Iliana Ivanova , the European Commissioner for Innovation responsible for the implementation of the Horizon programme , did not respond to Al Jazeera 's requests for comment . <h> ' Dual-use technologies ' : From civil to military applications <p> Al Jazeera approached a dozen researchers who worked with Israeli institutions under Horizon . Most declined to be interviewed but underscored the civil intent of their projects . <p> Fabrizio Calderoni , professor at the Catholic University of the Sacred Heart in Milan , Italy , participated in the ROXANNE project that concluded in 2022 . It aimed to develop " new speech technologies , face recognition and network analysis to facilitate the identification of criminals " . <p> Israel 's Ministry of Public Security -- which oversees bodies including the police and prison service -- was among the participants with a grant of nearly 135,000 euros ( $142,145 ) . <p> Calderoni said research involving law enforcement -- as opposed to the military -- is considered " civil " in nature under EU parameters . <p> Advertisement <p> He added that the project focused " on a network of anonymous people who had committed burglaries , with the aim of finding patterns to identify the perpetrators of these crimes " . <p> Asked if the results could have been used to inform Israel 's military action in Gaza or the occupied West Bank , he told Al Jazeera , " We do not have any proof that these tools have been used for a purpose other than that stated in the project . " <p> While it may be impossible to establish how the expertise gained through EU-funded projects is used by Israeli partners , critics argue that the possibility of it enabling systematic human rights violations should be sufficient to call off collaboration . <p> Fabrizio Sebastiani , director of research at the National Council for Research in Italy ( CNR ) , has been using machine learning -- a subset of artificial intelligence ( AI ) -- to establish the authorship of unattributed medieval texts . <p> " While this topic might seem innocuous , I was horrified to learn that the very same machine learning techniques are also at the basis of the recently documented Lavender system " employed by the Israeli military for use in Gaza , he told Al Jazeera . <p> Several media outlets have reported on Israel 's use of " Lavender " , an AI-driven system that generates kill lists by analysing surveillance data . <p> Similarly employed in Gaza is a tool reportedly called " Where 's Daddy ? " , which tracks and links individuals to specific locations and sends an alert when they return , and " The Gospel " , which Israel 's army boasts can " produce targets at a fast pace " . <p> Advertisement <p> United Nations human rights experts say Israel 's use of AI in Gaza has taken an " unprecedented toll " on civilians . Human Rights Watch has warned that the tools risk violating international humanitarian law . <p> " These are technologies that need to maximise an objective , and the objective can be changed , " Sebastiani said . An algorithm devised to analyse the recurring use of punctuation and terminology in an unattributed text , for instance , can be tweaked to pick up cues deemed indicators of a potential threat and flag it as a military target , he explained . <p> Sebastiani was recently approached by an Israeli institution to collaborate on a project outside of Horizon . He refused . <p> Al Jazeera has found that Horizon Europe is funding Israeli institutions to take part in AI-based research similar to Sebastiani 's work . <p> In January , Reichman University , in Israel 's coastal city of Herzliya , was awarded nearly 3 million euros ( $3.16m ) as part of a project studying Sanskrit and Tibetan Buddhist texts to develop " cutting-edge computational tools to revolutionise the study of this material " . <p> Israeli institutions also partnered in schemes to develop " surveillance and security tools " for " counterterrorism " . <p> Under Horizon 2020 , Bar-Ilan University and the Israeli Ministry of Public Security received 1.3 million euros ( $1.37m ) and 267,000 euros ( $281,000 ) respectively to develop an interrogation training simulator . <p> Since January , Israel 's International Institute for Counter-Terrorism ( ICT ) and its home institution , Reichman University , have participated in the EU-GLOCTER project to promote " scientific excellence and technological innovation in counter-terrorism " . The project 's description offers few details , but its website features an image of soldiers in camouflage raiding a dishevelled brick house . <p> Advertisement <p> Dublin City University , which coordinates the project , told Al Jazeera the funds initially allocated to the Israeli partners were suspended earlier this year . It did not elaborate on the reasons behind the decision , but the move followed a student-led campaign in Ireland against Israel 's involvement in the project . <p> The European Commission 's database still lists Reichman and ICT as partners in EU-GLOCTER . <h> Israeli universities ' links to the military <p> The largest share of EU Horizon funds awarded to Israeli entities is allocated to academic institutions . <p> While universities are often seen as bastions of civil freedoms , Israeli scholar Maya Wind said the Israeli academia was the backbone of the country 's military industry . <p> " Israeli universities are pillars of Israeli racial rule , they are central to the infrastructure of Israeli settler colonialism and of apartheid and now they are also actively servicing this genocide and making it possible to sustain the war in Gaza for over 13 months , " Wind said . <p> In her book , Towers of Ivory and Steel : How Israeli Universities Deny Palestinian Freedom , she describes how Hebrew University was the first to be established by the Zionist movement in 1918 , followed by the Technion Israel Institute of Technology in 1925 and the Weizmann Institute of Science in 1934 . <p> These institutions became central in the development and manufacture of weapons used to forcibly displace Palestinians in the lead-up to the formation of the State of Israel in 1948 . <p> Advertisement <p> The Weizmann Institute and the Technion later led the development of Israel 's military industries . <p> In 1954 , Technion founded an aeronautical engineering department and its students spearheaded the development IAI , the aerospace company . The state-owned defence technology company Rafael was also birthed in their premises . <p> " Collaboration of any kind with an Israeli university is coming at the direct expense of Palestinian liberation , " said Wind . 
@@119015086 <p> People wave the Syrian and Palestinian flags as they celebrate the ouster of Syria 's Bashar al-Assad , in the old city of Damascus , Syria on December 13 , 2024 Reuters/Ammar Awad <p> When injured Yahya Sinwar hurled a stick at the Zionist war machine , resisting even in the last moments of his life , he embodied the unbreakable Palestinian cause for liberation . For 75 years of relentless brutality , we Palestinians have remained steadfast in our pursuit to see freedom on our land . <p> Our resistance endures because it is driven by a profound truth : that the struggle for Palestinian liberation is inseparable from the universal fight for human dignity . It is this commitment to collective freedom , rather than narrow national interests , that has both sustained Palestinian resistance and ignited a growing tide of global solidarity . <p> That is why as we Palestinians watch Syrians flood the streets of Damascus , Aleppo , Hama and Homs , tasting freedom for the first time in generations , our hearts are full of complex emotions : grief for those who have been lost , hope for what might be possible , and an unwavering commitment to our own liberation . <p> Some now claim that Palestine 's cause is weakened by the fall of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad , that our struggle for liberation somehow relied on his iron grip over Syria . They speak of " axes of resistance " and geopolitical necessity . But they fundamentally misunderstand the nature of our struggle . <p> Advertisement <p> The Palestinian cause has never depended on dictators who oppress their own people . Our resistance has never needed those who murdered Palestinian refugees , who imprisoned our fighters , and who maintained decades of cold peace with our occupiers . <p> We know the al-Assad family -- like other regional tyrants -- used the Palestinian cause as a source of national and regional legitimacy while seeking to control and even suppress the Palestinian liberation drive . <p> The truth of the Yarmouk camp stands as a testament to this bitter reality . What was once the vibrant heart of Palestinian life in Syria -- a place where refugees rebuilt some semblance of the homes stolen from them -- became a death trap . When Syrians rose up demanding freedom in 2011 , regime forces laid siege to the camp , bombing and starving Palestinian refugees alongside Syrians . Thousands were killed , detained , and disappeared into prisons . More than 100,000 Palestinians were forced to flee , becoming refugees twice over . This was the true face of al-Assad 's " support " for Palestine . <p> Now , as his prisons are opened , we learn more dark truths . More than 3,000 Palestinians had been forcibly disappeared into Syrian prisons since 2011 ; only 630 of them survived and were released over the past two weeks . Among the survivors is Sabri Daraghma from the West Bank village of al-Lubban al-Sharqiya , who used to be a member of the Palestine Liberation Organization . He disappeared in 1982 and spent the following 42 years imprisoned in Syria . <p> Advertisement <p> For 50 years , the al-Assad regime maintained its quiet accommodation of Israel through the 1974 disengagement agreement even as Israeli jets violated Syrian airspace with impunity and the Israeli army maintained its occupation of the Golan . The rulers in Damascus offered nothing but empty rhetoric about responding at the appropriate time -- a time that never came . <p> Some say Palestinians " owe " the al-Assads for their support . But we do not " owe " anyone for supporting our struggle against a common enemy . Palestinians are fighting against a settler-colonial force pursuing a plan of " Greater Israel " that goes way beyond the borders of historic Palestine and into neighbouring Syria , Lebanon , Jordan and Egypt . <p> Those of us truly guided by the Palestinian cause can not separate our struggle for justice from the wider liberation of all peoples . The love that emanates from an unwavering commitment to a just cause has sustained our resistance through eight decades of displacement and betrayal -- not alliances with oppressors , not the support of dictators , but the unbreakable will of a people who refuse to accept subjugation . <p> This spirit , perhaps , is why the Palestinian flag is raised whenever Arabs gather for freedom as a symbol of our collective yearning for justice . During the Arab Spring , Palestine stood at the heart of protests -- not just as a cause , but as an example of unbreakable resistance . It 's no coincidence that those who sought to crush these revolutionary dreams worked so desperately to sever this connection . <p> Advertisement <p> It has been 13 years since the Syrian people took to the streets demanding freedom . They endured barrel bombs , chemical attacks , torture chambers , forced disappearances , and the world 's indifference . Yet they persisted . Now , as they return home , they walk the streets not as refugees but as Syrians . Those who hurl insults at people who have gained freedom by their own hands should be ashamed . <p> Of course , there is plenty of reason to be critical of the forces involved in al-Assad 's fall . We harbour no illusions . The opposition armed groups that now control Syria have colluded with imperial forces . Some of them have received funding from the United States , others have been supported by Israel ; others still have been involved in oppressing Syrians themselves . <p> Since al-Assad 's fall , Israel has launched a massive air bombardment campaign against military and civilian infrastructure targets across the country and advanced further into Syrian territory . There has been largely no response from the new government in Damascus . Some have celebrated this as Syrians " getting what they deserved " for toppling al-Assad . Others have wondered why Israel has bombed the military capabilities of an expected " ally " . <p> Perhaps it is because Syrian victory has awakened hope in a generation that had been crushed into submission . There is a real possibility that the millions of newly freed Syrians will claim this liberation for themselves , that they will not abandon the revolutionary principles they 've had for decades . <p> Advertisement <p> For us , Palestinians , the images of Syrians returning home have stirred something deep in our collective consciousness -- the possibility of a return , of roads reconnected , of borders erased by the simple act of people walking home . Even in Gaza , where people have experienced 14 months of genocide that has claimed so many lives , destroyed thousands of years of history , and annihilated whole towns , the news of Syria has reverberated . <p> The Palestinian cause endures because it is just , because it is right , and because we carry within us something that can not be defeated : a collective memory that withstands erasure . Israel remains what it has always been : a settler colonial project that we Arabs will continue to resist . <p> From the refugee camps of Lebanon to the besieged streets of Gaza , from the divided hills of Jerusalem to the diaspora scattered across the globe , we Palestinians remain unbowed , unbroken , and unbeholden to anything but our inalienable right to freedom . The fall of a dictator does not weaken what was never his to strengthen . Our cause is carried in the hearts of millions who know that true liberation lifts all and chains none . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@119015087 <h> This festive season , Gaza is starving <p> Palestinian children wait for a food portion at a distribution centre in south of Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip on December 17 , 2024 Bashar Taleb/AFP <p> Winter has now come to the Northern Hemisphere and has ushered in a festive mood in many places . In Gaza , it has brought more misery . The cold weather and rain have made the lives of the 1.9 million Palestinians displaced in Gaza that much more unbearable . <p> It has rained hard several times already . Each time , tents of the displaced have been flooded , damaged , or destroyed , and what little some have had , has been taken away by the floodwaters . <p> That has left many destitute families even more destitute . A new tent in Gaza right now can go up to $1,000 . A makeshift shelter -- with the wood and plastic needed for cover -- costs hundreds of dollars . A new blanket can be as much as $100 . No one in the camps has such sums of money . <p> Many of the displaced had run away from the bombs with just the clothes on their backs . Some have tried to salvage clothes from the rubble , but few have succeeded . <p> As winter approached , the prices of clothes skyrocketed . A light pyjama now costs $95 ; a coat -- as much as $100 . A pair of shoes -- a rare commodity -- can go for as much as $75 . Second-hand clothes markets have appeared throughout Gaza to address overwhelming demand , but the prices there are also too high . <p> Advertisement <p> As a result , the camps are full of people shuddering in the cold in thin summer clothes . Children walk around barefoot in the mud and puddles . <p> Fuel for heating , which is either unavailable or unaffordable for most families . The cost of 8kg of gas has reached $72 . Wood is a bit less , but also too expensive for most . <p> The lack of clothes and fuel for heating is increasing the risk of colds , flu and other diseases during the winter which in Gaza can become life-threatening . A malnourished , vulnerable body , exhausted by fear and trauma , struggles even against a simple cold . <p> Gaza 's hospitals are barely functioning , taking care mostly of people gravely wounded in the bombardment . Suffering from a lack of supplies and staff , they can no longer provide care for simple illnesses . <p> Diseases are spreading also because hygiene has also become nearly impossible to maintain . Living in in tents , without access to warm water , the displaced can not shower or sometimes even wash their hands . A bar of soap is now $5 , while a bottle of shampoo can be as much as $23 . <p> But perhaps the most unbearable fact of life in Gaza now is the famine . The amount of humanitarian aid that has entered Gaza has significantly decreased since October and we have felt its devastating impact across the Strip . It is not just the north that is experiencing famine . All of Gaza is . <p> The price of what little food is available is beyond belief . A single sack of flour now costs more than $300 . Other foodstuffs have also become expensive . A kilo ( 2.2 pounds ) of lentils or a kilo of rice is $7 . Vegetables are hard to find and also very expensive ; 1kg of tomatoes is $14 ; a single onion is $2 . Red meat and chicken can not be found at all . We have not seen any for months . <p> Advertisement <p> The bakeries that were once a lifeline for families are closed because they ca n't get supplies . Bread , the simplest and most basic of foods , has become a luxury few of us can afford . Even if a family is able to get flour , it is often infested with bugs and tastes stale . <p> People are now forced to rely on " takaya " -- charity soup kitchens -- that provide small portions of food that are barely enough for a family . These organisations open at 11:00am , which results in large queues forming in front of their distribution centres . Most families who manage to get a meal from them have nothing else to feed their children . <p> Hunger is not just limited to the physical pain that starving people experience . It also has an unbearable psychological impact . Parents are forced to watch their children cry for food during the long , cold nights . Some parents have also had to watch their children die from starvation . This psychological torment can not compare to anything else . <p> As I write these words , I am starving myself , having eaten nothing since morning . As I look around me , I see children and adults , pale and thin , exhausted by hunger and cold . I wonder how much more they can take ; how much more any of us can take ? <p> The cruellest part of this suffering is the silence of the world that watches from afar but does n't act . As the cold bites us and the hunger makes it worse , we are feeling isolated and abandoned , like we have been cut off from the rest of humanity . And as much of the world prepares for a holiday season , we prepare to face loneliness , despair and death . <p> Advertisement <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@119022388 <h> HART : Washington Drones On While Trump Essentially Assumes Power <p> OPINION <p> US President Joe Biden shakes hands with US President-elect Donald Trump during a meeting in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington , DC , on November 13 , 2024 . Trump thanked Biden for pledging a smooth transfer of power as the victorious Republican made a historic return visit to the White House on Wednesday . ( Photo by SAUL LOEB/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> D.C. 's feckless response to all the drones over New Jersey was both arrogant and indifferent . Either the government is lying to us , or it does not know what is going on . Neither one is good . <p> The lights in the sky might be an alien planet 's UFOs . They are hovering over New Jersey and seem stuck , probably because they have yet to find any intelligent life there . <p> Biden , checked out and bitter , has not weighed in on the 5,000 drone sightings . He gets nervous about drones flying at night , and at his age is afraid to follow any light in the distance . <p> Biden is too busy trying to shovel taxpayer money out the door to Democrat bagmen and throwing rocks under Trump 's wheels . They are selling border wall materials for 5 cents on the dollar so we have to pay more for it soon . <p> And , what lame-duck president with just a few weeks remaining allows U.S. missiles to be shot into Russia ? With Syria , Gaza , Iran , Houthis in the Red Sea and Israel on fire , Biden is making everything worse . It would be nice if his foreign policy was more about resolution of conflict than fulfilling ancient Biblical prophesies . <p> We sold thousands of anti-aircraft missiles to the Israelis so they can shoot down hundreds of fighter jets that Iran bought from us with money Biden released to the Mullahs . Kids on our woke college campuses heard that Israel shot down incoming Iranian missiles and are probably protesting the genocide of innocent Muslim missiles . <p> On a positive seasonal message , Israel returned fire on Iran , firing missiles over Iraq to Iran , thus marking the first time Iraqis observed Passover . And the Biden family will sit down to their Christmas dinner , hold hands , close their eyes and get their stories straight . <p> Ukraine just killed a Russian military leader . I got my Russian Orthodox Advent calendar last week , but each time I open one of the windows a Russian dissident is thrown out . <p> It is a tense world the Biden administration has given us . It is so hard to watch the news that to relax I flip over to Netflix to watch the Menendez brothers ' murder trials . <p> Between the domestic racial divide stoked by Biden/Harris , and a potential World War III unfolding , it is a footrace to see which one delays the Super Bowl . Now Germany seems to want to be involved in Ukraine . Another World War without Germany would just seem empty . <p> Kamala is checked out and bitter too , blaming everyone for her loss . As we have learned , most drunks refuse to go quietly into the night . <p> Karine Jean-Pierre , Biden 's press secretary , is going home for the holidays to rest and is looking forward to spending more time lying to her family . <p> The good news ? Trump is taking charge . He is our de facto president , holding court at Mar-a-Lago , the Southern White House . Trump is busy planning MAHA with RFK Jr . by taking on the FDA , Big Food and Big Pharma . It needs rethinking . For example , Viagra : In other countries you can get it over the counter -- especially if you take more than one . <p> The biggest investor in the world , the CEO of SoftBank , came to visit and said that , because of his optimism about Trump 's presidency , he is investing $100 billion in the U.S. Biden was outraged . That money could have been given during his term and directed to Hunter Biden through Ukraine . He would not even have to set up a shell company now . With his pardon in his pocket , Hunter could just take the money via Venmo . It is the only thing the Biden administration has done to cut red tape . <p> Federal authorities , with the scant credibility they have left , warned us not to try to shoot down drones . Anthony Fauci chimed in and said until we develop a vaccine for drones , follow the science and stay at home or 6 feet away and wear a mask when drones appear . <p> The drones come at a bad time as they head south . The likelihood of us shooting them down is high . Sneaked into the huge spending bill Congress just passed is the gratuitous naming of the bald eagle as our national bird . It passed with all but one vote ; the senator from Louisiana voted to make the KFC 6-piece the national bird . <h> What does Founders Club include ? <p> Readers , <p> Instead of sucking up to the political and corporate powers that dominate America , The Daily Caller is fighting for you -- our readers . We humbly ask you to consider joining us in this fight . <p> Now that millions of readers are rejecting the increasingly biased and even corrupt corporate media and joining us daily , there are powerful forces lined up to stop us : the old guard of the news media hopes to marginalize us ; the big corporate ad agencies want to deprive us of revenue and put us out of business ; senators threaten to have our reporters arrested for asking simple questions ; the big tech platforms want to limit our ability to communicate with you ; and the political party establishments feel threatened by our independence . <p> We do n't complain -- we ca n't stand complainers -- but we do call it how we see it . We have a fight on our hands , and it 's intense . We need your help to smash through the big tech , big media and big government blockade . <p> We 're the insurgent outsiders for a reason : our deep-dive investigations hold the powerful to account . Our original videos undermine their narratives on a daily basis . Even our insistence on having fun infuriates them -- because we wo n't bend the knee to political correctness . <p> One reason we stand apart is because we are not afraid to say we love America . We love her with every fiber of our being , and we think she 's worth saving from today 's craziness . <p> Help us save her . <p> A second reason we stand out is the sheer number of honest responsible reporters we have helped train . We have trained so many solid reporters that they now hold prominent positions at publications across the political spectrum . Hear a rare reasonable voice at a place like CNN ? There 's a good chance they were trained at Daily Caller . Same goes for the numerous Daily Caller alumni dominating the news coverage at outlets such as Fox News , Newsmax , Daily Wire and many others . <p> Simply put , America needs solid reporters fighting to tell the truth or we will never have honest elections or a fair system . We are working tirelessly to make that happen and we are making a difference . <p> Since 2010 , The Daily Caller has grown immensely . We 're in the halls of Congress . We 're in the Oval Office . And we 're in up to 20 million homes every single month . That 's 20 million Americans like you who are impossible to ignore . <p> We can overcome the forces lined up against all of us . This is an important mission but we ca n't do it unless you -- the everyday Americans forgotten by the establishment -- have our back . <p> Please consider becoming a Daily Caller Patriot today , and help us keep doing work that holds politicians , corporations and other leaders accountable . Help us thumb our noses at political correctness . Help us train a new generation of news reporters who will actually tell the truth . And help us remind Americans everywhere that there are millions of us who remain clear-eyed about our country 's greatness . <p> In return for membership , Daily Caller Patriots will be able to read The Daily Caller without any of the ads that we have long used to support our mission . We know the ads drive you crazy . They drive us crazy too . But we need revenue to keep the fight going . If you join us , we will cut out the ads for you and put every Lincoln-headed cent we earn into amplifying our voice , training even more solid reporters , and giving you the ad-free experience and lightning fast website you deserve . <p> Patriots will also be eligible for Patriots Only content , newsletters , chats and live events with our reporters and editors . It 's simple : welcome us into your lives , and we 'll welcome you into ours . 
@@119056699 <h> Biden admin , universities failed to crack down on antisemitism in ' disturbing pattern ' after Oct. 7 , scathing House GOP report finds <p> The Biden administration , top universities and medical institutions utterly failed to crack down on antisemitism that exploded in the wake of Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , terror attack , according to a scathing House Republican report released Thursday , which laid bare " systemic " and " astounding " shortcomings . <p> Six GOP-led House committees declared in a joint report that " antisemitism has been allowed to fester unchecked " due to " a disturbing pattern of defensiveness and denial , " according to a copy exclusively obtained by The Post . <p> The Biden administration -- along with universities and medical institutions -- failed to crack down on antisemitism that exploded in the wake of Hamas ' Oct. 7 attack , according to a scathing House Republican report . AP <p> " The failure of our federal government departments and agencies is astounding . " <p> The outpouring of anti-Israel and anti-Jewish remarks and actions tested America 's free speech precepts and the fact that hate speech is generally lawful in the United States , unless it amounts to harassment or is an aggravating factor in a criminal act such as assault . <p> The Republican-led report points out , however , that federal law generally prevents recipients of taxpayer funds from tolerating discrimination -- allowing a foothold to leverage recipients to stiffen policies on campuses and at medical settings should federal officials so choose . <p> In almost every case , institutions allegedly took almost no disciplinary action against alleged antisemites and made no changes to codes of conduct , and faced no loss of grants to stop the rapidly spreading Jew hatred . <p> " The executive branch should aggressively enforce Title VI anti-discrimination rules and hold schools accountable for their failures to protect students . Universities that fail to fulfill the obligations upon which their federal funding is predicated or whose actions make clear they are unfit stewards of taxpayerdollars should be treated accordingly , " the Republican panels said . <p> Six GOP-led House committees declared in a joint report that " antisemitism has been allowed to fester unchecked " due to " a disturbing pattern of defensiveness and denial , " according to a copy exclusively obtained by The Post . New York Post <p> The report focuses heavily on Columbia University and its recommendations urge federal agencies to use money to incentivize more stringent anti-discrimination policies -- and also proposes potential legislation to that effect . Getty Images <p> High-profile reports of antisemitism -- mirrored by anti-Palestinian incidents that also occurred , especially during rallies and counter-rallies over the Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip -- was just the tip of the iceberg , according to the investigation . <p> In one alarming incident , a student overheard two health care providers at Columbia 's medical school discussing whether or not to " treat her because she was Israeli . " <p> " She sat in the room for another 10 minutes until someone finally came to address her health needs As of mid-December 2024 , representatives of Columbia University have not provided any information to the Committees as a part of this investigation beyond an October 2 , 2024 , response of basic platitudes . " <p> The probe , which was launched after House Speaker Mike Johnson ( R-La. ) and other Republicans took a tour of the anti-Israel encampment at Columbia , touched on many federal agencies . James Keivom <p> The Ivy League school , which was the site of a large encampment that featured on its fringes multiple documented instances of anti-Jewish remarks against pro-Israel activists and Jewish students , also reneged on a vow to punish students accused of breaking the rules to protest against Israel . <p> " Columbia said the 22 students arrested for the criminal takeover of Hamilton Hall would face expulsion . Instead , the University lifted the students ' interim suspensions after pushback from radical faculty , allowing 7 to graduate , restoring 11 to good standing , and leaving 3 with preexisting sanctions suspended and 1 on probation , " the report said . <p> " Despite dozens of students being arrested for conduct related to Hamilton Hall and the encampment , or having faced discipline for other egregious antisemitic incidents ; Columbia failed to expel students and issued final suspensions to only four students . " <p> Columbia was the site of a large encampment that featured on its fringes multiple documented instances of anti-Jewish remarks against pro-Israel activists and Jewish students . James Keivom <p> Some of the anti-Israel protesters at Columbia were themselves Jewish and argued that the protest was not pervasively antisemitic -- despite reported instances . <p> The document says that , unexpectedly , " many colleges handed down disparate disciplinary actions for Jewish students versus their antagonists -- the students who engaged in antisemitic behavior , encampments , and intimidating tactics such as campus checkpoints and tax-exempt organizations that enabled and funded violent campus protests . " <h> See Also <p> Columbia , for example , " allowed a false narrative that Jewish students had perpetrated a ' chemical attack ' at an anti-Israel rally to persist for months despite knowing it was false and that the students involved had merely sprayed novelty ' fart sprays . ' <p> " In an apparent case of disparate treatment , the Jewish students responsible were given excessive year-and-a-half long suspensions , substantially longer than any suspension for antisemitic conduct violations , " the report says . <p> " Columbia failed to correct the record despite requests from the Jewish community , even as anti-Israel students used the false narrative of a ' chemical attack ' purportedly involving military-grade ' skunk spray ' to demonize Jewish students and call for excluding Israelis . <p> " Columbia finally acknowledged that the incident was not a ' chemical attack ' in August 2024 , pursuant to a settlement with one of the Jewish students excessively disciplined , which also awarded the student $395,000 and modified the suspension to conditional disciplinary probation . " <p> Allegedly biased institutions such as Columbia University , the University of Southern California , UCLA , George Washington University , Harvard University , and Yale University pocketed $2.7 billion in federal funds just in fiscal year 2023 , which concluded right before Hamas terrorists invaded the Jewish state and killed more than 1,200 people -- including 33 Americans , the report says . <p> The probe , which was launched after House Speaker Mike Johnson ( R-La. ) and other Republicans took a tour of the anti-Israel encampment at Columbia , touched on many federal agencies . <p> The State Department and Department of Homeland Security allegedly stonewalled records requests about the visa statuses of those harassing Jewish students with terror-infused tirades -- or else discovered that government money was being funneled to tax-exempt charities <p> " Columbia said the 22 students arrested for the criminal takeover of Hamilton Hall would face expulsion . Instead , the University lifted the students ' interim suspensions after pushback from radical faculty , " the report said . James Keivom <p> " Rather than confronting the severity of the problem , many institutions have dismissed congressional and public criticism and abdicated responsibility for the hostile environments they have enabled , " the report states . <p> " This refusal to acknowledge or address the issue has allowed antisemitism to take root and thrive in spaces that contravene the values of this great nation . " <h> Video <h> Now on Decider <p> The Biden administration -- along with universities and medical institutions -- failed to crack down on antisemitism that exploded in the wake of Hamas ' Oct. 7 attack , according to a scathing House Republican report . AP <p> Six GOP-led House committees declared in a joint report that " antisemitism has been allowed to fester unchecked " due to " a disturbing pattern of defensiveness and denial , " according to a copy exclusively obtained by The Post . New York Post <p> The report focuses heavily on Columbia University and its recommendations urge federal agencies to use money to incentivize more stringent anti-discrimination policies -- and also proposes potential legislation to that effect . Getty Images <p> The probe , which was launched after House Speaker Mike Johnson ( R-La. ) and other Republicans took a tour of the anti-Israel encampment at Columbia , touched on many federal agencies . James Keivom <p> Columbia was the site of a large encampment that featured on its fringes multiple documented instances of anti-Jewish remarks against pro-Israel activists and Jewish students . James Keivom <p> " Columbia said the 22 students arrested for the criminal takeover of Hamilton Hall would face expulsion . Instead , the University lifted the students ' interim suspensions after pushback from radical faculty , " the report said . James Keivom 
@@119056994 <p> Israeli airstrikes slammed into two schools sheltering displaced Palestinians in Gaza City on Thursday , a Health Ministry official said , killing at least 17 people including five children in one of the schools . Rescue workers said at 30 people were also wounded across both locations . <p> Elsewhere in the region , Israel launched heavy airstrikes in Yemen on ports , oil and energy infrastructure in rebel-controlled areas , killing nine people , shortly after a Houthi rebel missile badly damaged a school building in Israel . <p> More than 45,000 Palestinians have been killed in 14 months of war in Gaza between Israel and Hamas militants . The Palestinian Health Ministry in Gaza does not distinguish between civilians and combatants but has said more than half of the fatalities are women and children . <p> The war in Gaza was sparked by Hamas ' October 2023 attack on southern Israel , which killed 1,200 people . <p> Human Rights Watch on Thursday became the latest among a growing number of critics to accuse Israel of genocidal acts in its war in Gaza . Israel vehemently denies the allegations , saying its war is directed at Hamas militants , not Gaza 's civilians . 
@@119057082 <p> After an unprecedented spring of pro-Palestinian protests on campuses across the United States , the fall semester has been comparatively quiet . The total number of protest actions declined by more than 64 percent , from 3,220 to 1,151 , according to data from the Crowd Counting Consortium , a project by Harvard University 's John F. Kennedy School of Government and the University of Connecticut that collects data on protests . <p> The number of students arrested for protesting dropped even more precipitously . Last spring , 3,572 students were arrested in connection with their involvement in protests as pro-Palestinian encampments proliferated on campus quads , starting with the one launched at Columbia University on April 17 . But in the fall , only 88 student protesters were arrested . ( For the purposes of this article , numbers for the spring were calculated using data from Jan. 1 to July 1 and from July 1 to Dec. 17 for the fall . ) <p> The decline can certainly be attributed in part to a natural loss of momentum following the fever pitch the movement reached in the spring . But some free speech advocates believe that the restrictive expressive-activity policies some institutions introduced over the summer and early fall may have discouraged students from protesting . <h> Most Popular <p> The policies ranged from banning the erection of tents on campus grounds to limiting the times and places where students are allowed to hold demonstrations . <p> While free speech experts agree that some time , place and manner restrictions are acceptable , they have branded some policy changes unconstitutional . The Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression singled out New York University 's highly controversial new conduct code , which states that attacks against " Zionists " can be considered discrimination or harassment , as the term can be construed as an attack on individuals for their Jewish or Israeli identity . <p> " NYU 's policy as written sweeps into its ambit a large amount of protected political speech , " FIRE wrote to the institution . " With an ongoing war in the Middle East , speech that strongly advocates for -- or against -- the Israeli or Palestinian cause can not help but be offensive to many people . With few exceptions , it nevertheless remains , and must remain , free from official punishment . " <p> Pro-Palestinian demonstrators last spring frequently rallied against Zionists and Zionism ; some encampments featured signs that read " No Zionists , " and protesters chanted slogans such as " the Zionists have got to go . " <h> Confusing Language <p> But it 's not just the policies themselves that have contributed to the decline in protests . FIRE 's director of policy reform , Laura Beltz , noted that many students struggled to parse the complex , bureaucratic language of the policies , leaving them uncertain about what was , in fact , permitted . <p> " We 've gotten a lot of questions from students just trying to navigate the policies , because these are really lengthy documents , " she said . " Some of these rules for when you have to reserve a space or when you have to give advanced notice are really confusing . " <p> At UMass Boston , for example , students are now expected to give five days ' notice before protests or demonstrations , but exceptions can be made " when protests or demonstrations are caused by news or affairs coming into the public knowledge less than 24 hours previously . " FIRE has criticized the policy for its vagueness , arguing that it leaves it to administrators to determine when relevant information came " into public knowledge . " <p> " Because news is constantly changing , whether a demonstration is caused by news or affairs occurring within the past day is an inherently subjective assessment , " the organization wrote in a letter to the university . " The difficulty and subjectivity of these calculations invite administrators to make self-serving arguments about which ' news or affairs ' are recent enough to permit impromptu demonstrations . " <p> Students may also be wary of holding protests after observing the severe backlash their peers experienced during the spring , when thousands were arrested -- including some who alleged the police used force . Others faced institutional sanctions and online or in-person harassment . <h> Editors ' Picks <p> Furthermore , numerous students who faced conduct charges or arrests in the spring continued to be affected bysanctionslike suspension this fall , which keeps them off campus and thus unable to engage in protests . Others received deferred suspensions , which often require students to stay out of trouble for a certainperiodof time to avoid a harsher punishment . <p> Jay Ulfelder , program director of Harvard 's Nonviolent Action Lab and one of the researchers on the Crowd Counting Consortium , said that this semester has also seen a shift in the manner of protest , with two types becoming more common : vigils , which increased from 168 in the spring to 217 in the fall , and " study-ins " -- where students silently work on their computers while displaying signs bearing messages of protest -- which jumped from five in the spring to 63 this semester . <p> " Part of that is organizers trying , as they say , to keep the focus on the people of Gaza . Part of it is also , I think , it looks worse for an administrator when they 're actively preventing a vigil where people are holding candles and remembering people who died , " Ulfelder said . <p> Of course , those demonstrations were not without their own controversies ; a series of study-ins at Harvard , for example , ended in 12 students and 25 faculty members being banned from the library for two weeks due to the institution 's ban on demonstrations in the library . 
@@119057092 <p> While recently performing in Australia , Thom Yorke -- the front man of Radiohead -- was interrupted by a protester who called on him to condemn Israel 's campaign of violence in Gaza . After a hostile exchange , Yorke resumed the show with one of the band 's iconic hits , " Karma Police . " The rock star was apparently feeling intimidated . <p> On the dystopian album OK Computer ( 1997 ) , Yorke had sung that the Karma Police were out to get us . A reimagining of Orwell 's Thought Police , they personified the totalitarian forces of the digital age that was bearing down upon us . A quarter century later , amid a more fully realized technocracy , the specter of the Karma Police feels more prescient than ever . But it 's not always clear who 's policing whom : the heckler or the rock star ? One had a captive audience and a microphone . The other was escorted from the show by security . <p> More than lead us to wonder whether Yorke is following in the footsteps of Morrissey , the episode reflects the currents of thought and the exercises of power that have roiled American campuses for the last two years . Universities ' recent warming to AI , along with their refusal to accommodate student encampments , have suggested how the neoliberal university will manage expressions of free thought in an increasingly technocratic landscape . Suspensions , sanctions , expulsions and deportations : " This is what you get when you mess with us , " the university 's Karma Police intone , in an echo of OK Computer . Our students ' thinking will be done by a computer , OK ? <h> Most Popular <p> The language of accommodation applies both metaphorically and literally to how we might think about the student encampments . The raids of 2024 manifest , on the one hand , that a genuine politics of liberation will remain , for now , homeless . Solidarity with Palestine will find shelter neither in the university nor elsewhere in the public sphere . As with the encampments of those who are literally homeless , the student encampments are denounced , among other things , as disruptive . In both cases , the denunciations probably say more about us than about the encamped : Above all , that we are unwilling to confront what they represent . So awful are the implications of what the encampments voice -- our complicity in a genocide of children -- that we do with the students as we do with the homeless . We contract police to beat them up and remove them from view . <p> It 's a different story when considering the disruptive arrival of AI , whose adoption has overlapped with the encampments . With the rollout of ChatGPT in November 2022 , there were reservations . Two years later , they persist . But much of American higher ed has moved on . Our new consensus ? " To work with AI , not around it . " With Pandora 's box open , why not learn to live with AI -- accommodate it , leverage it , incorporate it in our courses and possibly even profit from it ? The university where I teach awarded grants to faculty who would study how to adopt AI in our pedagogy . Newly formed committees provided primers on how to use AI . The center for teaching and learning regularly communicates resources to help navigate the use of AI in our classrooms . With the encouragement of our president , the university fast-tracked a new graduate program in artificial intelligence . We 're just barely a midsize university . One can imagine the inducements that exist elsewhere . <p> If universities have provided the carrots , faculty have supplied the sticks : denialism , gaslighting and shaming . AI will not substitute for thinking , we are reassured , because LLMs do not think -- they parrot . That 's small consolation when they produce language slick enough to be passed off as real thought . If we voice concern that this poses a threat , we are told that our pedagogy is outdated or insufficiently creative , or that we ought to stop policing our students . My most pressing dilemma -- how to assess in good conscience a piece of work that is patently fabricated -- is met by bad-faith injunctions to self-delusion : " My professor hot take is that trusting students makes life so much better than assuming they 're all lying or trying to cheat on everything . " Ignorance is a bliss for which I often yearn , but it is generally not an advisable principle of pedagogy . We settle for self-delusion because the Thom Yorkes of the world are waiting to brand us the Karma Police . Yet in a dizzying irony , many of us say and do almost nothing about the deployment of actual police on our campuses . They have been deployed against students whose conviction , as Mario Savio once said , has led them to put their bodies upon the gears of the machine . As the gears churn on , we 've been learning how to accommodate ideology machines that threaten to erode democracy and degrade the environment . <p> These issues converged for me around December 2023 , as I was wrapping up a term in which I had prepared undergraduates to spend the spring in Berlin . For a reflection assignment , I asked students ( a ) to draft some questions they would like to pose to the Germans whom they would meet and ( b ) to sketch the responses they might anticipate . The use of ChatGPT was prohibited . One student , Sam , asked a fictional German interviewee to give a statement on Germans ' views of the current conflict between Israelis and Palestinians . The language of the submission -- effortlessly flowing clauses with a hypercorrect but clinically dry lexicon -- was a dead giveaway that the imagined response had been copied and pasted from ChatGPT . More glaring than the language , though , was the content : no mention of Oct. 7 , nor of Israel 's brutal campaign in the months that followed . Bizarrely , the response ended on a note of cheerful optimism , referencing recent positive developments that inspired hope for broad peace in the region . The student was not some Panglossian optimist . This was a case of plug and play . <p> In a subsequent meeting , I encountered a hubris that suggested the rules of the game had changed . Sam presumed from the start that I suspected his use of ChatGPT and had prepared accordingly . The diction and syntax were not his own , he said pre-emptively , because he was trying to imagine how a German might sound when writing in English . The German 's response did not mention Oct. 7 or the subsequent violence , he explained , again pre-emptively , because he wanted to avoid discussing dark topics . By the way , he asked , did I even know how large language models worked ? He could explain them to me . The condescension felt warranted -- not because Sam 's arguments held water , but because we both knew the university was not equipped to cope with students who opted to subcontract their thinking . By the end of 2023 , students like Sam knew we were upon an inflection point in how universities maintained academic integrity . <p> Faculty who have begun to adopt AI in their teaching will disagree with the premise of my assessment . They will insist that their use of AI remains thoughtful , critical , cautious -- and , above all , necessary . The arrow has left the bow , after all , and no matter what we say , students will use AI . We might at least ( try to ) dictate the terms on which they do so . And anyway , employers are already requiring that employees use AI in their work . It is their future -- and ours , too , judging by much of the discourse . At root , the fatalism that grounds these arguments derives from the same force that motivates universities to silence their students : the Market . <p> Students protesting U.S. and Israeli policy in Gaza , after all , are not primarily protesting the violence , abhorrent though they find it . They are protesting their universities ' complicity in a market that funds it . Student activists at my institution have concentrated their efforts on uncovering the university 's entanglements with the arms industry . Their actions have been tame , yet the university has been swift to respond . Last year , students reported to me that our university 's anonymous bias reporting system had been used to target them for engaging in political speech on social media ( the anonymous reporting option has since been abandoned ) . In the spring , campus police were called to stop students from chalking campus sidewalks with messages of Palestinian solidarity . Their act was forbidden , they learned , because they were not part of a recognized student organization . <p> But how could an organization that calls to end institutional ties with the military industrial complex gain approval , when the student code of conduct dictates that students must " at all times behave in ways that reflect positively on the institution " ? Their views were de facto prohibited . Regulations around civil and respectful speech are convenient for pettifogging students into submission ( discussion of genocide could be triggering ) . Unsurprisingly , then , within four days of holding a lunch-hour demonstration in October 2024 , students were asked to meet with two deans for having disrupted university operations . The code of conduct at my university also calls for academic integrity and truthfulness , but it is n't clear there is the same appetite to encourage integrity of thought as there is to restrict it . In October , I participated in a campus hearing board to adjudicate a case in which a student had fabricated an essay on Holocaust remembrance . It took 11 months to get a hearing . <h> Editors ' Picks <p> The institutionalization of these damages is well underway . There may be pockets of the curriculum where the adoption of AI makes sense , but it has begun to erode liberal education in ways that are far more thoroughgoing than many faculty yet know . Rather than think seriously about how and where to resist its incursion , however , universities have zeroed in on civic engagement as a more pressing threat , marshaling deans , lawyers , police and marketing teams toward eliminating or bogging it down in a morass of policy . Even on those campuses that have n't witnessed spectacles of violence , administrations have almost certainly updated their codes of conduct , events policies , advertising policies , external speaker policies and marketing materials . The arrival of the Trump administration will lead meek administrators to intensify these authoritarian measures . <p> We know that this is how the neoliberal university operates . We do not need to accept it . Our frequent avowals to teach critical thinking must be accompanied by a willingness to incur the discomfort that criticism entails . In times of emergency , Jonathan Crary writes in Scorched Earth , it becomes necessary " to insist that forms of radical refusal , rather than adaptation and resignation , are not only possible but necessary . " The time for radical critique and refusal is now . We would do well to learn from the courage of our students . <p> Daniel DiMassa is an associate professor of German in the Department of Humanities and Arts at Worcester Polytechnic Institute . He serves as vice president of the university 's American Association of University Professors chapter . 
@@119058580 <h> An open letter from mathematicians against the genocide in Gaza <p> A damaged gate of Al-Aqsa university , which was destroyed during Israel 's military offensive , stands in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Stripon April 14 , 2024 File : Reuters/Doaa Rouqa <p> On October 7 , 2023 , Hamas carried out a terrorist attack in Israel , killing more than 1,200 people out of a population of 9.5 million , including over 800 civilians and at least 33 children , and injuring 5,400 more . The attack also led to the capture of 248 hostages , around 100 of whom are still held in Gaza . <p> Since then , the Israeli government has launched a response of genocidal violence against Gaza 's Palestinian population , under the eyes of the international community . By late October 2024 , identified victims had reached 43,061 , including over 13,735 children , 7,216 women , and 3,447 elderly people , with over 100,000 injured , in a population of 2.3 million . Thousands of additional victims remain buried beneath the rubble , uncounted . <p> The Israeli military is now inflicting upon Palestinian civilians at least the equivalent of an October 7 every ten days , and has done so for more than a year . <p> UN Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres has described the situation in Gaza as a " crisis of humanity " . In addition to the heavy toll on civilians , this war has led to the massive destruction of Palestinian civilian infrastructure and has forced 90 percent of Gaza 's population into repeated displacement . Most hospitals have been bombed and destroyed , and numerous medical teams have been killed . Constant attacks and blockades on food , water , fuel , medicines , and humanitarian aid cause unbearable suffering for Gaza 's population , who are facing starvation and infectious disease . Children , along with other vulnerable groups , are particularly badly affected . <p> Advertisement <p> In late October 2024 , the Palestinian Ministry of Education , based in Ramallah , reported that Israel had killed over 11,057 schoolchildren and 681 students in Gaza since October 7 , 2023 , and injured over 16,897 schoolchildren and 1,468 students . In total , 441 teachers and education personnel have been killed , and 2,491 injured . At least 117 academics in Gaza have been killed , including Sufian Tayeh , mathematician , theoretical physicist , and president of the Islamic University of Gaza , who was killed along with his family by an Israeli bombing in the Jabaliya refugee camp on December 2 , 2023 . <p> Additionally , 406 schools in Gaza have been damaged , with 77 completely destroyed . Gaza 's universities have been gravely impacted , with 20 institutions damaged , 51 buildings completely demolished , and 57 partially destroyed . As a result , nearly 88,000 students and 700,000 schoolchildren in Gaza have been deprived of education for more than a year . <p> On January 26 , 2024 , the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) ruled that there was a risk of genocide and ordered Israel to take measures to prevent it . On March 28 , the ICJ reiterated this order , requiring implementation of these preventive measures . Then , on May 24 , the ICJ ordered Israel to immediately halt its military offensive in Rafah and to open the Rafah crossing to allow unimpeded access to humanitarian services and aid for civilians . <p> These orders seem to have been entirely disregarded , and attacks on civilians in Gaza have intensified , especially in the north , with a clear aim to depopulate this region of Palestinians . On September 30 , 2024 , after days of aerial bombardment , the Israeli military also invaded Lebanon , killing at least 1,600 people and displacing 1.2 million . <p> Advertisement <p> Israeli government human rights violations extend beyond the Gaza Strip and do not begin as a reprisal for the October 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack . In the West Bank , since October 7 , 2023 , 79 schoolchildren and 35 students have been killed , with hundreds more injured or arrested . Systematic , widespread human rights violations , such as land confiscation , resource plundering , and racial discrimination , have been well-documented over 57 years of occupation of Palestinian territories and 17 years of Gaza 's blockade . <p> On July 19 , 2024 , the ICJ issued an advisory opinion on " the legal consequences arising from Israel 's policies and practices in the Occupied Palestinian Territory ( OPT ) , including East Jerusalem and Gaza " , unequivocally declaring Israel 's occupation illegal and calling for its immediate cessation . The ICJ underscored that the responsibility not to support this illegal practice falls not only on third-party states but also on all institutions that uphold international law , including universities . <p> The scientific community has often mobilised in the past to defend human rights and international law . In an open letter published in the New York Times in December 1948 , cosigned by Hannah Arendt and Albert Einstein , the authors denounced the visit of Menahem Begin , leader of the Tnuat Haherut party , precursor to Likud ( the party of current Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ) , in these terms : " Among the most disturbing political phenomena of our times is the emergence in the newly created state of Israel of the " Freedom Party " ( Tnuat Haherut ) , a political party closely akin in its organization , methods , political philosophy and social appeal to the Nazi and Fascist parties . It was formed out of the membership and following of the former Irgun Zvai Leumi , a terrorist , right-wing , chauvinist organization in Palestine .... It is in its actions that the terrorist party betrays its real character ; from its past actions we can judge what it may be expected to do in the future . A shocking example was their behavior in the Arab village of Deir Yassin . This village , off the main roads and surrounded by Jewish lands , had taken no part in the war , and had even fought off Arab bands who wanted to use the village as their base . On April 9 , terrorist bands attacked this peaceful village , which was not a military objective in the fighting , killed most of its inhabitants -- 240 men , women , and children -- and kept a few of them alive to parade as captives through the streets of Jerusalem . Most of the Jewish community was horrified at the deed , and the Jewish Agency sent a telegram of apology to King Abdullah of Trans-Jordan . But the terrorists , far from being ashamed of their act , were proud of this massacre , publicized it widely , and invited all the foreign correspondents present in the country to view the heaped corpses and the general havoc at Deir Yassin . " <p> Advertisement <p> For more than a year now , the Israeli government and its military forces have been committing the equivalent of a Deir Yassin massacre every day in Gaza , while the scientific community largely remains silent . Yet , as the open letter above demonstrates , this community has already strongly opposed attacks on civilians , whether during the Algerian and Vietnam wars or , more recently , in response to Russia 's invasion of Ukraine . Scientists , particularly mathematicians , can not remain indifferent to the ongoing genocide in Gaza , especially as Western powers appear to support this crime against humanity politically , diplomatically , and militarily . <p> Enough is enough . We urge our colleagues to cease all scientific collaboration with Israeli institutions that do not explicitly condemn the genocide in Gaza and the illegal colonisation of Palestine . We also encourage them to put pressure on our own institutions to terminate agreements with these partners under the same conditions , in accordance with international law . This position obviously does not include individual collaborations with Israeli colleagues , 3,400 of whom have courageously signed a call to the international community , which we wish to support , " to intervene immediately by applying any possible sanctions against Israel to achieve an immediate ceasefire between Israel and its neighbors , for the future of the people living in Israel/Palestine and the region , and to guarantee their right to security and life . " Finally , we demand that our institutions scrupulously respect academic freedoms and resolutely uphold freedom of expression in accordance with the law . <p> Advertisement <p> Signatories ( petition closed on December 4 , 2024 with 1078 signatories ) : 
@@119069984 <h> The military noted that jets flew 2,000 kilometers and used over 60 bombs to strike Houthi targets . <p> The IDF published new footage of its strike on Houthi terror targets in Yemen carried out in the early hours of Thursday . <p> The military noted that jets flew 2,000 kilometers and used over 60 bombs to strike Houthi targets , which included oil and fuel tanks , eight tugboats , and two power plants . <p> " The Houthi terror regime has carried out repeated attacks against the State of Israel , launching unmanned aerial vehicles and surface-to-surface missiles toward Israeli territory , most of which were successfully intercepted , " the military 's statement read . <h> UN seeks World Court opinion on Israel 's Palestinian aid obligations <h> The Norwegian-drafted resolution was adopted by the 193-member body with 137 votes in favor . <p> The United Nations General Assembly voted on Thursday to ask the International Court of Justice for an opinion on Israel 's obligations to facilitate aid to Palestinians that is delivered by states and international groups including the UN . <p> The Norwegian-drafted resolution was adopted by the 193-member body with 137 votes in favor . Israel , the United States and 10 other countries voted no , while 22 countries abstained . <p> The move came in response to Israel 's decision to ban the operation of the UN Palestinian refugee agency UNRWA in the country from late January and other obstacles faced by other UN agencies in their aid work in Gaza over the past year . <h> " The United States is committed to targeting Iran 's key revenue streams that fund its destabilizing activities , " Bradley Smith . <p> The United States on Thursday imposed sanctions on Iran and Houthi-related entities , according to the Treasury Department website which listed a number of individuals , companies and vessels that had been targeted . <p> The sanctions target three vessels involved in the trade of Iranian petroleum and petrochemicals , which generate billions of dollars for Iran 's leaders , the Treasury said , supporting its nuclear program , development of ballistic missiles and financing of proxies including Hezbollah , Hamas and the Houthis . <p> " The United States is committed to targeting Iran 's key revenue streams that fund its destabilizing activities , " Bradley Smith , acting under secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence , said in a release . Smith said Iran relies on a " shadowy network of vessels , companies , and facilitators for those activities . <h> A new report uncovers how the Houthis have " laundered " some of their officials into their Foreign Ministry in order to continue to sabotage and siphon off humanitarian aid . <p> By YONAH JEREMY BOB Silhouette of a man wearing headphones behind a laptop against a background of the Yemeni flag and flying missiles ( illustrative ) ( photo credit : SHUTTERSTOCK ) <p> The Counter Extremism Project ( CEP ) on Thursday is due to publish a report delving into the unique brutality of the Yemen Houthi intelligence services with the Jerusalem Post exclusively obtaining a copy of the report prior to its publication . <p> The report names some of the top Yemen Houthis intelligence officials which could also lead to new sanctions against some of those individuals . <p> Also , the report uncovers how the Yemen Houthis have " laundered " some of their officials into their Foreign Ministry in order to continue to sabotage and siphon off humanitarian aid after global powers started to notice the intelligence ministry was undertaking such illegal activities . <p> Whoever harms Israel will pay a heavy price , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said , addressing Israel 's strikes on Houthi terror targets in Hodeidah and Yemen 's capital of Sana'a , among others , in the early hours of Thursday . <p> " We did this in response to the Houthis ' recurring attacks on civilian targets in Israel , " he noted , adding that the Houthis had " struck last night a school in Ramat Gan . " <p> " They do not attack only us ; they attack the entire world . They are attacking international shipping and trade routes , so when Israel acts against the Houthis , it is acting on behalf of the entire international community . The Americans understand this aspect , as do many others . " <p> An initial investigation by the Israel Air Force found that part of the warhead from the missile fired from Yemen exploded and caused damage to a school in Ramat Gan following a partial interception , the military said on Thursday . 
@@119069986 <h> UN seeks World Court opinion on Israel 's Palestinian aid obligations <h> The Norwegian-drafted resolution was adopted by the 193-member body with 137 votes in favor . <p> By REUTERS DECEMBER 19 , 2024 20:23 Updated : DECEMBER 19 , 2024 20:34 <p> The UN General Assembly , September 24 , 2024. ( photo credit : PERRY BINDELGLASS ) <p> The United Nations General Assembly voted on Thursday to ask the International Court of Justice for an opinion on Israel 's obligations to facilitate aid to Palestinians that is delivered by states and international groups including the UN . <p> The Norwegian-drafted resolution was adopted by the 193-member body with 137 votes in favor . Israel , the United States and 10 other countries voted no , while 22 countries abstained . <p> The move came in response to Israel 's decision to ban the operation of the UN Palestinian refugee agency UNRWA in the country from late January and other obstacles faced by other UN agencies in their aid work in Gaza over the past year . <p> The ICJ , known as the World Court , is the United Nations ' highest court , and its advisory opinions carry legal and political weight although they are not binding . The Hague-based court has no enforcement powers if its opinions are ignored . <p> The resolution adopted on Thursday also expressed " grave concern about the dire humanitarian situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territory " and " calls upon Israel to uphold and comply with its obligations not to impede the Palestinian people from exercising its right to self-determination . " UNWRA STAFF distribute bags of flour in Khan Yunis , Nov. 22 , 2023. ( credit : ATIA MOHAMMED/FLASH90 ) <p> The UN views Gaza and the West Bank as Israeli-occupied territory . International humanitarian law requires an occupying power to agree to relief programs for people in need and to facilitate them " by all the means at its disposal " and ensure food , medical care , hygiene and public-health standards . <p> The new Israeli law does not directly ban UNRWA 's operations in the West Bank and Gaza . However , it will severely impact UNRWA 's ability to work . Top UN officials and the Security Council describe UNRWA as the backbone of Gaza 's aid response . <h> Replace UNWRA ? <p> In a letter to the 15-member Security Council on Wednesday , Israel 's UN Ambassador Danny Danon said that " replacing UNRWA with relief schemes that will adequately provide essential assistance to Palestinian civilians is not at all impossible . " <p> " Israel is willing and ready to work with international partners ( and already does work tirelessly ) so as to allow and facilitate the continued passage of humanitarian aid to civilians in Gaza , and to ensure the unhindered provision of these necessary basic services , in a way that does not undermine Israel 's security , " Danon wrote in the letter seen by Reuters . <p> The UN has long-complained of aid obstacles in Gaza since the war between Palestinian terrorists Hamas and Israel began on Oct. 7 , 2023 . The UN blames Israel and lawlessness in the enclave for impediments getting aid into Gaza and distributing it to Palestinians throughout the war zone . <p> A committee of global food security experts warned last month that there is a " strong likelihood that famine is imminent in areas " of northern Gaza . <p> Israel has said the issue in Gaza was not a lack of aid because more than a million tons had been delivered during the past year . It accuses Hamas of hijacking the assistance . Hamas has denied the allegations and has blamed Israel for shortages . <p> Israel has long had tense relations with UNRWA , but ties have deteriorated further in the past year . <p> Israel says UNRWA staff took part in the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack on Israel . The UN has said nine UNRWA staff may have been involved and have been fired . A Hamas commander in Lebanon - killed by Israel - was also found to have had an UNRWA job . 
@@119069990 <p> IDF soldiers from the Central Command carry out operational activities in the West Bank ( photo credit : IDF ) <p> Palestinian terror from the West Bank is at lower levels than it was during the Second Intifada despite the IDF having much smaller forces there and an environment of a continuous regional war , the IDF said on Thursday . <p> During the Second Intifada , the IDF Central Command had several full size divisions to try to end years of terror , whereas currently there are only 19 battalions in the West Bank . <p> Divisions often incorporate between 15-25 battalions , such that the current forces are much smaller than what the IDF Central Command had at its disposal during those years . <p> At the height of 2022-2024 during the increased terror wave and current war , there were up to 30 battalions in the West Bank . Prior to the 2022 terror waves , there were around 11 battalions . <p> Also , while all IDF soldiers are a significant part of the military , many of the units in the West Bank currently are from less elite units than what was available to IDF Central Command during the Second Intifada . IDF soldiers from the Central Command carry out operational activities in the West Bank ( credit : IDF ) <p> While the total number of terror incidents for the current war and the Second Intifada period were comparable , many more Israeli civilians were killed by West Bank terror during that earlier period . Around 450 Israelis were killed during a comparable Second Intifada period whereas 2024 saw around 40 killed Israelis -- very high for the last decade , but much lower than the Second Intifada . <p> All of this comes in the context that the IDF has viewed the West Bank terror threat as at most the third most threatening front , after Gaza and Lebanon , with it sometimes falling to fourth behind Iran , Syria , or others . <p> In addition , although terror levels are far above where they were in 2021 and the years immediately prior , the IDF said that there is a downward trend compared to most of the rest of the war and also that public riots are extremely rare even compared to those earlier years . <h> Public riots <p> Rather , the IDF said that in prior years , public riots were accepted by the military as a standard way of life which were unavoidable and at most could be managed and prevented from getting too large . <p> According to the IDF , the stark reduction in public riots was achieved without changing military rules of engagement , but just by a general policy of more regular and aggressive raids against those provoking those riots . <p> Also , the IDF said that six additional battalions that it received over time to guard the " border " areas between Israel and the Palestinians mostly eliminated what had been a phenomenon of tens of thousands of Palestinians crossing illegally into Israel on a regular basis . <p> IDF sources said that a recent meeting with Israeli Judea and Samaria regional council leaders led to overall positive feedback about the relative level of security their residents feel , given the still unstable region.IDF soldiers from the Central Command carry out operations in the West Bank ( credit : IDF ) <p> Despite those positive aspects , terror in 2024 is still far above pre-2022 levels . <p> 2024 has seen 253 Palestinian terror incidents , which is lower than the 847 spike in 2023 and also lower than the 2022 waves of terror spike of 342 , but still far above the earlier years of 91 in 2021 , 50 in 2020 , and 48 in 2019 . <p> The numbers are better for lower grade Palestinian violence , such as lower grade rock throwing with 1,188 incidents in 2024 , which is lower than all of the years of 2019-2023 , with a high during those years of 8,633 incidents and a low of 1,350 incidents . <p> Around 800 Palestinians have been killed by the IDF since the start of the current war with the military saying that 96% were fighters or terrorists , and around 30 civilians who were mistakenly caught in the crossfire . <p> By year , the IDF said it has killed 479 Palestinian terrorists in 2024 , 504 in 2023 , 155 in 2022 , 77 in 2021 , 20 in 2020 and 27 in 2019 . <p> Comparatively , 37 Israelis were killed by Palestinian terrorists in 2024 , 41 in 2023 , 32 , in 2022 , and only between two to five per year between 2019-2021 . <p> Around 6,000 Palestinian terror suspects have been arrested since the start of the war , with 2,350 connected to Hamas. 2,400 of them have had indictments filed against them . <p> 3,700 Palestinians are being held in administrative detention , a number dwarfing the number of Palestinians held during the Second Intifada by around three times , when the numbers only broke the 1,000 level . <p> Even during the later years of the Second Intifada and during the Knife Intifada of 2015-2016 , the number of administrative detainees was more in the 700 range . <p> In quieter years over the last two decades , the numbers were usually down closer to 200-300 at a time . <p> Another major change has been the number of air strikes , which is now at 100 for the current war . In contrast , there were essentially no air strikes in the West Bank from 2005-2023 . <h> Palestinian Authority <p> IDF sources complimented the Palestinian Authority for its latest operation this week in the Jenin refugee camp against other Palestinian terror and lawless groups . IDF soldiers from the Central Command carry out operational activities in the West Bank ( credit : IDF ) <p> However , the same sources noted that the PA has only killed three and arrested only a few dozen Palestinians in around over a week and a half . <p> This means , said IDF sources , that the PA is likely moving too slowly and allowing certain pockets of terror to remain concealed or to escape to other areas . <p> Also , while the PA has invested around 300 of its forces in getting Jenin under control , this leaves it exposed in other areas . <p> The IDF said it has paved the way for the PA to receive upgraded weapons and force protection to fight against Palestinian terrorists in Jenin , though with some limits so as not to endanger IDF troops in the future should some of the PA forces at some point change sides . <p> Finally , IDF sources hope the PA will show a more sustained determination this time against lawlessness in Jenin , but have doubts whether the PA security forces , especially at the rank and file level , will have staying power . <p> IDF sources noted that only after Jenin terror groups stole three PA vehicles and attacked a PA police station with a bomb , did the PA finally take more serious action to crack down on them . <h> Iran smuggling weapons into West Bank via Jordan <p> The IDF is concerned about ongoing Iranian efforts to incite West Bank Palestinians into a new terror wave , including with deadlier and higher quality weapons smuggled in from Jordan , and especially due to Tehran 's losing of proxy power in Lebanon , Syria , and Gaza . <p> Part of the IDF 's conceptual shift to cope with the issue is viewing the Jordanian border not as a law enforcement standard border issue , but as a full-fledged military front . <p> This is a confusing conceptual framework given that Jordan is an ally and at peace with Israel , but the IDF views this shift as necessary because the Jordanians are not capable of fully blocking Iran 's clever smuggling attempts . <p> The IDF is also trying to avoid either a " Lebonization " or further " Gazaization " of West Bank terror . The idea is to be active enough against Palestinian West Bank terror , such that groups will neither be able to use powerful weapons like Hezbollah in Lebanon , nor will they be able to organize into larger military operating units , like Hamas in Gaza . <p> Despite some successes in this respect , the IDF is concerned at the volume of improvised explosives constantly flowing through the West Bank . <h> Jewish extremist violence against Palestinians <p> The view on Jewish extremist violence against Palestinians is very mixed . <p> In 2024 , there have been 663 incidents , in 2023 there were 1,045 , and in 2022 there were 947 , seeming to show an improvement , but 663 is still far above prior years when there were 446 in 2021 , 353 in 2020 , and 339 in 2019 . <p> The IDF said that Jewish extremist violence against Palestinians had increased , corresponding to increased Palestinian terror , but it does not really have an answer yet for bringing down the levels to pre-2022 levels . <p> Regarding Defense Minister Israel Katz 's recent controversial decision to block any new administrative detention orders against even the worst Jewish extremists , the IDF said that IDF Central Commander Avi Bluth still has the power to issue restraining orders to keep persons out of the West Bank for six months at a time . <p> According to IDF sources , this can achieve the same goal by keeping such extremists away from being able to harm Palestinians or otherwise cause trouble . <p> Despite this reassurance , the unanimous defense establishment view was that canceling such administrative detention orders would undermine the ability to contain Jewish extremist violence . 
@@119069993 <p> Amid intense speculation about how close the sides are to a deal , about how it is just a matter of days and how it will materialize before US President-elect Donald Trump takes office on January 20 , everyone involved should just not speak . <p> Their saying the deal is as close as ever may be well-intentioned -- it may want to give some comfort to the family members of the hostages -- but it could have the opposite effect : raising false hopes and expectations.Visitors at Hostage Square in Tel Aviv , December 18 , 2024 ( credit : MIRIAM ALSTER/FLASH90 ) <p> We have been there before . <p> On January 24 , this was the headline of a New York Times article : " Negotiators Close In on Hostage Deal That Would Halt Fighting in Gaza for Weeks . " <p> On May 7 , Reuters ran this as its headline : " US Believes Israel , Hamas Can Close Gaps on Hostage Deal . " And on August 17 , the BBC ran this headline : " Israel-Gaza ceasefire deal closer than ever , Biden says . " <p> Each time , however , the hopes failed to materialize . There have been numerous times during this heartbreaking saga when various officials have said that a deal was just around the corner , only for that corner to suddenly disappear . <h> It 's not over until it 's over <p> This is a textbook case of something not being over until it is over . And until it is over , everyone should be quiet . Irresponsible chatter does n't help the negotiations and only misguides the public and cultivates false hopes . <p> In negotiations such as these , excessive publicity can undermine talks in a delicate stage . Public declarations can embolden Hamas to demand more or -- again -- withdraw entirely , knowing the government is facing mounting pressure to deliver . Silence , in this context , is not weakness ; it is good strategy . <p> That rule of silence does not apply to the family of the hostages , who need to speak out to keep the issue on the agenda , ensure it remains a top priority , and make sure the fate of their loved ones is not the same as that of Ron Arad . Arad was the airman whose plane exploded over Lebanon in 1986 , was taken prisoner , and never heard from again -- with the government telling the family that staying quiet would be the best way to expedite his release . <p> Nevertheless , even the words of the family members of the hostages need to be weighed carefully . There is an understandable tendency to give the families wide berth to say whatever they want , and in whatever tone they deem fit , about the country and its leaders . It is right not to sit in judgment of those in whose shoes we do not walk . <p> Nevertheless , some of the recent comments by some relatives of the hostages , such as saying the government is abandoning the hostages or these words yelled at MK Ze'ev Elkin in the Knesset -- " If my son comes back in a body bag or as body parts , I wo n't bring you to trial , I will take the law into my own hands " -- are counterproductive . <p> The families ' voices are vital , but so is discretion . Reckless accusations risk alienating potential allies in the government and the public , whose support is essential to keeping the hostages ' plight at the forefront of the national consciousness . <p> First of all , the state has been fighting a war for more than 14 months in an effort to free the hostages . Hundreds of soldiers have died and thousands have been wounded in the effort . So to say the state has abandoned the hostages is off-key . <p> Secondly , the super-strident rhetoric distances people from this very just cause rather than bringing them closer to it . <p> The families ' anguish is undeniable , and their voices must remain part of the national conversation . But unnecessary or unmeasured words , whether from officials or loved ones , risk complicating an already very delicate and precarious process . 
@@119069995 <h> Netanyahu is anxious to avoid starting off on the wrong foot with the grievance-obsessed president-elect , who recently told Time magazine that he does n't really trump the prime minister . <p> A DEMONSTRATION takes place near the US Embassy Branch Office in Tel Aviv last week , with participants calling on President-elect Donald Trump to ensure the release of all the hostages held in Gaza . ( photo credit : STOYAN NENOV/REUTERS ) <p> Xi Jinping said no thanks , Vladimir Putin said he was n't even asked , and Bibi Netanyahu is a delighted yes , aides report . The Israeli prime minister plans to attend Donald Trump 's second inauguration -- if he can get time off from his criminal corruption trial . <p> He may be bringing the new president a very special gift , but first he 's planning one he hopes to be able to deliver next week when the first day of Hanukkah and Christmas coincide . <p> Bibi could hardly contain his enthusiasm over Trump 's election , racing to be among the first to call with a hearty mazel tov . He does n't want to risk angering the disgraced former president , who was furious when Netanyahu called to congratulate Joe Biden for winning an election Trump still insists he won . <p> By inserting himself into the Gaza negotiations -- declaring there will be " all hell to pay " if the war is still going on when he takes office -- Trump has apparently motivated Netanyahu to make a deal . The Israeli leader is anxious to avoid starting off on the wrong foot with the grievance-obsessed president-elect , who has recently told Time magazine that he does n't really trust the prime minister . The two leaders have spoken several times since the election , most recently as Bibi assured his friend " at length about the efforts we are making to free our hostages . " <p> Leaks coming from all directions indicate Israel and Hamas could finally be ready . Both combatants may be anxious to score points with the incoming administration and poke their fingers in Biden 's eyes , one blaming him for not doing enough to help destroy Hamas and the other for doing too much . ( Illustrative ) Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and president-elect Donald Trump over a backdrop of hostage posters . ( credit : BRINGTHEMHOMENOW , Canva , REUTERS/LEAH MILLIS ) <p> Netanyahu has frequently shown contempt for Biden , but he fears Trump , and one reason can be found on Capitol Hill . Netanyahu over the years has shifted Israel 's traditionally wall-to-wall bipartisan American political base to the partisan Right , starting in the 1990s with a partnership with GOP Speaker Newt Gingrich by provoking each party to out-Israel the other . But it deteriorated to an alarming level the longer Bibi was in office . <p> Most American Jews and Democrats , the party that consistently wins Jewish votes by 3:1 margins , were increasingly uncomfortable with Netanyahu 's right-wing governments dominated by religious and nationalist extremists . Republicans , particularly the religious Right , were much more receptive . <p> TODAY NETANYAHU sees his and Israel 's American political base among the Evangelicals , ultra-Orthodox Jews and hard-core Jewish conservatives . Evangelicals dominate Trump 's MAGA base , and despite their avowed love of Israel , their first loyalty is to their president . If he turns on Bibi , they will follow . And the prime minister , particularly this prime minister , ca n't turn back to the Democrats , where he has burned so many bridges . <p> An attempt by Senate progressives , led by Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont , to block selected munitions sales to Israel last month garnered 19 votes , not enough to block but more than enough to cause considerable concern . Observers say that if it had been a secret ballot , the vote would have been much higher . Many senators with longstanding pro-Israel records , including three Jewish lawmakers , accused Israel of not doing enough to get food , medicine and other basic supplies to Gaza civilians . <p> How much of that may dissipate if Bibi is replaced by a centrist government is open to speculation , but there is no denying that much damage has already been done to hopes for restoring Israel 's historic bipartisan support . <h> Trump 's threats added impetus to a deal ? <p> Biden administration officials are crediting Trump 's " hell to pay " threats with adding impetus to a deal that both sides long avoided in preference to watching the other one suffer . Hamas seemed to have little concern about the Palestinians casualty toll so long as Israel was suffering international condemnation and domestic unrest for its scorched-earth warfare . <p> Trump is popular in Israel , where a pre-election poll by the Israel Democracy Institute showed 72% of Jewish Israelis preferred the MAGA candidate , virtually the opposite of how Jewish Americans just voted . <p> In his Time magazine " Person of the Year " interview , Trump indicated he does n't care one way or the other about the two-state solution , a long-standing US policy pushed hard by Biden . It 's just one of " numerous " options , he said . " What I want is a deal where there 's going to be peace and where the killing stops . " <p> He made Netanyahu very happy by naming former Arkansas Gov . Mike Huckabee as the next US ambassador . A frequent visitor to Israel , he is a Southern Baptist preacher who opposes Palestinian statehood , supports annexation of the West Bank and denies the existence of the Palestinian people . <p> IN THE AFTERMATH of October 7 and the Gaza war , most Israelis oppose a two-state solution , and support among American Jews has softened . Biden said the war shows the need for statehood , and Netanyahu insisted that it is proof this must never happen . <p> Bishara Bahba , the Palestinian American leader of Arab Americans for Trump , told Israeli Channel 12 that the president-elect " 100% " committed himself to a two-state solution . He worked closely courting Arab and Palestinian votes for Trump with American-Lebanese businessman Massad Boulos , who was rewarded with the post of senior White House advisor on Arab and Middle East affairs . Boulos just happens to be the father-in-law of Trump 's daughter Tiffany . ( His other daughter 's father-in-law , a convicted felon like Trump , was named ambassador to France . ) <p> Netanyahu has not given up on annexing major West Bank settlement blocs , if not more . Trump said he " stopped " that in his first term as a concession to several Arab states for signing the historic Abraham Accords . <p> Both men want Saudi Arabia to join the accords , but in the wake of the Gaza war , the Saudis have upped the ante to include serious Israel-Palestinian negotiations about statehood . Netanyahu rejects Palestinian sovereignty , but he 's been known to engage in negotiations that seemed serious but were going nowhere . The prize for the Saudis is a mutual defense treaty with the United States and civil nuclear cooperation ; Trump and Netanyahu will look for flexibility when it comes to the Palestinians . <p> The Chanukamas gift Bibi would like to give his friend Donald is the Gaza ceasefire he 's demanding ( the holidays last eight to 12 days ) , and for Inauguration Day , do n't be surprised if he brings along a freed American-Israeli hostage . <p> Trump is still grousing that he did n't get the Nobel Peace Prize for the Abraham Accords . Bibi probably thinks they both were cheated out of that recognition . Maybe by signing up the Saudis , mollifying the Palestinians and ending the wars in Gaza and Ukraine , there 's a chance . <p> ' T is the season for sugar plums dancing in the heads that think they wear crowns . <p> The writer is a Washington-based journalist , consultant , lobbyist , and a former legislative director at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee . 
@@119069996 <h> The Iranian people have repeatedly voiced their dissatisfaction with the regime 's regional policies , particularly its involvement in Lebanon , Yemen , Iraq , and Syria . <p> CHILDREN HOLD flags next to a sculpture of Druze warrior Sultan Pasha al-Atrash after Syrian rebels announced the ousting of president Bashar Assad , in the Druze village of Majdal Shams , Golan Heights , earlier this month. ( photo credit : REUTERS/SHIR TOREM ) <p> The collapse of Bashar Assad 's regime , Iran 's longstanding ally in Syria , has sparked debate among observers . Some argue that Iran 's loss of faith in Assad contributed to his downfall . Yet , this view ignores the strategic logic underpinning the Islamic Republic 's alliance with Assad and its involvement in Syria . For the Islamists in Iran , Syria was not merely an ally ; it was the Islamic Republic 's " strategic depth , " its " golden ring of resistance , " and even considered " more valuable than Iran 's Khuzestan Province . " Abandoning Assad would have meant abandoning Iran 's broader ambition of dominating the Middle East , a project reliant on Assad 's continued rule in Syria . <p> After seizing power in 1979 , the Khomeinists aimed to export their Islamic Revolution and dominate the Middle East , despite limited resources . They adopted the low-cost strategy of creating proxy groups in countries with significant Shiite populations . They created a network of 19 terrorist organizations , including Hamas and Islamic Jihad in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon , as well as 16 other terror groups in Syria , Iraq , and Yemen . They called this network , " the axis of resistance . " <p> Regime leaders recognized that sustaining the axis of resistance required incorporating Syria into the alliance as a vital conduit for transferring arms and resources to their proxies , particularly Hezbollah . They reached out to Hafez Assad , the Syrian dictator , father of Bashar , and he readily embraced the opportunity . Although Hafez Assad famously described Syria as the " beating heart of Arabism , " his economically struggling nation stood to benefit from alignment with the oil-rich regime in Tehran . Furthermore , as an Alawite leader -- a minority sect within a predominantly Sunni population -- Hafez Assad found it more pragmatic to collaborate with his unpopular Shiite neighbor . <p> Syria became central to Iran 's regional strategy , offering a land corridor to Beirut and safe havens for Hezbollah 's training and weapons . This land corridor enabled the movement of personnel , arms , and supplies to reach Hezbollah , significantly enhancing Iran 's capacity to project power and maintain influence across the Levant . <p> Ali Akbar Velayati , Khamenei 's foreign policy aide , asserted that " Syria is a golden ring of resistance to Zionism . Iran supports it , because if Syria falls and its government collapses ... the axis of resistance will collapse . " QASSEM SOLEIMANI , the former head of the IRGC-Quds Force , called Syria " Iran 's strategic depth . " <p> Syria 's importance for Iran became unmistakable when , in 2011 , widespread protests against Bashar Assad erupted . The IRGC Quds Force acted swiftly to intervene and ensure his survival . On the advice of Qassem Suleimani , Assad responded with considerable violence . With so much at stake , the Quds Force increased its presence in Syria and supplied " coercive means " to Assad to help the Syrian police and paramilitary units disperse the protesters . <p> The IRGC leaders were confident that the Basij militia , which had crushed the Iranian Green Movement in 2009 , would be able to put down the rebellion in Syria . Iran sent several Quds Force high-ranking commanders who , together with the feared Syrian Shabiha ( " ghosts " ) , brutalized protestors . By 2012 , there were reportedly 1,200-2,000 Quds Force personnel providing intellectual and advisory help , backed up by some 7,000-10,000 fighters from Lebanese Hezbollah stationed at Damascus Airport , Aleppo , Hama , and Latakia . <p> By 2015 , despite Iran 's efforts , Assad was losing control . Suleimani convinced Putin to intervene while Iran formed Shia militias such as Zainebiyoun Brigade , Fatemiyoun Brigade , Kataib Hezbollah , and Liwa Zulfiqar , turning the war in Assad 's favor . <h> IRGC historically rescued Assad from total collapse <p> The IRGC ultimately rescued Assad and the axis of resistance from total collapse , but this intervention came at a significant cost . According to some estimates , Iran spent approximately $50 billion in military aid and financial support , including $11 billion worth of oil supplied between 2012 and 2021 . The human cost has also been substantial . From January 2013 to March 2017 , the IRGC reported significant casualties , including 418 ranking officers -- some of them generals -- over 2,100 soldiers , and 7,000 wounded . <p> The regime disregarded the high costs because the investment yielded substantial returns , including securing Quds Force military bases , land routes , airports , and port facilities -- critical assets for sustaining operations against common adversaries , particularly Israel . <p> FOR NEARLY a decade , Israel has launched weekly strikes on IRGC Quds Force bases in Syria to limit Iran 's influence , disrupt Hezbollah 's supply lines , and weaken the axis of resistance , with limited success . While these strikes inflicted significant damage , the strategic advantages Iran derived from maintaining a foothold in Syria and keeping it firmly aligned with the axis consistently outweighed the costs . From the Iranian regime 's perspective , " disconnecting Syria from the axis represented a significant strategic threat to the Islamic Republic . " <p> A major turning point came on October 7 , 2023 , when Hamas launched a brutal assault on Israel , killing 1,200 civilians and taking over 250 Israelis and others hostage . When Israel responded to Hamas 's attack , Iran directed Hezbollah to join the conflict to support Hamas . However , Israel countered Hezbollah with overwhelming force , inflicting heavy losses on its political and military leadership and infrastructure , significantly degrading its operational capacity . Simultaneously , intensified Israeli military operations against Quds Force positions in Syria resulted in considerable losses to its leadership and infrastructure . The bombing of IRGC-Quds Force bases , coupled with the weakening of Hezbollah , has severely undermined Iran 's influence in Syria and across the region . <p> While Iran 's regional influence diminishes , the regime is also grappling with serious internal crises . Its economy is in a severe downturn , marked by high inflation , rising unemployment , and widespread poverty . Mismanagement and corruption have compounded these challenges , leading to a significant decline in the living standards of the Iranian people . Economic hardships have fueled social discontent , resulting in widespread protests and civil unrest . The regime 's repressive responses have only deepened public dissatisfaction , further undermining its legitimacy . <p> The Iranian people have repeatedly voiced their dissatisfaction with the regime 's regional policies , particularly its involvement in Lebanon , Yemen , Iraq , and Syria . <p> During protests , slogans such as " Forget about Syria , think about us " and " Neither Gaza nor Lebanon , I sacrifice my life for Iran " have echoed public frustration over the regime 's focus on regional ambitions instead of addressing pressing domestic issues . Widespread discontent with social restrictions , economic collapse , and environmental mismanagement has further eroded public trust , creating a crisis of legitimacy for the regime . <p> The domestic and regional setbacks have collectively weakened the regime 's power and influence , rendering it incapable of preventing the collapse of the golden ring of the axis . In other words , the regime 's failure to save Assad was not due to a loss of faith in him but rather its lack of capacity . <p> As Khamenei admitted in his recent speech , they sought to assist Assad , but their efforts were thwarted by Israel and the United States , both on the ground and in the air . <p> Assad 's fall , along with the destruction of Hamas and Hezbollah , would mark the end of Iran 's regional hegemony project , severely limiting its ability to project power , rebuild proxy groups , and supply them with arms . <p> The US and Israel should seize this opportunity to try to change the regime by supporting the Iranian people who seek change , a critical step toward achieving lasting peace and stability in the region . 
@@119077788 <h> Montana Tucker keeps Israel hostages in spotlight : ' Being silent is not an option ' <p> The granddaughter of Holocaust survivors talks to Align about antisemitism , celebrity indifference , and why every voice counts . <p> Digital creator Montana Tucker has a beef with her fellow " influencers . " <p> " What drives me crazy , " Tucker says , " Is someone who has influence but is n't using it for good . What 's the point ? " <p> ' Major actors , major musicians came up to me or messaged me , " Thank you for what you 're doing . " Yet they do n't post or speak out publicly . ' <p> It 's why she wanted to do something to share with her 14 million-strong social media flock following Hamas ' Oct. 7 assault on Israel . <p> " If I do n't use it for what I believe in ... what is the point of having the influence ? " she asked herself at the time . <p> But how ? <h> Getting creative <p> She worried her background in dance , music , and acting did n't align with the hostages ' plight . Then she got creative . She created a series of videos to highlight the hostages ' plight , drawing international attention along the way . <p> One video invited survivors of the Nova music festival attack to dance with her , highlighting their perseverance in the face of the ghastly attack . The clip reportedly generated more than 10 million views . <p> " When we did that Nova video , it had a big impact , " she says . " Art is something you can really portray a message with and reach a different audience . " <p> Tucker even walked the Grammy 's red carpet in February wearing a yellow ribbon-themed dress to remind people about the remaining hostages . The evening 's presenters missed the cue and did n't bring the subject up on stage . Neither did the A-listers who attended other awards galas like the Emmys and the Oscars . <p> That hardly stopped Tucker , who has teamed with the Combat Antisemitism Movement , to flex her social media might for the cause . <h> ' I 'm a Survivor ' <p> Her latest CAM video , " I 'm a Survivor , " pairs her with 35 members of the Sol Dance Academy along with are three released hostages -- Moran Stela Yanai , Raz Ben Ami , and Hila Rotem Shoshani . The participants danced within a tunnel , representing the innocents still held hostage by the terrorist group . <p> " I 've built such strong personal relationships with many of the released hostages and the hostage families , " Tucker tells Align . " I feel like they 're my family now . " <p> The clip also features family members of Ohad Ben Ami , Shlomo Manzur , and Yossi and Eli Sharabi , some of nearly a hundred remaining Gaza hostages . New reports suggest significant progress is being made for a possible ceasefire and hostage release . <p> Some activists on both sides of the Israeli/Palestinian divide throw razor sharp-elbows to make their points . That can inflame the debate and drive people farther apart . Tucker tries to bring people together on her social media channels . <p> " I 've never criticized any group , beside Hamas , " she says with a gentle laugh . <h> Shedding followers <p> Her activism has come at a price . She shed hundreds of thousands of social media followers in the early days of her activism . <p> " That many people had so much hate inside shows anti-Semitism is very real , " she says . <p> She also lost her fair share of friends for speaking out , although she insists her closest chums have stood by her side . <p> Some of her fellow dancers , even those she worked alongside for years , told her they would no longer collaborate with her due to her Israeli support . <p> " It was hurtful and shocking , " she recalls . <p> No brands offered a similar , blunt response . She realized some stopped reaching out to her for professional deals . A few other brands stood up when others shrank away . <p> " We love your activism , " they told her . <p> A few in the entertainment field shared their support for her work , but they did so quietly . <p> " Major actors , major musicians came up to me or messaged me , ' Thank you for what you 're doing . ' Yet they do n't post or speak out publicly , " she notes , fearing blowback or even death threats . <p> President-elect Donald Trump has repeatedly warned Hamas to release the hostages before he returns to the White House on Jan. 20 . Tucker says she hopes and prays that will change the dynamic , but she steers clear of overtly political messaging . <h> Anyone can help <p> Tucker , whose grandparents survived the Nazi Holocaust , is uniquely positioned to raise awareness in our digital age . She insists others can lend a hand on social media . <p> " Trust me , you do n't have to dance or sing , " she says with a chuckle . " You do n't have to have millions of followers . ... Every single person has the ability and power to make a difference . " <p> Too many people feel nervous bringing up the hostage crisis , yet they routinely explore other hot-button issues online , she notes . <p> " We need every single person 's voice , especially at this time . Being silent is not an option , " she says . " If you have n't spoken up yet , it 's never too late . " <p> And , if your finances allow it , make a trek to Israel . <p> " It 's incredibly beautiful . ... There 's so much resilience and pride , even in a time of war , " she says , adding the nation 's diversity may surprise visitors . <p> " Many hospitals have Arab children playing with Jewish and Muslim children . ... They co-exist peacefully , " she says . 
@@119079590 <p> A new report Thursday from New York-based advocacy group Human Rights Watch , or HRW , has accused Israel of committing genocide for intentionally depriving civilians in Gaza of an adequate water supply , likely resulting in the deaths of thousands . <p> The 179-page report published on the group 's website outlines how , since the war between Israel and the militant group Hamas began in October 2023 , Israeli authorities and forces cut off and later restricted piped water to Gaza , as well as cutting electricity and restricting fuel , rendering most of the enclave 's sanitation infrastructure useless . <p> Additionally , the report said Israel deliberately destroyed and damaged water and sanitation infrastructure and water repair materials ; and blocked the entry of critical water supplies . <p> In a statement , HRW Executive Director Tirana Hassan accused Israel of deliberately depriving Palestinians of an element essential for human life for more than a year . <p> " This is n't just negligence , " Hassan said . " It is a calculated policy of deprivation that has led to the deaths of thousands from dehydration and disease that is nothing short of the crime against humanity of extermination , and an act of genocide . " <p> FILE - Palestinian children sort through trash in Nuseirat refugee camp , Gaza Strip , June 20 , 2024 . Israel 's war in Gaza has decimated the strip 's sanitation system , leaving many Palestinians living in tent camps near water contaminated with sewage and growing piles of garbage . <p> Israel emphatically denied the charges . In a statement , Israel 's Coordination of Government Activities in the Territories agency , COGAT , called HRW 's charges a " libelous claim , " and " an egregious lie . " <p> The COGAT statement said millions of liters of water flow into Gaza through three pipelines , and Israel has " facilitated hundreds of water infrastructure repairs and fixed water lines leading to Gaza on the Israeli side that were damaged by Hamas . " <p> " We operate in accordance with international law , " the COGAT statement said . " Saying otherwise is just flagrant deceit , " the statement said . <p> Earlier Thursday , medics in Gaza reported Israeli airstrikes overnight killed at least 13 people in northern and central parts of the Gaza Strip . <p> The strikes came as mediators worked to try to secure a ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas that would include the release of hostages still held in Gaza . <p> U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said late Wednesday that he is " hopeful " an agreement can be reached and pledged to spend all the time left in the waning days of the Biden administration to try to make a deal happen . <p> " It should happen . It needs to happen . We need to get people home , " Blinken said during an event at the Council on Foreign Relations . " We need to get the ceasefire . We need to get people moving in a different direction , toward better lives , toward repairing the terrible damage that 's been done . " <p> Blinken said Hamas has been the " main impediment " to a ceasefire deal , but that he thinks Hamas leaders understand at this point that their supporters such as Hezbollah and Iran are " not coming to the rescue . " <p> CIA Director William Burns landed in Qatar on Wednesday for meetings with Qatari officials , the latest in what has been months of work by the United States , Qatar and Egypt to try to broker an agreement . <p> Danny Danon , Israel 's ambassador to the United Nations , expressed hope about achieving a deal as he spoke to reporters Wednesday . <p> " After many rejections by Hamas , we hope we 're going to have some news before the holiday of Hanukkah and Christmas , " Danon said . <p> FILE - Palestinians displaced by the Israeli bombardment of the Gaza Strip queue for water at a makeshift tent camp in the southern town of Khan Younis , July 1 , 2024 . <p> Still , Danon cautioned that in the past , Hamas has made last-minute demands that had thwarted other possible agreements , while the militants have in turn blamed Israel for the monthslong stalemate in reaching a halt to the warfare . <p> New possible terms of a ceasefire and hostage release seemed in flux . <p> " We hope it will be in one stage " with the release of all hostages , Danon said , " because we want to see all the hostages back home . " <p> He added , though , " Maybe it will not be in one stage . And basically , it will be similar to what we saw in the past more than a year ago -- that you have a ceasefire , a long one , and at the same time of the ceasefire , during that ceasefire , hostages will be released . And we are talking mainly on the humanitarian aspect of women and the sick and the older hostages . " <p> Months of talks have proven fruitless in halting the fighting triggered by the shock Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack on Israel that killed about 1,200 people and led to the capture of 250 hostages . <p> Gaza health officials say Israel 's counteroffensive has killed at least 45,000 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , while Israel says the death toll includes thousands of Hamas combatants . <p> Hamas has been designated as a terror group by the United States , the United Kingdom , the European Union and others . <p> VOA 's United Nations correspondent Margaret Besheer contributed to this report . Some information came from The Associated Press , Agence France-Presse and Reuters . <p> The Voice of America provides news and information in more than 40 languages to an estimated weekly audience of over 326 million people . Stories with the VOA News byline are the work of multiple VOA journalists and may contain information from wire service reports . 
@@119101380 <p> Local educators and the ADL are pushing for an apology from MassCUE after the group 's recent " jarring " conference when speakers reportedly spewed " hateful " anti-Israel and Holocaust rhetoric . <p> MassCUE 's fall education tech conference -- held in partnership with the Massachusetts Association of School Superintendents at Gillette Stadium -- apparently went off the rails during a panel on equity in education . That 's when the discussion reportedly delved into the current Middle East conflict in Israel and Gaza . <p> " Speakers leaned very heavily into the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in a very one-sided , dangerous rhetoric , " Uxbridge High School Principal Michael Rubin told the Herald . <p> That included references to " Israeli genocide " and " Israeli apartheid . " <p> A panelist also suggested that the teaching of the Holocaust has been one-sided , and " two perspectives needed to be taught , " recalled Rubin , whose grandparents survived the Holocaust , during which the Nazis killed 6 million Jews . <p> " It was jarring , unexpected , and unprofessional , " added Rubin , who 's also the president of his synagogue . <p> Following complaints from several shocked conference attendees , the Anti-Defamation League 's New England chapter recently wrote a letter to MassCUE , as the ADL pushes for a public apology . <p> " It is difficult to understand why an organization dedicated to education and technology would allow a panel discussion ostensibly focused on school equity to instead veer into a complex and controversial foreign conflict , " ADL New England 's deputy director Sara Colb wrote to MassCUE 's leaders . <p> " It is all the more concerning that once the conversation veered in that direction it was not stopped or redirected to the advertised topic , " Colb added . " Allowing a presentation purporting to be about equity and inclusion in the classroom to include a one-sided narrative of a foreign conflict , replete with hateful , biased rhetoric , does a disservice to attendees by leaving them with a biased and misinformed account of the conflict . " <p> MassCUE ( Massachusetts Computer Using Educators ) is the Bay State affiliate of the International Society for Technology in Education . <p> More than two months after the fall conference , the organization has not addressed the Israeli-Palestinian discussion . <p> " At MassCUE we take feedback very seriously and work hard to ensure we take any and all necessary steps to address concerns that are brought to our attention , " said MassCUE Board President Casey Daigle . " This process takes time . Please know we are working through our procedures internally . " <p> The silence from MassCUE 's leaders has been " really concerning , " Rubin emphasized . <p> " How comments like these about the Holocaust do n't warrant an immediate response is really , really , really confusing to me , " added Rubin , who was given the 2024 MassCUE Administrator Award two days before this panel . <p> " If a student was targeted by a racial slur in our buildings , we would be involving local authorities , contacting families , sending a letter to the community , but MassCUE is working through their internal procedures . It does n't add up , " he said . <p> The executive director of the Massachusetts Association of School Superintendents said M.A.S.S. was " troubled to hear that any of the speakers at the conference may have made statements that are inconsistent with the anti-racist values of our organization . " <p> " We are working with MassCUE to learn more about the content in question , " added Executive Director Mary Bourque . <p> Other than ADL 's push for a public apology from MassCUE , the ADL is calling for the organization to : <p> Review its policies and vetting protocols for presentations at programs and make all necessary improvements to ensure that presenters stay on topic , and that " participants will not be subjected to this sort of inflammatory propaganda again . " <p> Listen to the concerns of impacted members and participants , and elicit their thoughts on how to " counter the harm this presentation caused . " <p> Issue a public statement acknowledging the problems with this program and reinforcing MassCUE 's values of inclusivity for everyone . <p> " At a time when incidents of antisemitic hate , including in our K-12 schools , are at record highs , it is deeply wrong and dangerous to provide a platform for such hateful rhetoric or to allow a platform to be hijacked for such purposes , " the ADL deputy director wrote . " It is surprising to have to make this point to educators who purport to be concerned with equitable and inclusive classrooms for all students . " 
@@119102187 <p> Third and fourth grade students watch a solar eclipse at Marquette Elementary School at 6550 S. Richmond St. in Chicago Lawn , Monday , April 8 , 2024 . With sunny skies and a high of 71 degrees , students , workers and families across Chicago took a break from their daily routines to marvel at the partial eclipse -- a spectacle that wo n't be seen in the U.S. again until 2044 . <h> The year in pictures : Here are our top photos from 2024 <p> It 's been a year . We say that most Decembers at the Sun-Times . But 2024 was particularly big . <p> Chicago hosted the Democratic National Convention , while Milwaukee welcomed the Republicans . We saw the rat hole go viral then disappear , as did natural phenomena -- cicadas and a solar eclipse . We traveled to Canada and Colombia to report on migrants and protests back home . We got our ups with Lollapalooza , while the White Sox and Bears brought plenty of downs . <p> The Sun-Times photo staff captured it all . Here 's our best work of 2024 . <p> Ethan Lopez , 6 , rings a bell to celebrate his last chemotherapy session while his mother Gisela Gama holds him at Ann and Robert H. Lurie Children 's Hospital of Chicago in the Streeterville neighborhood , Friday , Jan. 5 , 2024 . Kids read a poem and ring a bell whenever they finish their chemotherapy . Chicago Bears Pres. and CEO Kevin Warren and his wife Greta Warren announced a $1 million pledge to help families who are receiving treatment at Lurie Children 's Center for Cancer and Blood Disorders . The money will help fund transportation , accommodations and other needs for families , according to a press release . <p> Food scientist technicians inspect chocolate bars that are coming out of a conveyor belt during a media tour of the Mars Global Research and Development Hub in Goose Island , Thursday , Jan. 18 , 2024 . The 44,000 square-foot facility features a clean nut kitchen , a test kitchen , panning and printing rooms and a flexible pilot line which will allow scientists and products developers to experiment and innovate for chocolates like Snickers , Twix and more . Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> Yasmeen Elagha , who has been trying to help her relatives evacuate from Khan Younis in Gaza , stands in front of a photo of her , her cousins and other relatives in Oakbrook Terrace , Ill. , Saturday , Jan. 20 , 2024 . Elagha 's two cousins , Borak and Hashem Elagha ( pictured on the television ) , are U.S. citizens whose evacuation with their family have been approved by the U.S. but are being stalled because their names are not on an exit list , which Israel and Egypt finalize , she said . She hopes that the U.S. government will do more to advocate for their evacuation . Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> Comfort Agboola , a teacher at the Edgar Allan Poe Classical Elementary School in the Pullman neighborhood , cries as she is surprised with the news that she won the Milken Educator Award in the school , Feb. 2 , 2024 . The award , which comes with a $25,000 cash prize , recognizes excellent educators across the nation . Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> A student reacts at the Edgar Allan Poe Classical Elementary School in the Pullman neighborhood , where officials awarded Comfort Agboola the Milken Educator Award , Friday , Feb. 2 , 2024 . The award , which comes with a $25,000 cash prize , recognizes excellent educators across the nation . Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> Kaylee Huang ( center ) , who is in the seventh grade at Robert Healy Elementary School , performs with Janet Mei ( right ) , a sixth grader , during a Lunar New Year celebration at Robert Healy Elementary School in the Bridgeport neighborhood , Thursday , Feb. 8 , 2024 . Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> Sarah Curran , executive director of UChicago Presents , sits in the stands of Mandel Hall at the University of Chicago in Hyde Park , Tuesday , Feb. 20 , 2024 . Curran took over as executive director in June 2023 with a goal to make the classically based music series more innovative , inclusive and interdisciplinary , and more connected to other facets of the university and the city beyond . <p> Jody Roberts , grandfather of 14-year-old Amere Deese , shares memories of the teen while standing outside his South Shore home , Monday , Feb. 26 , 2024 . Amere was one of three people killed in a shooting that Chicago police said also left one person wounded Sunday evening in a home in Chatham on the South Side . <p> A home smells of smoke and water after it was destroyed by a fire in the 8000 block of South South Shore Drive in South Chicago , early Monday , March 4 , 2024 . Chicago Transit Authority bus driver Anastasios Adamopoulos , 63 , and a passenger hopped off his bus about 2 a.m. and awoke 14 residents sleeping inside the building and a neighboring house that also caught fire . <p> An aerial view of Soldier Field looking north toward the city 's skyline , as the Chicago Bears shift their focus to the parking area south of their current home in their quest for a new domed stadium , Monday , March 11 , 2024 . <p> Brian Ernst/Sun-Times <p> John Paunovic , meat manager at Ed 's Way Food Mart , looks into remaining stock in the frozen foods aisle of the store at 946 Beloit Ave . in Forest Park , Thursday , March 21 , 2024 . After nearly 33 years in business , the beloved family-owned grocery store is shutting its doors to make way for a planned 10-unit townhome building . <p> Zubaer Khan/Sun-Times <p> Attendees dance while throwing powder in the air during a Holi celebration , which is a Hindu tradition , at Navy Pier , Saturday , March 23 , 2024 . " Global Connections : Holi " is a free event that features performances , live music and powder throwing . Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> A man places a bag on top of a car outside the migrant shelter at Broadway Armory Park in Edgewater , Saturday , March 30 , 2024 . More than 730 asylum seekers are expected to be moved from five Chicago Park District locations : Brands Park , Gage Park , Leone Beach Boathouse , Broadway Armory Park and Piotrowski Park . <p> Lithuanian National Cemetery manager Leonas Putrius stands near green burial graves at the cemetery in Justice , Monday , April 8 , 2024 . About 60% of people are interested in exploring green funeral options , more than ever before . <p> Dexter Reed 's sister , Porscha Banks , shouts at Chicago police officers as activists try to deescalate the situation during a protest outside the District 11 police station , Tuesday , April 9 , 2024 . Reed , 26 , was shot to death by Chicago police during a traffic stop on March 21 . The Civilian Office of Police Accountability on Tuesday said video of the incident appeared to show Reed opened fire first , striking an officer in the hand before four other cops fired roughly 96 shots at Reed in 41 seconds . <p> Tyler Pasciak LaRiviere/Sun-Time <p> Kids play with a balloon during an Eid-Al-Fitr prayer event at the Donald E. Stephens Convention Center in Rosemont , Wednesday , April 10 , 2024 . <p> Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> Melany Oreste ( left ) and Eider Torres ( right ) travel together on the Pamplona-Cucuta highway near the Los Acacios toll outside of Cucuta in Norte de Santander , Colombia , Sunday , April 14 , 2024 . Over the past two years , the city of Chicago has struggled to care for destitute migrants arriving from the southern border . The majority , around 30,000 , are from Venezuela , a South American country whose economy has collapsed . Colombia initially rolled out the welcome mat and , by many measures , absorbed this population with little harm and many benefits . Nearly 1.9 million Venezuelans gained paths to formal employment as well as Colombia 's education and health care systems . More recently , however , Colombia 's migrant integration has begun to falter due to the indifference of a new president , waning interest among international donors and a wave of xenophobia rippling through the public . Colombia -- a decade into a muddled but essentially humane response to a migrant crisis -- holds many lessons for Chicago . <p> Relatives of 9-year-old Ariana Molina mourn in the 2000 block of West 52nd Street after a mass shooting during a gathering the night before on the Back of the Yards neighborhood block , Sunday , April 14 , 2024 . Molina was killed in the 9:30 p.m . Saturday shooting that left 10 other people wounded , including the girl 's mother and three boys , ages 1 , 8 and 9 . <p> Ashlee Rezin/Sun-Times <p> Construction workers install granite exterior cladding to the Obama Presidential Center in Jackson Park , Tuesday , April 16 , 2024 . The 235-foot center 's construction is scheduled to be completed by spring 2026 . <p> Jim Vondruska/For the Sun-Times <p> A couple sits on a bench overlooking a park and the Toronto skyline , Saturday , April 20 , 2024 . Canada is known for its friendlier approach to immigration , but it also faces hurdles as record numbers of people are displaced globally . The Sun-Times traveled to Toronto to explore how the country handles housing and job needs for its newest immigrants . <p> People sit outside Toronto 's intake center at 129 Peter St. , where many refugee claimants and asylum seekers go to seek government housing services , Monday , April 22 , 2024 . While many praise Canada 's Express Entry system as speedier than the months-long wait to get a work permit in the United States , immigrants can face hurdles finding pay and job titles equivalent to the ones in their native countries . <p> Ashlee Rezin/Sun-Times <p> A protester sits with a Palestinian flag at Northwestern University 's Deering Meadow in Evanston , where students and professors set up an encampment in support of Palestinians to demand Northwestern " protect student civil liberties and safety , end partnerships that legitimize genocide and occupation , and disclose and divest from war and apartheid , " according to organizers , Thursday , April 25 , 2024 . <p> Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> Chicago Police Officer Luis Huesca 's mother , Edith Huesca , carries the Chicago flag that draped her son 's casket as she is escorted to her vehicle after his funeral at St. Rita of Cascia Shrine Chapel , Monday , April 29 , 2024 . Officer Huesca , who had been on the police force for six years and was just two days away from his 31st birthday , was wearing his uniform when he was shot to death April 21 while driving home from work on the Southwest Side . <p> Anthony Vazquez/Sun-Times <p> The " Monument with Standing Beast " sculpture , the 29-foot tall structure that has stood outside the Thompson Center since 1984 , was removed , Thursday , May 2 , 2024 . <p> A demonstrator is detained by Chicago police officers as they clear an encampment set up for several hours by students protesting the Israel-Hamas war at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago in the Loop , Saturday , May 4 , 2024 . Nearly 70 people were arrested as protesters demanded the school and museum disclose its investments , give amnesty to demonstrators and divest from those supporting the " occupation of Palestine . " <p> A punch is thrown as pro-Palestinian protesters clash with counter-protesters at the encampment in the quad at the University of Chicago on the South Side , Friday , May 3 , 2024 . Encampment organizers demand that the university disclose its investments in weapons manufacturers , divest from those connected to Israel and repair the damage those investments have inflicted on the South Side and abroad . <p> An Israeli flag is raised as Chicago 's Jewish community and supporters celebrate Israel Independence Day in Daley Plaza , Tuesday , May 14 , 2024 . Israel declared its independence on May 14 , 1948 . The celebration was muted in the wake of the Israel-Hamas war and out of consideration for the hostages still being held by the terror group . <p> A periodical cicada flies away from Stephanie Adams , plant healthcare leader at the Morton Arboretum , Friday , May 17 , 2024 . The periodical cicadas have emerged in the Chicago area for the first time in 17 years . <p> Ashlee Rezin/Sun-Times <p> Cicadas perch on plants in Aurora , Wednesday , May 22 , 2024 . The periodical cicadas , which emerge from underground in the spring every 17 years , are expected to die off by the end of June , according to Morton Arboretum scientists . When they die off , millions of the dead insects will cover the ground in suburban Chicago and much of northern Illinois . <p> Josefina Morales smiles for the camera while watching the Puerto Rican People 's Day Parade , which took place on West Division Street from North Campbell Avenue to North Sacramento Avenue on the West Side , Saturday , June 8 , 2024 . Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> Chief Keef brings his daughter on stage while performing at Lyrical Lemonade 's Summer Smash music festival at SeatGeek Stadium in Bridgeview , Sunday , June 16 , 2024 . For the first time in the Chicago area in nearly 12 years , old and new fans saw the king of drill music -- real name Keith Cozart -- deliver a firefly medley ranging from his classic street anthems from 2011-2013 to songs from his new album " Almighty So 2 . " <p> A family stands with one of their two new air conditioning units outside their Humboldt Park home , Wednesday , June 19 , 2024 . Restaurant owner Robert Magiet delivered free AC units to residents in Logan Square , Humboldt Park and other areas as Chicago hit four days in a row with temperatures exceeding 90 degrees . <p> Kylie Lefever , who performs in drag as Kylee Hunter , does her makeup and prepares for a performance at Roscoe 's Tavern in Northalsted , Thursday , June 13 , 2024 . Over the decades , Chicago has become a premier place to practice the art of drag . Recently , the city has also become a safe haven for drag queens . <p> Tom and Mina Popp , who attended Highland Park 's Independence Day Parade for the first time in 2022 , dance during the Independence Day Parade along Central Avenue in Highland Park , Thursday , July 4 , 2024 . Two years after the Highland Park shooting , Tom Popp said there was some " apprehension " in going back this year , but he hopes it will become a family tradition . <p> Edith Renfrow Smith , who will celebrate her 110th birthday on July 14 , takes a break while baking a sour cherry pie at her North Side home , Friday , July 5 , 2024 . Smith , Grinnell College class of ' 37 , is a rare " supercentenarian " and in the fall her alma mater is naming a new dorm after her . <p> A piping plover chick nestles with an adult piping plover in the area sectioned off for the endangered species on Montrose Beach on the North Side , Wednesday , July 10 , 2024 . <p> Tyler Pasciak LaRiviere/Sun-Times <p> Ezra Solomon helps clear the road of debris near the intersection of West Huron and North Leavitt streets in West Town , after a record number of tornadoes passed through the Chicago area overnight , Tuesday , July 16 , 2024 , <p> Former President Donald Trump kisses the helmet and firefighter 's jacket that belonged to Corey Comperatore as he speaks on the fourth and final night of the 2024 Republican National Convention , accepting the party 's nomination for president , at the Fiserv Forum in Milwaukee , Wisconsin , Thursday , July 18 , 2024 . Comperatore , 50 , was fatally shot at a Pennsylvania rally where Trump survived an assassination attempt . <p> Former President Donald Trump responds to Rachel Scott , senior congressional correspondent for ABC News , as he participates in a conversation with journalists at the National Association of Black Journalists Annual Convention and Career Fair at the Hilton Chicago , Wednesday , July 31 , 2024 . The shortened session was full of incendiary comments from the ex-president , including claims of undocumented immigrants taking " Black jobs " and the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee of " only promoting Indian heritage . " <p> Chicago police push protesters and reporters from the sidewalk near North Clinton and West Madison streets near the security perimeter outside the United Center on the second night of the 2024 Democratic National Convention , Tuesday , Aug. 20 , 2024 . <p> Olivia del Cuadio , 4 , plays in the water feature at River Park on the Northwest Side as Chicago hit a record with a 99-degree temperature recorded at O'Hare International Airport , breaking a previous record that stood for more than half a century , Tuesday , Aug. 27 , 2024 . <p> A 10-foot-high metal fence surrounds a former homeless encampment at 1100 S. Desplaines St. , Wednesday , Sept. 4 , 2024 . Mayor Brandon Johnson 's administration spent $814,000 on the giant fence as part of an effort to shut down one of the city 's largest and most visible homeless encampments ahead of the Democratic National Convention , City Hall records show . <p> A woman holds an Israeli flag during a memorial organized by the Jewish United Fund in Chicago 's northern suburbs to honor victims of the Oct. 7 , 2023 attack on Israel , Monday , Oct. 7 , 2024 . It was one of many such events held to mark one year since the attack . <p> Families and educators react after the Acero Schools Board of Directors voted during a meeting at Acero Roberto Clemente School on the West Side to close seven of their 15 schools next year , Wednesday , Oct. 9 , 2024 . The closures are planned to begin June 2025 and will impact about 2,000 students . <p> Tommy Kendall holds a picture of his brother , Jess Kendall , next to Jess ' 1975 Chevy C10 in Elgin , Tuesday , Oct. 22 , 2024 . Jesse Kendall , 18 , and four friends were making their way to the United Center on Oct. 20 when they were confronted by four assailants who robbed them at gunpoint before fatally shooting Kendall . <p> A woman helps children walk under police tape as Chicago police work the scene where two people were shot , including a 9-year-old girl who suffered a graze wound to the calf , in the 5100 block of North Winthrop Avenue outside Goudy Technical Academy in Uptown , Friday , Nov. 1 , 2024 . <p> Voters line up to cast their ballots in the 2024 presidential election at DANK Haus German American Cultural in Lincoln Square on Election Day , Tuesday , Nov. 5 , 2024 . <p> Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> Cook County State 's Attorney candidate Eileen O'Neill Burke hugs her husband as she watches Election Day results trickle in during her watch party at Moe 's Cantina in River North , Tuesday , Nov. 5 , 2024 . Burke , a former prosecutor , law division judge and appellate court justice , was declared the winner in a landslide victory over Republican Bob Fioretti . <p> Anthony Vazquez/Sun-Times <p> Supporters eat and mingle as they watch results trickle in on Election Night at the Democratic Party of Illinois watch party for Democratic presidential nominee Vice President Kamala Harris at Joy District in River North , Tuesday , Nov. 5 , 2024 . <p> Ashlee Rezin/Sun-Times <p> Firefighters and police officers salute the ambulance carrying Chicago Police Officer Enrique Martinez 's body during the procession to the Cook County medical examiner 's office , early Tuesday , Nov. 5 , 2024 . Martinez , 26 , who was on the force for nearly three years , was fatally shot about 8 p.m . Monday during a traffic stop in the 8000 block of South Ingleside Avenue in Chatham . <p> Hendrix Skylan , a singer and songwriter known as Hendi Sky , wears a clown nose and a hat she made herself on Amtrak 's Train 41 , the Floridian , Tuesday , Nov. 12 , 2024 . Skylan hopped on the train in Chicago , Ill. and is going to Orland , Fla. for a music festival . " It 's nice to be down here where it kind of is like , it shifts your perspective as like to how big the world is ... It 's almost like a blip in time ... You like , open your eyes and you 're in a different state and you step out for a second and you 're there and then you get back on the train and then you 're somewhere else , " Skylan said . <p> Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> A person travels on a boat as the sun sets in Florida , Tuesday , Nov. 12 , 2024 . <p> Winner Ben Shabad is hoisted in the air by other participants during a Jeremy Allen White look-alike contest in Humboldt Park , Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 . Over 50 participants came out to take home the crown of the most Jeremy Allen White look-alike , most dressing as his character Carmen ' Carmy ' Berzatto from the series " The Bear . " <p> As part of our goal in the last few years to better reflect Chicago 's diversity in our news pages , we published a series of columns written by community members and held listening sessions in neighborhoods throughout the city , among other efforts . <p> The 17-year and 13-year periodical cicadas returned to the Chicago area this year , and I became the Sun-Times ' de facto cicada reporter , writing stories about tattoos , travel and snacks -- all coming back to cicadas . <p> An Andersonville man who was one of the first U.S. children to receive the polio vaccine chastises RFK Jr . and others who sow doubt on medical science . Others tackle the city 's ouster of Raed Mansour , slow U.S. Postal Service , Donald Trump 's dependence on Elon Musk , a possible delta-8 ban and childhood Christmas experiences . 
@@119112482 <h> The Norwegian Football Federation president said she stands behind her government 's call to end the war in Gaza . <p> The President of the Norwegian Football Federation ( NFF ) called on FIFA to investigate Israel for humanitarian violations ahead of the qualifying match for the 2026 World Cup between the two countries , according to Norwegian broadcaster NRK . <p> NFF President Lise Klaveness said that her association stands with the Norwegian government 's calls to end the Israel-Hamas War and to stop attacks on Gazan civilians . She added that the NFF is advocating for FIFA to address sanctions with Israel . <p> " It is difficult for us beyond the purely sporting aspect , " Klaveness said , as reported by NRK . " None of us can remain indifferent to the disproportionate attacks that Israel has subjected the civilian population in Gaza to over time . " <p> FIFA announced the groupings for the preliminary matches for the 2026 World Cup last Friday . Israel and Norway will face off in March 2025 . All qualifying matches will be finished by November , and all of the winners will head to the World Cup in North America . <p> Norway 's demands come after FIFA said in October that it would not suspend Israel but that it would be investigating claims of discrimination against Palestinian football players and officials . Demonstrators gathered outside the South African Football Association building to demand that FIFA suspend Israel 's membership , March 16 , 2024 , in Johannesburg . ( credit : Ihsaan Haffejee/Anadolu via Getty Images/JTA ) <h> Ties to Palestinian Football <p> " Moreover , we are closer to the region and the Palestinian Football Federation than most other European federations , as we have worked on the ground for over ten years , educating female football coaches and creating football activities for children in schools and refugee camps , " Klaveness told Norwegian press . <p> The Norwegian team 's head coach , St ? le Solbakken , however , said that while there would be discussions between all parties , his team does not fear playing Israel . <p> " I think there will be many discussions . It looks like it will be on neutral ground now , " said Solbakken to NRK regarding playing the Israeli team . <p> " I do n't know if we dread it , but we know this will be a major topic of conversation . And that 's how it should be , given what has happened in that region . But there has been a lot of politics during my time , so we 'll continue a bit longer , " he said . <p> The Palestinian Football Association ( PFA ) said that it welcomed Klavness 's " principled stance " in a Tuesday statement . <p> " The PFA expresses its full appreciation for Norway 's recognition of the ongoing violations against Palestinian civilians and athletes , aligning with its long-standing commitment to justice and the integrity of international sports , " the PFA statement read . " President Klaveness 's remarks echo the sentiments of millions around the world who believe that FIFA and the international football community can not remain silent while grave breaches of human rights persist . " <p> The PFA maintained that " Israeli occupation forces are systematically targeting Palestinian sports , athletes , and infrastructure , blatantly violating FIFA regulations and international humanitarian law " and added that Israel " systematically violates FIFA statutes by tolerating racism , serving as a tool for Israeli annexation of occupied territory , and encouraging the ongoing genocide in Gaza . " 
@@119112485 <p> When more than 950 day and overnight camp professionals , board members , and funders gathered in Chicago for the Foundation for Jewish Camp 's three-day Jewish camp summit earlier this month , it had the feel of a camp reunion , academic conference , and trade show all in one . <p> There were plenary sessions featuring such Jewish community notables as Julie Beren Platt , chairwoman of the board of trustees of the Jewish Federations of North America and immediate past chairwoman of FJC , in dialogue with one of her famous sons , podcaster Jonah Platt , on the topic of " Scaling Jewish Joy and Identity . " Another plenary included two former congressmen -- Ted Deutch ( current CEO of the American Jewish Committee ) and Eric Fingerhut ( CEO of JFNA ) . <p> The conference included sessions extolling the benefits of Jewish summer camping and its commitment to and deep connection with Israel and Israelis ( over 3,000 Israelis worked at nearly 200 Jewish day and overnight camps this summer ) , and others addressing a smorgasbord of camp-related topics , including building connections between North American and Israeli staff , year-round camper care , emergency preparedness , inclusion , character development , parents as partners , gender dynamics , and mental health . <p> Participants at the 10th biennial Leaders Assembly enjoyed a welcome reception on Monday ( with a band paying tunes of David Broza and other camp favorites ) , Tuesday on-site intensives ( including sessions on " Engaging the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict at Camp : Exploring Challenges and Opportunities " ) and off-site trips , and Wednesday 's " Wear Your Camp Swag " day -- though attire for the conference was officially listed as " camp business casual . " <p> Conference attendees came together for meals , had the option to pray in a variety of styles , and had ample time to schmooze with or friend or walk through the " shuk " to gather pens , bags , candy , stickers , brochures , and other free stuff while learning about climbing equipment , luggage shipping ( from Door-Va-Door Tucking ) , various Israel programs and Camp Medical Services . When vendors were on break , their tables featured such playful campy signs as " Preparing for the talent show -- be right back , " " Tie-dyeing my socks -- be right back , " and " Roasting marshmallows -- be right back . " There were plenary sessions on topics such as " Scaling Jewish Joy and Identity , " and " Scaling Leadership . ' ' ( credit : HOWARD BLAS ) <p> FJC advocates for over 300 day and overnight camps which provide nearly 190,000 campers and counselors each summer with a meaningful , personal , and lifelong connection to Judaism . They regularly bring stakeholders in the camping world together to learn of trends , new initiatives , and funding for Jewish camping . <p> At the conference , Jeremy J. Fingerman , CEO of the organization , founded in 1998 , shared data on the importance , success , and growth of Jewish camping . <p> According to surveys of the 2024 camp season : <p> * Nine in 10 families reported that camp created an environment that supported their children 's social and emotional health and well-being . <p> * 85% of camp staff felt that camp connected them to feeling a part of the worldwide Jewish community . <p> * 94% of parents shared that camp connected their child to the global Jewish community <p> * 80% of North American overnight camp staff said camp helped them to connect to Israel and Israeli staff . <p> Fingerman and members of the FJC team reported on camping 's recovery from the recent pandemic , as evidenced by the impressive numbers of campers and staff attending and working at Jewish day and overnight camps in North America this past summer . <p> They noted that high enrollment is stretching camps ' current infrastructure , and at least a quarter of its camps are operating at or near full capacity . Many have been developing plans to increase their ability to serve more young people -- and will surely benefit from a $15 million gift from the Gottesman Fund which Fingerman announced at the conference . <p> " This new funding will facilitate field growth and enable camps to boost enrollment at a time when so many are seeking positive Jewish experiences and Jewish camp is playing an even more important role , " Fingerman reported . <p> Diane Eidman , director at the Gottesman Fund , added , " We 're thrilled to partner with Foundation for Jewish Camp to offer funding for capital improvement projects so that camps can enroll more campers , hire more staff , and deliver higher-quality experiences to every member of the community . <p> " One of our top priorities is enhancing and perpetuating Jewish life in the United States -- and it 's hard to think of an experience that 's more formative for young Jews than camp . " <p> With the generous support of The Gottesman Fund , FJC will be able to offer the funding for capital expansion projects through 2027 , with individual grants of up to $750,000 per camp to cover up to 50% of the total project cost . The funding will focus on three areas : $5m. for staff and family housing to increase staff retention , $7m. for program spaces to modernize infrastructure and bolster climate resilience , and $3m. for camper bunks to help increase capacity . <p> Jamie Simon , FJC 's chief program and strategy officer , offered , " This summer and beyond , we 're committed to ensuring that every camp has the resources they need to provide fun , safe , and meaningful experiences for tens of thousands of young Jews . " <p> THIS PAST summer , 3,000 Israelis worked at over 200 Jewish camps in North America , and campers from the Gaza border communities and evacuees from northern towns also participated in summer camping . <p> FJC 's commitment to enhancing personal connections between Diaspora and Israeli Jews was apparent at many conference sessions . <p> In a session titled " Building Connections Between North American and Israeli Staff , " Or Pode of Kibbutz Zikim and director of youth for the Hof Ashkelon Regional Council , said , " The relationship between Israel and the Diaspora works . We are from the same womb and nurtured on the same values . When I was in pain , you were hurting ; with antisemitism , we are here for you , building bridges . " <p> Pode helped bring 200 campers to six different camps as part of Campers2Gether , a new initiative of the Jewish Agency and Mosaic Teens , a division of Mosaic United , in partnership with the Foundation for Jewish Camp . The program sought to bring 1,500 Israeli teenagers who have been displaced or otherwise affected by the war to Jewish camps in North America and across the Jewish world in the summer of 2024 . <p> At Tuesday morning 's " Summer Camp in Israel and Jewish Agency Campers2Gether " breakfast , Carly Weinstock , director of Camp Tamarack in Michigan , shared the artwork created in an art elective by Israeli campers who came to her camp from Gevim and Be'eri . <p> She noted that the camp social worker found the first week to be particularly challenging , and added that camp was extremely beneficial and therapeutic . " It was interesting to see the transformation in the children from the first week to the last , " she observed , and added that , for the Israelis who lived through October 7 , " five days in camp was like five years in therapy . " <p> Bringing Israeli campers and staff to Jewish summer camps this summer in particular created opportunities for North Americans to have ongoing , meaningful relationships with Israel and Israelis and to more closely connect to the war and to the plight of the hostages . <p> Hanoch Greenberg , director of the Summer Shlichut Program for North America at the Jewish Agency , and Dan Tatar , director of engagement and strategic partnerships at the iCenter , shared a nuanced presentation on the emissary experience this summer . <p> While most camps enthusiastically brought emissaries to their camps and carefully and thoughtfully prepared them for the unique summer ahead , Greenberg acknowledged that at least one camp " had a vocal donor opposed to emissaries " and refused to bring emissaries to camp this summer . In contrast , he noted , " Some camps said , ' now more than ever we need them . ' " Greenberg and Tatar noted that this was a summer where the discussion partially moved from the " how " of bringing emissaries to the " why . " <p> Greenberg reported on the experiences of emissaries this summer as compared to past summers , noting , " Israeli staff were grieving over the ongoing crisis . The continuation of the war put the emissaries in a tough place . " To help them , some camps had Hebrew-speaking social workers on-site , which Greenberg noted was " a tremendous act of support , " along with a Jewish Agency hotline offering help and support for the emissaries . <p> The FJC audience was somewhat surprised to learn that some emissaries were nervous about coming to camps after following the rise in reports of antisemitism in North America . <p> " Parents of some of the emissaries -- even of those who just returned from fighting in Gaza -- were nervous and called me to say they were not letting their children come , " Greenberg shared . " I had never before heard this concern about antisemitism . " <p> Greenberg and Tatar noted the importance of a pre-camp connection between emissaries and the camps . This relationship begins in February with emissaries training in Israel and often continues beyond the summer as meaningful , caring relationships form between Israelis and North Americans . <p> Greenberg shared stories of Americans reaching out to emissaries post-camp to ask " Is there anything I can do ? " when they heard that sirens went off in their hometowns . He reported on emissaries who returned home feeling that " someone cares about me " and feeling " part of a larger family . " <p> Greenberg and Tatar encouraged camps to carefully plan for the summer by anticipating potential issues and problems that might emerge around the topic of Israel . " They should consider , if there is a clash , who handles it ? " The two said unsurprisingly , " Those camps with plans in place had fewer clashes . " Greenberg noted that camps tended to " fall into three categories : those who plan for the summer ; those who say ' let 's not talk about Israel -- it is too controversial ' ; and those who have no plan . " <p> Greenberg , who spent 19 summers at Union for Reform Judaism 's Camp Coleman in Georgia , is pleased with this past summer 's emissary program " despite all the challenges . " He added , " We ca n't ignore all the great things the emissaries achieved . " He stressed how the emissary experience is " mutually beneficial " and that " each side benefits -- both the Israelis and the North Americans . " <p> FINGERMAN is proud of FJC 's initiatives to promote and teach about Israel , and reported that FJC has already awarded $370,000 in Israel education grants to 72 day and overnight camps . At the conference , Fingerman announced several new opportunities designed to elevate Israel education , programming , and resources at Jewish camp for summer 2025 and beyond . <p> They include the Teaching Israel at Camp initiative , where FJC will provide grants to 60 camps to fund the salary and programmatic efforts of a dedicated head of Israel education . This represents an extraordinary investment of over $1.5m. in Israel education . <p> Shalom Bayit will offer workshops and coaching to provide camp leaders with the tools to create communities of trust and mutual understanding . <p> Elevate Israel , a collaboration with the Spertus Institute , will offer seminars and virtual sessions to camp professionals to deepen their knowledge of Israel and its history . <p> Jewish Camp Israel Trip Incubator will provide 10 overnight camps that do not currently run an Israel trip with the know-how to create trips that align with their values and goals . <h> Expanding North American-style Jewish summer camping <p> Meanwhile , back in Israel , Shawna Goodman is working to expand North American-style Jewish summer camping . She created Summer Camps Israel and brought 17 Israel camp directors who operate a wide variety of programs to experience the FJC conference in Chicago . <p> Goodman , a chef by training , playfully noted that she is a " bridger and a blender , " and offered that her camps have five key components : They are immersive ; they mix populations together for " tikkun " ( repair ) ; they have a volunteer component ; they feature " joyful Judaism " ; and they are device-free . " This summer , they provided camping experience to 14,000 Israelis , including over 1,000 evacuees . She hopes to offer camping to over 18,000 children next summer . <p> Jewish summer camping is alive , growing , and evolving , as camps provide meaningful Jewish and Israel experiences to children and young adults in both North America and Israel . 
@@119115181 <h> The Remarkable Collapse of Iran 's Powerful Alliances <p> For forty-five years , Tehran 's Shiite theocracy has heralded its political system as a model for all predominantly Muslim countries -- and even beyond . " We should try hard to export our revolution , " Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini declared , in 1980 , after ousting the last of several Iranian monarchies that had endured for two millennia . " We shall confront the world with our ideology . " It was the core of his government 's strategy to overtly and covertly build a network of allies -- dubbed the Axis of Resistance -- to serve as frontline buffers against Israel , its regional rival . <p> In 2004 , I interviewed King Abdullah II , the Sunni leader of Jordan 's Hashemite dynasty , who warned about an emerging " crescent " of Shiite powers that began in Iran and extended through Iraq , into Syria , and ended in Lebanon . The Middle East -- dominated for centuries by Sunni monarchies , tribal sheikdoms , and autocracies -- was being transformed by this Shiite arc , he told me . The rivalry between Sunnis and Shiites , who are a minority in the Muslim world , dates back to a dispute over political leadership after the Prophet Muhammad died , in the seventh century . It intensified after Iran 's Revolution . <p> The international story of this year may be the collapse of Iran 's alliances . In Syria , the sadistic Assad dynasty , in power for more than a half century , has been ousted by Sunni rebels . ( The Assads are members of the Alawite sect , an offshoot of early Shiite Islam . ) As the rebels advanced on Damascus , Tehran abruptly pulled out its Revolutionary Guards and Basij paramilitary forces , which had been deployed to prop up President Bashar al-Assad . " Some expect us to fight in place of the Syrian Army , " the commander of the Revolutionary Guard Corps told Iranian media . " Is it logical for the I.R.G.C. and Basij forces to take on full responsibility while Syria 's Army merely observes ? " Several Iranian generals have been killed in Syria since 2014 , the most recent one in November . Tehran also shuttered its Embassy and evacuated four thousand citizens on emergency flights . <p> The Iranians " certainly were n't willing or able to come to Assad 's rescue , " John Kirby , the White House national-security communications adviser , told me . " And in the aftermath of his departure , it 's clear to us that they are re ? valuating -- I think is the best way to put it -- their presence in Syria . " <p> In Lebanon , the Shiite leader and military commanders of Hezbollah -- the Iranian-backed party responsible for huge suicide bombings and the imprisonment of dozens of hostages spanning four decades -- have been assassinated in Israeli air strikes . Hezbollah , too , withdrew its forces from Syria , and conceded that the rebel offensive there cut off routes to smuggle war mat ? riel from Iran . In Gaza , Hamas , which has ruled the territory for eighteen years , has been decimated , and its leader killed . And in Yemen , the Houthi rebels , another Iranian ally , have been pounded in air strikes by a U.S.-led coalition in response to their attacks on ships in the Red Sea . ( Houthis are Zaidi Muslims , another early Shiite offshoot , and have long been opposed by the Sunni monarchies in Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E. ) <p> At home , far fewer Iranians seem interested in rallying around the regime 's triumphalist imperative to " confront the world . " " The average citizen is not unhappy about what has happened in Syria , Lebanon , and Gaza , " Nasser Hadian , a political scientist in Tehran , told me . " Hawks think the resistance should continue . But the average citizen thinks it is over and is happy about it . The power of the Axis of Resistance has been tremendously diminished . Reformists think it 's no longer an important source of our deterrence . " Many Iranians fear that the Syrian upheaval will generate chaos -- at a potential cost to them if Tehran continues to aid and abet its allies . " We will be in a mess , " Hadian added . " We should leave it . Let the Americans , Europeans , and regional countries deal with it . " <p> The Islamic Republic is increasingly consumed by domestic challenges . The oil-rich nation is suffering through chronic fuel and electricity shortages . Power cuts have led to repeated closures of schools , government offices , and banks . The country 's oil exports , crimped if not crippled by U.S. sanctions , have plummeted , falling twenty-five per cent short of Tehran 's official budgetary needs . After Assad left Syria , Iran 's currency sank to a record low ; the exchange rate is almost eight hundred thousand rials to a dollar . ( A month after the Revolution , in 1979 , the rial traded at seventy-five to a dollar . ) Since 2017 , sporadic protests have challenged the theocracy over soaring prices of basic necessities , repression and imprisonment of dissidents , and women 's personal rights . The regime is weaker -- on multiple fronts -- than any time since Khomeini 's ambitious speech . <p> At the same time , the loss of regional partners has made Iranians feel more vulnerable . Debate is now intense both within the government and in the public sphere about whether the country should escalate work on its controversial nuclear program . Tehran claims the program is for alternative energy , but it already has an amount of enriched uranium that goes beyond " any credible civilian justification , " Britain , France , and Germany charged recently . Iran could produce more than a dozen nuclear weapons , U.S. intelligence reported last month , although it will still need other sophisticated technology if it opts to do so . " I have had a hard time convincing students that the bomb will not enhance our security and will increase our vulnerability , " Hadian , who taught at the University of Tehran for decades , said . " They think we deserve it because we are a great global power -- and a great power has nuclear weapons . That was true in the Shah 's time and will be the case in the future , too . " <p> Jake Sullivan , the U.S. national-security adviser , has noted that public statements from Iranian officials have changed in the past few months , amid strategic setbacks , and that this raises new questions about a shift in their official doctrine . " The thing about foreign policy and geopolitics is that , when good things happen , often bad things follow , " he said , this week , at the 92nd Street Y. " An adversary that has suffered blows that weaken it obviously presents -- we could say , that 's a good-news story . But it also generates choices for that adversary that can be quite dangerous , and that 's something we have to remain extremely vigilant about as we go forward . " <p> Across the Middle East , the strategic landscape has been transformed this year by physical destruction , death , political vacuums , and poverty . Uncertainty pervades . " Certainly , 2025 will be a problematic year , " Marwan Muasher , a former Jordanian foreign minister , who is now a vice-president at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Amman , told me . " Syria should teach the Arab world two things . First , the Arab Spring is not over and wo n't be over until the problems of the region -- economic prosperity and political inclusion -- are properly addressed . Second , those who live by the sword die by the sword . Stability can not be maintained by brute force . " <p> Political dangers loom for Syria in the months ahead , and could affect its neighbors in Turkey , Jordan , Lebanon , Iraq , and Israel . The rebel victory sounded the death knell for the Baath Party , which was founded in 1943 , in Damascus , as a socialist movement meant to unify more than twenty Arab countries . Its slogan was " A single Arab nation with an eternal mission . " Branches reigned in Syria for sixty-one years and in Iraq for thirty-five , until Saddam Hussein was ousted , in 2003 . The armies that propped up both Baathist regimes crumbled , in the end , with breathtaking speed . <p> A recent study , conducted by political scientists from Georgetown , the University of Virginia , and Emory , analyzed governments created by successful rebellions between 1900 and 2020 . The paper concluded that authoritarian regimes founded by fractured rebel groups were usually short-lived , as armed rivals defected and staged new rebellions . The regimes that survived were generally founded by a single rebel group . Syria 's civil war , which erupted in 2011 , involved several militias . Five parties have claimed territory since Assad fled . " What is so critical in Syria is that we see a credible and inclusive political process that brings together all of Syria , all communities in Syria , " the U.N . special envoy for Syria , Geir O. Pedersen , has stressed . " We need to make sure that state institutions do not collapse . " <p> The scale of destruction across the region this year has been horrific , and the death toll staggering . None of the local economies will be able to absorb the shocks anytime soon . According to World Bank estimates , seven out of ten people in Syria live in poverty . The economy has shrunk by eighty-five per cent during the civil war . Lebanon has incurred more than eight billion dollars in physical damages and economic losses . The economy in Gaza has contracted by ninety per cent ; it will take until 2050 to get the G.D.P . back to prewar levels . The World Food Programme reported this month that the territory is headed toward famine . <p> Governments in the region and beyond have been struggling over what to do , whether individually or with one another . Within a week of Assad 's ouster , many reversed their policies . On December 14th , Secretary of State Antony Blinken said that the U.S. had been in touch with Ha'yat Tahrir al-Sham , the Islamist militia that led the offensive , and which is still on the U.S. terrorism list . " Syria has changed more in less than a week than in any week this last half century , " Blinken told reporters . Turkey reopened its Embassy in Damascus , more than a decade after it severed diplomatic ties as the civil war escalated . In Aqaba , the Jordanian port city , a hastily convened conference of U.S. , U.N. , European , and Middle Eastern officials declared that Syria had the opportunity to end decades of isolation . They committed to " supporting and working with " the Syrian people during their " unprecedented transition " -- notably without Iran . ? 
@@119120895 <h> Share on Social Media <p> A new study from the USC Annenberg Norman Lear Center 's Media Impact Project revealed that Jewish representation on-screen still falls flat , leaning into detrimental stereotypes and highlighting only specific types of Jews . <p> Researchers from the Media Impact Project analyzed 108 Jewish characters across 49 episodes of 15 TV series that aired from 2021 to 2022 . They found that in scripted television Orthodox Jews are often othered , while Jewish people at large are painted in broad strokes as a monolith . <p> Out of the 15 series studied , they found 95% of Jewish people represented on screen were white -- only three characters were perceived as Black , one as Asian and one as Middle Eastern Asian . Additionally , Jews with intersectional identities , including queer representation and body diversity , were largely absent . <p> Antisemitism in America has become increasingly rampant since the Oct. 7 attacks last year and the Israeli military response that followed in Gaza . In late October , FBI director Christopher Wray warned that antisemitism in the U.S. was rising to " historic levels . " Just two months later , Wray reported a 60% increase in hate crime investigations after Oct. 7 . <p> Additionally , the USC study noted that there has been a 36% rise in antisemitic events from 2021 to 2022 and a 140% rise between 2022 and 2023 . <p> " With increasingly brazen attacks on Jews , a message from Hollywood that leans into Jewish joy and pride could be contagious and move off the screen to Jews and non-Jews alike , " Allison Josephs , founder and executive director of JITC Hollywood Bureau , said . <p> The Media Impact Project posited that with more positive , diverse representation of Judaism in film and television , the rate of antisemitic hate could slow . <p> " No community is a monolith , " Lear Center senior researcher Soraya Giaccardi said . " Our findings suggest there is a lot of room for more fully depicting the diversity of the Jewish community . " <p> The study noted several damaging stereotypes that recurred throughout television shows , even ones they studied from 2021 to 2022 : " The Nebbish Man " ( a nerdy , mama 's boy ) , " The Overbearing Jewish Mother " and " The Jewish American Princess ( JAP ) . " <p> " Nobody Wants This " creator Erin Foster received backlash on her show for depicting the parents as " overbearing . " Foster defended herself , stating that she was leaning on their immigrant background more than their Jewish identity for those character traits . <p> " That is why I do n't feel that the parents are stereotypes as much . Immigrant culture can be very insular and fearful of outsiders , and there 's a good reason for that , " Foster explained . " I wanted to play into that , because it 's an added layer of cultural differences between these two people . " <p> After analyzing 30 episodes that aired between 2019 and 2022 and explicitly mentioned Orthodox Judaism , researchers found that only half had an Orthodox character in a speaking role and over a third had no Orthodox characters at all , meaning Orthodox Jews are often talked about rather than having autonomy themselves . <p> Additionally , half of all episodes studied expressed negative judgments about Orthodox Judaism , placing a damaging image about a small population within the Jewish community . <p> The study recommended that to fix these underlying biases and microaggressions in Hollywood , industry professionals should specifically mind tropes that associate Jews with money and power , allow Orthodox characters to speak for themselves , elevate untold Jewish stories , lean into diversity and specificity in storytelling and give voice to Jewish pride and joy . <p> The USC study was independently conducted with funding from the advocacy organization JITC ( Jewish Institute for Television &amp; Cinema ) Hollywood Bureau , a division of Jew in the City . <h> Subscribe to Breaking News . <p> Tess joined TheWrap as the company 's first reporting fellow in 2024 . Tess is from Birmingham , Alabama and attended the University of Southern California , graduating with degrees in theatre and journalism . She also served as the executive editor for Annenberg Media , closely overseeing coverage of campus protests amidst the Israel-Hamas War . Tess also has worked in ... 
@@119139590 <h> Gaza 's Health Ministry said there was ongoing intense and heavy bombing of the Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , which it said was occurring in an " unprecedented manner " and without prior warning <p> A Palestinian inspects the damage at the site of an Israeli strike . File . Photo Credit : Reuters <p> Five people , including two children , were killed in an Israeli airstrike on a house in the Nuseirat refugee camp in the central Gaza strip , medics told Reuters on Saturday . <p> Meanwhile , Gaza 's Health Ministry said there was ongoing intense and heavy bombing of the Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , which it said was occurring in an " unprecedented manner " and without prior warning . <p> The hospital is one of only three barely operational medical facilities on the northern edge of the enclave , where the Israeli army has been operating since October . <p> " The bombing is being conducted with explosives and tank fire , directly targeting us while we are present inside the hospital departments , " the Ministry said . <h> Comments <p> Comments have to be in English , and in full sentences . They can not be abusive or personal . Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments . <p> We have migrated to a new commenting platform . If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in , you may continue to engage with our articles . If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments . Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle. 
@@119143884 <p> A missile fired from Yemen hit Tel Aviv overnight into Saturday , Israeli authorities said , in a rare instance of a failed interception over the city . <p> Israel 's military said the projectile landed in Tel Aviv 's southern Jaffa area , adding that attempts to intercept a missile from Yemen failed shortly after sirens sounded in the area . More than a dozen people sustained minor injuries , according to emergency services , but no fatalities were reported . <p> Israel 's second-largest city , Tel Aviv is the country 's commercial and diplomatic center . Direct hits from projectiles fired at the coastal city are rare , due to Israel 's extensive air defenses . <p> After the strike , the Iran-backed Houthi forces in Yemen said they fired a hypersonic ballistic missile labeled " Palestine 2 " at an Israeli military target in the Jaffa area early on Saturday . <p> " The missile struck its target accurately and the defenses and interception systems failed to intercept it , " the militant group said in a statement . <p> At least 16 people sustained minor injuries from glass fragments that broke in nearby buildings , Israel 's Magen David Adom ( MDA ) emergency service said . <p> In addition , 14 victims were treated for slight injuries they sustained seeking shelter , as well as seven panic victims . <p> Resident Beth Shahai , 69 , told the Reuters news agency that she heard sirens but the missile exploded before she had time to flee her home . <p> " The ballistic missile landed right behind our building , and all the windows blew in on the first , second floor , and the whole area . It was very frightening , " she said . <p> Since Israel 's war with Hamas in Gaza started in October last year , the country has come under fire from missiles and rockets from Hezbollah in Lebanon and the Houthis in Yemen , both Iran-backed militant groups , as well as from Iran itself . Almost all of the projectiles have been intercepted by Israel 's air defenses . <p> People gather at the scene of a missile strike that , according to Israel 's military , was launched from Yemen and landed in Jaffa , south of Tel Aviv , Israel , December 21 , 2024 . <p> Stoyan Nenov/Reuters <p> Israel 's besiegement and bombardment of Gaza has led to tens of thousands of deaths and a humanitarian catastrophe , while its attacks on Lebanon have killed about 4,000 . <p> The Houthis have for months targeted ships in the Red Sea , one of the world 's busiest waterways , calling the attacks a response to the war in Gaza . <p> The Houthis , Hamas and Hezbollah are all part of an Iran-led alliance spanning much of the region , that has attacked Israel and its allies since the war began last year . They say they wo n't stop striking Israel and its allies until a ceasefire is reached in the Palestinian enclave . <p> Hamas 's October 7 attack on Israel -- in which militants killed more than 1,000 people and took hundreds hostage -- sparked the more than 14 months of conflict . <p> On Thursday , the Israeli military said it intercepted a missile launched from Yemen , with shrapnel causing extensive damage to a school near Tel Aviv . <p> In November , shrapnel from an intercepted Hezbollah rocket hit a building in the city . <p> And in July , the Houthis claimed responsibility for a deadly drone attack in Tel Aviv -- the first such strike on the city by the group . 
@@119146898 <p> Israel reportedly presented Hamas with a list of 34 hostages that it insists must be released as part of the first phase of a deal , including 11 names that do not meet Hamas 's criteria for a deal , Egyptian news channel Al-Ghad reported , citing official sources , on Saturday night . <p> Al-Ghad 's sources said that some of the names on Israel 's list include hostages that Hamas considers to be soldiers , whereas Hamas says it will only release the sick , the elderly , and children . <p> The sources added that the first phase of the deal would include the release of 250 Palestinian prisoners in exchange for Israeli hostages . <p> The two parties are also reportedly discussing the key sticking points , such as the Rafah crossing , the withdrawal of the IDF from the Netzarim axis , and the return of displaced Gazans to the north of the Strip . <p> However , it is worth noting that Israeli officials denied that any officials were in Egypt to discuss a deal , stating on Saturday , " There is no Israeli delegation on the way to Cairo , nor is one planned . " View of the Philadelphi Corridor between the southern Gaza Strip and Egypt , on July 15 , 2024. ( credit : Oren Cohen/Flash90 ) <p> Hamas and Israel are also debating the terms of a gradual IDF withdrawal from the Philadelphi corridor . <p> Al-Ghad also said that an Israeli delegation had arrived in Cairo on Friday to discuss the deal and that the delegates had met with key Egyptian officials . <p> From the Egyptian side , the discussions allegedly focused on the management of the Rafah crossing and the Philadelphi and Netzarim axes . <p> The Al-Ghad correspondent added that " there are arrangements to hold an **32;993;TOOLONG meeting in Cairo to discuss the truce agreement in Gaza . " <h> Progress of the deal <p> Hamas said in a statement earlier on Saturday that " The possibility of reaching a deal is closer than ever if Israel stops imposing new conditions . " <p> The statement comes following a Friday meeting between a Hamas delegation led by Khalil al-Hayya , head of the negotiating team for a hostage deal and ceasefire , and representatives of the Islamic Jihad and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine ( PFLP ) . <p> Also on Saturday , a Palestinian official told the BBC that talks to reach a Gaza ceasefire and hostage release deal between Israel and Hamas are 90% complete . <p> The remaining 10% allegedly includes the Philadelphi corridor and the possibility of a buffer zone between Israel and Gaza . 
@@119154383 <h> Follow Us <h> Lack of shelter , food increases Gazans ' misery as winter sets in <p> A Palestinian child runs to shelter from the rain at the Nuseirat refugee camp in the Gaza Strip on Dec. 20 , 2024 . <p> Share <p> Lack of shelter , food increases Gazans ' misery as winter sets in <p> share <p> GENEVA -- <p> As temperatures drop and seasonal rains flood fragile settlements in the Gaza Strip this winter , aid agencies fear many Palestinians will die while others become critically ill and some permanently disabled . <p> " It is very cold . It has been raining overnight . ... We are anticipating very heavy rain here today , and this is while 1.9 million people are displaced , " Louise Wateridge , senior emergency officer for UNRWA -- the U.N . Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees -- told journalists in Geneva Friday from the Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza . <p> Nuseirat , one of Gaza 's eight historical refugee camps established in 1948 , came under Israeli fire last week , killing more than 30 Palestinians and injuring dozens of others . <p> " Palestinians do not have access to adequate shelter ; 69% of buildings have been damaged or destroyed across the Gaza Strip , " Wateridge said . <p> Although many people will lack shelter capable of protecting them from the winter cold and rain , she said , " we have had to prioritize food over shelter entering the Gaza Strip . " <p> Wateridge explained that essential relief supplies have been sitting in trucks " outside the Gaza Strip waiting to enter for the past six months . " <p> The UNRWA official also observed that the widespread damage and destruction of buildings throughout Gaza has left Palestinian families unprotected from Israel 's relentless airstrikes . <p> " We are hearing from doctors that children are getting injuries from shrapnel from strikes over a kilometer away from where the strikes hit , because there is nothing but tents and fabrics to protect them from any bombs and any bullets , " she said . <p> Wateridge said that some of the most wrenching scenes she has witnessed " are seeing toddlers in hospitals missing limbs after strikes ... and seeing children searching through piles of trash for scraps of food or materials for shelter . " <p> This image contains sensitive content which some people may find offensive or disturbing . <p> A Palestinian carries a wounded child at the site of an Israeli strike on an apartment building in Nuseirat , Gaza Strip , on Dec. 20 , 2024 . <p> Rosalia Bollen , UNICEF 's communication specialist in Gaza , who has spent the past three months in the Palestinian enclave , warns that hunger , malnutrition and dire living conditions are putting the lives of children at risk . <p> Speaking on a video link from Amman , Jordan , on Friday , Bollen said that more than 96% of women and children in Gaza can not meet their basic nutritional needs . <p> " Most are surviving on rations of flour , pasta , lentils , can food at best ... a diet that is slowly compromising their health , " she said , noting that healthier food is not available in Gaza because only 65 truckloads of aid daily were entering Gaza , compared with 500 trucks that entered daily before the war . <p> " Virtually all children under 2 in Gaza consume from two food groups at best . This is very , very dangerous because young children who grow rapidly need access to nutritious food ... otherwise , they are at risk of wasting or stunting . <p> " The consequences of that are lifelong . Children do not recover from that later on , " she said , emphasizing the suffering is physical and psychological . " Children are sick , tired and traumatized . " <p> She said conditions for children are particularly bad in northern Gaza , which has been under " a near total siege for 75 days now . " <p> " Gaza must be one of the most heartbreaking places for us humanitarians to work in , because every small effort we make to save a child 's life is undone by devastation , " she said . " For over 14 months , children have been at the sharp edge of this nightmare , with more than 14,500 children reportedly killed and thousands more injured . " <p> The Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs , or OCHA , UNICEF , UNRWA and other U.N . agencies carried out an assessment Thursday at four sites hosting some 1,600 families who had arrived from North Gaza since the Israeli siege began nearly 11 weeks ago . <p> " Families are packed into tents or damaged buildings with no electricity , " OCHA said . <p> " People sheltering at these sites lack the most basic items , including shoes , clothing , mattresses , blankets and kitchen supplies . They also reported a shortage of medicines , with diseases spreading rapidly due to the cold . " <p> Palestinian girls struggle to reach for food at a distribution center in Khan Younis , Gaza Strip , on Dec. 20 , 2024 . <p> UNICEF 's Bollen noted that the onset of winter in Gaza has inflicted additional pain and suffering upon children badly in need of aid that could alleviate their misery . <p> " Children are cold . They are wet . They are barefoot . I see many children who still wear summer clothes , and with cooking gas gone , there also are lots of children I see scavenging through piles of garbage looking for plastic they can burn . Diseases are meanwhile ravaging their little bodies , while hospitals are destitute and constantly attacked , " she said . <p> " As many of us head into the celebrations of Christmas and New Year surrounded by so much , let us take a moment to think of these children who have so little and yet continue to lose more day by day . <p> " Every day without action steals another day from Gaza 's children . ... Gaza 's children can not wait , " Bollen said . 
@@119169388 <p> Two U.S. Navy pilots safely ejected over the Red Sea on Sunday after their F/A-18 fighter jet was shot down by what appeared to be friendly fire , U.S. Central Command said . <p> The F/A-18 was flying off of the USS Harry S. Truman when it was downed , CENTCOM said in a statement . One of the pilots may have sustained minor injuries during the ejection , CENTCOM said . <p> The guided missile cruiser USS Gettysburg , part of the USS Harry S. Truman Carrier Strike Group in the region , " mistakenly fired on and hit the F/A-18 , " it said . <p> " A full investigation is underway , " CENTCOM added . <p> Officials did n't release the fighter 's exact mission . <p> The apparent accident happened Sunday morning in the region between Africa and the Middle East , a focus of U.S. military assets assembled to protect U.S. personnel , coalition partners and global shipping interests . <p> On Dec. 15 , CENTCOM said in a statement that the strike group had entered its area of command , which includes the Middle East , Central Asia and parts of South Asia . <p> The strike group also includes Carrier Air Wing 1 , Destroyer Squadron 28 and two Arleigh Burke-class guided-missile destroyers , the USS Stout and the USS Jason Dunham , according to CENTCOM . <p> " The Strike Group is deployed to ensure regional stability and security , " CENTCOM said Dec. 15 . <p> U.S. forces have continued to mount a defense against Iran-backed Houthi rebels based in Yemen , who have targeted cargo ships for missile attacks that threaten the global supply chain . <p> Over the last year , U.S. forces have launched attacks against Houthi facilities and assets in Yemen , including underground storage facilities , command and control locations , missile and radar systems , and drone bases . <p> " We will continue to make clear to the Houthis that there will be consequences for their illegal and reckless attacks , " the Pentagon press secretary , Air Force Maj. Gen. Pat Ryder , said after U.S. forces struck Houthi weapons facilities in Yemen in November . <p> Houthis stepped up their attacks after the Oct. 7 , 2023 , incursion into Israel by Hamas militants based in Gaza , which was met with war on the militants by Israel with support from the United States . <p> According to Israeli officials , about 1,200 people were killed in Israel during the incursion by Hamas militants , who took about 250 hostages . Around 100 are still being held , according to an NBC News tally , though more than a third are believed to be dead . <p> Israeli attacks in Gaza have killed more than 45,000 people , most of them women and children , since the start of the war , according to Palestinian health officials . <p> Houthi militants said in a statement Saturday that Israel 's behavior has included " massacres against our brothers in Gaza . " <p> On Saturday morning , a Houthi missile launched from Yemen struck Tel Aviv , resulting in injuries to 14 people but no deaths , emergency services officials in Israel said . In their statement , Houthi rebels noted the missile was not thwarted by Israel 's " iron dome " defense . 
@@119178286 <h> " Those who do not contribute to the national effort would do well , at the very least , not to hinder it , " Netanyahu responded . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and National Unity head Benny Gantz exchanged barbs on Sunday after Gantz claimed that Netanyahu had attempted to sabotage a hostage deal by speaking on the subject to foreign media . <p> " Netanyahu is once again running to the foreign media , " Gantz initially said . " While the negotiators are working , Netanyahu is once again sabotaging it . You have no mandate to once again thwart the return of our hostages for political considerations . Returning the hostages is the right thing to do -- morally , in terms of security , and nationally . " <p> " We are in sensitive times -- life and death truly rest on the power of words . To quote Netanyahu from just a week ago : ' The less we talk , the better , ' " Gantz said . <p> " Yet , like a rerun , Netanyahu is once again rushing to foreign media and talking endlessly , and once again , a ' diplomatic source ' provided a briefing over the weekend . While the negotiators are working , Netanyahu is again undermining the process , " Gantz continued , alluding to the interview Netanyahu held with Wall Street Journal editorial writer Elliot Kaufman , published Friday . <p> " One more thing -- you said in the Wall Street Journal that Hamas can not rule Gaza because it is 30 miles from Tel Aviv , " Gantz said , speaking directly to Netanyahu . " Let me remind you : Hamas can not rule Gaza because it is two kilometers from Nir Oz and Be'eri , and four kilometers from Sderot . Their security must be restored , and the hostages taken from their beds there must be brought back . " A man walks past posters of hostages kidnapped during the deadly October 7 , 2023 attack by Hamas , amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza between Israel and Hamas , in Tel Aviv , Israel , November 25 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/Stoyan Nenov TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY ) <p> Netanyahu responded to Gantz , saying that he should not " lecture " the prime minister on the need to eliminate Hamas or the " sacred mission of bringing our hostages home . " <p> " Since Gantz left the government for political reasons , the prime minister has led efforts to deliver a severe blow to Hamas , crush Hezbollah , and take direct action against Iran -- measures that ultimately contributed to the fall of Assad 's regime in Syria . Those who do not contribute to the national effort would do well , at the very least , not to hinder it , " Netanyahu responded . He also slammed Gantz for " submissively calling for an end to the war even before entering Rafah . " <p> Following this response , Gantz then told Netanyahu not to be a " serial coward . " <p> " You were afraid to dismantle the coalition , and only Gantz 's persistence brought back over 100 hostages . You were afraid to launch a maneuver in Gaza , and it was Gantz who pushed to move forward . You trembled at the thought of starting a northern campaign to return residents to their homes on September 1 , and it was Gantz who pressured you . You know very well that if the situation had n't been forced upon you - you would never have acted . " <p> " Netanyahu , you have already sabotaged the possibility of a hostage deal in the past out of fear of breaking up the coalition . We wo n't let you do it again when a real deal is on the table . Netanyahu -- stop being afraid , " Gantz stressed . <p> " On October 7 , I was woken up at 6:29 a.m . There was a large-scale attack from Gaza , and it was clear this was not a routine round of fighting . I arrived at the Kirya , our military headquarters , convened the cabinet , and declared war , " Netanyahu recounted to Kaufman . " I said it was going to be a long war . " <p> " On October 8 , Hezbollah entered the fighting . At that point , we were facing two fronts , " he continued . <p> " On October 9 , I told the heads of the communities near Gaza , ' I ask you to stand firm because we are going to change the Middle East . ' On October 11 , the defense minister and the chief of staff suggested we shift our focus northward against Hezbollah , leaving Hamas in the south unanswered , " the prime minister added . <p> " I said , ' We can not do that . It is unwise to fight on two fronts simultaneously . One massive front at a time , ' " Netanyahu explained , justifying his decision to avoid confronting the northern threat at the onset of the war . 
@@119178288 <h> " We believe that in the absence of clear evidence and due process , the suspension of FIMS from the IFMSA remains unjustified , " said WMA . <p> Minneapolis , MN - Apr 23 , 2024 : Pro-Palestine protestors gathered at the U of Minnesota following the arrest of students at Columbia University. ( photo credit : SHUTTERSTOCK ) <p> The World Medical Association ( WMA ) on Tuesday called on the International Federation of Medical Students Association ( IFMSA ) to reverse its August suspension of an Israeli member organization . <p> WMA said it was concerned that the " extraordinary suspension " of the Federation of Israeli Medical Students ( FIMS ) for alleged harassment lacked evidence and due process . <p> " We believe that in the absence of clear evidence and due process , the suspension of FIMS from the IFMSA remains unjustified , " said WMA . " We therefore urge immediate readmission of FIMS without prejudice . " <p> While WMA welcomed IFMSA 's November 24 statement , promising to conduct a review of its suspension procedures , it noted that IFMSA did not acknowledge that its actions may have been improper and did not present a timeline for readmission . <p> At its August 6 IFMSA General Assembly meeting in Finland , a motion to suspend FIMS for constitution and bylaw violations was proposed by the organization 's National Member Organizations ( NMOs ) . The motion passed with a two-thirds majority . The World Medical Association logo ( credit : FLICKR ) <p> " Due to the dire nature of the allegations against the FIMS , which included threats against medical students , online harassment , and hate speech , NMOs decided to proceed with a vote for the suspension of FIMS , " IFMSA said on August 9 . <p> FIMS president Miri Shvimmer said in an August 12 statement that the process for the vote was deeply flawed , in which IFMSA allegedly voted to suspend due process , forgo an investigation , and not allow FIMS time to prepare a response . <p> FIMS accused IFMSA of shutting down a livestream to prevent the recording of the proceeding and for muting some of the voters . <p> Rumors were also allegedly spread that members of FIMS were Mossad agents . <h> Support of the October 7 attacks <p> The harassment allegation came in response to FIMS condemning a social media post by an IFMSA official supporting the October 7 massacre , said Shvimmer . FIMS had also proposed to condemn IFMSA officials for an " extreme one-sided approach to a war started by Hamas . " <p> In the wake of the October 7 Massacre , IFMSA issued an October 17 statement of solidarity with those impacted by Israel 's war with Hamas , detailing only its concerns about Israeli actions in Gaza . <p> " For many years , we have experienced extreme animosity within the organization , and our removal has been the desire of many members , as was emphasized by the mass celebrations after the vote , " said Shvimmer . <p> FIMS said that because the suspension could only be revoked with a two-thirds majority , it was unlikely that the Israeli group would be reinstated in the near future . <p> The World Union of Jewish Students condemned the IFMSA decision as the political weaponization of a professional and academic platform in an August 12 statement , arguing that the suspension represented " a disturbing and dangerous trend of discrimination against Israeli and Jewish students on a global scale . " <p> " If international bodies can groundlessly suspend an entire national federation of medical students based on biased political motivations , it opens the door to further discriminatory actions against Israeli professionals in other fields , such as law , engineering , etc. , " said WUJS . <p> " Furthermore , this action by the IFMSA not only endangers Israeli and Jewish students but also contributes to an environment of increasing hostility and intolerance that could lead to further exclusion of Jewish students from associations around the world . " <p> On November 24 , IFMSA responded to criticism of the suspension , stating that it was conducting a review of the application of its suspension procedures against FIMS . It said that it welcomed feedback but that it expressed concern about hostile and " undue pressure " that challenged the organization 's autonomy and independence . <p> " It is important to recognize that the decision to suspend a membership during our General Assemblies is made in response to urgent and sensitive circumstances that require swift and decisive action , " said IFMSA . <p> " The General Assembly , as the highest decision-making body of IFMSA , stands as a unique platform composed exclusively of our National Member Organizations ( NMOs ) . While the IFMSA Executive Board respects the decision made by the General Assembly at that time , we acknowledge that the situation 's urgency has highlighted the need for clearer procedural guidelines and safeguards for future instances . <p> This will ensure that the balance between timely responses and procedural thoroughness is upheld without compromising the integrity of the Federation or our members . " 
@@119178293 <h> RCA students said that an Israeli flag was removed from a studio and thrown to the floor , despite that Palestinian flags and symbols were displayed nearby . <p> A person steps on a placard depicting an Israeli flag as demonstrators protest against Israel and in support of Palestinians , during a demonstration to mark 100 days since the start of the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas , in front of the Egypt Journalists Syn ( photo credit : AMR ABDALLAH DALSH / REUTERS ) <p> London 's Royal College of Art ( RCA ) has been accused of allowing its Jewish and Israeli students to suffer intimidation following an incident in which an Israeli flag was torn down while a Palestinian flag was left on display , TheTelegraph reported on Saturday . <p> RCA students said that an Israeli flag was removed from a studio and thrown to the floor despite the fact that Palestinian flags and symbols were displayed nearby . <p> Jewish and Israeli students stated that when they tried to express their feelings , they were " shouted down , told to shut up , and threatened . " <p> " The RCA must stop discrimination against and harassment of its Jewish and Israeli students , " Jonathan Turner , the chief executive of UK Lawyers for Israel ( UKLFI ) , told The Telegraph . " Hostility of other students is no excuse , especially when that hostility has been promoted by extremely biased anti-Israel lectures , which have very little , if any , connection with the RCA 's objects . " <p> " Freedom of expression should be protected at universities -- and it is unless it supports Israel , in which case it is increasingly suppressed , " Turner continued . " We have seen this development in disciplines ranging from international law to politics , history , and even to sciences and arts . " An assistant to the curator walks through the Royal College of Art 's annual ' Secret ' art exhibition in Battersea , south London March 11 , 2015 . Postcard sized artworks are sold at 55 GB pounds ( $83 ) each to raise money for young art students . ( credit : REUTERS/PETER NICHOLLS ) <p> " For visual arts students , images are particularly important . So at the Royal College of Art , emblems of Palestine are sacrosanct , while flags of Israel are torn down and Jewish students are told to shut up . " <p> UKLFI wrote a letter to the RCA president and vice-chancellor , Professor Christoph Linder , asking him to address the issue . <p> The letter referenced an incident where a staff member insisted that a student explain his ethnicity and how he qualified as an Israeli . <p> The staff member reportedly said it was questionable that the student 's mother was Jewish . <p> UKFLI reported that many students complained about a number of lectures in which Israel was accused of committing genocide in Gaza . <p> " Lectures such as this promote an extremely hostile atmosphere for Jewish and Israeli students , contributing to events such as those described above , " UKLFI said . <h> Discrimination <p> UKLFI explained that under the Equality Act 2010 , Jews , Israelis , and Zionists have protected characteristics of ethnicity , religion , and/or belief . <p> Banning Israeli flags or items relating to the ethnic identity of Jews but not doing the same for other ethnicities constitutes discrimination , it said . <p> The RCA noted that it acknowledges the IHRA working definition of antisemitism . <p> " The RCA has a zero-tolerance approach to all forms of unlawful discrimination and harassment , whilst also being committed to ensuring freedom of speech and expression within the law , " an RCA spokesperson said . " Although we can not comment on individual cases , we can confirm that we treat any complaints of discrimination or harassment raised by our staff and students extremely seriously and these are fully investigated under our proper procedures . We can also confirm we have no policy that would have a discriminatory impact on students displaying flags or other items related to their national ethnic identity . ' 
@@119178296 <h> Natasha Hausdorff is a UK lawyer who frequently speaks out on TV in favor of Israel , focusing specifically on countering false narratives that have become widespread in current times . <p> We in Israel watch aghast at the rise of antisemitism worldwide . London is infested with thousands who come to its center every Saturday shouting , " From the river to the sea , Palestine shall be free " -- a euphemism for the elimination of the one Jewish state . <p> The United Kingdom 's Trade Union Congress -- the largest umbrella group , embracing 48 trade unions -- recently gave a work attire directive to its members , stating : " Wear something red , green , black , or a Palestinian keffiyeh to show solidarity . " <p> Being Jewish in the Diaspora today is a challenge -- even more so for the Jewish students at university . <p> The UK media has much to answer for with its twisted reporting on Israel -- too often omitting to state that the Israel-Hamas war was initiated by Hamas on October 7 , 2023 , when the terror group carried out a barbaric massacre of 1,200 Israelis plus the abduction of 251 Israeli men , women , and children . <p> At this disturbing time in the history of Israel and the Jewish people , we especially value articulate spokespersons . <p> One such is barrister Natasha Hausdorff . Based in the UK , she presents Israel 's position with fortitude and clarity , together with the vital legal perspective . <p> Hausdorff has law degrees from the universities of Oxford and Tel Aviv and appears frequently on BBC and Sky , as well as numerous other international TV channels . She is a sought-after keynote speaker on international law , foreign affairs , and national security policy , focusing specifically on countering false narratives that have become widespread in current times . <p> Hausdorff regularly briefs politicians and international organizations and has spoken at European parliaments , as well as the UN . <h> Your impressive CV states that you are the legal director of the NGO UK Lawyers for Israel UKLFI . What evoked the special interest you have in Israel ? <p> I joined this voluntary association of lawyers a little over 10 years ago and have continued to be inspired by the dedication of all the active members to the proper application of the law to Israel and to combating antisemitism . My family goes back eight generations in the Land of Israel , so I have always had a keen understanding of the history of the place and the realities Israelis face . <p> The disconnect between those realities and the understanding in the UK was palpable . My international law studies at Oxford also revealed to me how much work lay ahead in combating the weaponization of international law against Israel and its abuse through lawfare . <h> You have spoken out clearly against the ICC 's recent ruling issuing arrest warrants for Israel 's prime minister and former defense minister . What are your reasons for saying that the ruling is illegal ? <p> The ICC prosecutor 's public summary of his application for warrants against the Israeli leaders , endorsed by some celebrity ' experts , ' contained only false material . Every phrase of every sentence was untrue . Allegations regarding the closure of border crossings and arbitrary restriction of humanitarian aid are very easily refuted by publicly available information on the provision by Israel of aid into Gaza . <p> The ' famine ' report cited by the prosecutor to justify his position has been revealed by the Famine Review Committee to be ' implausible ' and based on incomplete information . When UK Lawyers for Israel pointed out in its submission to the court the falsehoods and failings in the warrant application , the prosecutor told the court to ignore any submissions on the accuracy of his application , breaching his own professional duties to the court . <p> Quite apart from the slew of falsehoods underpinning the warrant application , the ICC has had to take the unprecedented step of acting outside its jurisdiction and in breach of its own rules in order to pursue Israel 's leaders . The ICC 's jurisdiction is derived from its member states and from other states that accept its jurisdiction over their nationals and their territory . <p> However , Israel never joined the ICC or accepted its jurisdiction , while the Palestinian Authority is not a state and could therefore never have delegated any jurisdiction to the ICC . <p> Further still , the international agreements that created the PA ( the Oslo Accords ) explicitly said that Israel would have sole criminal jurisdiction over Israelis . So even if the PA could delegate any jurisdiction to the ICC , it had no criminal jurisdiction over Israelis to delegate . <p> The rules of the ICC have been thrown out of the window . A founding principle of the court is ' complementarity ' : the ICC is a complement to national legal systems ; it does not replace them . Where a nation is willing and able to investigate credible allegations , it must be left to do so . <p> Israel has a robust legal system and a history of successful prosecutions of its top leaders . <p> Even if that were not the case , the timing of this application , made during an ongoing war on the very day the prosecutor 's staff were scheduled to meet Israeli officials to organize a visit by him to Israel to discuss his ' concerns , ' is a clear indication that the complementarity rule has been completely disregarded . <h> As we witness the worldwide demonstrations against Israel , what in your view is the reason for the current strong anti-Israel perception evolving from the political and civil leadership within so many countries ? <p> There has been a sustained campaign of misinformation for decades , which unfortunately underpins a lot of the troubling rhetoric from political and civil leadership . <p> I hope that as it becomes clear that Israel and other Western liberal democracies are effectively fighting the same civilizational war , that those in leadership roles will amend their stance and cease the international community 's support for terror through the Palestinian Authority Pay for Slay program , which incentivizes it , and the continued indoctrination of Palestinian children , also facilitated by the international taxpayer . <h> Jewish students are facing unprecedented anti-Zionism -- evolving into antisemitism -- on campuses throughout the world . Are Jewish students receiving sufficient support ? <p> I know that the dedicated team at UKLFI is often working around the clock to support students and has done so for many years . We also publicize materials on the website to assist them , such as a ' Know Your Rights ' booklet . I am keenly aware of the increasing challenges they face and have sought to make myself available to speak on campuses to provide additional support at events . There is still much to do . <h> World leaders tend to emanate from top universities . How concerning is it that top universities adopt an anti-Israel stance ? What are your thoughts on your recent experience at the Oxford Union Debate , where you spoke against the motion ' This house believes Israel is an apartheid state responsible for genocide ' ? <p> From the word ' go , ' it was clear the event was stacked with Hamas supporters virulently against us . We entered the Debating Chamber to shouts and jeers . The Muslim Brotherhood had , in effect , taken over the Oxford Union . <p> While the union claimed that ' free speech ' must be preserved , there was no free speech for UK journalist Jonathan Sacerdoti , Mosab Hassan Yousef ( son of a Hamas co-founder ) , Yoseph Haddad , and me speaking against the motion . Some students were actively prevented from attending , while the vast majority of Jewish students -- even union members -- were far too intimidated and fearful to be present at this debate . <p> My colleagues and I were prepared to meet and speak with the members of Oxford 's Israel Society -- ahead of the debate -- which the Israel Society very much favored . Unfortunately , the Oxford Union refused to book a room for this purpose . <p> At the debate , Yousef and Haddad were heckled viciously in Arabic -- they were called traitors and collaborators , as well as being personally threatened . At a particularly virulent moment , our colleague Sacerdoti asked the president to call in the police , who were stationed outside the debating area . He refused this request . Instead , Haddad was ejected from the chamber , with Yousef ordered out of the chamber in the midst of his speech . <p> Miko Peled , a proposer of the motion , referred to the massacre of 1,200 Israelis and the taking hostage of a further 251 Israelis as a ' heroic act ' -- a statement that is in breach of the law -- reference -- 12 ( lA ) of the Terrorism Act 2000 . <p> The union produced a doctored video of the debate , which was anything but a true record of what transpired . The blatant viciousness , heckling , and badmouthing against our team that occurred during the debate were totally removed . <p> The entire speech of Mosab Hassan Yousef was eliminated , and there was no sight of the ejection of Haddad or Yousef being told to leave the chamber . So much for ' free speech . ' <h> Hamas 's barbaric massacre on Oct. 7 , 2023 , appeared to be the catalyst for an unprecedented hike in antisemitism . Do you see any comparison between today 's antisemitism and that of Hitler 's antisemitism of the 1930s , which led to the annihilation of six million Jews ? <p> I was always taken by Rabbi Jonathan Sacks 's great explanation of the evolution of antisemitism as a mutating virus . He drew parallels between the focus on the Jewish race by the Nazis , which they justified with eugenics , and the modern focus on the Jewish state . <p> In accordance with his analysis , I also see anti-Zionism as the modern , supposedly acceptable face of antisemitism , or Jew-hatred . Calls for the annihilation of the Jewish state are being steeped in pseudo-legal terminology to make these calls appear acceptable , but it seems to me to be driven by the same , oldest hatred . <h> In a world where the media promotes the view of internationally recognized terrorist organizations , you appear on TV stating Israel 's case in a clear , articulate manner . Against this background , to what extent could Israel improve its international image ? <p> It would be great to see more tachlis being to the point or succinct in Israel 's explanation of the legal position . The fact of the matter is that the law and the facts are on Israel 's side . It is not ' breaking international law ' -- far from it . That message should be expressed confidently and often . <p> It is 127 years since Theodor Herzl convened the First Zionist Congress in Basel , Switzerland . It was Herzl 's view that the founding of a Jewish state was the answer to antisemitism . In light of the appalling increase in antisemitism today , what should we Jews be doing that we are not doing to secure and strengthen the one Jewish state ? <p> I believe the only proper response to the misinformation campaign , which is plainly impacting Israel 's ability to robustly defend itself , is to challenge the falsehoods and call out the lies . Every individual with a basic understanding of the position and the realities is able to do that in his own way , in his own arena or industry . <p> The propaganda war was n't taken very seriously for many years . But its effects can not be denied . Standing up proudly for the truth and supporting those who are doing so , especially those brave students in hostile environments , is a significant part of the battle , and I believe that ultimately the truth will come out . <h> Natasha , how fortunate is Israel and the Jewish people to have a spokesperson such as you ; one who rises to the justified defense of the single Jewish state . You demonstrate graphically the importance of utilizing the legal aspects of Israel 's right to its homeland -- a perspective that others would do well to emulate . ? <p> The writer is president of Israel , Britain and the Commonwealth Association ( IBCA ) ; she has chaired public affairs organizations in Israel and the UK. 
@@119242290 <p> Ibrahim Hammad , a 16-year-old boy with Down syndrome , lived in Al-Zahra City in the middle of Gaza with his family of seven : parents , four older brothers , and himself . His parents , both professors at Al-Aqsa University , dedicated their lives to teaching , while one of his brothers , Hosam Abedalqader Hammad , pursued a bachelor 's degree in nursing . Life , though far from idyllic in the besieged Palestinian territory , was at least structured and predictable . <p> The Hammads had moved to Al-Zahra from northern Gaza . To accommodate their large family , they built a three-story building , spending a huge portion of their savings on a home they could call theirs . Then , October 7 happened . The Palestinian group Hamas attacked Israel and the offensive that followed decimated Gaza . <h> A Family Displaced <p> The Hammads ' recently constructed house , like so much else in Gaza , has been reduced to rubble . <p> " When the war started , we were unable to move or go anywhere . Every place became dangerous - there is no safe space in Gaza , not even in schools or hospitals , " Hosam Hammad told NDTV . <p> Caught in the crossfire , their neighbourhood became a target , and the family 's house was obliterated . Forced to evacuate under the constant threat of airstrikes , they sought refuge in a series of temporary shelters , moving five times in total . These included relatives ' homes and eventually the university where Ibrahim and Hossam 's parents worked . Yet even these sanctuaries were fleeting . <p> " Everyone in my house was at their jobs , the university , or studying at school . Even Ibrahim was preparing to go to school , " Hosam said . " But Israeli tanks surrounded the university and started bombarding it , " Hosam recalls , describing how they evacuated under direct fire . <p> Life in displacement camps presented its own set of challenges . The family , like many others , had to fend for themselves . Food , water , and electricity were scarce . They resorted to cutting down trees in the university 's garden to create firewood for cooking . <p> " We received only one supply from UNRWA , but most of the food we had to buy ourselves . We had to cut down trees because there was no electricity or gas for cooking . The university had a large garden , and we cut some trees so we could cook . We did n't have many clothes or mattresses to sleep on since we moved many times . It was hard to carry many belongings because they did n't give us time or warnings to move . The Israeli army would start bombing the area , and if you needed to evacuate , you had to move under fire , " Hosam told NDTV . <h> Surviving War With Down Syndrome <p> The challenge for the Hammads was not just surviving . It was surviving with a member of the family with Down syndrome . For Ibrahim , life was difficult anyway . Caring for Ibrahim , who is highly sensitive to loud noises , became a monumental task . The destruction of their city , including the annihilation of 29 buildings near their home in a single night , left him traumatised . His panic attacks grew so severe that the family had to administer medication multiple times to calm him . <p> Ibrahim is extremely sensitive to loud noises . The constant bombing of Gaza has just made things worse for him . <p> " He also struggled emotionally when our uncle and his son died , and we lost 20 family members in total . Even now , he has nightmares every day , " Hosam said . <p> Hosam estimates that the family needed $100-150 daily just to secure basic food and water . Amid this deprivation , Ibrahim 's health began to deteriorate rapidly . He lost 15 kilograms and struggled with frequent panic attacks , exacerbated by the constant bombings . <p> According to Dr Rahul Nagpal , a pediatric specialist at Delhi 's Fortis Hospital , children with Down syndrome often face developmental delays , cognitive impairments , and heightened susceptibility to health issues . These challenges are magnified in conflict zones , where access to medical care is limited . <p> " Children with Down syndrome may develop at a slower pace than typically developing children . They may require extra support and therapy to develop language , social skills , and motor skills . This can be challenging for parents and caregivers , as it may require significant time and resources to provide the necessary support , " Dr Nagpal told NDTV . <p> Before the war , the Hammads had enrolled Ibrahim in a private school and hired tutors to improve his language and speech . <p> " We take care of him as much as we can because there are no hospitals or doctors available to check on him , " Hosam said . <p> The camps where the family sought refuge were fraught with danger . Bombings occurred even near shelters , and the smell of death in the air was constant . <p> " There was bombing all around us , " Hosam recounted . The family often heard the desperate cries of those who ran out of food and water entirely . Aid was sporadic . An Oxfam report revealed that humanitarian aid deliveries were frequently obstructed or delayed by Israeli authorities , leaving thousands without relief . <p> One chilling account involves a convoy of 11 trucks in November . Initially held up by Israeli forces , some of the food was taken by starving civilians before the trucks were later diverted to a militarised zone inaccessible to those in need . <h> A Fragile Respite In Egypt <p> As Israel continued to pound Gaza , the Hammads took cover by moving from one camp to another . The only way to escape Gaza was through the Rafah border in the south . But crossing over has never been easy , despite Rafah being the only crossing in Gaza that is not under Israeli control . By March this year , the family managed to escape to Egypt with nothing but the clothes on their backs . <p> " Some Egyptian friends helped us find a temporary house , but life here is very expensive , " Hosam told NDTV . " We evacuated just before the Israeli army took control and closed the border with Egypt . We are renting a house here , but life in Egypt is very expensive . We need $500 just for rent , in addition to our daily expenses , which are high since we do n't have residency in Egypt . " <p> While one of Ibrahim 's brothers has enrolled in medical school , the rest of the family struggles to rebuild their lives . They remain in legal limbo , unable to work without residency permits . Yet , their resolve to return to Gaza once the war ends remains steadfast . " We lost everything - our house , which cost over $200,000 , and our car , worth $14,000 . But we will rebuild , " Hosam declared . <p> Since the October 7 Hamas attack on Israel , which claimed over 1,200 Israeli lives , Gaza has borne the brunt of a devastating retaliatory offensive . An estimated 45,000 people have died , mostly civilians . International organizations like Oxfam and Human Rights Watch have accused Israel of systematically depriving Gazans of water and other necessities . 
@@119242293 <h> Opinion Milei , Trump , Erdogan : The Three Radicals Of 2024 <p> An oracle in the ancient kingdom of Phrygia once foretold that its future king would ride into town on a bullock cart . A few days later , the people of the realm anointed the peasant Gordius , who drove an ox-cart as the Phrygian king . Gordius fastened his lucky cart to a pole in the temple to Zeus in a knot that became famous as the Gordian knot . The oracle also prophesied that the one who could untie it would go on to conquer Asia . Many tried but the cart remained tied to the pole . <p> In the year 333 BC , a young Macedonian prince named Alexander came across the knot . When he heard the legend , the precocious 17-year-old simply drew his sword and cut the knot . Proving the prophecy , he went on to win Asia . <p> In the year 2024 , leaders , as maverick as Alexander , sliced many Gordian knots with cleaving rhetoric and radical ideas that were often dismissed as crazy . <h> Javier , The Chainsaw Man <p> Exactly one year ago , Javier Milei , who belongs to the Libertad Avanza , beat Peronist leader Sergio Massa by a mile to become Argentina 's President . A self-described anarcho-capitalist , Milei famously campaigned during the election with a chainsaw , showing off his intent to slash and burn entrenched thought and established institutions , including the country 's central bank . He declared that Argentina needed shock therapy and there was no room for gradualism . Milei took the axe to half the ministries and fired thousands of government employees . The libertarian politician , who swears by freedom of doing business , sawed off large chunks of public spending on infrastructure , education , healthcare and social development services . No long-term gain without short-term pain , he argued . The single-point focus on public finances helped improve the federal balance sheet . <p> Argentina was in a recession when Milei took over . It emerged from that in the July-September quarter . Month-on-month inflation is sharply down from 25% to 2.5% even though annual inflation is still at 193% albeit lower than 211% a year ago . The US dollar now exchanges for nearly the same amount of pesos in the formal and informal market and the country 's forex reserves swelled by $11 billion during the year . Other reforms and small fixes seem to be working too . <p> It is too early to declare Milei 's shock therapy a success just because federal finances have improved . Unemployment has risen and with subsidies gone , cost of living has increased . So has poverty . Milei claims that the rise in unemployment and poverty levels is because it is correctly reported now unlike earlier when , he alleges , the real levels were hidden . He does n't have much time . Argentinians should feel the economic pain easing before the Overton Window shuts . <h> Captain America <p> Milei is at the vanguard of mould-breaking leaders now active on the world stage . The most powerful of them is unquestionably Donald Trump , whose sheer audacity trumps his predecessors ' promises of hope . In an astonishing rebound of political fortune , Trump , whose career seemed to be over in 2020 when he was ejected from office branded as an insurrectionist , trounced the lacklustre Democratic Party candidate Kamala Harris to reclaim the White House after a gap of four years . His comeback is so decisive that the hub of activity has already shifted from Washington to Florida as world leaders and business tycoons drop by to dine on fast food . <p> That business barons are already prostrating before king Trump at his Palm Beach resort-residence Mar-a-Lago is a sign of the enormous power he has accumulated by winning the election on hard positions , over-the-top plans and scattershot threats . SoftBank 's Masayoshi Son has pledged to invest $100 billion in the US over the next four years . Singapore 's ultra-cautious sovereign fund GIC is ramping up its US exposure . Congratulating Trump on his election win , even Indian billionaire Gautam Adani promised to invest $10 billion in that country 's energy and infrastructure sectors . Like his friend and admirer Milei , Trump has vowed to take the axe to government spending and slam rivals with earth-shattering trade tariffs while letting American businesses have a free run . <p> Trump 's promise to radically break away from America 's long-practised foreign policy is already forcing adjustments all over the world . His solution is simple : others ' problems are not America 's unless it 's good for business . A non-interventionist US can lower the temperature in many conflict-ridden parts of the world . <p> NATO members in Europe are mulling raising targeted defence spending to 3% of GDP from the currently mandated 2% of GDP . Israel , until now averse to a truce with Hamas , is said to be ready to make a deal . Some reports say that even Saudi Arabia might be involved in rebuilding Gaza in what has hints of a near-two-state solution . <p> The joker in the Trump pack , however , is Elon Musk , the billionaire designated to head a department of efficiency whose job would be to reprise what Milei -- a Musk fanboy -- did in Argentina . <h> Meanwhile , Phrygia ... er , Turkey <p> On the cusp of Asia and Europe , where ancient Phrygia once existed , Turkey 's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan appears to have hacked a knotty problem in his backyard . In a mere 11 days , an Idlib-based rebel militia led by a former Islamic State and Al Qaeda commander , Ahmed al-Shaara , known earlier by his nom de guerre , Abu Mohammad al-Jolani , successfully evicted Bashar al-Assad , the dynastic occupant of Damascus for 24 years . Reports suggest that the Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , which is designated a terrorist organisation by several countries , including the US and Turkey , has the tacit support of the latter . Acknowledging that Turkey is a major military force , Trump , who gets along with the Turkish President very well , has said that Erdogan orchestrated it . <p> The manoeuvre has decisively changed the power equations in the region . The HTS 's assault -- when a non-interventionist is poised to become the US President and Israel has pummeled to near-submission Iran-backed Hamas and Hezbollah -- has cut off Iran and Russia , which was a staunch ally of Assad , from the region . <p> In the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict earlier , Turkey had already tested Russia and found that it would be unwilling to divert attention from Ukraine . Turkey 's training and weapons helped Azerbaijan decisively wrest the region from Armenia in September 2023 , which was under Russia 's security umbrella , in a one-day putsch . Turkey also supplies the highly effective Bayraktar drones ( although they are said to be less in use now ) to Ukraine , and their maker , Baykar , was even reported to be building a factory near Kyiv . Erdogan perhaps wagered , correctly , that Russia would not intervene in Syria . <p> That does n't mean the region will calm down . Far from it . But the slim odds for peace and rebuilding in the Middle East have gone up a notch and can potentially mean millions of refugees who fled to Turkey and its European neighbours could return . Erdogan had tried in 2010 to create a free trade zone with Jordan , Syria and Lebanon . A deal was signed but the region plunged into conflict soon after . <p> Whether unconventional leaders have been good or bad for their countries is debatable , but they definitely change the course of history . Nations such as Pakistan and Bangladesh , which are caught in a downward spiral , also need leaders who think out of the box . Events in both countries show that like Argentina , the Overton Window for drastic measures is open but the opportunity will not last for long . Perhaps new leaders will emerge in 2025 . <p> ( Dinesh Narayanan is a Delhi-based journalist and author of ' The RSS And The Making Of The Deep Nation ' . ) 
@@119242389 <p> Israel has vowed to begin targeting leaders of the Iranian-backed Houthis in Yemen -- a major escalation after the terror group claimed responsibility for a spate of missile and drone attacks . <p> " Just as we took care of Yayha Sinwar in Gaza , Ismail Haniyeh in Tehran and Hassan Nasrallah in Beirut , we will deal with the heads of the Houthis in Sana'a or anywhere in Yemen , " Israel 's defense minister Israel Katz said Tuesday , according to the Times of Israel . <p> The warring words came as Houthi rebels fired another ballistic missile at the Jewish state early Tuesday morning , triggering sirens across the center of the country . <p> The Israel Defense Forces said it managed to intercept the missile using its long-range Arrow air defense system before it entered Israeli airspace , the Times of Israel reported . <p> A missile launched from the Houthis in Yemen . The terror group has vowed to attack Israel until the war in Gaza ends via REUTERS <p> The defense minister also issued a threat to Iran , promising that " whoever sponsors the Houthi terror in Hodeida or Sana'a will pay the full price . " <p> Iran is known to back Muslim extremists in the region and has provided much of the funding for the Houthis , Hezbollah in Lebanon , and Hamas in Gaza , during their aggressions against Israel . <p> On Monday , Katz also vowed to " decapitate " Houthi leadership . <p> The Houthis have previously promised to continue their harassment of Israel so long as the war in Gaza persists . <p> With Iran 's backing , the Houthis spent much of the year bringing chaos to the Mediterranean and international commerce by harassing shipping lanes in the Red Sea in the hopes of disrupting the flow of supplies into Israel . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Sunday that Israel would deal with the Houthis in the same way as it has dealt with other of Iran 's " terrorist arms . " <p> Hezbollah previously vowed to continue launching rockets into Israel from Lebanon so long as the war in Gaza continued -- but were cowed in November and agreed to a ceasefire after the Jewish state destroyed its ability to wage war and killed its leader , Nasrallah . <p> As the tensions continue to mount , some leaders in Israel -- including senior politician Benny Gantz , and many within Israel 's security operations -- think it is time to target Iran directly , according to the Times of Israel . <p> Iran has previously launched two barrages directly at Israel -- most of which were intercepted -- while Israel has responded by destroying Iranian launch sites . 
@@119242396 <h> Goons deface Hamptons park with swastikas and antisemitic graffiti ahead of Hanukkah : ' Heartbroken but not shocked ' <p> Antisemitic graffiti were discovered in a Montauk park last week . Rabbi Joshua Franklin <p> Hate in the Hamptons reared its ugly head . <p> Swastikas and other antisemitic graffiti were discovered in a Montauk park last week . <p> The vandalism inside the popular Shadmoor State Park included spray-painted scrawls of Nazi-era references to " SS " and " der Jude , " the German term for Jews . And this was the second time that antisemitic vandalism was discovered in the posh east end enclave since the Oct. 7 attacks . <p> Rabbi Josh Franklin of the Jewish Center of the Hamptons was " heartbroken but not shocked " . Rabbi Joshua Franklin <p> Rabbi Josh Franklin of the Jewish Center of the Hamptons was " heartbroken but not shocked " when he discovered the hateful rhetoric in the park last Thursday , the same day that an Israeli flag was ripped from his own East Hampton synagogue . <p> " I 'm through being shocked because I 've seen this far too many times , " he told The Post , adding , " there 's a sense of violation in the community . " An " emotional " Franklin said the incident elicits a " visceral response from my gut . " <p> He also noted he 's regularly been called " baby killer " and " Nazi " in the wake of the 2023 massacre and ensuing war in Gaza . <p> In a " impromptu " rally the rabbi helped organize the same day , a somber yet stoic Franklin told the crowd not to bow to gaslighters who try to paint Jews as " hysterical " for calling out antisemitism . " Listen -- because someone might not be seeing something that we experience incredibly profoundly , " he said , " There is antisemitism and Jew hatred all over the place ... This is our reality . " <p> Longtime Hamptons residents expressed both anger and fortitude over the hateful expressions . <p> " This is an attempt at intimidation -- an evil attempt we see all over the world -- and we have to fight it , like we 've fought it for thousands of years , " said 86-year-old Mitchel Agoos , an east ender for 50 years . <p> A " Stand with Israel " rally this past July in East Hampton drew hundreds of participants . Courtesy of Rabbi Joshua Franklin <p> " These hateful acts are devastating and heartbreaking to our Jewish family , friends and neighbors tearing at the fabric of our entire community . Fortunately , the love for community is stronger here than the symbols of hate discovered in Shadmoor last week , " Town of East Hampton Supervisor , Kathee Burke-Gonzalez , said in a statement to The Post . <p> " Maybe it 's because we are at the ' The End , ' but our community always stands strong together . We take care of each other . And we will continue to educate , create space for and keep safe every single one of our neighbors . As we stand for love , respect and acceptance for all . " <p> A " Stand with Israel " rally this past July in East Hampton drew hundreds of participants . Rally co-organizer Agoos stressed the importance of unity in the face of intimidation . <p> " We have to stand tall , be tough , and find these guys and prosecute them to the fullest extent of the law , " said the Hamptonite of 50 years . " We 've encountered antisemitism throughout the ages -- and it reared its ugly head after the Oct. 7 massacre . We have to stand up and be strong -- it 's the only way to defeat the scourge of antisemitism . " <p> The East Hampton town police is leading the investigation . Rabbi Joshua Franklin <p> For Charlotte Klein Sasso of Amagansett , who grew up vacationing in Montauk , and has lived in the area full-time for 40 years , the most recent spate of antisemitism " cuts me right to my core . This is not the Hamptons that I know . " <p> She said her Holocaust-survivor father , who first came to Montauk with his fellow survivors who also fought in the Hungarian Revolution , would be shocked at last week 's hate display . <p> " He would have been right there with me on the town green standing up and not hiding , " she said of her late dad , who fell in love with the ocean after living in a land-locked country . " He would talk about being proud of who we are , speaking out and encouraging people to come together and educate them . " <p> Sasso 's father was a Holocaust survivor . Courtesy of Rabbi Joshua Franklin <p> The public events around Hanukkah should draw even more crowds , Jews and non-Jews alike , she said . " This is about unity -- more than ever . " <p> Franklin imparted a timely message for Hanukkah , a holiday celebrating Jewish victory in the face of annihilation . <p> " Although there are those who harbor hatred toward Jews and attempt to intimidate us with acts of vandalism or violence , we refuse to cower in fear . Hanukkah teaches us to spread light , even in the face of darkness . This is not merely an act of resistance -- it is the sacred responsibility inherent in the story of Hanukkah , " he said . <p> " For those who are not Jewish , we warmly invite you to join in this mission of kindling spiritual light to dispel the darkness . Stand with your local Jewish communities , participate in a menorah lighting , and , while you 're at it , share some latkes with your Jewish friends . Together , we can illuminate the world . " 
@@119243482 <p> WASHINGTON -- When President-elect Donald Trump takes the helm of the U.S. government in January , he 'll face a more complex world than he did at the start of his first term , but he 'll also have an ally atop the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . <p> With Republicans back in the majority , Sen. Jim Risch of Idaho will become chairman of the powerful panel in January , returning to the role he held in 2019 and 2020 . In an interview in his office at the Capitol on Thursday , Risch outlined a foreign policy philosophy that embraces Trump 's " America first " ethos without withdrawing from the world stage . <p> " The world 's on fire , " Risch said . " Trump coming back is going to be a real heaven-sent present to Americans . I think he can get a handle on this stuff that 's going on out there in the world . " <p> When Trump first took office in 2017 , Russia had already invaded and annexed the Ukrainian territory of Crimea but had n't launched the full-scale invasion of Ukraine that began in 2022 . The Israeli-Palestinian conflict that has since exploded was only simmering during Trump 's first term , when his administration worked to restore diplomatic ties between Israel and Arab nations while sidelining Palestinians . <p> Throughout his campaign , Trump pitched himself as the anti-war candidate and described U.S. foreign policy in simple terms . He repeatedly said he could end the war in Ukraine in a single day and promised " peace in the Middle East " in appeals to Jewish and Muslim voters , without saying how he would end the conflict in Gaza . <p> When Trump was asked during a debate in September if he wanted Ukraine to win the war with Russia , he replied , " I want the war to stop , " claiming that he has a good relationship with both Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and Russian President Vladimir Putin and could bring them to a peace deal . <p> Risch said he took Trump 's promise to end the war in Ukraine in a single day seriously but not literally , " as a euphemism " meaning that the president-elect will make it a top priority . And the senator pointed to the impact Trump 's election has had on foreign leaders even before his inauguration , as outgoing President Joe Biden has receded from the world stage . <p> In his first term , Trump used threats to extract concessions from America 's allies and adversaries alike . In a news conference on Monday , the incoming president warned that if the 100 hostages that remain in Gaza are n't released by the time he is inaugurated on Jan. 20 , " all hell is going to break out . " <p> While acknowledging that " all hell has already broken out " in Gaza , Risch said it could always get worse and Trump 's threat seems to be pushing Hamas to negotiate an end to the war . On Thursday , a Hamas official told the Associated Press that cease-fire talks had resumed . <p> Israel 's offensive has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians , according to the United Nations , after Hamas and other Palestinian armed groups killed some 1,200 people in Israel and kidnapped 251 more , according to the Israeli government . Hamas negotiators have reportedly demanded a permanent cease-fire while Israel has insisted that any pause in fighting must be temporary and allow the eventual destruction of Hamas , which has governed Gaza despite being considered a terrorist group by the United States and other countries . <p> Many Democrats -- with the notable exception of Biden -- have grown increasingly critical of the Israeli military 's approach to the war , but Risch said he views the conflict " entirely different than the left does " and is confident that Trump is " going to back Israel all the way . " <p> " Every single thing that happens is absolutely at the feet of Hamas , not at the feet of Israel or the United States , " he said . " This was started by Hamas . It could be ended by Hamas anytime they want to . " <p> The war in Gaza -- a densely populated territory roughly the size of Seattle -- has had knock-on effects across the wider region , just as the war in Ukraine has shaken up an already unsettled world . One vivid example is Syria , where the embattled regime of Bashar al-Assad was propped up by Russia and Iran until those countries were forced to focus their resources , respectively , on Ukraine and Iranian proxies including Hamas in Gaza , Houthi rebels in Yemen and Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> After a dozen years of civil war had seemingly resulted in a victory for the Assad regime , Syrian rebels took advantage of those geopolitical changes with a stunning offensive that swept across the country in barely a week and seized the capital of Damascus on Dec. 8 , forcing Assad to flee to Russia . Risch said the regime 's fall is " reason for celebration , " but he cautioned that it 's unclear what comes next for Syria . <p> The Syrian opposition leader , Ahmad al-Sharaa , was designated as a terrorist by the United States with a $10 million bounty on his head when the group he then led was allied with al-Qaeda , but he cut ties with the jihadist group in 2016 . Since taking control of Syria , he has pledged to protect the rights of ethnic and religious minorities and is asking the United States to lift sanctions on Syria 's economy . <p> Risch said he is encouraged by al-Sharaa 's promises but is n't ready to support lifting sanctions and removing the terrorist designation on the de facto Syrian leader 's organization , Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham . That group 's opposition to Russia and Iran is a good thing , the senator said , but the United States should approach the new Syrian government with caution . <p> " I 'll be the first to say what they did was a long time ago , and also they 're saying and acting differently today than what they were , " Risch said . " How long does that last ? I do n't know . " <p> The Pentagon announced on Thursday that it had more than doubled the number of U.S. troops in eastern Syria , to about 2,000 , where they have been involved in efforts to prevent the so-called Islamic State group from regrouping . <p> Another crisis in the Arab world that has received far less attention in the United States is happening in Sudan , where a civil war between two factions of the military has displaced nearly 10 million people and left tens of thousands of civilians dead since it began in 2023 . While foreign powers have intervened on both sides of Sudan 's war , Risch said there are " no good guys " for the United States to work with . <p> " To me , any money we spend there right now is of no consequence , " he said , noting that humanitarian aid is an exception . " They 're going to wind up having to resolve this themselves . " <p> Throughout the interview , Risch repeatedly said he agreed with Trump . Asked if there was any point on which he was n't on the same page as the incoming president , the senator said with a grin , " If I were , I probably would n't talk about it here . " <p> " We did n't always agree , but it was always very respectful , " Risch said of Trump 's first term , when the Idahoan was the committee 's top Republican . " And at the end of the day , he was always president , and I was n't . " <p> The Foreign Relations Committee has jurisdiction over the State Department and other agencies involved in foreign aid and national security , and its leader effectively has veto power over treaties with other countries . <p> Risch has remained a staunch supporter of Ukraine throughout its war with Russia , frequently reminding his fellow Republicans that the United States promised to protect Ukraine in exchange for the former Soviet republic giving up its nuclear weapons after the fall of the Berlin Wall . When asked if the U.S. government should negotiate a new nuclear nonproliferation deal with the Kremlin before the treaty known as New START expires in February 2026 , the senator showed none of the openness toward Moscow that Trump has expressed . <p> " These people are cheaters , they 're liars , they 're murderers , " he said of Russia 's government . " They 're the worst kind of people on the planet , after what they did in Ukraine . " <p> In the short term , Risch and his fellow GOP senators have an opportunity to shape the new administration by confirming or rejecting Trump 's nominees for key roles , several of whom have been met with skepticism even from some Republicans . After former Rep. Matt Gaetz withdrew from consideration as attorney general -- facing an ethics investigation related to alleged drug use and sex trafficking of a minor -- attention has turned to Trump 's nominees for national security roles . <p> Pete Hegseth , an Army National Guard veteran and former Fox News host whom Trump nominated as defense secretary , has been dogged by reports of a drinking problem , financial mismanagement of veterans ' advocacy groups and a secret settlement he paid to a woman who accused him of sexual assault in 2017 . His advocacy for U.S. troops found guilty of war crimes and opposition to women serving in combat roles have also provoked controversy . <p> Some GOP senators -- including Joni Ernst of Iowa , a sexual assault survivor and the first female combat veteran to serve in the Senate -- suggested they might oppose Hegseth 's nomination until Trump and his allies criticized them and threatened to back primary challenges to any Republican who votes against his confirmation . <p> " Everybody 's making a big deal about this , " Risch said when asked about Hegseth . " We vote to support our president 's appointees . I voted for all of them last time . I 'm going to vote for all of them this time . He 's the president of the United States and he 's entitled to deference on this , short of there being some real disaster . " <p> Risch backed all of Trump 's nominees for cabinet positions in 2017 . He also voted for Biden 's nominees for secretary of state , Antony Blinken , and defense secretary , Lloyd Austin , in 2021 . But he was one of 10 Senate Republicans who voted against confirming Biden 's nominee for director of national intelligence , Avril Haines . <p> Tulsi Gabbard , a former Democratic congresswoman whom Trump nominated to oversee the nation 's 18 intelligence agencies as director of national intelligence , has drawn criticism for echoing Kremlin talking points and meeting with Assad at a time when the former Syrian dictator was treated as a pariah by the U.S. government . In her home state of Hawaii , critics have also raised concerns about Gabbard 's ties to a secretive religious sect that defectors have described as a cult . <p> Risch 's counterpart on the House Foreign Affairs Committee , Chairman Michael McCaul , R-Texas , told the Texas Tribune last week that Gabbard 's nomination is " baffling . " But Risch said he does n't share that sentiment . <p> " I have no concerns that there would be detriment to the United States , or I would n't be voting to confirm , " the senator said . <p> In contrast to those nominees , Trump 's pick for secretary of state , Republican Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida , appears to be a shoo-in and Risch said he intends to confirm him on Trump 's first day in office . Risch and Rubio serve together on both the Foreign Relations and Intelligence committees and Risch joked that he could think of just one other senator he would be more comfortable sending to lead the State Department -- himself . <p> Risch said he never sought that position himself , but when the Trump administration is handed the keys to U.S. foreign policy in January , the Idaho senator will be riding shotgun . <p> Asked to describe the philosophy that will guide his work as chairman , Risch drew a contrast with one of his predecessors , Sen. William Borah , a fellow Idaho Republican who led the Foreign Relations Committee from 1924 to 1933 . Borah was a prominent isolationist , opposing the United States joining the League of Nations after World War I , but Risch said that position does n't make sense in today 's world . <p> " The world 's changed and isolationism does n't work , " Risch said . " Having said that , we ca n't be doing everything everywhere all the time to try to straighten out the world . If we 've learned anything from recent wars , it 's that if you 're going to help another country , they 've got to want it more than you want it . That was n't the case in Afghanistan . You have to use your resources in a smart way . " <p> Give directly to The Spokesman-Review 's Northwest Passages community forums series -- which helps to offset the costs of several reporter and editor positions at the newspaper -- by using the easy options below . Gifts processed in this system are not tax deductible , but are predominately used to help meet the local financial requirements needed to receive national matching-grant funds . 
@@119243590 <p> The language people use to talk about the Israel-Hamas war has power : It can contribute to misunderstanding and alienation , but it can also bring about appreciation for concepts that can seem impossible during this kind of conflict , such as peace . <p> I was born to a Palestinian Arab father and an Israeli Jewish mother -- a union that might sound romantic at first . In reality , my parents were the Romeo and Juliet of falafel stands . They could n't marry ; interfaith marriages are illegal in Israel , and their type of romance is taboo in the Palestinian territories . As one of the few children born of such unions , I 've felt like an outsider my entire life . <p> On weekends , my family usually visited Palestinian families in Nazareth or accompanied Israeli friends to a kibbutz . Wherever we went , my parents coached us to adjust our identities to fit in . Among Palestinians , speaking too much Hebrew or making too many references to popular Israeli books or music was often frowned upon . With Israeli friends , I learned it was better to refrain from speaking Arabic and to downplay connections to religions other than Judaism . <p> Aziz Abu Sarah and Maoz Inon have each suffered losses in the conflict between Israel and Palestinians . Instead of dividing them , these experiences created a tragic common ground . <p> Nov. 29 , 2024 <p> We were like water , always reflecting the people in front of us and hiding what was underneath . <p> I studied to become a writer and my early poetry was preoccupied with my search for belonging . I wrote first in Hebrew and then in Arabic . For years , I wrote for Israeli audiences ; later , I switched my focus to Arab audiences . Yet I felt incomplete either way , as if I had to sacrifice part of myself to reach anyone . Now I write in English , which strikes me as more neutral . <p> During the current Israel-Hamas war , I 've noticed the words that people on both sides of the conflict use and avoid , and what those choices say about their sense of identity and belonging . Some of my Israeli friends , even those who consider themselves left-wing , say things like " There 's no such thing as Palestinians ; that place never existed , " a sentiment that echoes that of some Israeli leaders . Similarly , some Palestinian leaders deny Israel 's existence , and some of my Palestinian friends insist that my mother is n't an Israeli , just a Jew . <p> Advertisement <p> What people do n't say is just as relevant . Many Israelis shy away from terms such as " apartheid " and " genocide , " as if using the words could be a first step toward acknowledging injustices . And many Palestinians avoid words such as " conflict " and " war " because they believe that Israel is responsible for the hostilities taking place . Some Palestinians also eschew the term " terrorism , " viewing Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack as legitimate resistance to occupation . <p> By feeling forced to pick a side , the whole world is now experiencing what has been my life struggle -- deciding whether I 'm Israeli or Palestinian ( and getting backlash for whichever I choose ) . <p> Jan. 7 , 2024 <p> Semantic differences can be signaled in nonverbal ways too , especially on social media . The watermelon emoji , for example , with colors like the Palestinian flag 's , is used to signal support for Gaza , while the yellow ribbon emoji is used to indicate support for Israel . <p> I 've learned to use both groups ' terms for something at the same time whenever possible to preserve my hybrid identity and maintain neutrality . For example , when I speak of the holy city , I call it " Jerusalem-Al-Quds , " embracing both its Israeli and Palestinian names . I use the terms " Nakba " and " establishment of Israel " in the same sentence . This is my way of respecting both narratives . <p> Advertisement <p> I also draw on terminology from both sides in my writing , recognizing that the weaponization of language traps people in denial . It causes them to mistake the light of empathy for darkness , much as in Plato 's allegory of the cave , and overlook the possibility of coexistence . I see trying to liberate words from their cages as part of my job . <p> Because if we ca n't communicate about our pain and suffering , it 's no surprise that we see peace as a form of weakness or surrender . <p> For many Palestinians , the two-state solution is an empty American promise , and therefore permission for Israeli occupation . For many Israelis , a two-state solution is a precursor to another Oct. 7 massacre . I ca n't blame any of them for their fears and traumas . But I hope to be one of the many people who help them understand the word " peace " as a positive and a possibility . <p> Amir Sommer is an award-winning poet and author who divides his time between Berlin and California . 
@@119243896 <p> At least six other people killed and many wounded in an Israeli raid on a house in Jabalia al-Nazla in northern Gaza . <p> Video Duration 01 minutes 30 seconds 01:30 <p> Multiple Israeli attacks kill Civil Defence members <p> Published On 24 Dec 202424 Dec 2024 <p> At least two members of Gaza 's Civil Defence have been killed in the latest Israeli attacks on the Palestinian enclave , rescue and emergency services say . <p> A drone strike targeting the Civil Defence headquarters in Gaza City on Tuesday killed firefighter Nabil Bahloul and his son . <p> Another Civil Defence worker , Najib Sakr , was killed as the Daraj neighbourhood in Gaza City was bombed by Israeli forces . <p> " We received an emergency stress message ... calling for help to extinguish a fire that broke out as a result of an Israeli air strike on a residential building , " said Ahmed al-Madhoun , a member of the Civil Defence . <p> " We rushed to the scene . On the way , we received a call telling us that the site we were heading to has just been pounded again . We went and found dozens killed , including our fellow Civil Defence team members shredded to pieces . " <p> " We are talking about 14 centres that have been obliterated alongside 56 vehicles , including fire engines and ambulances , " he said . <p> Advertisement <p> " Civil Defence workers are unable to effectively operate in northern Gaza , where their services are witnessing a near-total collapse due to the repeated Israeli attacks on their members on the ground , " he added . <p> As a result , civilians are taking responsibility , coming together to conduct risky rescue operations , including pulling victims from under the rubble of bombed buildings , Abu Azzoum said . <p> At least six Palestinians were killed and many others wounded in an Israeli raid on a house in northern Gaza 's Jabalia al-Nazla area , according to Al Jazeera reporters on the ground . The house belonged to the Abu Warda family . <p> Civil Defence officials said the bodies of three children were still under the rubble and its crews were facing difficulty in recovering them . <p> Meanwhile , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's office said a mid-level Israeli ceasefire negotiating team will return to Tel Aviv on Tuesday night after a " meaningful week " of talks in Qatar . <p> Additionally , an Israeli military investigation concluded on Tuesday that the presence of Israeli troops inadvertently contributed to the deaths of six captives killed by their Hamas captors in Gaza . <p> The captives ' bodies were discovered in a tunnel in late August , an event that sparked some of the largest antiwar protests since the war began . <p> The investigation found that the six captives were killed by multiple gunshots from their captors after surviving for nearly 330 days in Gaza . <p> Israel 's genocide in Gaza since October last year has killed at least 45,338 Palestinians and wounded 107,764 . <p> At least 1,139 people were killed in Israel during the Hamas-led attacks on October 7 , 2023 , and more than 200 were taken captive . 
@@119243898 <h> Bethlehem marks melancholic Christmas for second year in shadow of Gaza war <p> The excitement and cheer that typically descends on the Palestinian town in the occupied West Bank on Christmas are nowhere to be found . <p> Palestinian scouts hold signs before the arrival of Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem to attend Christmas events , near the Church of Nativity in the Old City of Bethlehem , in the Israeli-occupied West Bank Mussa Qawasma/Reuters <p> Published On 24 Dec 202424 Dec 2024 <p> Bethlehem , the city in the occupied West Bank that Christians believe is the birthplace of Jesus Christ , marks another solemn Christmas under the shadow of Israel 's genocide in Gaza . <p> On Christmas Eve on Tuesday , the town was bereft of its usual holiday cheer , with no lights nor a giant tree adorning its central Manger Square , no crowds of tourists , and no marching youth bands that otherwise mark the occasion . <p> Prayers , including the Church of Nativity 's famed midnight mass , will still be held in the presence of the Catholic Church 's Latin Patriarch , but the festivities will be of a more strictly religious nature than the festive celebrations the city once held . <p> Palestinian scouts marched silently through the streets , a departure from their usual raucous brass marching band . Some carried a sign that read , " We want life , not death . " <p> Palestinian security forces , meanwhile , arranged barriers near the Nativity Church , built atop the spot where Jesus is believed to have been born , and a worker cleared rubbish bins . <p> Advertisement <p> " Always the message of Bethlehem is a message of peace and hope , " said Salman . " And these days , we are also sending our message to the world : peace and hope , but insisting that the world must work to end our suffering as Palestinian people . " <p> The Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem , Pierbattista Pizzaballa , leads a mass at the Church of Nativity in the Old City of Bethlehem in the Israeli-occupied West Bank Mohammed Torokman/Reuters <p> Journalist Nida Ibrahim said before the war on Gaza , the town 's central hub was filled with people on Christmas . <p> " There would be lights everywhere . Also , there would be a centre stage where songs and Christmas carols would be performed in preparation for this festive season , " she told Al Jazeera . <p> In Bethlehem , Christmas was not just a celebration for Christians -- it was a national holiday where Muslims and Christians alike " felt it was a chance for them to feel some joy as they live under decades-long military occupation , " she added . <p> Ibrahim said the town 's residents were " deeply pained " to see the Palestinians in Gaza facing continued bombardment , which has killed more than 45,000 people since October last year . <h> Blow to Bethlehem 's economy <p> The cancellation of Christmas festivities is a severe blow to the town 's economy , which is already suffering due to restrictions under the Israeli occupation , Ibrahim said . <p> Tourism accounts for an estimated 70 percent of Bethlehem 's income -- almost all of it from the Christmas season . <p> Mayor Salman said unemployment in the town is hovering around 50 percent -- higher than the 30 percent unemployment across the rest of the West Bank , according to the Palestinian Finance Ministry . <p> Advertisement <p> The number of visitors to the town plunged from a pre-COVID high of approximately 2 million visitors per year in 2019 to fewer than 100,000 visitors in 2024 , said Jiries Qumsiyeh , the spokesperson for the Palestinian Tourism Ministry . <p> People light candles at the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem Mohammed Torokman/Reuters <p> Mohammad Awad , 57 , has been selling coffee for more than 25 years at the foot of the Mosque of Omar , which stands directly opposite the city 's famed church . <p> " Business was good before the war , but now there 's no one , " the vendor told AFP . " I hope the war in Gaza will end soon and that tourists will return . " <p> Israeli violence against Palestinians -- from both settlers and military forces alike -- has surged across the occupied West Bank since the war in Gaza broke out , but Bethlehem has remained largely quiet . <p> Restrictions after the war have also prevented some 150,000 Palestinians from leaving the territory to work in Israel , causing the economy there to contract by 25 percent . 
@@119248581 <h> 5 convicted in Amsterdam over violence against Israeli soccer fans <p> A Dutch court convicted five men Tuesday for their part in last month 's violence against Israeli soccer fans in Amsterdam that shocked the world and sparked accusations of antisemitism . <p> The Amsterdam district court found them guilty of a range of crimes from kicking fans of the team Maccabi Tel Aviv in the street to inciting violence in chat groups . <p> The heaviest sentence imposed was six months in prison for a man identified as Sefa O. for public violence against several people . <p> The Maccabi Tel Aviv fans came under " hit-and-run " style attacks in the early hours of Nov. 8 after their European League match against Amsterdam giant Ajax . <p> Images of the violence , which left five fans briefly hospitalized , went around the world and sparked a furious reaction in Israel -- including accusations of a " pogrom . " <p> The most serious case under consideration Tuesday was that of a man identified as O. , who prosecutors said played a " leading role " in the violence . The court saw images of the suspect kicking a person on the ground , chasing targets and punching people in the head and body . <p> The prosecutor said the beatings had " little to do " with soccer , but added that " in this case , there was no evidence of ... a terrorist intent and the violence was not motivated by antisemitic sentiment . " <p> " The violence was influenced by the situation in Gaza , not by antisemitism , " said the prosecutor . <p> The attacks followed two days of skirmishes that also saw Maccabi fans chant anti-Arab songs , vandalize a taxi and burn a Palestinian flag . <p> Police said they were investigating at least 45 people over the violence , including that carried out by fans of the Israeli club . <p> Another man , identified as Umutcan A. , 24 , received a sentence of one month for assaulting fans and violently ripping a Maccabi scarf from one of them . <p> Prosecutors had called for heavier sentences against the men -- up to two years in the case of O. <p> The judge said people convicted of such crimes would normally have to serve community service . " But the court finds that , given the seriousness of the offense and the context in which it was committed , only imprisonment is appropriate , " she said . <p> Only one of the five men was in court to hear the verdicts , an AFP reporter saw . <p> A 22-year-old identified as Abushabab M. , 22 , faces a charge of attempted murder but his case has been postponed while he undergoes a psychiatric assessment . <p> He was born in the Gaza Strip and grew up in a war zone , his lawyer told the court , while M. sat sobbing as his case was being heard . <p> Six more suspects are set to appear at a later stage . <p> Three of these suspects are minors and their cases will be heard behind closed doors . <p> At an emotionally charged news conference the morning after the riots , Amsterdam Mayor Femke Halsema said the city had been " deeply damaged " by " hateful antisemitic rioters . " <p> However , Halsema later said she regretted the parallel she had drawn between the violence and " memories of pogroms , " saying that word had been used as propaganda . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu described the violence at the time as a " premeditated antisemitic attack . " 
@@119256590 <h> How President Musk 's scheme for world domination is going Will Bunch Newsletter <p> Happy holidays from the Will Bunch Newsletter ! It 's a weird , chaotic time to celebrate Christmas Eve and the rest of our multicultural buffet that helps us endure the dark and frigid winter solstice , but we 've been here before . I still remember December 1968 just before my 10th birthday , after a year of assassinations , riots and war . It was that fraught Christmas Eve when Apollo 8 sent back the very first , amazing pictures of Earth taken from orbiting the Moon , and reminded us why we needed to save the home we all share . Hold onto that . <h> Nobody voted for this : Elon Musk takes the White House for a test drive <p> It seems like just yesterday we were looking ahead to 2024 and worrying that what seemed certain to be a tumultuous year -- and indeed it was ! -- would end with Donald Trump possessing way too much power over America . Now , with 359 days down and only seven more to go , we are learning that the real year-end question is whether Elon Musk is going to have too much control over our lives . <p> Advertisement <p> That 's not exactly an improvement , is it ? <p> What felt likea slow motion train wreck over the last 12 months -- the richest person on Earth gravitating toward Trump and then hurling himself into the race by relocating to Pennsylvania and spending $277 million in sofa change from his $430 billion windfall to get the twice-impeached and quadruple-indicted GOP nominee elected , all while steering his powerful social network , X , toward a cliff on his extreme right -- accelerated and slammed into Capitol Hill at full speed last week . <p> The electric-vehicle and rocket magnate showed a stunned nation that , with a frighteningly manic binge of about 100 often misleading and sometimes false tweets on X , the president-elect 's now-right-hand man could derail -- at least temporarily , and with some significant impact -- a congressional deal to keep the federal government open . <p> When this two-day bender of tweets and Capitol Hill chaos ended , there were a lot more questions then answers . Why did Musk suddenly go off against the spending deal , and why did so many GOP congressman respond to a man who has n't been elected to anything , ever ? Why did Trump seem to follow Musk 's lead on almost sparking a government shutdown , instead of the other way around ? In the end , which mattered more -- the big loss that Democrats and renegade Republicans inflicted on the two-headed beast by rejecting their call to end the debt ceiling , or the victories that will likely help Musk financially , because apparently $430 billion is not enough ? <p> Above all , who is really running the show here ? Trump , who at age 78 seems increasingly frail and detached even before taking the oath of office , or Musk , the South African immigrant who ca n't become president under the Constitution but can apparently just buy the same level of clout ? <p> Even Trump himself , in a campaign-rally type speech to a Turning Point USA confab in Phoenix on Sunday , felt compelled to respond to the growing chatter that America suddenly finds itself with a " President Musk " calling the shots . <p> " No , that 's not happening ... he 's not going to be president ; that I can tell you , " Trump said . " I 'm safe . You know why ? He ca n't be . He was n't born in this country . " He tried to turn on a smile to suggest that Trump finds all of this humorous , but he looked instead more like a man in the throes of hemorrhoids . <p> It 's a most unsettling state of affairs , and it 's difficult to write about because it 's hard to yet know where this is going in the long run . It 's unclear whether Musk 's seeming leveraged buyout of the federal government is both so brazen and so amateurish that it will actually impede the Trump-run dictatorship that was the original Project 2025 , or whether the future is getting even more ominous than our fears of 12 months ago . Here are the important things to watch right now : <p> -- Musk 's influence on Trump and , thus , the GOP is already reaping wins that will help the business interests of the Tesla and SpaceX CEO , which in any ordinary time -- and clearly this is no ordinary time -- would be a big scandal . As reported by the American Prospect 's David Dayen , the original version of the year-end bill that triggered Musk 's freakout on X included a bipartisan deal for a long-discussed ban on U.S. firms investing in " sensitive technologies , " like AI or semiconductors , in China . That would have directly affected Musk , who currently plans to build a factory for self-driving Teslas in China and probably has other like-minded schemes . The China ban was stripped from the final bill . <p> The Musk interference that eventually gained Trump 's support also killed a negotiated provision that would have lowered prescription drug costs by ending a pricing scheme that boosted profits for the so-called " middlemen " in U.S. healthcare ; pharmacy benefit managers , or PBMs . <p> Why ? The best explanation is that billionaire oligarchs like Musk oppose any concept of government regulation . But what 's crazy is that Trump -- the actual guy the voters supposedly elected on Nov. 5 -- had just told a news conference that the government needs to restrain the " rich as hell " middlemen of Big Pharma , the very thing then stripped from the bill . So , yeah , who 's really in charge here ? <p> -- Beyond the government funding bill , Musk continues to prove the Springsteen dictum that " a king ai n't satisfied ' til he rules everything . " It 's clear that his $430 billion net worth -- swollen these past six weeks by investors giddy over the prospect of a Musk-ian global domination -- means that the $277 million he spent buying the American presidency feels like when a mobster casually tosses the nightclub valet-parking guy a $100 tip , So , Musk is now sizing up the West 's other fragile democracies . <p> For Musk , the self-drive to planetary rule involves a sharp turn to the far right . He 's proposed giving $100 million to Nigel Farage 's anti-immigrant Reform UK party , which would roil British politics , and then it got even worse . This weekend , Musk endorsed the extremist Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) party , tweeting : " Only the AfD can save Germany . " Never mind that the AfD is infected with a serious strain of the neo-Nazism meant to have been snuffed out in 1945 . People have every reason to be terrified about what Musk 's obscene wealth has wrought . <p> Except ... <p> -- The weird events of last week also revealed Musk is inept , utterly lacking in knowledge or curiosity about how governing actually works , and out-of-control in ways that it 's hard not to wonder if it was really Musk , or the ketamine or whatever , doing the talking . It showed a pathway for the Musk administration to self-drive itself into a ditch , either by triggering Trump 's vanity , which has probably already happened , or -- even better -- lighting a fire under Democrats and others who 've seemed far top pliable in bending a knee to Trump and his 49.8% victory . <p> Certainly congressional Democrats -- who 've looked cowed into searching for ways to work with Trump instead of resisting American authoritarianism -- got back some of their mojo for a newfound " Musk resistance . " They even cleverly maneuvered to restore childhood cancer funding that theTrump-Musk tag team had nearly killed , just because they thought they could . <p> We can only hope that Musk 's brazen power play to take his newly purchased White House out for a test drive before the papers were even signed has been a wake-up call for how far America is already going off the rails , and what can happen if we do n't grab the steering wheel back . People can and will keep debating what the November election really meant but one thing is very clear : No one voted for a President Musk . <h> Yo , do this ! <p> The audiobook I 'm now listening to is rife with stories about rugged ward politics , episodic racism , millionaire greed , union-crushing , and urban land-use controversies . As you 've probably guessed , it 's a book about baseball -- The New York Game : Baseball and the Rise of a New City , wonderfully told and written by Kevin Baker . Even as a diehard baseball fan for more than a half-century ( and much of that as a New Yorker ) I 'm amazed at how much I did n't know about the roots of a national pastime that started before the Civil War , driving towards its arguable zenith in the 1950s . <p> How does it feel ? I 'm not sure but I have high hopes this Christmas week for seeing A Complete Unknown , the Bob Dylan biopic that a ) gets closer to the goal of making every lyric of " Like a Rolling Stone " into a movie title ( including a really great 2005 documentary , No Direction Home ) and b ) tells one of the greatest tales of the rock ' n ' roll canon , about how a literal complete unknown from Hibbing , Minn. , showed up in New York in 1961 to write a legend about himself on the fly , and then blew it all up . I ca n't wait to see Timoth ? e Chalamet in this film that opens wide on theaters on Christmas Day . <h> Ask me anything <p> Answer : Ugh . If you have n't been following the John Fetterman follies , Pennsylvania 's junior and allegedly Democratic senator is sounding more and more MAGA Trump-y with each interview he gives , as he endorses some of the president-elect 's controversial cabinet picks and plays footsie with others . On Sunday , Fetterman told ABC News that Trump is " a singular political talent , " suggesting he believes the once and future POTUS has unlocked the key for reaching blue-collar and rural voters that also motivated his own 2022 election . He seems totally on track for becoming the Senate 's next Kyrsten Sinema , a true independent priding himself on annoying just about everyone . That 's a shame . The 2022 Fetterman seemed onto something , both in connecting to rural voters and addressing issues like marijuana reform that were falling through the cracks . The Fetterman 2025 model seems hopelessly lost . <h> What you 're saying about ... <p> A large number of readers were eager to weigh in about the wave of reported drone sightings over New Jersey and the media 's overcaffeinated coverage . Most agreed ( with me , for what it 's worth ) that the significance was in the moral panic and not driven much by actual drones . I think reader David ( include your last name , when you can ) nailed it that it " stems , in large part , from real fear over our combined dependence upon and lack of control over advanced technology . " Added Denise Mueller : " I feel we are experiencing a political apocalypse and east coast leadership and mainstream news is again diverting our attention to look at the shiny objects . " <p> ? ? This week 's question : How do you handle a problem like Elon Musk ? How worried are you about his rising influence in U.S. politics , and do you see him as a real threat or as a billionaire liability that could help implode the MAGA movement ? Please email me your answer and be sure to put " Elon Musk " in the subject line . <h> Backstory on a crisis for the American gerontocracy <p> A story that broke out of Texas this weekend is sad both for the folks involved but also for what it said about the current state of national politics . A missed vote on keeping the federal government by a once-influential House Republican , Rep. Kay Granger of Texas , sparked the discovery that the congresswoman had not voted on anything , or been seen much at the Capitol , since July . Somehow , it took a right-wing Dallas publication with an owner who 'd politically opposed Granger to finally publish what the rest of the media has missed : the representative for Texas ' 12th District was in an assisted living residence back home and , a son later confirmed , dealing with dementia issues . <p> Granger , 81 , had stepped aside as chair of the powerful House Appropriations Committee this spring but not resigned her seat . No one on her staff or in GOP leadership thought it important to tell voters the truth . Even more troubling is that this was just an extreme case of the dramatic aging of political leadership in Washington -- unique to neither Granger nor the Republican Party . Here in Philly , Democratic Rep. Dwight Evans , 70 , has failed to keep a promise to return and resume voting after experiencing a stroke in May , yet he was reelected and vows he 'll return in 2025 . <p> I 've been critical in this space against ageism , but it 's increasingly legitimate to ask whether the determination of boomers ( or older ) to cling to personal power for as long as possible is stifling the new ideas and new voices needed to move forward . In what felt almost farcical , former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi , 84 , led a behind-the-scenes campaign to make sure that Rep. Gerry Connolly , 74 , defeated the dynamic 35-year-old Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez -- popular with young voters essential to any Democratic bounce-back -- to become top Dem on the House Oversight Committee . Pelosi did this from Luxembourg , where she 'd fallen and broken her hip on an official visit . This , as the oldest president in U.S. history . Joe Biden , 82 , is replaced by one who 'll be even older , Donald Trump ( now 78 ) , if he completes his term . <p> I 've also written here before that the rise of a U.S. gerontocracy has its roots in the New Left of the 1960s which believed the human progress meant new possibilities for personal fulfillment . That 's swell , but over 60 years that 's evolved into a kind of me-first careerism where stepping down for the collective interest -- and to give young folks a chance -- is no longer a thought , obviously . The alienation of young Americans from a system that shuts them out is becoming palpable . <p> The unfortunate saga of Kay Granger exposes that , and also some of the other flaws in our increasingly broken system . That includes the death of local news and an era when metro or statewide papers had both D.C. correspondents and reporters on local congressional elections who 'd notice when a member of Congress goes milk-carton MIA . Meanwhile , one thing I 'd love to see as we enter a new year is more young people running for office to replace this stale status quo . I think voters would be highly receptive . <h> What I wrote on this date in 2012 <p> Yes , journalists are on the job 365 ( or 366 ) days a year , including Christmas Eve . In 2012 , during a moment of Obama backlash and GOP-driven gridlock in Washington , the movie Lincoln was a stunning reminder of the lost vision of what had originally led to the Republican Party . I wrote about the mid-19th century Pennsylvania firebrand Thaddeus Stevens , who would have been spinning in his grave over assaults from his beloved GOP on voting rights and public education . I wrote : " If Stevens were here , he 'd be bashing Gov . Corbett and his pals as buffoons or worse , until they dragged him off the legislative floor . " The headline still holds up a dozen years later : " Where is Thaddeus Stevens when Pennsylvania needs him ? " <h> Recommended Inquirer reading <p> Only one column last week as I did some of that good , much-needed family stuff around the holidays . In it , I tried to make sense of the CEO assassination that happened over my long December break , the large pool of sympathy for the gunman Luigi Mangione , and what that tells us about the confused state of American politics . The rage over America 's broken healthcare system was never tapped during the 2024 election . Is there a hidden , majority political movement waiting to break free ? <p> It almost seems like five years ago , but it was actually the first half of 2024 when college campuses in Philadelphia and across the country erupted in some of the most dramatic protests and confrontations since the 1960s , over the war in Gaza and U.S , military aid for Israel 's assaults that killed thousands of civilians . What came next -- an autumn of repression on many of those campuses , as administrators impose tough curbs on protesting and , arguably , free speech -- has n't received the focus it deserves . Kudos to The Inquirer 's Pulitzer-laureate higher-ed writer , Susan Snyder , for this year-end update on the force of this backlash , including a controversy at Swarthmore over whether students shouting into a bullhorn was " an assault . " It 's clear that 2025 is shaping up as a pivotal year for change in America , and not just in D.C. Make a New Year 's resolution to subscribe to The Inquirer . <p> By submitting your written , visual , and/or audio contributions , you agree to The Inquirer 's Terms of Use , including the grant of rights in Section 10. 
@@119274697 <p> BETHLEHEM , West Bank -- In the little town of Bethlehem , Christmas this year is barely a whisper . <p> Palestinian scouts paraded through the streets but without their traditional instruments of drums , horns and bagpipes.There was no jubilant countdown to the lighting of the Christmas tree in the main square . In fact , there is no Christmas tree at all . <p> Bethlehem is facing its second bleak Christmas since the outbreak of the war in Gaza -- leaving faith leaders and residents grappling with how to mark the festive holiday while fellow Palestinians continue to be killed . <p> " Bethlehem is the capital of Christmas . It 's supposed to be the best time of the year . None of that is happening because we 're mourning , " Rev. Munther Isaac , the pastor of Bethlehem 's Evangelical Lutheran Christmas Church , told NBC News . <p> Next to the altar where Isaac delivers sermons is an unusual Nativity scene : For the second Christmas in a row , the baby Jesus is wrapped in a keffiyeh , the traditional Palestinian scarf , and nestled on a pile of rubble . It serves as a reminder of the thousands of Palestinian children killed in Israeli strikes during the war , Isaac said . " We see Jesus in every child pulled from under the rubble in Gaza . " <p> Aside from the suffering in Gaza , Bethlehem faces its own challenges . <p> Its economy is heavily dependent on tourism but few foreign visitors are coming to the city in the occupied West Bank amid the war sparked by Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel . That is compounding economic misery that began with the Covid pandemic , which also devastated the tourism industry . <p> " Honestly , it 's a desert , " said Rony Tabash , whose family has run a gift store near the Church of the Nativity for nearly a century . " There are no pilgrims , there are no tourists . " At the worst points , he said , he had gone two months without making a single sale . <p> Meanwhile , an Israeli-built wall partially encircles Bethlehem , cutting it off from Jerusalem and stifling homebuilding and urban growth . Israel says the wall is a necessary security measure to stop suicide bombings . But in 2004 , the International Court of Justice determined it was illegal under international law . <p> The hardship means many young people are leaving Bethlehem and moving abroad in search of a better future -- raising fears that the Christian community in the city where the faith was born will dwindle and might one day disappear . <p> " We are very , very concerned , " Isaac said . " This is beyond the dangerous point . " <p> Life is no easier for elderly Christians . At the home of 79-year-old Nuha Tarazi , her landline phone beeps harshly as an attempted call to her relatives in Gaza once again fails to connect . <p> " That 's why I did n't put up the Christmas tree , " the widowed grandmother said . " I would not feel well if I did that while they 're suffering there . " <p> Tarazi was born in Gaza City but has lived in Bethlehem for nearly 40 years . Four of her siblings were still alive in the Strip when the war broke outmore than a year ago . But she said one of her sisters had been killed in an Israeli strike and a brother had died of untreated kidney disease as Gaza 's health care system collapsed . <p> Her two surviving siblings -- sister , Samhiaa Azzam , and brother , Atallah Tarazi -- are among hundreds of Christians sheltering at the Holy Family , a Catholic church in the ruins of Gaza City . Families fall asleep to the thump of nearby airstrikes and the constant whine of an Israeli drone overhead . <p> Atallah Halim Tarazi at Holy Family Church in Gaza City . NBC News <p> " We constantly ask God to protect us and safeguard us from all evil , " said Atallah , 77 , a retired surgeon who once traveled the world but now rarely leaves the church compound and sleeps in a cot in a crowded storage room . <p> During a visit in Gaza by NBC News , Samhiaa and Atallah placed a call to their sister Nuha in Bethlehem . This time the call connected . <p> " Happy New Year , may you be in peace , " Samhiaa , 74 , told her sister over the crackly line , urging her to celebrate Christmas despite everything . " My greetings to everyone , rejoice as much as you can . Rejoice . " <p> Raf Sanchez <p> Raf Sanchez is a foreign correspondent for NBC News . <p> Lawahez Jabari <p> Lawahez Jabari is a producer based in Tel Aviv . She has covered the Middle East conflict -- on both the Israeli and Palestinian sides -- for more than a decade . 
@@119277482 <p> Britain 's King Charles , Queen Camilla , Britain 's William , Prince of Wales , Catherine , Princess of Wales , Prince George , Prince Louis and Princess Charlotte walk to a Christmas Day service at St. Mary Magdalene 's church at the Sandringham estate on Thursday , December 25 . <h> King Charles praises those ' who dedicate their lives to helping others ' in Christmas speech <p> Catherine , Princess of Wales , greets people gathered outside St. Mary Magdalene 's church to see the royal family on Thursday , December 25 . <p> Toby Melville/Reuters via CNN Newsource <p> King Charles III recorded his Christmas message at the Fitzrovia Chapel in central London on December 11 . <p> Aaron Chown/WPA Pool/Getty Images via CNN Newsource <p> Britain 's King Charles , Queen Camilla , Britain 's William , Prince of Wales , Catherine , Princess of Wales , Prince George , Prince Louis and Princess Charlotte walk to a Christmas Day service at St. Mary Magdalene 's church at the Sandringham estate on Thursday , December 25 . <p> London ( CNN ) -- King Charles III has used his Christmas message to hail the efforts of healthcare workers and all those who support others , praising the medical staff who provided " strength , care and comfort " during his and the Princess of Wales ' cancer treatments . <p> In his third Christmas address , the 76-year-old British sovereign spoke of how " all of us go through some form of suffering at some stage in our life , be it mental or physical . " <p> " The degree to which we help one another - and draw support from each other , be we people of faith or of none - is a measure of our civilization as nations , " he added , as footage showed the sovereign and his wife Queen Camilla visiting a cancer treatment center in London back in April as he returned to public-facing duties after his own diagnosis . <p> As the King spoke about the royal family meeting and listening to those who " dedicate their lives to helping others , " William and Kate , the Prince and Princess of Wales , were seen in a video from October talking with emergency responders who were called out to the fatal stabbings in Southport , northwest England , over the summer . <p> King Charles , whose message was filmed at a former hospital chapel in central London , said he was " thinking especially of the many thousands of professionals and volunteers here in the United Kingdom and across the Commonwealth who , with their skills and out of the goodness of their heart , care for others - often at some cost to themselves . " <p> The annual festive broadcast is generally recorded at Buckingham Palace or Windsor Castle . But this year the British monarch opted for an external location with links to the medical community to reflect the themes of his message . <p> Charles ' decision marked the first time in over a decade that the address has not been filmed on the royal estate . The last message recorded outside a royal residence was in 2006 when the late Queen Elizabeth II recorded her message at Southwark Cathedral . <p> The King expressed his gratitude to the medical teams who helped him and his family this year . <p> " From a personal point of view , I offer special heartfelt thanks to the selfless doctors and nurses who this year have supported me and other members of my family through the uncertainties and anxieties of illness , and have helped provide the strength , care and comfort we have needed , " he said . <p> " I am deeply grateful too to all those who have offered us their own kind words of sympathy and encouragement . " <p> King Charles revealed in February that he had been diagnosed with cancer and started treatment in London . A palace source told CNN last week that his " treatment has been moving in a positive direction " and " will continue into next year . " Kate said in September that she had completed chemotherapy , six months after sharing her cancer diagnosis , and would be making a phased return to her public duties . <p> Amid wars in Gaza , Ukraine and Sudan , the King said that " on this Christmas Day , we can not help but think of those for whom the devastating effects of conflict in the Middle East , in Central Europe , in Africa and elsewhere pose a daily threat to so many people 's lives and livelihoods . " <p> He also spoke of " the humanitarian organizations working tirelessly to bring vital relief " and pointed to the Gospels which " speak so vividly of conflict and teach the values with which we can overcome it . " <p> King Charles and Camilla are spending the holiday at Sandringham , a country estate in rural Norfolk about 100 miles north of London , where 45 members of the family are expected to be gathering for Christmas Day . <p> Earlier Wednesday , the Windsors attended the traditional Christmas Day service on the estate . Many royal fans , some wearing Christmas hats , waited for hours to watch as the Prince and Princess of Wales and their children joined King Charles and Camilla on a walk to St. Mary Magdalene Church . <p> One royal who did not join the clan 's Christmas gathering at the private Norfolk estate this year was Prince Andrew who hit the headlines again in recent weeks over his links to an alleged Chinese spy . The Duke of York and his ex-wife Sarah , Duchess of York , were expected to spend the day together at their Royal Lodge home in Windsor Great Park , according to multiple British media reports . <p> In the King 's festive message , he reflected on his trip to Samoa in October , where he attended the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting - his first as head of the organization . During the biennial summit , Britain faced renewed calls from some members to pay compensation for its historical role in slavery . <p> " Across the Commonwealth , we are held together by a willingness to listen to each other , to learn from one another , and to find just how much we have in common , " Charles said . " Because , through listening , we learn to respect our differences , to defeat prejudice , and to open up new possibilities . " <p> In the United Kingdom , he also hailed community cohesion in the wake of violent riots sparked after three girls were killed and ten injured in a stabbing attack on a Taylor Swift-themed dance class in Southport in July . He expressed his " deep sense of pride " at how people came together " not to repeat these behaviors , but to repair . " <p> " To repair not just buildings , but relationships . And , most importantly , to repair trust ; by listening and , through understanding , deciding how to act for the good of all , " he said , as footage showed the cleaning up operation with residents sweeping streets and clearing bricks . <p> The broadcast ended with a rendition of " Once in Royal David 's City " sung by Inner Voices , a London-based youth choir with video overlaid showing highlights of the royal family conducting engagements over the past 12 months . <p> The monarch 's speech is a tradition going back 90 years . The first Christmas message was broadcast over the radio in 1932 by George V. It was n't until Elizabeth II in 1957 when it was first televised and is now a staple element for many Britons and one of the most watched programs on Christmas Day . 
@@119278388 <p> The statue of John Harvard , the first major benefactor of Harvard College , is seen draped in the Palestinian flag , at an encampment of students protesting against the war in Gaza , at Harvard University in Cambridge , Massachusetts , on April 25 . Credit : Ben Curtis / AP <p> The University of Maine System board of trustees will not divest financially from Israel , the board 's chair announced in a letter Friday . The decision came after students petitioned the university and the board held a special session on the issue last week . <p> The petition had signatures from sixteen student organizations and almost 560 individual staff members and students across the system asking trustees to end investment in Israeli companies and any U.S.-based companies doing business with or in Israel . <p> The six demands outlined included ending academic ties with Israel , acknowledgment of the tragedy in Palestine , and adopting the Jerusalem Declaration on Antisemitism . <p> Board Chair Trish Riley said in a statement to the petition organizers , " There was consensus among our committee that to take a position on your demands would effectively shut down opportunities for conversation -- including about the horrors of the conflict in the Middle East and elsewhere -- and in doing so , undermine our educational mission . " <p> Riley said it was not the role of the trustees to take a position on matters of foreign policy . <p> On its Instagram , the UMaine Jewish Voices for Peace student group said they will continue to attend board meetings to voice support for divestment. 
@@119279284 <p> After nearly a year of war between Israel and the Iranian-backed terrorist group Hezbollah , Lebanon was sent reeling in September when thousands of pagers and walkie-talkies belonging to Hezbollah members exploded . <p> Two recently retired senior Mossad agents , who were among those spearheading the years-long operation , detailed the inside story of how they built the devices and got them into Hezbollah hands , shifting the course of Israel 's escalating war with the Iran-backed group . The walkie-talkie and pager plots had a profound ripple effect : weakening Iran by leaving its proxy empire in ruins , with Hezbollah crushed in Lebanon and the Assad regime toppled in Syria . <p> " We want them to feel vulnerable , which they are , " said Michael , who agreed to speak with 60 Minutes while masked and using a false name . " We ca n't use the pagers again because we already did that . We 've already moved on to the next thing . And they 'll have to keep on trying to guess what the next thing is . " <h> Weaponizing walkie-talkies <p> Mossad 's walkie-talkie operation was about waging war through deception and trickery , in line with the spy agency 's motto . Work began on weaponizing the walkie-talkies more than a decade before Israel set them off in September . <p> " The walkie-talkie was a weapon , just like a bullet or a missile or a mortar , " Michael said . <p> 60 Minutes spoke with disguised former Mossad agents 60 Minutes <p> The walkie-talkie battery , made in Israel at a Mossad facility , included an explosive device , Michael disclosed . The walkie-talkies were designed to go into the chest pocket of a tactical vest for soldiers . <p> According to Michael , Hezbollah bought more than 16,000 of the exploding devices , some of which were eventually used against them on Sept. 18 . <p> " They got a good price , " Michael said . <p> The price could n't be too low because Israel did n't want Hezbollah to be suspicious . Mossad also needed to hide its identity as the seller and ensure the walkie-talkies could n't be traced back to Israel . So they set up shell companies to infiltrate the supply chain . <p> " We create a pretend world . We are a global production company : We write the screenplay , we 're the directors , we 're the producers , we 're the main actors , " Michael said . " And the world is our stage . " <h> From walkie-talkies to pagers <p> The walkie-talkies were designed to go into armored tactical vests used in battle , but Mossad wanted to plant devices that Hezbollah members would have on them at all times . So , in 2022 , the agency began development on boobytrapped pagers , according to former Mossad agent Gabriel , who agreed to speak with 60 Minutes while masked and using a false name . Gabriel said Mossad had learned that Hezbollah was buying pagers from Gold Apollo , a company in Taiwan . <p> The Gold Apollo pagers were sleek , shiny and could fit into pockets . Mossad needed a larger pager to fit explosives inside , Gabriel said . <p> 60 Minutes <p> Using dummies , Mossad conducted tests with the pager inside a padded glove , held next to the dummy 's face , to calibrate the grams of powdered explosive needed to be just enough to hurt the fighter , but not the person next to him , Gabriel said . The plan was to only hurt Hezbollah members with pagers , not people nearby . <p> " We test everything , triple , double , multiple times in order to make sure there is minimum damage , " Gabriel said . <p> The devices had no intelligence capabilities and could not be used for tracking , according to Mossad . They could only be be used as miniature bombs . <p> " This is a very stupid device by nature . This is the reason they 're using it . There 's almost no way how to tap it , " Gabriel said . <p> Mossad also tested the pager ring tones . They wanted a sound that was urgent enough to compel someone to take it out of their pocket , Gabriel explained . The spy agency also tested how long it takes a person to answer a pager : on average , 7 seconds . <h> Convincing Hezbollah to buy the pagers <p> Gabriel remembers the day he showed the pager off to Dadi Barnea , the director at Mossad . <p> " And he was furious , " Gabriel said . " He was telling us , ' There is no chance that anyone will buy such a big device . It 's not comfortable in their pocket . It 's heavy . ' " <p> The director sent Gabriel back to the drawing board , but Gabriel spent the next two weeks successfully convincing his boss of the pager 's merits . <p> Those merits were later touted in fake ads on YouTube , where the pagers were touted as being robust , dustproof and waterproof , with a long battery life . They posted fake online testimonials , too . <p> " It became the best product in the beeper area in the world , " Gabriel said . <p> Lesley Stahl speaks with a former Mossad agent " Gabriel " 60 Minutes <p> Mossad did such a good job promoting the pager that people outside of Hezbollah wanted to buy it , Gabriel said . <p> " Obviously we did n't send to anyone , " he said . " We just quote them with expensive price . " <p> Mossad set up shell companies , including one in Hungary , to dupe Gold Apollo into working with it , Gabriel said . The spy agency fully manufactured the pagers and had a licensing partnership with Gold Apollo . It had to all look legitimate to Hezbollah . <p> " When they are buying from us , they have zero clue that they are buying from the Mossad . We make like the ' Truman Show , ' everything is controlled by us behind the scene , " Gabriel said . " In their experience , everything is normal . Everything was 100% kosher . " <p> To further the plot , Mossad hired the Gold Apollo saleswoman Hezbollah was used to working with , who was unaware she was working with Mossad . According to Gabriel , she offered Hezbollah the first batch of pagers as an upgrade , free of charge . By September 2024 , Hezbollah had about 5,000 pagers in their pockets . <h> Setting off the pagers and walkie talkies <p> The question for Israel was when the sleeping bombs should be activated . There were hints Hezbollah might be getting suspicious of the devices , so Mossad head Dadi Barnea gave the go ahead , triggering the Sept. 17 pager plot . At 3:30 p.m. pagers started beeping all over Lebanon . <p> Mayhem ensued as explosions went off . Hospitals filled up with the wounded . Limbs and fingers were torn off . People were left blooded , blinded and even with holes in their stomachs . For the most part , the explosions worked as planned , injuring only the people with the pagers , the former Mossad agents said . Several videos reviewed by 60 Minutes show explosions wounding individual people , while leaving those next to them unscathed . <p> " A day after the pagers exploded , people were afraid to turn on the air conditioners in Lebanon because they were afraid that they would explode , " Michael said . " So there was real fear . " <p> One day after the pager attack , Mossad finally activated the walkie-talkies that had been dormant for 10 years . Some went off at the funerals of those killed by the pagers . <p> In all , about 30 people were killed , including two children , in the two attacks . Around 3,000 were injured . <h> Did Mossad 's plan succeed ? <p> The aim of the walkie-talkie and pager plot was n't to kill people , Gabriel said . <p> " If he 's just dead , so he 's dead , " Gabriel said . " But if he is wounded , you have to take him to the hospital , take care of him . You need to invest money and effort . And those people without hands and eyes are living proof , walking in Lebanon , of ' do n't mess with us . ' " <p> Two days after the pager attack , Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah , known for his fiery oratory , gave a subdued speech . He looked defeated , Gabriel said . <p> " He already lose the war . And his soldier look at him during that speech . And they saw a broken leader , " Gabriel said . " This was the tipping point of the war . " <p> In the ensuing days , the Israeli Air Force hit targets across Lebanon , killing over 1,000 people , many of them civilians . On Sept. 27 , Israel dropped massive bombs on Nasrallah 's bunker , assassinating him . The Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire took effect at the end of November . <p> " But I think after this tipping point of the beeper operation and then the walkie-talkie and then IDF attack , it put Hezbollah in a situation , a very , very difficult situation : no chain of command , no spirit in their soldiers , asking , begging , for a ceasefire , " Gabriel said . <p> Michael agreed that wind was taken out of Hezbollah 's sails after the pager operation . He 's hoping it will have an effect on Hamas and the hostage situation in Gaza . <p> " Because they 're looking at their sides and they 're seeing no one next to them , " Michael said . " They are completely isolated now . " 
@@119282581 <h> " Despite this , Israel will continue tirelessly in its efforts to return all of our hostages , " the PMO stated . <p> Demonstrators protest for the release of Israelis held hostage in the Gaza Strip , outside Hakirya Base in Tel Aviv , July 7 , 2024 ( photo credit : ITAI RON/FLASH90 ) <p> Israel and Hamas sparred on Wednesday over the blame for the holdup on a Gaza hostage and ceasefire deal on Wednesday as some hostage families marked a second Hanukkah without their loved ones . <p> The Prime Minister 's Office denied Hamas 's statement that accused Israel of rejecting a hostage deal due to introducing new terms . <p> Hamas said , " The negotiations in Doha have progressed well . We have shown flexibility but Israel has set new conditions regarding the withdrawal from Gaza , the release of prisoners , and a ceasefire . These new conditions are delaying reaching an agreement . " <p> The PMO said in response , " The Hamas terror organization is lying again , going back on the understandings that have already been reached and continues to create difficulties for the negotiations . Despite this , Israel will continue tirelessly in its efforts to return all of our hostages . " <p> A senior Israeli official said the return of the team to Israel was intended to facilitate a status assessment of the negotiations and determine whether decisions by the political echelon , such as expanding the team 's mandate , were necessary . " The team is not returning because of a blowup of negotiations , " the official said . <p> Family members of hostages held by Hamas , who gathered in Tel Aviv 's Hostage Square on Wednesday to light the hanukkiah , called for a hostage deal as reports and rumors surrounding progress on a possible deal continued to circulate . <p> " There have never been better conditions for a deal . This is a historic opportunity . Let 's not miss it , " said Udi Goren , whose cousin Tal Haimi was killed on October 7 and whose body is still held by Hamas . <p> The lighting ceremony was later moved to a different location due to a security threat . <p> " Just yesterday , Israel 's leading analyst reported that Israel 's deterrence is at an all-time high . This is precisely why we , the families , believe we are in the strongest position ever to secure a deal , " Goren added . <h> Support from the US <p> He said support by US President Joe Biden and President-elect Donald Trump has " created an unprecedented opportunity . " <p> " Hamas 's threats have been diminished , Hezbollah and its leadership eliminated , and former Hamas chief Yahya Sinwar is no longer with us . We 've witnessed the implosion of Syria , and Iran 's ' ring of fire ' has been almost destroyed , " he added . <p> Shir Siegel , whose father , Keith , is still held hostage and whose mother , Aviva , was released in the November 2023 deal , also stressed the importance of the current moment . <p> " There are moments in history when every decision is fateful , and these days are precisely such moments . Every moment of delay or hesitation , every postponement in negotiations or the process of bringing our brothers and sisters home could cost lives ; and deprive us of the ability to provide the murdered and the fallen with a proper burial in our land . " <p> She added : " Recently , a priceless opportunity has emerged to bring everyone home with strength and power , " calling on leaders to do everything to " bring everyone home . " <p> " My father 's life and the lives of all the hostages are in your hands . Do n't miss this opportunity . " <p> Lishay Miran Lavi , whose husband , Omri , is still held by Hamas , emphasized the moral aspects of a deal , saying that she has always believed , and now believes more than ever , that no one has the right " to go out and make a decision against saving lives . " <p> " We are talking about human lives , about such wide circles of people who can not move forward because our loved ones are still there . After so many days , and with no end in sight , everyone -- the living , the fallen , and the murdered -- is a humanitarian matter . " <h> Hanukkiah lighting in Tel Aviv <p> At a hanukkiah lighting at Beit Halochem in Tel Aviv with wounded soldiers , President Isaac Herzog said , " Together with you , I yearn , work , and cry out in every possible way for the immediate return of our brothers and sisters being held hostage in Gaza . I do n't believe that last year during Hanukkah anyone thought that 100 of our brothers and sisters would still be in the hands of Hamas terrorists . We are in a critical period for their return ... The hostages are in clear and immediate danger to their lives . With every passing day , the threat to their lives increases . <p> " We face a cruel enemy that seeks in every way to harm us and to obstruct the return of the hostages , using psychological tactics in negotiations , " he continued . <p> " Against this enemy , I know that we are working , and must continue to work , with creativity , determination , responsibility , and boundless commitment to bring them back home by any means necessary , whether to the embrace of their families or to be laid to rest with dignity . <p> Herzog issued a call to leadership to act with all its might , " using every tool at our disposal , to secure a deal . This is your duty . This is your responsibility . " <p> The IDF announced on Wednesday that the army had found and destroyed two large offensive underground Hamas tunnels in the southern and central areas of Gaza . <p> During the strikes , a terrorist cell attempting to plant an explosive device was struck , along with anti-tank positions and terrorist infrastructure , the military said . <p> Separately , an IAF aircraft conducted a precision strike , guided by Military Intelligence and the Southern Command , targeting a Hamas terrorist in the al-Furqan neighborhood of Gaza City . <p> " Prior to the strike , extensive measures were taken to minimize the risk to civilians , including the use of precision weaponry , aerial surveillance , and additional intelligence . The IDF remains committed to acting with strength and determination against terrorist organizations in the Gaza Strip , " the army said . <p> Defense Minister Israel Katz , speaking at the Philadelphi Corridor on the Gaza-Egypt border , said the security of the corridor will remain in IDF hands . <p> " There will be no Hamas governance here and no Hamas military presence . In Gaza as well , we will ensure buffer zones and commanding positions ; and alongside this , we will act to bring all the hostages home -- and to defeat Hamas , " he said . 
@@119282592 <h> Israeli teen diagnosed with polio , Health Ministry investigates <h> " The primary way to protect children from paralysis is through the inactivated polio vaccine , " the Health Ministry stated . <p> By AVICHAI HAIM DECEMBER 25 , 2024 16:45 <p> A coronavirus vaccine dose is seen being administered at a Meuhedet vaccination center in Jerusalem , on February 16 , 2021. ( photo credit : MARC ISRAEL SELLEM/THE JERUSALEM POST ) <p> A 17-year-old in Jerusalem has been diagnosed with polio , marking a rare case of the disease in Israel . The Health Ministry confirmed the diagnosis during routine vaccinations , with verification coming from its virology lab . <p> Health officials have launched an epidemiological investigation to trace contacts and ensure vaccination for those who have not yet been immunized . <p> " The primary way to protect children from paralysis is through the inactivated polio vaccine , " the Health Ministry stated . " To prevent further transmission of the virus , maintaining proper hand hygiene is also crucial . " <p> Polio , an infectious disease caused by the poliovirus , can lead to paralysis and was once widespread globally . Due to decades of vaccination efforts , it has been eradicated in many regions . <p> The virus spreads through person-to-person contact , often via fecal-oral transmission , and multiplies in the gastrointestinal tract . Infected individuals may unknowingly transmit the virus through bodily secretions.A Palestinian boy receives polio vaccine at a hospital in Khan Younis in the southern of Gaza Strip February 23 , 2014. ( credit : IBRAHEEM ABU MUSTAFA/REUTERS ) <p> While most infected individuals ( 90-95% ) are asymptomatic , some develop mild symptoms such as fever , fatigue , sore throat , and appetite loss . Around 4-8% experience meningitis , a condition that typically resolves within a few days . Less than 1% of cases progress to paralytic polio , the most severe form of the disease . <h> Importance of vaccination and education <p> The Health Ministry emphasized the importance of vaccination campaigns and hygiene education to curb the potential spread . The Ministry is continuing its investigation to determine whether further steps , such as booster vaccination campaigns , are necessary . 
@@119284598 <h> One illegal border crossing they can let slide <p> Sarasota , Fla. : Homeland Security officers in Phoenix stopped an elderly man from entering the United States in a strange aircraft last night . The man , described as " overweight , heavily bearded and wearing a red and white party costume , " was being held pending further investigation . Nine small reindeer or caribou , referred to as " possible undocumented aliens , " were also taken into custody . One , with an unusual glowing red nose , was immediately placed in quarantine and was examined by government veterinarians . <p> " We do not see this gentleman as a threat , " said a Homeland Security spokesperson , " although we were initially suspicious when he kept repeating the words , ' Ho , Ho , Ho . ' Ho , as you know , is the first name of an infamous North Vietnamese Communist leader , Ho Chi Minh . But we decided it was a harmless greeting of some sort . " <p> When asked how many packages the man was bringing into the country , the official would only say that the number was " in the millions . " Sources confirmed that the detainee 's name was not on any government no-fly list , and he was expected to be released as soon as local agents finished examining his baggage . " In this job , you never know who 's coming through the door next , " said one anonymous border guard . " Last spring , we had to deal with a giant bunny carrying a basketful of eggs . We asked Washington for guidance , but nobody there was very helpful . " <p> Neither political party had an immediate comment , but given the mood in Washington , many senators and representatives predicted that this would probably be their only chance to agree on any issue in the coming year . Pete Tannen <h> Helping the rich be rich <p> Staten Island : We do n't have massive federal debt because of Social Security or Medicare . We do n't have massive federal debt because of liberal policies . We have massive federal debt because we 've been subsidizing the rich for too long . Michael Rosenkrantz <h> Mush-mouthed <p> Brooklyn : Does anyone else notice that AOC speaks word salad language just like Kamala Harris does ? She loves the word " transparency , " which is ironic because most of the country sees right through her . Rocco Conte <h> Betrayal ? <p> White Plains , N.Y. : Many NYC police and firefighters voted for Donald Trump . I wonder how they feel now that Trump and Elon Musk stopped Congress from supporting the 9/11 first responders ' health care . This is just the beginning of a four-year disaster ! Steve Howell <h> Electability <p> Howard Beach : When half the country voted for a man who was convicted of sexual abuse and accused by more than two dozen women of sexual harassment , it certainly is a positive sign that Matt Gaetz stands a very good chance of being elected governor of Florida . Barbara Berg <h> There 's a right way <p> Clearwater , Fla. : Even far-right conservatives like myself can agree with this newspaper 's assessment that America urgently needs to replenish its declining population through new immigration . I fully support the notion that one of the key ingredients to our country 's past success has been the strength and diversity that immigrants have brought . However , your recent editorial ( " Immigration is good for America , " Dec. 23 ) overlooked a crucial element in the immigration debate : It must be legal . There 's a significant difference between following the rules and simply bypassing them . The immigration process should be conducted according to the law , just as it was for the vast majority of immigrants in past decades . It was never easy or automatic . Immigrants were required to study U.S. history , pass a citizenship test and undergo a slow and difficult process to become Americans . They did n't simply " sneak in " and get handed a free pass , complete with hotel stays and prepaid flights . Jeff Morey <h> A life for a life <p> Kew Gardens Hills : " Brooklyn DA vows justice in subway torching of woman ; ' migrant ' ID 'd by students " ( Dec. 24 ) read your front page yesterday . First of all , the district attorney can never get true justice for the victim of this horrific crime because , unfortunately , there is no death penalty in New York . And please call Sebastian Zapeta exactly what he is : a lowlife illegal alien who snuck into our country to do harm . Zapeta is the poster boy for a gurney and a needle . Just let me know where and when to show up and I will be more than happy to push the plunger and rid the world of this scum . Barry Koppel <h> Right on <p> Brooklyn : To Voicer T.S . Fallani : I say brava ! Thank you for having the coglioni to say the truth to Voicers John Gelormino and D.A . Weinberg . They and many other MAGA sycophants speak out of two sides of their mouths . As Fallani stated , they are hateful bigots , blasphemously worshiping their demon-spawn god , and welcoming POTUS #2 ( Musk ) , an immigrant who came here illegally and shrewdly found a way to worm his way into our White House . And they weave their origin stories so neatly , only to justify their racist views of the current immigrants trying to stay alive and make new beginnings here for their families . I stand with you , T.S . Fallani . Merry Christmas indeed ! Susan Cassano <h> She 's a contender <p> Southampton , L.I. : To citizens of the five boroughs : Elect Jessica Tisch as your mayor . Eric Adams is an embarrassing disgrace to your city . Ray Butler <h> Bearing the unbearable <p> Hallandale , Fla. : How utterly futile to bear witness to 445 days ( and counting ) of Israel 's senseless bombardment of Gaza 's unarmed population . With Gaza having been reduced to unsustainable conditions , it seems unfathomable to citizens of conscience that Western nations , including the U.S. , refuse to intervene to finally stop the genocide of a people . The few trucks that attempt to deliver food to a starving population are often attacked ; the most recent attempt included the killing of four security guards by Israeli forces . Children , including amputees who lie in demolished hospitals , are deprived of being sent for critical treatment to the U.S. , the U.K. and EU member states . Ninety-six percent of children in Gaza fear imminent death . The list of horrors , torment and atrocities continues unabated while too many in our population seem entirely deaf to Gaza 's ordeal . We need to clamor for immediate cessation of money , bombs and weapons to Israel while their genocide rages . Sid Sussman <h> Uh-oh <p> Brooklyn : On Monday , I started the TV Crossword , and by the third clue , I knew something was different . Ricky Cruz was back again . Why , especially when you published letters thanking you for the return of Jacqueline Matthews ? I look forward to the TV Crossword every day , and now I will have to give up doing it . Matthews ' puzzles were comfortable ; Cruz 's are not . Please explain what happened . Esther Berkowitz <h> Not again <p> Point Pleasant , N.J. : Just when I thought it was safe to go back to doing the TV Crossword , you bring back Ricky Cruz . Make up your minds . Once again : Bring back Jacqueline ! Gene Speroni <h> Do n't punish us <p> Tarrytown , N.Y. : Watching Joel Embiid receive two technical fouls and get thrown out of the game would usually have me overjoyed . Lately , this is happening too frequently in the NBA . Players are complaining about the officiating and are receiving two quick technical fouls , which is an automatic ejection from the game . By the way , officiating has been atrocious and one of the biggest reasons for reduced NBA viewership . The NBA needs to adopt a new rule , maybe a delay-of-game warning . The player would need to sit out of the game for five to 10 minutes . Ultimately , the sold-out arenas of fans are there to watch the players perform . A frustrating moment during a heated game should not result in depriving the fans of their entertainment . Stephen Talenti <h> Acquire talent <p> North Arlington , N.J. : To Steve Cohen : I am 85 and have been a Mets fan since 1962 . Every morning , I get my copy of The News from my front porch , hoping to see a headline that reads " Alonso signs with Mets . " That has not happened yet . You are not going to win a championship because you signed Juan Soto . We need Pete Alonso , Francisco Lindor and Brandon Nimmo as well as another pitcher . Barbara Sciortino 
@@119304892 <h> Director Adam McKay confesses he ' would n't be surprised ' if ' Wicked ' is ' banned in 3-5 years ' <p> The filmmaker , 56 , praised " Wicked " earlier this week on social media but said that its " radical " subject matter could lead to the movie musical getting banned . <p> " On a pure storytelling level ' Wicked Part 1 ' is right up there as one of the most radical big studio Hollywood movies ever made , " McKay wrote on X. " I know ' Part 2 ' swings back to the center a bit but ' Part 1 ' is nakedly about radicalization in the face of careerism , fascism , propaganda . " <p> He went on to compare the project , which stars Ariana Grande and Cynthia Erivo , to a slew of self-described " radical " films , including " Bridge on the River Kwai , " " The Sound of Music , " " The Hunger Games " and " Citizen Kane . " <p> " What 's really striking about ' Wicked Part 1 ' is that it 's coming out NOW when America has never been more right wing and propagandized , " McKay added . " And yes , I know the theatrical production and the book are much older so part of the timing is a coincidence but still ... " <p> " Wicked " is based on Gregory Maguire 's 1995 novel and the Tony award-winning musical , which starred Kristin Chenoweth and Idina Menzel . <p> The movie follows a witch named Elphaba ( Erivo ) as she attends Shiz University and befriends her roommate Glinda ( Grande ) . Elphaba also becomes a supporter of animal rights after witnessing the creatures being stripped of their jobs and speech capabilities . <p> One X user commented that their interest was peaked after learning the movie 's subject matter , to which McKay wrote back , " I think you 'll be shocked . If America keeps going on the track it is I would n't be surprised to see the movie banned in 3-5 years . " <p> After a second follower asked how far McKay believed a potential ban on the film would go , the former " SNL " writer refused to back down . <p> " Jesus dude . You really think I 'm 100% saying the movie will for sure be banned to the point where no one can ever see it ? " McKay quipped . " The idea of shutting down non profits at the President 's discretion is in motion . Things r changing fast . " <p> The Hollywood director has n't been afraid to vocalize his thoughts over the years , most recently slamming Vice President Kamala Harris last month after she lost the presidential election to Donald Trump . McKay called for others to " abandon " the Democratic Party with him . <p> He said , in part , " Who would have guessed lying about Biden 's cognitive health for 2 yrs , refusing to do an open convention for a new nominee , never mentioning public healthcare &amp; embracing fracking , the Cheneys &amp; a yr long slaughter of children in Gaza would n't be a winning strategy ? " <p> Meanwhile , " Wicked " has continued to garner buzz since its release last month , with over-the-top interviews from Erivo , 37 , and Grande , 31 , circulating during the movie 's press tour . <p> Erivo and Grande appeared to have a strong emotional reaction to the phrase , and a clip of the encounter had tens of millions of views , which led to some people asking if they were having a " fever dream . " <p> US filmmaker Adam McKay wears a shirt reading " Just Look Up " as he participates in a rally in LA to protest City National Bank and Royal Bank of Canada 's financing of climate crises and disregard for the rights of indigenous peoples on March 18 , 2022 . AFP via Getty Images <p> Erivo said she was so emotional because she did n't know people were " holding space " with her character 's breakout song and " really feeling power in that , " but chalked it up to the fact that she " has n't been looking " for documented instances . <p> " I mean , it 's been happening on some platforms . I mean , I guess . I had no idea that this thing was going on , " the actress said . <p> Grande admitted she was baffled by Gilchrist 's comment . <p> " So I did n't know what any part of it meant , " the Grammy winner bluntly revealed . <p> " I did n't understand the first sentence . And then I definitely did n't understand what was happening -- how you Erivo responded . I was like , ' Oh , what did she say ? What did you hear ? ' And I just wanted to be there ' cause I knew something big was happening , and I did n't know how to be there , " Grande added . <p> US filmmaker Adam McKay wears a shirt reading " Just Look Up " as he participates in a rally in LA to protest City National Bank and Royal Bank of Canada 's financing of climate crises and disregard for the rights of indigenous peoples on March 18 , 2022 . AFP via Getty Images 
@@119307287 <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- A lead organization monitoring for food crises around the world withdrew a new report this week warning of imminent famine in north Gaza under what it called Israel 's " near-total blockade , " after the U.S. asked for its retraction , U.S. officials told the Associated Press . The move follows public criticism of the report from the U.S. ambassador to Israel . <p> The rare public dispute drew accusations from prominent aid and human-rights figures that the work of the U.S.-funded Famine Early Warning System Network , meant to reflect the opinion of unbiased international experts , has been tainted by politics . A declaration of famine would be a great embarrassment for Israel , which has insisted that its 15-month war in Gaza is aimed against the Hamas militant group and not against its civilian population . <p> U.S. ambassador to Israel Jacob Lew earlier this week called the warning by the internationally recognized group inaccurate and " irresponsible . " Lew and the U.S. Agency for International Development , which funds the monitoring group , both said the findings failed to properly account for rapidly changing circumstances in north Gaza . <p> Humanitarian and human rights officials expressed fear of U.S. political interference in the world 's monitoring system for famines . The U.S. Embassy in Israel and the State Department declined comment . FEWS officials did not respond to questions . <p> " We work day and night with the U.N . and our Israeli partners to meet humanitarian needs -- which are great -- and relying on inaccurate data is irresponsible , " Lew said Tuesday . <p> USAID confirmed to the AP that it had asked the famine-monitoring organization to withdraw its stepped-up warning issued in a report dated Monday . The report did not appear among the top updates on the group 's website Thursday , but the link to it remained active . <p> The dispute points in part to the difficulty of assessing the extent of starvation in largely isolated northern Gaza . Thousands in recent weeks have fled an intensified Israeli military crackdown that aid groups say has allowed delivery of only a dozen trucks of food and water since roughly October . <p> FEWS Net said in its withdrawn report that unless Israel changes its policy , it expects the number of people dying of starvation and related ailments in north Gaza to reach between two and 15 per day sometime between January and March . <p> FEWS was created by the U.S. development agency in the 1980s and is still funded by it . But it is intended to provide independent , neutral and data-driven assessments of hunger crises , including in war zones . Its findings help guide decisions on aid by the U.S. and other governments and agencies around the world . <p> A spokesman for Israel 's foreign ministry , Oren Marmorstein , welcomed the U.S. ambassador 's public challenge of the famine warning . " FEWS NET - Stop spreading these lies ! " Marmorstein said on X. <p> In challenging the findings publicly , the U.S. ambassador " leveraged his political power to undermine the work of this expert agency , " said Scott Paul , a senior manager at the Oxfam America humanitarian nonprofit . Paul stressed that he was not weighing in on the accuracy of the data or methodology of the report . <p> " The whole point of creating FEWS is to have a group of experts make assessments about imminent famine that are untainted by political considerations , " said Kenneth Roth , former executive director of Human Rights Watch and now a visiting professor in international affairs at Princeton University . " It sure looks like USAID is allowing political considerations -- the Biden administration 's worry about funding Israel 's starvation strategy -- to interfere . " <p> Israel says it has been operating in recent months against Hamas militants still active in northern Gaza . It says the vast majority of the area 's residents have fled and relocated to Gaza City , where most aid destined for the north is delivered . But some critics , including a former defense minister , have accused Israel of carrying out ethnic cleansing in Gaza 's far north , near the Israeli border . <p> North Gaza has been one of the areas hardest-hit by fighting and Israel 's restrictions on aid throughout its war with Hamas militants . Global famine monitors and U.N . and U.S. officials have warned repeatedly of the imminent risk of malnutrition and deaths from starvation hitting famine levels . <p> International officials say Israel last summer increased the amount of aid it was admitting there , under U.S. pressure . The U.S. and U.N . have said Gaza 's people as a whole need between 350 and 500 trucks a day of food and other vital needs . <p> But the U.N . and aid groups say Israel recently has again blocked almost all aid to that part of Gaza . Cindy McCain , the American head of the U.N . World Food Program , previously called for political pressure to get food flowing to Palestinians there . <p> Israel says it places no restrictions on aid entering Gaza and that hundreds of truckloads of goods are piled up at Gaza 's crossings and accused international aid agencies of failing to deliver the supplies . The U.N . and other aid groups say ongoing combat , looting and insufficient security by Israeli troops make it impossible to deliver aid effectively . <p> Lew , the U.S. ambassador , said the famine warning was based on " outdated and inaccurate " data . He pointed to uncertainty over how many of the 65,000-75,000 people remaining in northern Gaza had fled in recent weeks , saying that skewed the findings . <p> FEWS said in its report that its famine assessment holds even if as few as 10,000 people remain . <p> USAID in its statement to AP said it had reviewed the report before it became public , and noted " discrepancies " in population estimates and some other data . The U.S. agency had asked the famine warning group to address those uncertainties and be clear in its final report to reflect how those uncertainties affected its predictions of famine , it said . <p> " This was relayed before Ambassador Lew 's statement , " USAID said in a statement . " FEWS NET did not resolve any of these concerns and published in spite of these technical comments and a request for substantive engagement before publication . As such , USAID asked to retract the report . " <p> Roth criticized the U.S. challenge of the report in light of the gravity of the crisis there . <p> " This quibbling over the number of people desperate for food seems a politicized diversion from the fact that the Israeli government is blocking virtually all food from getting in , " he said , adding that " the Biden administration seems to be closing its eyes to that reality , but putting its head in the sand wo n't feed anyone . " <p> The U.S. , Israel 's main backer , provided a record amount of military support in the first year of the war . At the same time , the Biden administration repeatedly urged Israel to allow more access to aid deliveries in Gaza overall , and warned that failing to do so could trigger U.S. restrictions on military support . The administration recently said Israel was making improvements and declined to carry out its threat of restrictions . <p> Military support for Israel 's war in Gaza is politically charged in the U.S. , with Republicans and some Democrats staunchly opposed any effort to limit U.S. support over the suffering of Palestinian civilians trapped in the conflict . The Biden administration 's reluctance to do more to press Israel for improved treatment of civilians undercut support for Democrats in last month 's elections . <p> Sam Mednick and Josef Federman in Jerusalem contributed to this report . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@119314581 <h> Removing Hamas from central Gaza is the key to removing its leverage - analysis <h> Despite IDF operating in Gaza for more than a year , Hamas believes it is winning the war with its control of central Gaza . <p> A Palestinian inspects the damage at the site of an Israeli strike , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , at the Nuseirat refugee camp in the central Gaza Strip , December 13 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Ramadan Abed TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY ) <p> Recent reports indicate that Hamas has once again made a hostage deal impossible . This is because it continues to believe it is winning the war . This would seem impossible , given that the IDF has operated in Gaza for 14 months and cleared many areas of Hamas . However , the terrorist group is still in control of central Gaza , and this gives it leverage over Israel in relation to the various hostage talks . <p> There are two reasons for this . The first is that Hamas believes Israel will not enter central Gaza ; the second is that it is under the impression that it can continue to run this area as a kind of ministate . <p> Central Gaza consists of four urban areas : Nuseirat , the Maghazi refugee camp , Bureij , and Deir el-Balah . It is a swath of territory south of the IDF-controlled Netzarim corridor . It borders the Mawasi humanitarian area and Khan Yunis . <p> This provides Hamas an easy way to control aid going into Mawasi and to infiltrate back into Khan Yunis and threaten Rafah . The terrorist group uses the central camps as its main base of operations . Palestinians search for their belongings at the site of an Israeli raid on a house , amid the conflict between Israel and Hamas , Nuseirat in the central Gaza Strip , December 16 , 2024. ( credit : Ali Hassan/Flash90 ) <p> Early in the war , it was estimated that Hamas had 24 battalions of fighters in Gaza . The IDF has assessed over the last year that many of these battalions were defeated . However , Hamas has reconstituted some of them . <p> The most prominent example of this was Jabalya . Hamas 's units there were supposed to have been defeated in the first months of the war . Yet , when the IDF went back into the area in early October , they found thousands of Hamas terrorists . In fact , the Hamas cells in Beit Hanun and other areas of northern Gaza continue to be active , killing IDF soldiers . <p> Hamas continues to control Gaza City itself , as well as neighborhoods such as Durraj , Tuffah , Sheikh Radwan , and parts of the Shati refugee camp . <p> The terrorist organization has not been defeated in these areas or central Gaza . Also , in many of them , it has not been put under military pressure . <p> Hamas thrives , hiding in the rubble and in various buildings and exploiting hospitals . This is why the IDF once again had to clear areas near the Kamal Adwan Hospital and the Indonesia Hospital in northern Gaza . <h> The clear problem in central Gaza <p> IN CENTRAL Gaza , the problem is clear . Hamas uses this as an area to base its operations . It likely believes the IDF does not want to enter the area for fear Hamas will kill hostages . <p> However , Hamas has already killed many hostages . The fact is that leaving them in the hands of Hamas endangers them as much as trying to rescue them or pressuring Hamas to have them released . <p> Leaving people for years in the hands of the enemy is unacceptable . There are severe repercussions health-wise . Former Hamas hostage Hannah Katzir died this week at the age of 78 . Reports said her health declined when she was held hostage . <p> This is an example of why it is not better to leave people in the hands of Hamas , allowing it to drag out the deal talks forever . <p> Even before the October 7 massacre , Hamas was holding four hostages in Gaza -- two live Israelis and the bodies of two soldiers . The terrorist group also held Gilad Schalit captive for five years . <p> It is clear in retrospect that the policy of always leaving hostages in Gaza for years does not work . This empowers Hamas . The terrorist organization does n't care about the health of the hostages . Neither does the international community ; none of the major NGOs involved in health in Gaza have ever sought to visit them . <p> Israel used to understand that it was important to free people quickly . The 1976 Entebbe rescue operation showcases that the Jewish state did n't choose to leave hostages in Uganda for years . Instead , it went and rescued them . <p> In the past , this was Israel 's policy . Enemies were not allowed to take Israelis hostage and then relax for years . They were eliminated and neutralized . <p> But now , Hamas feels empowered in central Gaza because it does not feel military pressure there . At the talks in Cairo and Doha , it feels it can dictate to Israel . Hamas has done this for a year . <p> It has refused to supply even a list of hostages during the negotiations . This should have been the first thing supplied . <p> One can not negotiate with a group that refuses to even hand over a list and wants to use this as part of the process of traumatizing Israel and controlling the process . <p> The threat from central Gaza is also a military and terror threat . <p> An IDF soldier from the 551st Brigade that controls the Netzarim corridor was killed in combat in central Gaza , the IDF said on Thursday . <p> Hamas is rebuilding terrorist infrastructure in areas such as Nuseirat . It will continue to try to fire rockets and mortars from these areas . <p> The group will construct IEDs ( improvised explosive devices ) from areas it controls in northern Gaza . Hamas has done this before and recovered many times . <p> It is true that Israeli control of Netzarim and Rafah will somewhat weaken Hamas and " mow the grass " to some extent . <p> Still , Hamas was able to gain power in Gaza decades ago , even when the IDF controlled Gaza up until 2005 . Hamas laid the foundations for running Gaza as a terrorist empire back then . It is important to comprehend this in order to understand that removing Hamas from central Gaza is key to defeating the group . 
@@119338798 <p> Google 's blowout earnings report in April , which sparked the biggest rally in Alphabet shares since 2015 and pushed its market cap past $2 trillion for the first time , tempered fear that the company was falling behind in artificial intelligence . <p> As executives enthusiastically talked about the results with Google 's employees at an all-hands meeting the following week , it was clear that Wall Street viewed things differently than the company 's workforce . <p> " We 've noticed a significant decline in morale , increased distrust and a disconnect between leadership and the workforce , " one employee wrote in a comment that was read by executives at the meeting . " How does leadership plan to address these concerns and regain the trust , morale and cohesion that have been foundational to our company 's success ? " <p> The comment was highly rated on an internal forum . <p> " Despite the company 's stellar performance and record earnings , many Googlers have not received meaningful compensation increases " another top-rated employee question read . <p> That meeting set the stage for what would be a year of contrasting takes from the company 's vocal workforce . As Google faced some of the most intense pressure its experienced since going public two decades ago , so too did CEO Sundar Pichai , who took the helm in 2015 . <p> Pichai oversaw a steady stream of revenue growth this year in key areas like search ads and cloud . The company rolled out groundbreaking technologies , rounded out its AI strategy despite a slew of embarrassing product incidents and saw its stock price rise more than 40% as of Thursday 's close , ahead of the S&amp;P 500 but trailing rivals Meta and Amazon . <p> Over the course of 2024 , many staffers questioned Pichai 's vision following product mishaps in the first half of the year as well as internal shake-ups and layoffs , according to conversations with more than a dozen employees , audio recordings and internal correspondence . <p> As the second half of the year progressed and Google rolled out a number of eye-catching AI products , Pichai 's standing improved , though some skepticism remains , sources told CNBC . <h> The AI race pressure cooker <p> After the introduction of ChatGPT in late 2022 , the tech industry saw an influx of AI products from Microsoft , with its Copilot AI assistant , and Meta , which placed its Meta AI chatbot in the search functions of its apps , as well as from hot startups like OpenAI and Perplexity . <p> The popularity of those tools has eaten into Google 's grip on U.S. search . The company 's share of the search advertising market is expected to dip below 50% in 2025 , which would be the first time falling below that mark in more than a decade , according to research firm eMarketer . <p> Google responded to the pressures from new AI tools with offerings of its own . The company in 2024 rebranded its family of AI models as Gemini and released a number of products that were well received . But in its scramble to play catch-up , the company also released a pair of AI products that initially proved embarrassing . <p> In February , Google launched Imagen 2 , which turned user prompts into AI-generated images . Immediately after it was introduced , the product came under scrutiny for historical inaccuracies discovered by users . Notably , when one user asked it to show a German soldier in 1943 , the tool depicted a racially diverse set of soldiers wearing German military uniforms of the era . <p> The company pulled the feature , and Pichai told employees the company had " offended our users and shown bias , " according to a memo . Google said it would take a few weeks to relaunch Imagen 2 , but it ended up being six months before it was revived as Imagen 3 in August . <p> " We definitely messed up on the image generation , " Google co-founder Sergey Brin told a small crowd at a hacker house in March , in a video posted to YouTube . " It was mostly due to just not thorough testing . " <p> When asked " How many rocks should I eat each day , " the tool said , " According to UC Berkeley geologists , people should eat at least one small rock a day . " AI Overview also listed the vitamins and digestive benefits of rocks . <p> Google responded by saying it would add more guardrails to AI Overview for health-related queries but said the mistakes were n't hallucinations , and were rather just rare edge cases . Search Vice President Liz Reid told employees at an all-hands meeting in June that AI Overview 's launch should n't discourage them from taking risks . <p> " We should act with urgency , " Reid said . " When we find new problems , we should do the extensive testing but we wo n't always find everything and that just means that we respond . " <p> Jaque Silva Nurphoto Getty Images <p> Beyond its AI blunders , Google also saw its greatest regulatory challenges to date in 2024 . <p> In August , a federal judge ruled that the company illegally holds a monopoly in the search market . The Justice Department in November asked that Google be forced to divest its Chrome internet browser unit as a remedy for the ruling <p> The DOJ 's request represents the agency 's most aggressive attempt to break up a tech company since its antitrust case against Microsoft , which reached a settlement in 2001 . <p> The remedies are expected to be decided next summer , and Google has said it will appeal , likely dragging out the situation a couple more years , but the company faces more antitrust hurdles . <p> In a separate case , the DOJ accused the company of illegally dominating online ad technology . That trial closed in September and awaits a judge ruling . In October , a U.S. judge issued a permanent injunction that will force Google to offer alternatives to its Google Play app store for Android phones . After the ruling in October , Google won a temporary pause on the ruling , meaning it wo n't have to open up Android to more app stores yet . <h> A search for vision <p> Amid the external pressure , Google notched some notable victories particularly toward the end of 2024 , leading to a more positive sentiment from people within and outside the company . <p> Google successfully launched its most powerful suite of new Gemini models that underpin all of the company 's AI products , including its lightweight model Gemini Flash , which has been popular among developers . YouTube 's combined ad and subscription revenue over the past four quarters surpassed $50 billion . <p> In the third quarter , Google saw the fastest-growing cloud business across the big tech players , up 35% over last year , with operating margins of 17% . The company has also seen double-digit revenue growth for each of the past four quarters and launched Trillium , its powerful sixth generation Tensor Processing Units , or TPUs , which were also found to have powered Apple 's AI models . <p> Despite the blunders , AI Overview reached nearly 1 billion monthly users by the end of October . Demand for AI software has also driven consistent growth for the company 's cloud infrastructure . And Google launched an impressive video generation product , Veo 2 , this month as well as an updated AI note-taking product , NotebookLM . <p> Beyond AI , Google in December announced Willow , a chip the company calls its biggest step in the march toward commercially viable quantum computing . The Waymo self-driving car unit was also a bright spot , expanding its robotaxi service to three cities and laying the groundwork for even more expansion in 2025 . The company has delivered 4 million fully autonomous rides this year , with plans to commercially launch in Austin , Texas , and Atlanta next year . <p> A Google quantum processor " Sycamore " is held up to the camera wearing blue gloves . In 2019 , Google made a breakthrough in quantum computing . <p> Peter Kneffel Picture Alliance Getty Images <p> But as Pichai approaches a decade running Google and starts his sixth year as CEO of parent Alphabet , questions remain about his ability to guide the company into the future . <p> Internally , employees routinely criticize leadership on the company 's Memegen messaging board , and some have aired their grievances publicly . <p> " Google does not have one single visionary leader , " a Google software engineer wrote in a LinkedIn post earlier this year that received more than 8,500 reactions . " Not a one . From the C-suite to the SVPs to the VPs , they are all profoundly boring and glassy-eyed . " <p> In October , Google announced it would shake up the leadership of its ads and search division . <p> The company replaced longtime search boss Prabhakar Raghavan with Nick Fox , a deputy of Raghavan 's and a career Google employee . Raghavan was given the title of " chief scientist , " but internally , he is now listed as an " IC , " or individual contributor . <p> Google also shifted the team working on its Gemini AI app to the Google DeepMind division , under AI head Demis Hassabis . Employees praised Pichai 's leadership shuffle , but some complained that the moves should 've happened sooner . <p> Notably , some employees were perturbed when Raghavan addressed employees at an all-hands meeting in April , when he urged them to move faster , according to several people who spoke with CNBC . Raghavan noted that the staffers working to fix the failed Imagen 2 tool had increased their workloads from 100 hours a week to 120 hours to correct it in a timely manner . <p> Pichai has made efforts to get Google back to its nimble startup-like culture . <p> When addressing employees , Pichai often name-checked co-founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page to remind them of Google 's scrappy roots . He 's flattened the company , removing 10% of middle management , according to audio of a December all-hands meeting . And in the spring , Pichai greenlit a hackathon , allowing employees to build using Google products that have yet to be announced . Pichai has also personally joined meetings with Google 's Labs team and enabled them to move quickly on products like NotebookLM , one of the company 's hit AI products in 2024 . <p> Google Co-Founder Sergey Brin speaks during a press conference after the third game of the Google DeepMind Challenge Match against Google-developed supercomputer AlphaGo at a hotel in Seoul on March 12 , 2016 . <p> Jung Yeon-Je AFP Getty Images <p> After Brin 's hacker house appearance in March , some employees internally joked he should retake the helm , nostalgic for what they perceived as a visionary leader devoid of corporate speak . <p> Brin co-founded Google with Page in 1998 , but he stepped down as president of Alphabet in 2019 . Brin , who remains a board member and a principal shareholder with a stake worth more than $140 billion , began appearing more frequently on campus starting in 2023 , as part of an effort to help ramp up Google 's position in the hypercompetitive AI market . Employees , particularly working in AI and DeepMind said they 've seen Brin walking around the company 's Mountain View , California , headquarters throughout the year and have been able to ask him questions for projects they 're pursuing . <p> Despite Brin 's reemergence , several employees told CNBC they 're doubtful he could adequately run what has become an increasingly larger and complex corporation . <p> Employees said that although Pichai did n't strike them as particularly visionary or as a wartime leader , it 's hard to find someone better suited for the job , given all the complexities of Alphabet . The key quandary remains : move too early and risk widespread criticism ; move too late and risk missing the boat . <h> Culture Clashes <p> Through the year , morale inside Google wavered . Efforts to cut costs across the company in order to invest more in AI resulted in some teams feeling bifurcated and created yet another challenge for Pichai . <p> Within the company 's AI and DeepMind divisions , morale is mostly high , according to employees , boosted by hefty investments . Elsewhere , the vibes have been marred by cost cuts , bureaucracy and declining trust in leadership , employees said . <p> DeepMind and AI teams have held off-sites , team-building activities , and have much bigger travel and recruiting budgets , people familiar with the matter said . In the spring , the company moved employees out of an eight-story office on San Francisco 's waterfront Embarcadero street and replaced them with AI and AI adjacent teams . <p> Google DeepMind co-founder and Chief Executive Officer Demis Hassabis gives a conference during the Mobile World Congress ( MWC ) , the telecom industry 's biggest annual gathering , in Barcelona on February 26 , 2024 . <p> Pau Barrena Afp Getty Images <p> A meme posted internally in November summed it up . <p> The meme featured a photo of the cast of " Wicked " actors , where one , labeled " execs " looked longingly at one fellow actor labeled " Gemini " while ignoring the other beside her , which was labeled as " users . " <p> A Google spokesperson contested the idea that AI workers are receiving favorable treatment and said higher travel and recruiting budgets are not exclusive to AI teams or DeepMind . <p> " Most Googlers , regardless of team , continue to feel positively about our mission and the company 's future , and are proud to work here , " the spokesperson said . <p> A fewemployees say they 're no longer incentivized by the prospects of landing a promotion , which have become harder to achieve , and rather by the hope of avoiding layoffs . <p> Despite slashing 12,000 jobs , or roughly 6% of its workforce , in 2023 , Google has continued eliminating roles this year . In her first public statements as Google 's CFO , Anat Ashkenazi , told Wall Street in October that one of her top priorities would be to drive more " cost efficiencies " across the company in order to invest more in AI . <p> " I think any organization can always push a little further and I 'll be looking at additional opportunities , " Ashkenazi said . <p> That month , Google posted a job listing for a " Central Reorg Support Team Partner . " The responsibilities of that fixed-term contract position would include consulting with local HR teams and noted the need for the support staff 's " ability to operate with empathy and diffuse/de-escalate challenging conversations/situations . " <p> " Hire the smartest people so they can tell us what to do , " one employee wrote on the internal forum in meme-style font atop the images of Brin and Page . " Hire a reorg consultant so they can tell us how to layoff the smartest people , " another said . <p> Google ultimately took the job listing down . <p> Pro-Palestinian protesters are blocked the Google I/O developer conference entrance to protest Google 's Project Nimbus and Israeli attacks on Gaza and Rafah , at its headquarters in Mountain View , California , United States on May 14 , 2024 . <p> Tayfun Coskun Anadolu Getty Images <p> Touting its AI technology to clients , Pichai 's leadership team has been aggressively pursuing federal government contracts , which has caused a heightened strain in some areas within the outspoken workforce since the beginning of the year . <p> Google terminated more than 50 employees after a series of protests against Project Nimbus , a $1.2 billion joint contract with Amazon that provides the Israeli government and military with cloud computing and AI services . Executives repeatedly said the contract did n't violate any of the company 's " AI principles . " <p> However , documents and reports show the company 's agreement allowed for giving Israel AI tools that included image categorization , object tracking , as well as provisions for state-owned weapons manufacturers . Earlier this month , a New York Times report found that four months prior to signing on to Nimbus , officials at the company worried that signing the deal would harm its reputation and that " Google Cloud services could be used for , or linked to , the facilitation of human rights violations . " <p> In an all-hands meeting in April , a highly rated question asked why employees who did not participate in the protests were also fired , which was reported and cited in a National Labor Relations Board complaint from affected employees . Chris Rackow , Google 's security chief , took the stage at the all-hands and rebutted those claims . <p> " This was a very clear case of employees disrupting and occupying work spaces , and making other employees feel unsafe , " a Google spokesperson told CNBC , adding that the company " carefully confirmed " that every person terminated was involved in the protests . " By any standard , their behavior was completely unacceptable . " <p> One internal meme that got more than 2,000 likes , compared Google to Star Wars ' Anakin Skywalker . The meme shows an image of a smiling childhood Skywalker , framed by one of the company 's original , colorful employee badges . The meme progresses Skywalker 's age in two later versions of the badge . <p> The final badge shows Darth Vader working for " Google , " spelled out in the font of IBM 's logo . 
@@119338987 <p> World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has revealed he was inside an airport in the capital of Yemen when Israeli forces launched a deadly strike on the facility . <p> On Friday , the Houthi-controlled Saba news agency reported that the rebels ' forces had targeted Israel 's Ben Gurion Airport in Tel Aviv . The Israel Defense Forces and a spokesperson for the airport said they were not aware of the incident . <p> Israel attacked multiple targets in Yemen on Thursday , including the Sanaa International Airport , marking a major escalation in a mounting conflict with Iran-backed Houthi rebel forces there and as it ended the year locked in a multifront war across the Middle East . <p> Israeli forces launched the attack on Sanaa International Airport amid a mounting exchange of fire with the Houthis , with the Israeli military intercepting a missile launched from Yemen on Wednesday that injured multiple people . The Magen David Adom ambulance service said it had received reports of around nine people injured , according to Reuters . <p> Ghebreyesus said he and other WHO colleagues were preparing to board a flight just " meters " away from the area Israel hit . <p> " My UN and WHO colleagues are safe , " Ghebreyesus said in a statement published on X. He was in the country to negotiate the release of United Nations workers detained there and to assess Yemen 's humanitarian crisis . <p> " The air traffic control tower , the departure lounge -- just a few meters from where we were -- and the runway were damaged , " he said , adding that he and his team would have to wait for the airport to be repaired before they could leave Yemen . <p> By Friday evening , Ghebreyesus said on X that he was in Jordan , along with a U.N . worker injured in the strike , who was now receiving further medical treatment . <p> Dr. Anees Alasbahi , spokesperson for the Houthis ' Health Ministry in Sanaa , said in a statement that at least three people were killed and at least 13 others injured as a result of the strike.He added later that at least three other people were killed in another strike . <p> The World Food Programme said a WFP-contracted air crew member was among those injured in the strike and was receiving medical treatment . <p> " Humanitarians are #NotATarget , " the organization said in a statement published on X on Thursday as it noted the critical work of humanitarian organizations operating in Yemen , including to prevent famine in a country gripped by an ongoing civil war since 2014 . <p> The IDF did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the strike , including whether it was aware of the WHO delegation 's presence at the airport when it carried out the strike . <p> Israeli officials hailed the attack as a show of the country 's ability to " reach and strike any threat " to Israelis , with the strike following a recent ramping up of Houthi attacks on Israel . <p> " Over the years , we have developed capabilities to strike very far from Israel 's territory -- precisely , powerfully , and repetitively , " IDF 's chief of the general staff , Herzi Halevi , said in a statement published online . <p> The damaged control tower of Sanaa International Airport on Friday.Mohammed Huwais / AFP via Getty Images <p> The Houthis -- a rebel movement controlling much of Yemen and backed by Iran -- havevowed to continue their attacks on Israel and on commercial shipping in the Red Sea until the war in Gaza ends . <p> The IDF reported late Thursday that at least one missile launched from Yemen had been intercepted " before crossing into Israeli territory . " <p> United Nations Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres condemned the violence in a statement published on X on Thursday , warning that he was " deeply concerned about the risk of further escalation in the region . " <p> Noting that a high-level U.N . delegation had been inside the Sanaa airport at the time of the strike , he called for " all parties to cease military actions and exercise utmost restraint . " 
@@119338988 <p> One of northern Gaza 's last functioning hospitals , Kamal Adwan in Beit Lahia , is " suffering from a stifling siege , " Gaza 's Health Ministry said Friday after Israeli forces stormed inside and " forcibly " removed health workers , patients and family members , as military vehicles surrounded the hospital . <p> " The operating and surgical departments , laboratory , maintenance , and emergency units have been completely burned , and the fire is now spreading to the buildings , " the ministry 's statement said . <p> Ambulances have reportedly been dispatched to transfer the injured to the Indonesian Hospital as those inside continue to be removed . <p> " There are patients who are threatened with death at any moment due to the harsh conditions , " the statement said . <p> In response to a request by NBC News , the Israel Defense Forces said it had targeted the hospital after receiving information about " the presence of terrorist infrastructure and operatives carrying out terror activities " inside . <p> It added that " IDF troops facilitated the secure evacuation of civilians , patients , and medical personnel prior to the operation " and that it was continuing to " make extensive efforts to enable patients to continue receiving care in other hospitals . " <p> NBC News has reached out to Gaza 's Health Ministry for a response to the IDF 's accusation that the hospital had been used for military purposes . <p> Dr. Hussam Abu Safia , the hospital 's head , said in an Instagram story that the Israeli army was " burning all the operating departments in the hospital " while medical staff was still present inside . He added that some of the staff had also been arrested . <p> Shortly after , the Health Ministry issued a statement saying that the fate of the staff and patients had become " unknown " after " communication with the hospital director was cut off . " <p> The attack and removals follow an Israeli airstrike that hit a building opposite the hospital Thursday , killing approximately 50 people , including five medical staff , according to the Health Ministry . <p> Abu Safia had said in a separate statement Thursday that among those killed were Dr. Ahmed Samour , a pediatrician working in the hospital , and Esraa , a laboratory technician , who had gone outside to bring food to her father and brother . <p> A maintenance technician , Fares , was also hit as he rushed to the scene to try and rescue others , Abu Safia said . <p> " It is another dark day in the ongoing series of crimes against Kamal Adwan Hospital and its staff , " he added . <p> Israeli attacks on the hospital over the past few weeks have killed several medics and patients at Kamal Adwan , including the hospital 's ICU director , Dr. Ahmed al-Kahlout . <p> The Palestinian Health Ministry noted that the three public hospitals operating in the northern Gaza Strip -- Beit Hanoun Hospital , Indonesian Hospital and Kamal Adwan Hospital -- are now all out of service . <p> The war that followed the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas terror attacks that killed 1,200 people in southern Israel according to Israeli officials , has decimated Gaza . <p> Israeli forces have since killed more than 45,000 Palestinians , according to local health officials , and destroyed much of the enclave 's basic infrastructure and health system . <p> In an October report , an independent commission for the United Nations accused Israel of perpetrating a " concerted policy to destroy Gaza 's healthcare system as part of a broader assault on Gaza , committing war crimes and the crime against humanity of extermination with relentless and deliberate attacks on medical personnel and facilities . " <p> A press statement issued by the U.N . at the time of the report 's release warned that Israel 's targeting of healthcare facilities risks " significant long-term detrimental effects on the civilian population . " <p> Astha Rajvanshi <p> Astha Rajvanshi is a reporter for NBC News Digital , based in London . Previously , she worked as a staff writer covering international news for TIME . 
@@119339596 <h> 2024 Portland Press Herald Photos of the Year <p> The photographer and essayist Robert Adams wrote that " the job of the photographer is not to record indisputable fact but to try to be coherent about intuition and hope . " The best images captured by Portland Press Herald photographers this year do just that . They are truthful , yet manage to convince us of life 's beauty . There is the soaring delight of a young couple swinging in a snowscape by Derek Davis , or the almost holy light falling on a woman searching for rats under a bridge by Greg Rec . A sublime beauty transcends its subject matter in Shawn Ouellette 's photo of a surfer alone , looking out into an endless sea and sky . Ben McCanna 's photo of hazmat-clad firefighters at a training exercise combines wit with a freshness of vision . And Brianna Soukup 's graceful images of families dealing with tragedy show the love that binds them , and us , together . Here are the photos from 2024 that left an impression on us . <p> Posted 8:00 AM <p> Share <p> SCROLL <h> Photo by Derek Davis <p> Children play a piano at Pumpkin Valley Farm during the farm 's two-day sunflower festival . <p> This was a very fun assignment . I had n't visited a sunflower farm before , so I was in awe when I arrived and began wandering through the maze in the fields . There were stands you could climb to get above the sunflowers and take images looking down , and there were people dressed in sunflower-themed outfits . I also made images from low angles and used a telephoto lens to emphasize the detail of the flowers . I came away with many good photographs , but perhaps the best was this one of two young children playing a piano to an audience of yellow Helianthus heads . <h> Photo by Derek Davis <p> Maine State Police escort the body of Gov . Joseph Brennan , who died April 6 at the age of 89 , into the State of Maine Room at Portland City Hall before a public viewing . <p> I never met the Portland native who served as the state 's 70th governor from 1979 to 1987 , but the enormous impact he had on the state of Maine was apparent . I had also never covered a funeral service at City Hall . I knew I could not go inside , and my only opportunity to make a picture would be when the Maine State Police carried in the casket . While looking for a good position to capture the moment , I noticed how the shadow of the building created a wedge of sunlight that they would possibly walk through . I climbed up onto one of the pillars at the top of the stairs , and luckily for me , the procession went directly to the corner of sunlight , framing the scene almost perfectly . <h> Photo by Derek Davis <p> Dianuaku Paulo Bengui , 29 , and Ezequias Kassinda Monteiro Zavarias , 30 , who were both born in Angola , are married by officiant Katarina Reynolds at Portland City Hall on Aug. 30 . <p> This was a dream assignment . Who knew that City Hall weddings were becoming so popular ? Some of the weddings include a small ceremony in the State of Maine Room for an extra cost , but the majority happen right at the counter in the clerk 's office . On this particular day , a group of friends and family gathered in the small space while an interpreter translated from Portuguese to English , and vice versa . After the exchange of rings , the officiant pronounced the bride and groom married , and the witnesses drew close to snap photos and record video on their phones . I had to use a time-tested technique often referred to as a " Hail Mary , " raising my camera high above my head without being able to see through the viewfinder and hoping for the best . <p> Advertisement <h> Photo by Derek Davis <p> Megan Jones of Portland swings with her partner at the Eastern Promenade as heavy snow falls on March 23 . <p> Normally in Maine , people are pretty much done with winter by the end of March . Last year , however , the Portland area did not get as much snow as usual , and as this March 23 storm dropped large white flakes , people seemed to welcome it . I found this pair on the Eastern Promenade swinging away in silence , seemingly immersed in the morning tranquility brought by the storm . It was an unexpected and happy find to stumble upon , and I quickly positioned myself to capture the scene , focusing on the woman whose form -- with legs outstretched -- and colorful attire added to the moment . <h> Photo by Derek Davis <p> A woman is arrested while protesting the war in Gaza outside of Bath Iron Works , where a christening was taking place for the shipyard 's 41st guided missile destroyer , USS Patrick Gallagher . <p> We deliberated over whether I should go inside the shipyard to get photos of the ship 's christening , which would n't have allowed me to cover much of the demonstration outside . The decision was made to stay outside of BIW , and it turned out to be the right choice . Nine people were arrested by Bath police and Sagadahoc County deputies . The juxtaposition of officers surrounding the woman and the protester 's facial expression make this image impactful . I used a wide-angle lens and got as close to the group as possible . <h> Photo by Ben McCanna <p> Hazmat suit-clad firefighters from Portland , South Portland and York County descend a grassy hill at Southern Maine Community College on June 6 en route to a training exercise that simulated a response to a chemical or biological attack . <p> My favorite photographic situations can be summed up in a single sentence : You do n't see that every day . I respect photographers who specialize in one area -- portraits , sports , landscapes or weddings -- but I think I would grow restless without the randomness of shooting general news . On this day , as teams of first responders were assembling at SMCC for a training exercise , I roamed the area with my cameras to get a sense of what they might do and where . When I spotted a group of firefighters in hazmat suits and realized they were about to walk single-file down a path through a grassy hill , I sprinted into position , hoping for the best . Lucky for me , the elements aligned with a clean background and resulted in something I 've never seen before . This is the kind of image that puts gas in my tank . <p> Advertisement <h> Photo by Ben McCanna <p> Pigeons fly over Simon Smith as he plays the euphonium in Congress Square Park in Portland on April 17 . Smith , a part-time music teacher at schools in Westbrook and Scarborough , said he was busking because it was vacation week and the students were home . <p> In this job , we 're tasked with photographing the most serious subjects , from courthouse dramas to disasters , but I 'd like to think the stresses and trauma from that coverage has n't diminished my sense of humor or wonder for everyday joy . On this day , I was asked to find a standalone photo to run as a centerpiece for the next day 's Local section of our print edition . I had about 30 minutes before the end of my shift and decided to try my luck in downtown Portland . When I spotted Simon Smith playing an instrument I 'd never heard before , with pigeons swirling about , I knew I had a chance of making something fun . My boss , retiring photo editor Michele McDonald , likes to say the pigeons look like musical notes blasting free from Smith 's euphonium . Pure whimsy . <h> Photo by Ben McCanna <p> North Yarmouth Academy second graders Rhea Marotta , left , and William Cashman react as a passing vehicle complies with their classmates ' chants of " Honk if You Love Julia , " in support of NYA alum Julia Gagnon , who was a contestant on American Idol . The group stayed until they received 200 honks from passing motorists on Main Street beneath the U.S. Route 1 bridge in Yarmouth on April 30 . <p> Newspaper photographers are sometimes exposed to hazards . When it snows , we drive into the storm . When it floods , we wade into the waters . And , when there 's a loud ruckus , we are there . This event , meant to drum up support for Julia Gagnon 's American Idol bid , was among the most ear-splittingly loud assignments I 've ever encountered -- and I 've shot volleyball championships . More than a dozen grade-schoolers lined up under a bridge and shrieked their admiration for the singer , and shrieked louder whenever passing cars honked their approval . This cacophony was worsened by concrete abutments on either side that reverberated the sound waves . Suffice to say the decibel levels were well above a safe threshold . After making a few images from across the street , I decided to move closer to the source of the sound to capture the emotion at the heart of the commotion . Rhea Marotta and William Cashman delivered . <h> Photo by Ben McCanna <p> The sun sets over Little Diamond Island as Abel Kraft , 10 , left , plays independently while his father Reed Kraft , of Peaks Island , completes the final steps of hauling out his powerboat at the public ramp on Centennial Street on June 9 . The Krafts , and other members of the family , spent the afternoon boating on Casco Bay , which included flying kites off the stern . <p> My two favorite hobbies are incredibly compatible : photography and long walks on Peaks Island , where I live . Nothing is more enjoyable than taking a 4-mile stroll around the island 's perimeter -- tides willing -- and simply photographing whatever strikes me . Along the way , I 'll post the photos as Instagram stories . Sometimes the posts are portraits of my wife posing dramatically in a shaft of light . Sometimes they 're action shots of my dog running crazy-eights in the sand . But often I 'm simply reacting to beauty in any of its forms , without prompts from a news assignment . It 's freeform bliss . And the stakes are low , which is good because not all photos are zingers . But on this night , the sky was captivating and the scene stopped us in our tracks . It helped that the Krafts are acquaintances and did n't mind us gawking as Reed performed a daunting series of chores to free his boat from the mud of low tide and drive onto dry land while racing against a setting sun . The image was striking enough to endure beyond the ephemera of an Instagram story and eventually landed on the front page of the Press Herald . If only they all could occur so easily . <p> Advertisement <h> Photo by Ben McCanna <p> Bruce Unangst chews on a sensory toy as he leads Kylee Howard , his former behavioral health professional , through a bounce house at Ricker Hill Orchards in Turner on Sept. 22 . Bruce 's mother , Sue Unangst , has been caring for her son , who is severely autistic , by herself since Howard left the profession . <p> Photographers rely on the kindness , openness and trust of others . I met Bruce Unangst and his mother , Sue , about a week before this photo was taken . Reporter Eric Russell and I went to the Unangsts ' home in Winthrop to learn more about their plight . Bruce has autism spectrum disorder . He is nonverbal and needs help to eat , bathe and use the bathroom . Occasionally , he is aggressive toward himself and , during those episodes , wears protective gear . The visit was brief and the photographs lacked the intimacy that often occurs after the novelty of the camera wears off . During the visit , Sue mentioned that her family and some friends were planning an annual trip to Ricker Hill Orchards in Turner . " It 's one of the few traditions we 've been able to maintain , " she said . My upbringing told me I should n't interfere with their tradition . I should just let them enjoy their rare time together without being shadowed by a bulky paparazzo . But I also figured it could n't hurt to ask . To my delight , Sue welcomed the idea . I met the group at the orchard early on a Sunday and did my best to be unobtrusive and simply let them be themselves together . And it worked . The group settled into their activities , and Bruce was able to roam the grounds with fewer interventions . After some coaxing from Sue and Kylee Howard -- his former behavioral health professional -- Bruce entered a bounce house . And , for a few minutes , under a dramatic sky , a smile crept across his face as he engaged his surroundings . I felt blessed to be there to see it . <h> Photo by Brianna Soukup <p> Maria Griffin leans over to kiss her boyfriend , Harry Stuart , at Bubba 's Sulky Lounge in Portland on July 12 . The two met on the dance floor of the bar several years ago . " I would n't give him the time of day for two years , " Griffin said with a laugh . " But then he won my heart . " <p> I always wanted to take photos at Bubba 's . I remember walking in there for the first time -- I instantly thought : " I must know the backstory of this place . " Eventually , I got the chance not only to take photos but to meet " Bubba " himself . The lighting , which creates a great vibe for patrons , made it pretty difficult for photos . Grace Benninghoff , the reporter , and I decided to get there early , before the bar was packed . Maria and Harry were two of the Friday night regulars we met . I caught this moment of her leaning over to give him a kiss after I had a brief conversation with them . I stopped back later that night to talk to them some more . That is when I found out they met at Bubba 's and fell in love a few years later . This moment between them felt like a perfect encapsulation of their relationship with this place . I 'm sure they are far from the only people who have found some kind of love on that light-up dance floor . <h> Photo by Brianna Soukup <p> Emma Pidden waits for her bus on Congress Street in Portland on April 4 . Pidden said she decided to take the bus into her office because she was worried about losing WiFi at home . <p> Photographing the first few big snowstorms of the year is usually fun , but by about March I 'm ready to be able to feel my fingers press the shutter button again . That being said , this was a rare late-in-the-season snowstorm I enjoyed . I had just submitted my first batch of photos for the day and decided I 'd keep driving around for a bit before I went to grab a cup of coffee and warm up . I saw Emma and immediately pulled my car to the side of the road and hopped out . I loved that she was the only person out there just powering through , wearing googles . It turned out to be a funny " springtime " in Maine photo . <p> Advertisement <h> Photo by Brianna Soukup <p> Farhana Ahmed has her photo taken by family members outside of Merrill Auditorium after Portland Adult Education 's graduation on June 27 . Ahmed came with her family to Maine from Bangladesh in 2023 . <p> I 've covered my fair share of graduations , but this year 's Portland Adult Education ceremony had to be my favorite . It was just so joyous . I often enjoy photographing behind-the-scenes or in-between action more than an actual event itself . That is where you find the less obvious moments . Amid a sea of people hugging and greeting their families outside of Merill Auditorium , I saw Farhana standing in the beautiful light and made my way over to her . I took closer photos of just her , but I ended up liking my first , wide photos better because they included her family working hard to get a perfect gradation photo for her . It just seemed really sweet to me . <h> Photo by Brianna Soukup <p> I was n't going to go to the Portland Veteran 's Day parade because there was another photographer covering the bigger parade in Biddeford and Saco , but I decided to pop down there quickly just to see if there was anything visually interesting . I got there right at the start , and it was pretty standard parade fare . I had been there only about 2 minutes when I spotted Norman Millette standing in the doorway of his shop . I waited for a break in the procession and crossed the street . I took a few photos then headed over to talk to him . I really like this photo because it feels timeless . Norman said he has been standing in that same doorway watching the parade for six decades . It makes me wonder how many other photographers may have taken a similar photo of him . <h> Photo by Brianna Soukup <p> Pat Moody , center , embraces his daughter Hayleigh Moody , 21 , left , and his wife , Sherry Moody , right , during a ceremony dedicating Windham 's new basketball courts in his name on Nov. 3 . Over 1,000 people attended the event honoring Moody , a Windham resident with terminal cancer who has been a long-time supporter of youth sports , especially basketball . <p> I got a quick moment to thank Pat Moody and his family for letting us be at this event , and told him then that I had just witnessed one of the most beautiful moments of community I 've seen in my eight years working at the Press Herald . It was so clear how much Pat meant to his town . Hundreds and hundreds of people showed up to honor him . It was incredibly emotional and an assignment that will stay with me forever . Pat died just seven days after this photo was taken . It was truly an honor to be there and document that night . <p> Advertisement <h> Photo by Gregory Rec <p> Portland 's fireworks display seen from Bug Light Park in South Portland on July 4 . <p> We usually photograph Portland 's July 4th fireworks from the Eastern Promenade . This year , I decided to take a chance and photograph the fireworks from Bug Light Park in South Portland . The park was crowded , but I found a spot along the rocks where I could see the fireworks and include the small lighthouse in the photo . I think the risk paid off ; this image with people standing along the rocks is very different ( and I think better ) than the images of fireworks I have made from the Eastern Prom over the years . <h> Photo by Gregory Rec <p> Sophia Conners , 7 , rides a wave to shore with help from volunteers Colleen Clark , left , and Rich Laracy during the first Special Surfers session of the summer at Gooch 's Beach in Kennebunk on July 18 . <p> Special Surfers have held events at Gooch 's Beach in Kennebunk since 2003 , and I 've photographed them more than a dozen times over the years . The organization 's mission is to introduce the thrill of surfing to people with developmental , emotional or physical disabilities . I always see beaming smiles and hear joyous laughter and shouts at these events . Last June , walking along the waterline , I was immediately drawn to the obvious joy of surfer Sophia Conners . Her expression in this photo perfectly sums up what Special Surfers is all about . <h> Photo by Gregory Rec <p> Pandora LaCasse in her Portland studio , where she creates and maintains the winter light forms seen throughout the city and other towns . This season marks 25 years that LaCasse has been installing the lights in public places . <p> When I found out that I would be making a portrait of Pandora LaCasse , who has been creating the fabulous winter light displays in Portland for 25 years , I knew I wanted to include one of her light forms in the photo . When I arrived at her studio , she was doing maintenance on three of them . As I set up my flash , she plugged in one form , and when I looked through the camera , all the lights were very far out of focus because of the lens settings from a previous assignment . I thought " Would n't it be cool if I could keep the lights that far out of focus for the portrait so they would be more like orbs of lights rather than small pinpoints of LED lighting ? " By positioning myself close to the lights around the form and using a very wide aperture -- in this case f/1.2 on my 50 millimeter lens -- I was able to keep those lights out-of-focus so it appears they are floating around LaCasse . <p> Advertisement <h> Photo by Gregory Rec <p> Stephen Gellman surfs a rapid in his kayak on the Mousam River in Kennebunk on May 2 . Gellman , from Massachusets , works with Team River Runner , a national organization that introduces veterans to river kayaking as a way to heal from post-traumatic stress disorder . <p> I was on my way home when I noticed two people hoisting whitewater kayaks onto their shoulders in a parking lot near the Mousam River in Kennebunk . We did n't need a photo feature for the next day 's Press Herald , but I had never seen whitewater kayakers at this part of the river before and was intrigued , so I turned my car around and followed them to the river 's edge . They told me they were planning to surf the rapids right underneath the bridge that carries Route 1 over the river , and I immediately thought " What luck ! I can photograph them from the bridge to achieve an aerial view . " I knew from past experiences photographing whitewater kayakers that there are moments when they can be quite still while surfing a river wave , so I set my shutter to a slow speed that would blur the water while bracing my camera against the railing of the bridge to keep it steady . <h> Photo by Gregory Rec <p> I was n't sure what to expect when I got a January assignment to meet with people who were trying to capture and save rats under the Casco Bay Bridge in Harbor View Memorial Park . Some neighbors near the park complained of numerous rats after the city cleared a large homeless encampment there . A group formed to save the rats , saying that they were not wild but domesticated . Brittney Smith came from Fryeburg to set traps throughout the park . As she walked among the rocks , the late-afternoon sun shined on her like a stage spotlight , setting her apart from the surrounding darkness under the bridge . <h> Photo by Shawn Patrick Ouellette <p> A loon flaps its wings at dusk on Kidney Pond in Baxter State Park on Aug. 22 . <p> When I was younger , my one and only goal when I went to Baxter State Park was to hike to the peak of Katahdin . As a young adult on one such a trip , my group and I arrived too late to score a parking spot near any of Katahdin 's trailheads . I was encouraged by a ranger to try another mountain , Doubletop , and sent to park by Kidney Pond . What started off as a disappointment turned out to be a blessing in disguise . On this trip , we found a new favorite camping spot at Kidney Pond and a new mountain we love to hike . So 20 or so years later , I was paddling with my wife , Amy , enjoying the mountain views and serenity of the pond when this loon popped up from the water and flapped its wings . It 's moments like this that bring me back to Baxter State Park year after year . <p> Advertisement <h> Photo by Shawn Patrick Ouellette <p> Cooper Flagg dunks the ball on the first possession of the game at the Cross Insurance Arena in Portland on Jan. 5 . <p> The Cross Insurance Arena was packed with cheering fans eager to see Cooper Flagg and his twin brother , Ace , on their return to Maine after transferring to Montverde Academy , a private prep school in Florida known for its basketball program . The fans were not disappointed as Cooper scored the game 's first points with this monstrous dunk . He went on to score 23 points , and Ace added 6 . <h> Photo by Shawn Patrick Ouellette <p> Choreographer Michelle Kapschull , center , works with dancers as they rehearse for a performance based on Portland writer MZ 's novel " The Moorings of Mackerel Sky . " The dancers and choreographer are reflected in a mirror as they rehearse at Casco Bay Movers on Jan. 21 . <p> The choreographer and dancers deserve any and all credit for this photo . They were dancing beautifully with colorful scarves ; I was just hoping my photos would do them justice . After shooting from every angle I could think of , I focused my attention on their reflection in the mirror and waited for all the elements to line up . <h> Photo by Shawn Patrick Ouellette <p> Kira Scholl , 7 , and Dax Scholl , 8 , of Cape Elizabeth wear eclipse glasses as they watch the sky through the sunroof of a vehicle at the Eastern Promenade in Portland on April 8 . <p> As thousands of visitors flocked to northern Maine to watch the total solar eclipse , I was assigned to photograph Portland 's view . While not in the path of totality , Portland still had hundreds of people spread out throughout the city , and especially on the Eastern Prom , taking in the rare occurrence . I noticed these two kids watching through the sunroof of their parked vehicle with eclipse glasses on . <h> Photo by Shawn Patrick Ouellette <p> Wess Moseman of South Portland watches the choppy waves roll in from his surfboard at Higgins Beach in Scarborough on October 7 . <p> While feature-cruising on my favorite route -- the coastal route from Saco to Portland -- I came across this scene at Higgins Beach . I almost drove off as I only saw one surfer and the waves were n't too exciting . But I decided to pull over and get out to take a closer look . I liked the view of him , alone , looking out at the water and the vastness of the empty ocean on this gray day . It gives it a different feel than other shots of surfers I 've taken . 
@@119350284 <p> As 2024 comes to a close , it 's time to put the year in review . From protests to parties , from prayers to politics , this year is another one for the books . <p> But what were the most important events of the year ? Which exciting happenings have left a lasting impact on Jerusalem ? That 's exactly what we 're going to look at today . <p> This list is purely subjective , as while all of these events are undoubtedly very important , how they rank is a matter of opinion . In this case , the opinion is mine . <p> This is In Jerusalem 's 2024 wrap-up . We hope you enjoy it . <h> 10 . Art festivals <p> Jerusalem is no stranger to festivals honoring the fine arts . The city 's dedicated art scene has enough variety that there is always something for everyone . Galleries can be found all over , and major venues such as the Israel Museum and Hansen House put on breathtaking events , year after year . People are seen attending an event at the Hansen House in Jerusalem . ( credit : FLASH90 ) <p> In my opinion , 2024 Jerusalem Design Week really stole the show . The theme around " The Ark " at Hansen House was stunning , and I hope we get more events like it in the years to come . <h> 9 . Religious holiday events <p> Jewish holidays , especially the three pilgrimage holidays , namely Passover , Sukkot , and Shavuot , typically see huge numbers of Jews coming to Jerusalem . In ancient times , the visitors would be pilgrims bringing offerings to the Temple and walking up from the City of David . Nowadays , this typically translates into massive numbers of Jews congregating together at the Western Wall in the Old City . <p> But what makes this year special is that such visits to the Jewish Quarter have taken place during a year of war . While the current situation has certainly impacted the number of visitors to the city , all those who came managed to do so despite it all . That alone makes them noteworthy . <h> 8 . Iran attacks <p> With its location far from Gaza and the northern border , the capital rarely hears sirens to the extent that other places do . But when attacks from Iran came from the east , sirens went off in Jerusalem , and the people of the city rushed to take cover . <p> Luckily , no one was harmed and there was no damage . But it was a chilling reminder that even in Jerusalem , safety is n't guaranteed.Paraguay 's president Santiago Pena speaks at the Knesset . December 11 , 2024. ( credit : MARC ISRAEL SELLEM ) <h> 7 . Paraguay reopens its Jerusalem embassy <p> Only six countries have embassies in the capital . Paraguay first opened its embassy in 2018 , going on to reverse that decision only months later , following a change in administration . But in December 2024 , the embassy moved back to Jerusalem . <p> The move was widely praised by many Israeli lawmakers and seen as a new breath of support for the Jewish state and its government during a time when Israel is struggling with its international image during a year of war . <h> 6 . Gallant Night II ( tie ) <p> In 2023 , the judicial reform protests were in full swing , but they exploded into a major event when Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu fired defense minister Yoav Gallant . This kicked off Gallant Night , a protest so enormous in scale and with so much evident outrage among the general public that the prime minister was forced to walk back his decision regarding the reform . <p> When Netanyahu once again fired Gallant in early November , the night of the protests came back , this time to be known as Gallant Night II . It was n't as large in scale as last year 's -- evidenced by the fact that Gallant remained fired . However , that night was a poignant reminder that the public has not forgotten what happened last time and that the echoes of the judicial reform protests live on , even through the war . Israel Police officers protect the car of Yitzchak Goldknopf , construction and housing minister , during a haredi anti-draft protest in Jerusalem , June 30 , 2024. ( credit : FLASH90 ) <h> 6 . Haredi draft protests ( tie ) <p> The fact that Israel 's haredi community largely does n't serve in the IDF has been a contentious issue for decades . But as the country continues to fight the longest war in its history , outrage that has long simmered among the general public has boiled over . Calls for the ultra-Orthodox to serve in the IDF are louder than ever , and many are not going quietly . <p> The haredim have been protesting all over the country since the High Court of Justice ruled that they were not legally exempt from IDF service . And Jerusalem , where the court and the Knesset are located and where many haredim live , has been no exception to demonstrations and clashes with law enforcement . <p> With the issue far from over , it remains to be seen whether tension will flare up even further . <h> 5 . Taking down UNRWA <p> In late October , the Knesset made the monumental decision to outlaw the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees ( UNRWA ) in Jerusalem . This was a major move , going against widespread international pressure . Nevertheless , calls to get rid of UNRWA in the city had only increased since Oct. 7 , 2023 , with outrage over reports that some of its staff were active members of Hamas . <p> Now the Israel Land Authority is set to seize control of UNRWA 's head office in Jerusalem , hoping to turn it into residential housing . But that may be a news story for 2025. <h> 4 . Municipal elections <p> The largest city in Israel went to the polls this year to vote on the new makeup of the municipality . <p> Municipal politics are an often overlooked but still an incredibly important part of life in the Jewish state , with many aspects of day-to-day life hinging on what goes on in these city halls . However , local elections , originally slated for October 31 , 2023 , were repeatedly delayed due to the ongoing war . <p> Jerusalem 's election was rather interesting . The mayor 's office was never really thought to be under serious threat , and Mayor Moshe Lion 's victory was seemingly assured from the start . But the makeup of the City Council saw an important shift , with haredi parties becoming a majority on the council . <h> 3 . The trial of Benjamin Netanyahu resumes <p> The legal woes of Israel 's prime minister have arguably helped drive the fate of this country more than anything else , including the war . From the moment Netanyahu 's legal woes began in 2019 , the State of Israel has been thrust into political instability . <p> Years of elections , delays , protests , and now war have seen the trial continue to drag on , but the fact that Israel 's premier is on trial is not something that can be overlooked when reviewing 2024 . The twist is that it is not taking place in the Jerusalem District Court -- as it normally would be -- but in an underground courtroom in the Tel Aviv District Court , due to security concerns . <p> While the trial has been held up until this point in the Jerusalem court , which has a sectioned-off , protected space in the lobby , the Tel Aviv court offers stronger fortification against missile and drone assaults . <p> What makes this even more significant is that Netanyahu is not just on trial but is now finally testifying . Only the future will tell what impact this could have further down the line . <h> 2 . Jerusalem 's after-school nightmare <p> The trial of Netanyahu is extremely important , but it is also far more than just a Jerusalem event or news story . Much more particular to Jerusalem was the crisis surrounding after-school programs in the city at the start of the school year . <p> In public schools -- specifically daycare centers , kindergartens , and the lower grades of elementary schools -- the tzaharon ( after-school program ) makes up the last two hours of the school day . When the teachers leave the schools , the chaperones substitute them to watch over the children and give them lunch . No tzaharon not only means no lunch , it also means that parents have to pick their children up two hours early , regardless of whether or not they have jobs . <p> At the start of the school year , Jerusalem had a severe shortage of chaperones . As the crisis continued , parents in Jerusalem received reports of bugs found in food , allergens brought into the classroom against existing rules , and people with no experience being sent to work with children as chaperones . <p> Many families throughout the city were shocked by how the situation was being handled and blamed the municipality and Amutat Lavy -- the organization in charge of the programs -- for shifting the blame onto the chaperones . Thankfully , a month later it appeared that the situation had been fixed -- though it is still unclear whether this was a proper resolution or a temporary fix to a larger issue . <h> 1 . Hostage deal protests <p> While 2023 was the year of the judicial reform protests , 2024 has been an entire year of war , and the number one topic on the streets has been the plight of the hostages held by Hamas in Gaza . Around 100 hostages are still out of reach , and all attempts at achieving a deal that would allow them to return home have been unsuccessful . This has blended with existing resentment toward the government seen during the judicial reform protests and with overall discontent regarding the ongoing war . <p> These protests have been a major focus of Jerusalem life throughout the year , with every week seemingly bringing a new protest . <p> Regardless of whether you agree with the protesters or not , their sheer persistence , week after week , proves that if nothing else , they are n't just going away . <p> And that is why they have the top spot on this list of the most memorable events in Jerusalem of 2024. ? 
@@119350285 <h> Sheikh Jarrah is a neighborhood in east Jerusalem , located east of Bar-Lev Boulevard . No other neighborhood in the city exemplifies the land disputes between Israelis and Palestinians more than this . <p> Perhaps no other neighborhood in Jerusalem exemplifies the historical and ongoing disputes between Palestinians and Israelis -- of who owns , who settles , and who controls the land -- as much as Sheikh Jarrah . <p> Sheikh Jarrah is a neighborhood in east Jerusalem , located east of Bar-Lev Boulevard , north of the American Colony Hotel , and southwest of Mount Scopus and French Hill . It is named after Husam al-Din Ibn Sharaf al-Din Isa al-Jarahi , a prince and personal physician in Saladin 's court , who built a zawiya ( religious structure ) at the site and was buried there after his death in 1202 . <h> Early history <p> After Saladin conquered Jerusalem in 1187 , he allocated lands around Jerusalem to his officers , including the area of Sheikh Jarrah . This area was given to his physician , Husam al-Din al-Jarahi , who built a zawiya there , which also served as a madrasa ( Islamic school ) . By the late 19th century , a mosque with a minaret , now known as Sheikh Jarrah Mosque , was built at the site . <p> The location is considered one of the most important Muslim holy sites around Jerusalem , and its maintenance was entrusted to the Dissi family . Descriptions from the 19th century mention a small caravanserai ( khan ) at the site . An ultra-Orthodox Jew is seen praying at the Tomb of Shimon Hatzadik in Sheikh Jarrah , Jerusalem . ( credit : MARC ISRAEL SELLEM ) <p> In the 17th century , a summer palace called Qasr al-Amawi was built near the zawiya by a notable figure in Jerusalem . This building was destroyed during the War of Independence . <p> In the 1870s map of the Palestine Exploration Fund , the area was marked as agricultural land , part of an extensive area north of Jerusalem . <h> Development <p> The neighborhood began to develop gradually in the 1860s during the late Ottoman period , as Jerusalem 's Arab notables and affluent families started building grand houses along Nablus Road , north of the Old City , as part of the process of moving out of the Old City walls . <p> One of the prominent Arab families in Jerusalem during the Mandate period , the Nashashibi family , resided in the neighborhood , and today streets in the neighborhood bear their names . Members of the rival Husseini family also owned houses in the neighborhood , including the Mufti of Jerusalem , Haj Amin al-Husseini , whose house was later turned into the Shepherd Hotel . <p> Adjacent to the neighborhood are the Tomb of Shimon HaTzadik ( Simeon the Just ) , the Cave of the Small Sanhedrin , and two Jewish neighborhoods . The Shimon HaTzadik neighborhood was established in 1890 on land purchased in 1875 , and the Nahalat Shimon neighborhood was founded in the early 20th century . <h> Nahalat Shimon <p> Nahalat Shimon , also known as Simeon 's Estate , was the Jewish religious neighborhood situated in Sheikh Jarrah . It was established in 1891 by Sephardi and Ashkenazi kollels as a housing initiative for impoverished Yemenite and Sephardi Jews . The neighborhood was centered near the Tomb of Simeon the Just , with its cornerstone laid in 1890 . <p> Located at the western edge of the Kidron Valley and close to the tomb , the neighborhood grew quickly after the initial purchase of land in 1890 . Early developments housed 20 destitute families , and by 1947 approximately 100 Jewish families resided there . <p> However , rising tensions and violence during the 1948 Arab -- Israeli War led to British authorities ordering the Jewish residents to evacuate in March 1948 . Justice emeritus Michael Ben-Yair , one of the evacuees , later noted that these families were compensated with Palestinian homes in west Jerusalem . <p> On the other hand , Palestinian families who were resettled in Sheikh Jarrah by the Jordanian authorities after 1948 were required to relinquish their refugee status and associated rights . Under Israeli law , they can not reclaim their pre-1948 properties in cities like Haifa , Sarafand , and Jaffa . <p> The Nahalat Shimon settler organization , registered in Delaware , has for decades sought legal action in Israeli courts to evict Palestinian residents from the area , aiming to facilitate new Jewish settlement in the neighborhood . <p> During the 1936-1939 Arab Revolt , residents were forced to abandon their homes to escape attacks by Arab rioters . After the disturbances ended , the Jewish residents returned to their homes . <p> The neighborhood 's main street , Mount of Olives Road , connected central Jerusalem to the Hadassah-University Medical Center and the Hebrew University on Mount Scopus . <h> The War of Independence <p> At the end of December 1947 , some 20 Jewish passengers traveling through Sheikh Jarrah on their way to Mount Scopus were attacked and wounded by Arab assailants . This was one of the early events that led to the War of Independence . In response , Hagana forces raided homes in the neighborhood in January 1948 and set them on fire . <p> Gradually , the Arab residents of the neighborhood fled , and their places were taken by al-Najjada fighters , who continued attacking Jewish vehicles and residents . <p> In April 1948 , the British ordered the residents of the Shimon HaTzadik and Nahalat Shimon neighborhoods to quickly leave their homes . This came two days after the killing of Abd al-Qadir al-Husseini in the Battle of Kastel and the Deir Yasin massacre . Arab forces , under the command of Bahjat Abu Gharbiyah , attacked a Jewish convoy traveling to Mount Scopus on April 13 , 1948 , and massacred its passengers . <p> The victims of the Hadassah convoy massacre included 78 doctors , nurses , patients , and staff of the hospital . Attempts by Palmah Harel forces to assist were repelled by the British . The incident shocked the Jewish community in Israel and the rest of the world . <p> On Passover , April 25 , 1948 , during Operation Yevusi , the Palmah captured Sheikh Jarrah and the area of the Jewish neighborhoods . The British forced them to withdraw , citing the need for the transportation route in the area . Following the British withdrawal on May 14 , 1948 , the Hagana and Irgun forces took control of the neighborhood and the Police Academy . On May 19 , 1948 , the Arab Legion captured the area , and it remained under Jordanian control until the Six Day War ( 1967 ) . <p> During the 1960s , Sheikh Jarrah became home to several diplomatic missions . Notable examples include the British Consulate at 19 Nashashibi Street , located alongside the Turkish Consulate at 20 Nashashibi Street . Other missions in the area included the Belgian Consulate , the Swedish Consulate-General on Ibn Jubair Street , the Spanish Consulate , another British Consulate-General , and the United Nations mission near Saint George Street . <p> After Jerusalem 's reunification in 1967 , a memorial was erected in the center of the neighborhood near the site of the Hadassah convoy massacre , listing the names of the 78 victims . <h> Modern day <p> Sheikh Jarrah is considered affluent and prestigious among Jerusalem 's Arab neighborhoods , although some areas are poorer and home to Palestinian refugees . It still houses consulates and representations of several foreign countries and international organizations , as well as restaurants and hotels . <p> Adjacent to the neighborhood is the Menachem Begin Government Complex , which includes the national headquarters of the Israel Police and several government ministries . <h> Controversy <p> In two locations in the southern part of the neighborhood , near the Tomb of Shimon HaTzadik , there is land and houses that , before the War of Independence , belonged to Jewish endowments and included two Jewish neighborhoods . During Jordanian rule , Jordan and UNRWA settled refugees on these lands . After the Six Day War , ownership of the lands was returned to the Jewish owners , but Arab residents continued living there . <p> Starting in the 1990s , some Arab residents were evicted following court rulings in lawsuits filed by landowners . These evictions , along with fears of further evictions , sparked protests and clashes in the neighborhood , some of which turned violent . <p> The Israeli government and its supporters often describe the issue as a " property dispute " or " real estate conflict , " emphasizing the legality of the ownership claims of specific properties in east Jerusalem . Conversely , Palestinians and their allies characterize the situation as forced " expulsions , " " displacement , " or even " ethnic cleansing , " highlighting broader implications under international law . <p> The long-standing legal and political battle centering on ownership claims in Sheikh Jarrah has been identified as one of the contributing factors to the escalation of the 2021 war in Gaza , Operation Guardian of the Walls . <h> Transport <p> Nablus Road , the neighborhood 's central thoroughfare , was formerly part of Route 60 . In the 1990s , a modern dual carriageway was built to the west , incorporating two lanes for vehicles and a designated bus lane . <p> This busway was later upgraded , forming part of the Red Line of the Jerusalem Light Rail , which began operating in 2010 and passes next to the neighborhood along Shivtei Yisrael . <h> Landmarks <p> The area 's Jewish heritage is highlighted by the Tomb of Shimon HaTzadik , a leader from the era of the Great Assembly after the Babylonian exile . Jewish tradition recounts his encounter with Alexander the Great and his influence in preserving the Second Temple . Pilgrimages to his tomb in Sheikh Jarrah were documented for centuries . <p> In 1876 , the adjoining land , including an olive grove , was purchased by Jews , leading to the construction of homes on the site . <p> While Jews have a long-standing tradition of visiting the Tomb of Shimon bar Yochai on Lag Ba'omer to perform the upsherin ( haircutting ) ceremony of three-year-old boys , the Tomb of Shimon HaTzadik has also been used for generations as an alternative site . <p> Other significant landmarks include a medieval mosque honoring one of Saladin 's soldiers , St. George 's Anglican Cathedral , and the renowned Tombs of the Kings . The latter , a rock-cut funerary site , has been linked to Queen Helena of Adiabene , although recent studies suggest it might have been intended for Herod Agrippa I. The property bears a French inscription , " Tombeau des Rois , " marking its historical significance . <h> Hospitals <p> Established in 1882 and relocated to Nashashibi Street in 1960 , St. John of Jerusalem Eye Hospital provides essential eye care to the Palestinian population of east Jerusalem and the surrounding West Bank . <p> Situated nearby , St. Joseph 's French Hospital is a Catholic-run facility that operates a 73-bed hospital offering specialized services in surgery , pediatrics , and orthopedics , along with coronary care and diagnostic facilities . <h> The Shepherd Hotel <p> Originally built for Haj Amin al-Husseini , the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem , the property later passed to George Antonius and his wife , Katy Antonius . Following its use by British military personnel and its subsequent conversion into a hotel under Jordanian management , the site was acquired by Irving Moskowitz in 1985 . Redevelopment plans sparked controversy and international condemnation . <p> Despite these disputes , the hotel was demolished in January 2011 to make way for new housing developments . ? 
@@119350287 <h> IDF begins operation against Hamas in area of Kamal Adwan Hospital in Jabalya , Gaza <h> Officials in the Hamas-run Gaza health authority admitted that they ignored calls on Monday night to evacuate the Kamal Adwan hospital ahead of IDF operations . <p> By DANIELLE GREYMAN-KENNARD Palestinians view the damage after Israeli forces withdrew from the area around Kamal Adwan hospital , amid the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict , in Jabalya , in the northern Gaza Strip October 26 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/STRINGER ) <p> IDF soldiers from the 401st Brigade , under the command of the 162nd Division , began operations in the area of the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Jabalya , Gaza , the military confirmed on Friday morning . <h> MDA and Israel Police rushed to scene , and security guards neutralized the terrorist before arresting him . <p> Eighty-three-year-old Holocaust survivor Ludmila Lipovsky was murdered in a terror stabbing attack outside her nursing home in Herzliya on Friday morning . Security guards neutralized the attacker before arresting him . <p> Ichilov Hospital in Tel Aviv confirmed that Lipovsky was pronounced dead on arrival . <p> The Israel Police designated the incident as a terror attack after officers , along with MDA paramedics , arrived at the scene . <p> An initial investigation revealed that the terrorist was a Palestinian resident of the West Bank city of Tulkarm who had previously served a prison sentence in Israel . The Shin Bet added that the suspect was a former Shin Bet aide who had helped thwart terrorism in the West Bank . <p> The suspect 's collaboration with the Shin Bet was later exposed and he was transferred for rehabilitation in Israel . He has now been transferred to the Shin Bet for questioning . <p> Ludmila Lipovsky , an 83 years old Holocaust survivor , was murdered in a terrorist stabbing attack in Herzliya ( credit : SCREENSHOT/X ) <p> The commander of Tel Aviv district police , Superintendent Haim Sargaroff , said that the security guards at the scene lept into action after they heard the terrorist shout " Allahu Akbar . " <p> The Jerusalem Post found on Yad Vasehem 's database that Ludmila Lipofsky was born in Buy , Russia on 11 November 1941 , and was in Samarkand , Uzbekistan during the war . After the war , she was registered as being in Israel . She was registered as being born during evacuation . <p> Michael Dickson , the director of Stand With Us tweeted that the Holocaust survivor was waiting for her daughter to take her to the doctor when she was killed . <p> Here 's how cowardly Palestinian terrorists are : today 's victim was an 83-year-old Holocaust survivor , Ludmila Lipovsky . She lived in an assisted living facility , and was waiting for her daughter to take her to the doctor . The jihadi stabbed her to death 6 times , murdering her . **26;2171;TOOLONG <p> Yisrael Beyteinu chair Avigdor Liberman said " there are no words to describe the pain and sorrow in this shocking case . " <h> Details of the attack <p> MDA Paramedic Idan Shina and MDA EMT Elon Boaron , who were the first to arrive at the scene , said teams arrived to find the elderly woman lying unconscious with stab wounds . The paramedics stopped the bleeding , resuscitated her , treated her with medication , and evacuated her . <p> In a meeting with NPR 's Hadeel Al-Salachi , Marwan said it was " natural " that Israel had concerns about the new Syrian government and that as a result of this " fear , " Israel " advanced a little , bombed a little . " <p> Marwan added that the new Syrian administration does n't " want to meddle in anything that will threaten Israel 's security or any other country 's security . " <h> Violation of 1701 <p> The recent US-brokered ceasefire agreement called for an IDF withdrawal from southern Lebanon along with a Hezbollah withdrawal north of the Litani River , upholding the 2006 UNSC Resolution 1701 , which ended the previous Israel-Lebanon conflict . <p> " There is concern at continuing destruction by the IDF in residential areas , agricultural land , and road networks in south Lebanon , UNIFIL wrote . " This is in violation of resolution 1701 . " <p> The IDF , however , disputes the charge and has reported a number of instances of Hezbollah members operating in violation of the ceasefire agreement . <p> On December 17 , the IDF reported that it had identified a Hezbollah terrorist loading weaponry onto a vehicle " in violation of the ceasefire agreements between Israel and Lebanon . " <p> The IAF subsequently struck the vehicle . <p> " The IDF is operating in accordance with the ceasefire understandings between Israel and Lebanon , " the military said at the time . " The IDF remains deployed in southern Lebanon and will operate against any threat posed to the State of Israel and its citizens . " <p> Additionally , other terror elements , aside from Hezbollah , have been identified recently in Lebanon 's Bekaa Valley . <p> Last week , Hezbollah-affiliated news outlet Al Mayadeen reported that the Lebanese Armed Forces took control of a Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine command site in the Bekaa Valley 's Sultan Yacoub . <h> Yemen 's Houthis fire missile at central Israel , triggering sirens across the country <h> A missile launched from Yemen triggered sirens across central Israel and diverted multiple flights early Friday morning , with the IDF confirming interception before it crossed the border . <p> By SHIR PERETS A map of every locality in Israel where a rocket siren was activated as a result of the launch from Yemen. ( photo credit : SCREENSHOT/X/VIA SECTION 27A OF THE COPYRIGHT ACT ) <p> A Houthi missile fired from Yemen triggered sirens across central Israel early on Friday morning . <p> According to the IDF , the missile was intercepted before crossing into Israeli territory . <p> While no one was reported wounded as a result of falling debris , 18 people were injured as they made their way to safe rooms , and two people have been treated for anxiety , Israel 's emergency medical service Magen David Adom reported . <p> Multiple flights on their way to Israel were diverted due to the missile , according to Israeli media . <p> ? Houthis in sandals sent an entire country to shelters in the middle of the night , " MK Avigdor Liberman ( Yisrael Beiteinu ) posted on X/Twitter . <p> " If Bibi had not abolished the missile force that I established , this threat would not exist today . " <h> Israeli - Houthi conflict <p> This latest attack comes just hours after the IAF targeted Houthi infrastructure near the airports of Hodeidah and the Yemeni capital of Sana'a , marking the largest strike on Houthi targets since the beginning of the war . <p> Three people were killed and 16 were wounded at the airport in Sana'a following the attack , Houthi-owned TV channel Al-Masirah reported . 
@@119350288 <h> Officials in the Hamas-run Gaza health authority admitted that they ignored calls on Monday night to evacuate the Kamal Adwan hospital ahead of IDF operations . <p> Palestinians view the damage after Israeli forces withdrew from the area around Kamal Adwan hospital , amid the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict , in Jabalya , in the northern Gaza Strip October 26 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/STRINGER ) <p> IDF soldiers from the 401st Brigade , under the command of the 162nd Division , began operations in the area of the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Jabalya , Gaza , the military confirmed on Friday morning . <p> The Kamal Adwan Hospital has served as a Hamas stronghold in northern Gaza , the IDF claimed , noting Hamas 's presence in the institution since the onset of the war . <p> As part of the IDF 's operations , the military announced troops were conducting targeted operations in the area . The IDF stressed these operations were being carried out with significant efforts being made to mitigate potential harm to patients , medical staff and civilians . <p> These efforts included coordinating the Coordinator of Government Activities in the Territories ( COGAT ) , local health officials and international bodies to evacuate civilians from the hospital . Patients were evacuated by ambulance to other hospitals through a secured and defined route , the military said . <p> In addition , Munir Al-Bursh , director of the Hamas-run health ministry , confirmed that the IDF gave notice to the hospital on Monday night to evacuate hours before troops entered the facility on Tuesday , Reuters reported . Men holding raised weapons are led out by Israeli soldiers near Kamal Adwan hospital , amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Palestinian terrorist group Hamas , in Jabalya in the northern Gaza Strip , in this handout photo released December 14 , 2023. ( credit : IDF/Handout via REUTERS ) <p> Hussam Abu Safiya , director of the Kamal Adwan Hospital , said they resisted a new order by the army to evacuate hundreds of patients , their companions and staff , adding that the hospital has been under constant Israeli fire that damaged generators , oxygen pumps and parts of the building . <p> Separately , the IDF acknowledged in a later statement that " a small fire broke out in an empty building inside the hospital that is under control . " In response to " claims that the fire was caused by IDF gunfire , " the military said it was " currently unaware of any such incident . " <p> At a news conference Friday , the Hamas-run Gaza 's Health Ministry said fires inside the hospital are still raging , according to the Washington Post . <h> Hamas 's violation of international law <p> The IDF stressed that , despite repeated calls for Hamas to refrain from exploiting Gaza 's hospitals for terror activities , the Iran-backed terror group has continued to violate international law by abusing civilian infrastructure and by using Gazans as human shields . This is despite repeated calls by the IDF to refrain from exploiting the hospital for military activities . <p> Last month , terrorists detonated an explosive device near a humanitarian convoy evacuating civilians from the hospital grounds . While no medical staff or patients aboard the convoy were wounded in the attack , the IDF reported that six children at the hospital were harmed by the explosion and the hospital building was damaged . <p> Hamas 's hold on the hospital has previously been reported on by the IDF , which published footage in October 2024 of a staff member at the hospital confirming , " Hamas military operatives are present ; they are in the courtyards , at the gates of the buildings , in the offices of Kamal Adwan Hospital . They operate ambulances to transport their wounded military operatives , and to transport them for their missions , and this is instead of using the ambulances for the benefit of civilians . " <p> In previous operations at the hospital , the IDF located weapons , money used for terror purposes , Hamas intelligence documents and arrested some 100 terrorists . <p> Last month , 60 terrorists surrendered outside the hospital after failing to flee during an IDF operation , which saw the medical institute and surrounding areas encircled by troops . At least one of the terrorists detained posed as a staff member and was found to have participated in the October 7 massacre , the IDF reported . 
@@119350292 <h> Whether it 's a two-state solution with new governance models , a regional confederation , or grassroots initiatives , these ideas remind us that creativity and courage are not in short supply . <p> A MODEL of a ' United Nations of Jerusalem ' invites us to envision a binational entity where Israelis and Palestinians share voting rights while maintaining distinct national identities. ( photo credit : Grok AI ) <p> It 's a strange feeling to open your inbox and find yourself at the epicenter of a brainstorming session on one of the world 's most intractable conflicts . Last week , I invited readers to share their thoughts on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , and the response was overwhelming . Ideas poured in -- some rooted in policy , others in philosophy , and a few that could only be described as audacious . If nothing else , this exercise reaffirmed one thing : While our leadership may be busy fighting among themselves , the people of Israel are ready to talk , discuss , and think differently . <p> In last week 's column , I argued that the status quo was untenable . The October 7 massacre was a wake up call -- a tragic reminder that a situation of just merely managing the conflict is not a solution . The responses I received throughout the week ranged from modified two-state solutions to proposals for regional confederations , cultural reforms , and even economic incentives . This week , I 'd like to share the fascinating ideas I was pitched and reflect on what they reveal about the paths we might consider in the future . <h> Two-state solutions with a twist <p> I received dozens of emails ; some were short comments , others were more concrete . Some referenced the classic solutions to this conflict ; others were several-paged documents offering an entirely new approach . <p> Analyzing the emails I received , certain trends became apparent . Approximately 40% of respondents advocated for variations on the two-state solution , often proposing innovative governance models or phased approaches to build trust . Although most Israelis are against the notion , this , in a sense , suggests that it 's difficult for people to disconnect from classic models.A PALESTINIAN protests outside Jerusalem . The international community and some Israelis and Palestinians are once again talking about the two-state solution . ( credit : AMIR COHEN/REUTERS ) <p> Another 25% of the respondents leaned toward regional confederation ideas , drawing on historical examples like post-World War II Europe . Cultural and ideological reforms were highlighted by 20% of contributors , who stressed that education and the empowerment of women were critical steps . Economic incentives and grassroots community engagement accounted for the remaining about 15% , emphasizing a pragmatic focus on improving everyday life to reduce tensions in Israel , as well as in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip . <p> The trends represent a strong preference for practical solutions that combine political frameworks with social and economic reforms . Most respondents agreed on the importance of addressing root causes like mistrust and extremism while leveraging regional cooperation and international support to sustain progress . <p> Among the most popular responses were variations on the two-state solution . J 's " Modified Two-State Solution " caught my attention for its innovative approach to governance . He envisions a binational entity , the " United Nations of Jerusalem , " where Israelis and Palestinians share voting rights while maintaining their distinct national identities . His model emphasizes proportional representation and dual voting systems -- ideas designed to reduce extremism and foster cooperation . They explained this idea in the email : " The dual voting system in the United Nations of Jerusalem will create an environment where extremists can not dominate and cooperation becomes necessary . " <p> Other readers proposed a phased approach , starting with Gaza . B suggested rebuilding Gaza as a peaceful , prosperous state to serve as a prototype for the West Bank or Judea and Samaria . " Start with Gaza ; show the world and Palestinians what prosperity under peace looks like , " he advocated . This concept is ambitious , but it focuses on a recurring theme in the responses to the column : The belief that tangible progress in one area can catalyze broader change . <p> Another fascinating model is H 's " Holy Land Union , " which draws inspiration from Europe after the Second World War , where former enemy countries forged a path to peace through economic and political cooperation . " Regional cooperation can transform mistrust into mutual benefit , as it did in Europe , " he explained . " Economic integration is the key to ensuring lasting peace , as it builds dependencies that discourage conflict , " H elaborated . He added , " This model could redefine how we view borders , turning them into bridges rather than barriers . " Could a similar framework work here ? H believes integrating regional players like Jordan and Egypt into a confederation could help bridge the gaps between Israelis and Palestinians . It 's an idea worth exploring , particularly in light of the Abraham Accords , which have already reshaped the Middle East 's diplomatic landscape . <h> Cultural reforms : Addressing the root causes <p> Several readers emphasized the need to address the cultural and ideological roots of the conflict . G proposed education reforms modeled on the United Arab Emirates , where tolerance is taught as a virtue . " Imagine a generation that grows up learning that coexistence is not just possible but admirable , " he wrote . He elaborated , " Education reform is not just an investment in peace but a shield against future conflicts . " He also noted , " Incorporating stories of shared successes between Israelis and Palestinians could make these lessons tangible and inspiring . " <p> D -- in an emotional letter dedicated to his parents , both veterans of Israel 's 1948 War of Independence -- suggested empowering Palestinian women and families as agents of change . " Let the mothers and grandmothers lead ; they have had enough of loss and war , " he wrote . His idea to isolate Hamas by offering shelter and reeducation to young men willing to renounce extremism was as bold as it was humane . He added , " Change begins at home , with the voices of those who have suffered most leading the way . " He further emphasized , " Empowering women creates ripple effects across entire communities , fostering resilience and peace . " <h> Economic incentives and community engagement <p> The idea of a " Palestinian Foreign Legion , " proposed by J , aims to create jobs and skills for unemployed Palestinian men while providing economic benefits to the broader region . " This initiative could give young Palestinians a purpose beyond conflict , " he suggested in the email . He elaborated , " A structured program that offers both training and employment opportunities can transform frustration into productivity , giving young men a tangible stake in peace . " <p> " International collaboration in rebuilding efforts -- to restore dignity and stability " is also a point that P advocates for . He sees this as essential for reducing tensions . <p> P 's focus on " temporary shelters and international funding for rebuilding efforts " reflects a broader belief in the power of economic stability to promote calm . " Stability comes from dignity , and dignity starts with a roof over your head , " he emphasizes . He further notes , " International collaboration in rebuilding efforts would signal to Palestinians that the world values their future , not just their politics . " <p> On the community level , S and others advocate for grassroots engagement , including interfaith dialogues and programs to foster mutual understanding . " Real peace begins with neighbors talking , not politicians negotiating , " he writes , adding , " Grassroots initiatives create personal bonds that political agreements alone can not achieve . " <h> What now ? <p> I was struck by the diversity of thought and the common thread of hope in these responses . There 's a yearning for solutions that go beyond headlines and slogans . Whether it 's a two-state solution with new governance models , a regional confederation , or grassroots initiatives , these ideas remind us that creativity and courage are not in short supply . <p> Yet , as some readers pointed out , translating ideas into action is the real challenge . How do we overcome the political inertia , the entrenched narratives , and the deep mistrust ? Perhaps the first step is to keep the conversation going . If last week 's responses are any indication , so much collective wisdom is waiting to be heard on this broad topic . <p> I 've decided to devote my upcoming columns to this issue -- and already have more exceptional ideas at the ready , while others are being developed as you are reading this column . 
@@119350293 <h> It should n't take a miracle for the hostages to come home - comment <h> This year , the lights on the menorah shine alongside yellow ribbons , posters of the hostages ' faces , and the empty seats left for them . <p> ' A POWERFUL reminder of the resilience and hope that dwell within us all . ' Yuval Haran , a resident of Kibbutz Be'eri , returned to his home this week and lit a hanukkiah that was retrieved from the rubble . ( photo credit : CHEN SCHIMMEL ) <p> The Jewish people have faced many existential threats . One of the more poetic ones is the story of Hanukkah , which has some parallels with the painful struggle our state is facing today . <p> Antiochus 's empire had taken control of Judea and Jerusalem . Like the families today who wake each morning not knowing if their loved ones held in Gaza still live , abandoned by those who promised to protect them , the Jews of ancient Jerusalem lived under a shadow of fear and uncertainty . <p> Antiochus banned Jewish practices and desecrated the Holy Temple , much as terrorists on October 7 violated the sanctity of Israeli homes and communities in Israel 's South . His empire , the Seleucids , took Jewish children as hostages to ensure their parents ' compliance with Greek customs . I need not make the clear comparison here . <p> But in ancient times , a small group refused to accept this reality . Led by Judah Maccabee and his brothers , they launched a resistance against overwhelming odds . Today , the families of hostages show similar resolve . <p> They refuse to let their loved ones be forgotten , stage protests that fall on deaf ears , and demand action from a government that seems more concerned with political maneuvering than bringing their people home.TOMB OF the Maccabees near present-day Mevo Modi'im. ( credit : Wikimedia Commons ) <p> The Maccabees ' guerrilla warfare campaign lasted three years . Through strategic attacks , they gradually weakened the mighty Seleucid army , and their dedication to freeing their people never wavered . Like the families today who refuse to accept empty promises and bureaucratic excuses , who camp outside government offices , and carry photos of their captured relatives , the Maccabees understood that time was of the essence . <p> Each day meant more suffering for their people . <h> Time is of the essence <p> We , unlike the Maccabees , do n't have three years . Every single hour , minute , and second that has gone by without our hostages returning home is another hour , minute , and second that they are being held in horrible conditions with no access to medical resources , suffering in unmentionable ways , and enduring unspeakable trauma . <p> When the Maccabees finally recaptured Jerusalem and the Temple , they found it in ruins . But amid the devastation , they discovered one sealed jar of pure olive oil bearing the seal of the High Priest . <p> Though it contained only enough oil for one day 's lighting of the menorah , the small vessel burned for eight days -- just long enough to prepare new oil under conditions of ritual purity . <p> This miracle of light amid darkness resonates today with the families who cling to hope , who light candles at rallies , and who refuse to let the light of hope for the return of their loved ones be extinguished -- even as their government seems to prioritize everything else . <p> Like the Maccabees , who would n't accept defeat despite overwhelming odds , these families persist in their demands for action , for negotiation , and for the return of their people , even as weeks turn to months of anguished waiting . <p> Just as that small cruse of oil defied expectations to keep the Temple 's light burning , the families of hostages keep their own flame of hope alive , pressing for negotiations despite the endless stream of excuses and delays , refusing to let the world forget those who remain in captivity . <p> Each Hanukkah , when Jews light the menorah , they place it in their windows as a public declaration of the miracle of light overcoming darkness . <p> This year , those lights shine alongside yellow ribbons , posters of the hostages ' faces , and the empty seats left for them . Each flame is a bitter reminder of government inaction , each candle an accusation against those who could do more but choose not to . <p> The miracle of Hanukkah came from divine intervention -- but today 's families should n't have to wait for a miracle when human action could bring their loved ones home . 
@@119350296 <h> All of us in the media were complicit in October 7 - opinion <h> Journalists are not supposed to simply regurgitate what they are told -- whether it is claims like " Hamas is deterred " or " Sinwar does n't want war . " <p> IDF SPOKESMAN Daniel Hagari speaks to the media , displaying an Iranian ballistic missile which was retrieved from the Dead Sea after Iran fired drones and missiles at Israel in April . The media must ask the tough questions , demand accountability , and avoid simply amplifying official narratives. ( photo credit : AMIR COHEN/REUTERS ) <p> In early 2023 , I was invited to a briefing with the IDF chief of staff . It was like dozens of other briefings I had attended over the years . We , the journalists , were ushered into a conference room where the top IDF officer took center stage . <p> He delivered an hour-long presentation and then fielded questions . Out of the two hours of discussions , Hamas and Gaza occupied perhaps 15 minutes . That was it . <p> On the one hand , this lack of focus was n't surprising . It reminded me of a story I heard recently about a Military Intelligence briefing given to members of the Knesset 's Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee just six months before October that went on for hours and concentrated primarily on Iran and Hezbollah . <p> As the intelligence officers were packing up their things , a Knesset member asked about Hamas . <p> " Nothing new , " one of the officers replied , according to members of the committee I spoke with . " They are deterred . " Palestinian youth demonstrate their skills during an exercise at a military-style camp organized by Hamas , in Khan Yunis , in the Gaza Strip , August 8 , 2023 ( credit : ABED RAHIM KHATIB/FLASH90 ) <p> This belief -- that Hamas was deterred in the months leading up to October 7 -- was the prevailing mindset within both the IDF and the government . The problem was that the media simply accepted this assessment at face value . <p> It was taken as absolute truth , without scrutiny or challenge , and it is time to admit : this unquestioning approach was negligence on the part of the press . <p> Consider what happened after the IDF 's operation against Hamas in 2021 , called Guardian of the Walls . At the time , Israel claimed to have dealt a serious blow to Hamas by targeting what it called the Metro -- a strategic tunnel complex built in Gaza over a period of years . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , along with top IDF officers like then-chief of staff Aviv Kohavi and operations chief Aharon Haliva , proudly declared that Hamas had been severely weakened . Haliva , who would later become the head of Military Intelligence , even predicted that the 2021 operation would deliver five years of quiet . <p> This never happened , and the quiet lasted barely two years . Yet , where were the media during this period ? Sadly , nowhere to be found . Most journalists were merely repeating what they were told . <p> Articles and TV reports hailed the military 's achievements , praising the IDF for supposedly crippling Hamas . There was no critical analysis or questioning of these claims . <p> I know this because I was one of those journalists . Like almost all my colleagues , we did n't ask tough questions or demand evidence . We believed the narrative that Israel was too strong to face any significant threat and that its enemies had been neutralized . <p> After the Metro bombing , I wrote a series of features on the remarkable precision-strike capability the IDF had seemingly developed . I look back at some of those reports now and realize how while some of the stories were accurate , they completely missed the real story of what was happening right in front of our faces . <p> We now know how that complacency ended . While there have been countless calls for commissions of inquiry within the IDF and the government , very little attention has been given to the media 's own failures . <p> Fifteen months after the war began , many journalists have reverted to old habits . While some were initially critical , they are now back to parroting official statements , asking few questions , and providing little real scrutiny . <h> Media failures <p> This is not what the media are meant to do in a democracy . Journalists are not supposed to simply regurgitate what they are told -- whether it is claims like " Hamas is deterred " or " Sinwar does n't want war . " <p> The media 's role is to hold officials accountable , to scrutinize their policies and decisions , and to ask the tough questions that demand substantive answers . This means refusing to accept vague , unsupported statements and instead demanding critical reporting , analysis , and commentary . <p> The media 's function in a democracy is twofold . First , it ensures that leaders act in the public 's best interests . Second , it forces those in power to challenge their own assumptions , question prevailing narratives , and continually reassess their strategies . <p> This constant scrutiny helps prevent groupthink and complacency . <p> Perhaps if we , as journalists , had pushed back against the widespread belief that Hamas was deterred , the IDF might have conducted a more thorough review of its intelligence and policies . <p> If we had insisted on better answers than just " they are deterred , " the government might have felt compelled to hold serious discussions about Gaza and to pressure the IDF and the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) to reassess their conclusions . <p> Perhaps this could have made a difference . <p> I write this not because I believe the IDF or the government deliberately mislead the public , but because unchallenged assumptions lead to mistakes . The media 's role is to question authority , to challenge the status quo , and to act as a safeguard against errors in judgment . <p> When we fail in this responsibility , we enable flawed policies to go unexamined , creating the conditions for disasters like October 7 . <p> Unfortunately , the Israeli media today are weak and struggle to fulfill their mission . Public broadcaster Kan faces threats of closure from the government ; Yediot Aharonot 's owner is on trial with Netanyahu ; Haaretz has lost significant advertising revenue due to government sanctions ; and TV channels operate under heavy regulatory oversight , leaving them dependent on the state . <p> While these challenges are real , they do not absolve the media -- owners and journalists -- of their responsibility . The press must rise above these obstacles to fulfill its vital civic duty . <p> Consider what happened just this past week . The IDF Spokesperson 's Office invited military reporters to a briefing at the Northern Command to highlight the army 's successes against Hezbollah . And there were successes . <p> Hezbollah 's senior leadership has been decimated , its infrastructure in southern Lebanon destroyed , and many of its bunkers and command centers in Beirut 's Dahiyeh district lie in ruins . <p> However , there are also significant gaps in the ceasefire mechanism and critical questions that remain unanswered . While IDF Spokesperson Brig. -Gen . Daniel Hagari will naturally emphasize the army 's achievements , the media must approach these claims with skepticism . <p> It must ask the tough questions , demand accountability , and avoid simply amplifying official narratives . <p> Sadly , that is not what happened . Instead , this week 's headlines focused on " unprecedented intelligence penetration " of Hezbollah and the thousands of weapons the IDF captured during the war . <p> But is this what the public needs ? Is this what the IDF needs ? The answer is a resounding no . It might be what they want , but it is not what they need . <p> At a minimum , the Israeli media should refuse to attend unsourced briefings where officers can make unverifiable claims without accountability . Yet , once again , stories based on anonymous " officials , " " officers , " and " sources " dominated the news . <p> As someone who spent a decade as a military reporter , I understand the challenges of getting military officers to speak on the record . But after 15 months of war , it should be clear what happens when journalists fail at their jobs . <p> Has there been any soul-searching within the media ? Unfortunately , no . Journalists are quick to demand that Netanyahu appoint a state commission of inquiry or call for IDF Chief of Staff Lt.-Gen . Herzi Halevi to step down , but they rarely turn the lens inward . <p> Do they genuinely believe they bear no responsibility for the misconceptions that led to October 7 ? <p> All of us in the media were complicit . As we enter a new year , it is time to create a new media culture in Israel -- one that not only has the tools to do its job but also the resolve to fulfill its democratic role . <p> It is time for journalists to move beyond repeating official narratives and to genuinely speak truth to power . <p> The writer is a senior fellow at the Jewish People Policy Institute and a former editor-in-chief of The Jerusalem Post . 
@@119350297 <p> Israel 's 76-year history -- like the history of all countries -- is marked by seminal years ; memorable years ; years that define and shape the country going forward . <p> The year of independence , 1948 , is one such year , as is 1967 -- the year of the Six Day War -- and 1973 , when the Yom Kippur War shook the nation . 1977 is a critical year because it brought Menachem Begin and the Likud to power , ushering in a historic political realignment . <p> Other pivotal years include 1978 , because of the Camp David Accords ; 1993 with the Oslo Accords ; 1995 , the year of Yitzhak Rabin 's assassination ; 2000 , the outbreak of the Second Intifada ; 2005 , the withdrawal from Gaza ; and -- of course -- last year , 2023 , forever seared into memory because of the horrors of October 7 . <p> Now 2024 -- ending at midnight on Tuesday -- joins the list . Inextricably linked to the cataclysmic events of October 7 the year before , 2024 was packed with dramatic developments destined to reshape Israel and the region for generations . It may well be remembered as a hinge year . <p> Israel is a nation accustomed to a frenetic pace and a relentless news cycle . Yet , even by Israeli standards , the tempo of events this year was extraordinary . A WOMAN ponders as she visits the scene of the October 7 Nova music festival massacre , last week . ( credit : Israel Hadari/Flash90 ) <p> The year began dramatically on January 2 with the assassination of Hamas leader Saleh al-Arouri in Beirut and ended with speculation about how to deal with the Houthis . <p> In between , the pace of events often reached dizzying heights . A striking example came earlier this month when Israel 's destruction of Syria 's military capabilities within 48 hours was not even the leading news story . That distinction went to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's first testimony in his corruption trials , a development that overshadowed even one of the year 's most startling military achievements . <p> It was a year -- in many ways -- of national triumph , though for so many it was one of personal agony ; one where heartbreak followed hope in dizzying , rat-a-tat speed . It was a year where national triumph and personal despair co-mingled painfully and in which the agony of the hostage saga hovered above everything , casting a shadow over every victory . <p> It was also , in many ways , a miraculous year -- one where the religiously inclined will say they see the hand of God : in the sudden reversal of fortune in the war ; in the " Ten Plagues " visited upon Hezbollah ( exploding beepers , detonated walkie-talkies , and the successive assassinations of its leaders ) ; in the abrupt fall of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and the destruction of his army 's military capabilities ; in withstanding Iran 's onslaught of ballistic missiles and drones without sustaining significant damage . <p> The relentless pace of 2024 , where dramatic events followed closely one after the other and competed for the spotlight , marked a year that will be remembered for its profound impact on Israel and the region . Here is a brief look at six key developments during 2024 that will resonate for years . <h> Exploding beepers and the turning of the tide of the war <p> If , as some maintain , Israel regained its mojo in 2024 -- the " Entebbe " factor that once inspired awe and fear -- the turning point was September 17 . That was the day when thousands of pagers belonging to Hezbollah members exploded in their hands and pockets , immediately incapacitating 4,000 operatives . <p> This came two days after the government -- in what will be seen as a key moment altering the course of the war -- updated its war aims to include creating the conditions to enable the return of some 60,000 displaced Israelis to their homes along the northern border . This decision , as it turns out , was much more than just symbolic . <p> The following days brought decisive actions : the detonation of Hezbollah 's walkie-talkies , airstrikes targeting hundreds of rocket launchers in southern Lebanon , and the elimination of key leaders in the Radwan Force . The military campaign culminated on September 28 with the killing of Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah , followed by the IDF 's invasion of southern Lebanon . <p> These actions shifted the momentum and tide in the war . Not only did they decimate Hezbollah 's military capabilities and decapitate its leadership , but they struck an enormous blow to the terrorist organization 's morale and prestige . The once mighty Hezbollah , which seemed to be riding a wave of inevitability , was taken down numerous notches , and the shockwaves were felt far and wide and quickly . Iran lost its most important proxy , and Hamas lost the ally most active against Israel . <p> Hezbollah 's defeat triggered Syrian rebels to renew their fight against the Assad regime , which was supported in the past by Hezbollah and Iran . The abrupt toppling of Assad enabled Israel to destroy Syria 's military capabilities , adding another huge dent in Iran 's shield . <h> Assassinations <p> The killing in Beirut , two days into the new year , of Hamas leader Arouri set the tone for a series of high-level assassinations of Hamas and Hezbollah leaders that proved a staggering tactical success . No one leader is irreplaceable , but if you knock off one , and then another , and then a third , then the damage to the organization -- and to its morale -- is devastating . That is what Israel did in 2024 . <p> In addition to Arouri in January , Israel killed Marwan Issa , the deputy commander of Hamas 's military wing , in March ; Mohammed Deif , the head of Hamas 's military wing , in July ; Hamas 's leader abroad Ismail Haniyeh in Tehran a few days later ; and Hamas Gaza head and October 7 mastermind Yahya Sinwar in Rafah on October 16 . <p> Hezbollah 's leaders were similarly targeted ... and eliminated . In addition to Nasrallah , here are just a few other prominent figures killed : Fuad Shukr , Nasrallah 's right-hand man , was killed by an airstrike on July 30 ( a day before Haniyeh was killed ) ; Ibrahim Aqil , commander and founder of the elite Radwan Force on the Israeli border , was killed in September , along with his top aide Ahmad Wehebe ; Nasrallah 's likely successor Hashem Safieddine was killed a few days later . <p> The assassinations of both Hamas and Hezbollah leaders have been so effective in degrading those organizations that it is now a leading option for dealing with the continuing Houthi threat . <h> The ongoing war in Gaza <p> Even though Israel was engaged throughout the year in a seven-front war -- Gaza , Judea and Samaria , Lebanon , Syria , Iraq , Iran , and Yemen -- much of the year was dominated by the Gaza front and efforts to dismantle Hamas 's capabilities <p> A significant turning point took place in May , when Netanyahu bucked international pressure and warnings from the US and went into Rafah . US Vice President Kamala Harris said she had " looked at the maps " and that this operation would be a huge mistake , and President Joe Biden slow-walked arms shipments to Israel as a result . <p> Nevertheless , to dismantle the final Hamas battalions and choke off a lifeline to Egypt , Netanyahu went into Rafah . This sent a message to Hamas , and to the world , of a determination to destroy Hamas 's capabilities regardless of the international pressure . <h> The hostages <p> From the very beginning of the year to the very end , the heartbreaking hostage saga overshadowed nearly everything else in the country . <p> The families of the hostages made sure that the fate of their loved ones would not disappear from the public agenda , as happened to Israeli airman Ron Arad in 1986 . Negotiations for the release of the hostages ebbed and flowed , with emotions oscillating between despair and hope . <p> Though the nation is united in a desire to see the hostages freed , it is split on what Israel should concede to get them home : should it withdraw from the Rafah or Netzarim corridors ? Should it declare an end to the war ? <p> Throughout the year it felt at times that Israelis were playing chess with themselves on this issue , with some , including relatives of the hostages , believing that if Netanyahu would only make the " right " decision , the hostages would be freed ; while others argued that there was another party here -- Hamas -- cruelly holding up any agreement . For many , the issue epitomizes the year 's painful co-mingling of unity and division . <h> Iran <p> If 2024 restored Israel 's mojo , it saw Iran begin to lose its own . Decades of effort to encircle Israel with a " ring of fire " unraveled as Iran 's proxies were systematically dismantled . <p> First , Hamas 's military capabilities have been almost completely degraded -- it is a terrorist organization now , no longer a terrorist army able to pull off an October 7-type of attack . Then Hezbollah -- Iran 's pet project for decades -- was completely defanged , followed by the toppling of Syria 's Assad . <p> To make a bad situation even worse for the Iranians , they decided to attack Israel from their own territory for the first time in years on two different occasions , in April and again in October , and failed to inflict any significant damage . <p> The Iranians fired hundreds of ballistic missiles , cruise missiles , and drones , only to discover that they were no match for Israel 's air defense capabilities -- capabilities augmented by the US and its allies . Even more problematic from an Iranian perspective is that they also proved no match for Israel 's offensive capabilities . <p> Israel , in two limited attacks on Iran itself , knocked out sensitive military facilities . More importantly , it took out the bulk of Iran 's air defense system , leaving the Islamic Republic naked , exposed , and vulnerable to any future Israeli attack -- which , as 2024 comes to an end , is something seriously being considered . <h> The ICC arrest warrants <p> The decision by the International Criminal Court in November to issue arrest warrants against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former defense minister Yoav Gallant is not only highly significant in its own right -- hindering the prime minister 's ability to travel freely around the world -- but also emblematic of Israel 's increasing international isolation . <p> As much as the tide may have turned for Israel on a number of its battlefield fronts this year , it has not turned on the diplomatic front , where it is routinely condemned by various governments and international bodies for the way it is conducting the war . <p> Israelis awoke this year to the realization that while some in the world recognize its right to self-defense , they do not recognize its right to win the war against its enemies in a decisive manner so they wo n't be forced to defend themselves again in just a few years from those same enemies . <p> The election of Donald Trump as US president in November may herald a change , however , with the expectation in Jerusalem high that Trump will both give Israel more leeway in conducting the war than his predecessor and will be less openly critical -- something that may have a cascading effect on other countries who take their cue from Washington on how to relate toward Israel . 
@@119350299 <h> ' Now is the time ' : Protestors call for significant action and civil disobedience <p> ' CALLS FOR civil disobedience have sparked controversy in Israel as some protest leaders have called to increase the intensity and change the format of the rallies and protests . ' Here , Shift 101 sits in silent protest in front of the Kirya IDF Military Headquarters in Tel Aviv. ( photo credit : DANOR AHARON ) <p> Organizers in Haifa handed out flyers at a Saturday night protest last month asking attendees which form of civil disobedience they are willing to participate in . Options available to those signing up included participating in sit-ins , striking from work , and refusing to attend and send children to school . <p> Civil disobedience is a form of nonviolent protest characterized by a refusal to comply with the demands of authorities . It can include a refusal to pay taxes , strikes , refusing to draft to the military . <p> Famous examples of civil disobedience include Rosa Parks 's 1955 refusal to vacate her bus seat for a white person and Mahatma Gandhi 's almost month-long Salt March protesting the British salt monopoly in 1930 . <p> Recent calls for civil disobedience have sparked controversy in Israel as some protest leaders have called to increase the intensity and change the format of the rallies and protests that have defined objection to the judicial reform , seen by opponents as the destruction of democracy , and which have more recently defined the movement to bring back the hostages held by Hamas since October 7 . <p> Protesters have asserted that continuing to participate in rallies and occasional big protests is not creating sufficient pressure to sway government policy , bring about a hostage deal , and instigate elections . A rally calling for the release of the Israeli hostages held captive by Hamas in Gaza , marking 442 days since the start of the war between Israel and Hamas , at Hostage Square in Tel Aviv , December 21 2024. ( credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/FLASH90 ) <p> It is clear that " if we want to bring back the hostages and get rid of the government , we need to move to a new phase , " said Joseph Dishon . <p> Dishon , an organizer in Haifa who has been involved in protests since accusations against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sparked objections to his leadership in 2017 , in some ways seems like an unlikely leader of civil disobedience . <p> Dishon , who was a combat officer in the IDF 's paratroopers , did reserve duty for many years and served in all of Israel 's wars from the Six Day War and on until his retirement from reserve duty at age 45 . He also retired from the government research organization Israel Oceanographic and Limnological Research , where he worked as VP of finance . <p> For Dishon , however , the move from IDF officer and civilian to civil disobedience seems only natural given the situation in which the country finds itself : embroiled in a war , with 100 civilians still held hostage , and led by a government that has not regained a public mandate through elections after the horrific Hamas attack on October 7 that occurred on its watch . <p> " I grew up in The Scouts movement ; I studied at the Reali school in Haifa . I come from a relatively stately and conformist background , but when I was growing up I think that all of our education was much less conformist , " Dishon explained . <p> Today , he says , students receive a much more orthodox education and often receive the message that what is most important is " nationalism over all else . " <p> " There is no critical thinking , " said Dishon , adding that this only became worse after October 7 , and the messaging that came with it asserting " together we will win , " which Dishon said was a slogan meant to save the government and its leaders . <p> " It turned out that Am Yisrael ( the Jewish people ) more or less bought into these slogans , " said Dishon , adding that while the war continued , at times more in appearance than in intensity of military action , the government was able to suppress protest while still advancing the judicial reform and failing to bring home the hostages . <p> Dishon said it is " clear that if we want to bring back the hostages and get rid of the government , we need to move to a new phase , " explaining that the government is now unbothered by large rallies and Saturday night protests . <h> ' Now is the time ' <p> Now is the time " to find the tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of determined people who will be prepared to sit on the asphalt , " he added , offering the Shift 101 hostage mothers protest , where participants sit in the road in silent protest in front of various government buildings , as an example . <p> Dishon was one of the organizers who handed out the flyers in Haifa and signed people up for civil disobedience , working to recruit more people to the move he sees as necessary to save the future of the state . <p> " The bottom line is that Am Yisrael must understand that the government is leading it to disaster and to a dead end , " he explained . " I do n't like to use harsh language , but what I would define as a gang , only interested in messianic ideology on the one hand or criminals on the other , has taken over the State of Israel . " <p> There has been a significant response from protesters expressing a willingness to participate , Dishon said , explaining that there was " serious interest " in organizing for civil disobedience . <p> Efforts to mobilize protesters to civil disobedience are ongoing and continuing on social media , he added . <p> As far as he knows , tens of thousands have joined the effort , and the time for significant action is " ripening , " he added . <h> Various types of civil disobedience <p> DISHON EXPLAINED that signing people up at the protest and offering them the various options of types of civil disobedience was a preparation more than it was a call for immediate action . The flyers were handed out , and people were registered to help organizers locate " determined people " -- those willing to join civil disobedience efforts when the time comes , Dishon clarified . <p> " Everything is a process , " Dishon explained . " First of all , the flyers were to present an image , vision , or destination to potential participants of what the day of reckoning looks like , " said Dishon , referring to the day when organizers will mobilize widespread acts of civil disobedience . <p> This mass action will need to develop , he explained , saying it will start with tens of thousands sitting in front of centers of governance in Jerusalem , refusing to leave for weeks , and grow as hundreds of thousands join them . This kind of action would hopefully lead to strikes and education system shutdowns nationwide , Dishon added . <p> Dishon initially joined the protest movement when it became clear to him that Netanyahu " is leading us to a bad place " and because he had become aware of a process in which Israel had shown more and more fascist tendencies . <p> Early in October of 2023 , when it became clear to him that healing in Israeli society must include the return of the hostages and elections , he began leading a protest in Haifa 's Kikar Sefer that called for elections and the return of the hostages . The circle was filled with posters of the hostages , and people have been standing in protest in the circle in shifts ever since . <p> " The government must leave ; we must bring back the hostages -- that is a mission of top priority if we want Israeli society to continue to live as a society that is normal and sane , " he said . <p> Dishon said he expects anyone concerned about the future of the country and of their children or grandchildren to take to the streets . " I am pretty surprised that millions of citizens of Israel are not going out in protest . " <p> " That is probably human nature , " he rationalized , saying most people are " used to sitting on the fence and waiting for others to do the work . " 
@@119358680 <h> Natick man charged in drone attack that killed US service members returns to federal court <p> BOSTON ( WHDH ) - A Natick man charged with conspiring to export sensitive technology to Iran that was used in a drone attack in Jordan that killed three American troops early this year and injured dozens of other service members was back in federal court in Boston on Friday . <p> Mahdi Mohammad Sadeghi , who prosecutors say works at a Massachusetts-based semiconductor company , and Mohammad Abedininajafabadi , who was arrested in Italy were arrested after FBI specialists who analyzed the drone traced its navigation system to an Iranian company operated by one of the defendants , who relied on parts and technology funneled into the country by his alleged co-conspirator , prosecutors said . <p> Sadeghi was joined in court by at least a dozen supporters , none of whom had anything to say afterward . He could be seen smiling and blowing a kiss to a woman in the courtroom . <p> He has been ordered held without bail and was back in court for a detention hearing . <p> Prosecutors allege that Abedininajafabadi , who was also called Adedini in court documents , has deep connections to the Iranian government . They say his Tehran-based company manufactures navigation systems for the military drone program of Iran 's paramilitary Revolutionary Guard and that he conspired with Sadeghi to circumvent American export control laws , including through the creation of a front company in Switzerland , and procure sensitive technology into Iran . <p> Sadeghi , a naturalized U.S. citizen , was arrested Monday in Massachusetts and was ordered to remain detained following a court appearance . His lawyer did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment . <p> Both men are charged with export control violations , and Abedini separately faces charges of conspiring to provide material support to Iran . <p> Three Georgia soldiers -- Sgt. William Jerome Rivers of Carrollton , Sgt. Breonna Moffett of Savannah and Sgt. Kennedy Sanders of Waycross -- were killed in the Jan. 28 drone attack on a U.S. outpost in northeastern Jordan called Tower 22 . U.S. officials have blamed it on the Islamic Resistance in Iraq , an umbrella group of Iran-backed militias that includes Kataib Hezbollah . <p> In the attack , the one-way attack drone may have been mistaken for a U.S. drone that was expected to return back to the logistics base about the same time and was not shot down . Instead , it crashed into living quarters , killing the three soldiers and injuring more than 40 . <p> " To the people who were injured by this attack , to the loved ones and family members of the people who lost their lives , as the son of a combat veteran I humbly hope that today 's charges bring some measure of justice and accountability , " Levy said . <p> Tower 22 held about 350 U.S. military personnel at the time . It is strategically located between Jordan and Syria , only 10 kilometers ( 6 miles ) from the Iraqi border , and in the months just after Hamas ' Oct. 7 attack on Israel , and Israel 's blistering response in Gaza , Iranian-backed militias intensified their attacks on U.S. military locations in the region . <p> Following the attack , the U.S. launched a huge counterstrike against 85 sites in Iraq and Syria used by Iran 's Revolutionary Guard and Iranian-backed militia and bolstered Tower 22 's defenses . <p> ( Copyright ( c ) 2024 Sunbeam Television . The Associated Press contributed to this report . All Rights Reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten , or redistributed. ) 
@@119374680 <p> When its best player left for a prep school in September , Lake Zurich had to adjust on the fly . <p> Multisport standout Connor Strauss was ready to pick up the slack after 6-8 Dartmouth recruit Anton Strelnikov transferred to La Lumiere in Indiana . <p> " For sure , once he left , everybody knew they had to step up , " Strauss said after the Bears held off Lyons 47-42 Friday in the second round of the Jack Tosh Holiday Classic at York . " And one of my ways to step up -- I knew I was going to be effective on the defensive end . That was one of my roles last year . <p> " But I knew I had to hunt for my shot more and look for offensive opportunities more than I had to last year . " <p> The 6-4 senior did that against Lyons , finishing with 14 points and three assists to go along with 11 rebounds . Adrian Riep scored a game-high 15 for the Bears ( 5-5 ) , while Kain Kretschmar added nine points and nine rebounds . <p> Lake Zurich plays St. Ignatius , a 67-55 winner over Minooka , in Saturday 's quarterfinals . <p> Bears coach Terry Coughlin said Strauss does a little bit of everything . <p> " He 's an animal , " Coughlin said . " He 's just everything you want . He 's a unanimous captain selection . ... He was not expecting to be this big of a focal point offensively . ... He 's an unbelievable defender , has been our best defender for a couple years . But his ability and stamina to be able to do both -- be a scorer for us , to rebound ... he 's in the high post making plays . " <p> Strauss also is a jumper and 400-meter runner in track , qualifying for state last spring in the triple jump . He 's still open to doing either basketball or track in college . <p> In the meantime , he 's working to help the Bears gain traction in one of the area 's deepest conferences , the North Suburban . Teams like Warren and Waukegan have made most of the headlines early , but Lake Zurich has quality wins over New Trier and Lemont , among others . <p> The Bears also lost five in a row earlier this month , but Strauss believes they 've turned the corner . <p> " I think our toughness has picked it up a lot , " he said . " And we started to make shots too , which obviously helps . But overall , it 's our toughness on the defensive end that has gotten us an opportunity to win a lot of games . And we 're gritty enough to get all these close ones . " <p> Lake Zurich never trailed against Lyons ( 5-6 ) , leading by as many as 12 in the first half after the Lions missed their first 11 shots . The Bears were up by as many as 10 midway through the third quarter . But the Lions tied it at 40 when Josh Gutierrez made one of two free throws with 2:46 left in the game . Kretschmar hit two free throws with 2:24 left to put Lake Zurich up to stay . <p> Gutierrez , one of the smallest players on the floor at 5-10 , had a double-double of 14 points and 11 rebounds off the bench to lead Lyons . Ian Polonowski added 10 points and five rebounds . <p> Like Lake Zurich , Lyons has some good wins on its resume ( Glenbard West . St. Laurence ) . But the Lions are still getting used to their roles . <p> " We have one player with any legit experience from last year : Ian Polonowski , " Lions coach Tom Sloan said . " So it 's been learning on the fly for 10 or 11 games now . There 's no experience like actual varsity game experience . The kids , now they understand what it takes to compete and win . " <p> One thing the Lions do have is size , with four starters 6-4 or taller : 6-4 Timmy Sloan , 6-5 Gavin Carolan , 6-6 Bobby Vespa and 6-7 Polonowski . <p> They also have a gritty playmaker in Gutierrez , a defensive back on the football team that went 11-1 . <p> " Josh is a super tough kid and he got it going really well today , " Tom Sloan said . " The defense that Lake Zurich was playing , heavy pressure -- he was able to get by his guy and get in the lane and either get something for himself or somebody else . He did a really nice job of handling the ball and making good decisions . " <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza . 
@@119374681 <p> BUFFALO , N.Y . -- The clich ? of " not being ready to play " gets thrown around too often in hockey without much meaning . <p> This is n't the early 1900s , when some NHL players actually did have second jobs . Realistically , every team is ready to play every night . They 've practiced , stretched , done extensive video prep and hashed out a game plan . It 's just the execution , the work ethic or the attention to detail that 's missing sometimes . <p> But the Blackhawks on Friday looked as unready to play as any 21st-century NHL team ever will . They conceded four goals in the first period of a 6-2 blowout loss to the lowly Sabres , who had dropped 13 of 14 coming in . It was " ugly , " forward Taylor Hall said -- twice . <p> The NHL 's holiday travel rules did the Hawks no favors , but the fact they seemingly forgot how to play hockey for 20 minutes can not be blamed on outside factors . Their defensive-zone coverage was laughably discombobulated , and their neutral-zone turnovers were laughably frequent . <p> " We did n't come ready to play today , and it obviously showed right from the start , " defenseman Seth Jones said . <p> Said Hall : " With the day that we had , it was imperative for us to be simple and play hard and at least get our legs under us . You blink , and it 's 4-0 . It 's unacceptable . We put Petr Mrazek in a really tough spot . . ? . ? . It 's just really disappointing after a break . Everyone should be mentally fresh . " <p> Dec. 27 tends to be a wacky day every year because the NHL does n't allow travel on Dec. 26 , the last day of the holiday break . Some teams come out of the break rejuvenated , others rusty . The Hawks -- and the seven other teams who played on the road Friday -- had to fly out around 6 a.m. and bus directly to the morning skate upon landing . <p> That 's hardly an all-encompassing excuse , though . The Maple Leafs , who were fined $100,000 by the NHL in 2022 for bending the holiday travel rules , flew into Detroit on Friday and bashed the **27;548;TOOLONG Red Wings 5-2 . Most other traveling teams struggled , but not as egregiously as the Hawks , who were outshot 11-2 in the first period and 35-17 overall . <p> Switching goalies to Arvid Soderblom and shuffling the defensive pairings at the first intermission halted the onslaught , and the Hawks even clawed back a sliver of hope when Jones trimmed the deficit to 4-2 early in the third period . But then Soderblom allowed a backbreaking and extremely soft goal to Sabres forward Alex Tuch , who later completed a hat trick . <p> Young defenseman Alex Vlasic , a stalwart most nights , delivered arguably his worst performance of the season , but he was far from the only victim . T.J. Brodie 's problems also noticeably continued . <p> " There were so many things that we did wrong and so many things to clean up , but overall it was our compete level that was lacking , " Hall said . <p> " We had so many stick checks and fly-bys . They could do whatever they wanted . I do n't know how many hits we even had . " <p> The Hawks ' absurd road woes from last season -- they endured a 22-game road losing streak that stretched nearly four months and finished 7-32-2 -- seemed potentially resolved early this season , when they started out 4-4-1 on the road . <p> Since then , however , they 're 1-10-1 on the road , beating only the Rangers on Dec. 9 . They 've lost five straight road games in regulation , including three in the last week to cancel out the good done by their three-game home winning streak . <p> They 'll head into Detroit on Jan. 10 with only one road win in more than two months -- a statistic suddenly reminiscent of last season . <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza . 
@@119374682 <p> Ron Wozny messaged this about an American kestrel showing up on the North Side . " We have a new guy feasting on our bounty , " Wozny messaged . " He/she has taken three sparrows in the last five days that I have seen . This is the first time he stayed to dine for a few minutes . " <p> If you want to see live ( dead ? ) action , here is the YouTube video . <p> WOTW , the celebration of wild stories and photos around Chicago outdoors , runs most weeks in the special two-page outdoors section in the Sun-Times Sports Sunday . To make submissions , email BowmanOutside@gmail.com or contact me on Facebook ( Dale Bowman ) , Twitter ( @BowmanOutside ) , Instagram ( @BowmanOutside ) . or Bluesky ( @Bowmanoutside ) . <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza . 
@@119374686 <p> PONTIAC -- Things could have turned out much differently for Simeon on Friday at the Pontiac Holiday Tournament . <p> The Wolverines picked up two technical fouls in the first few minutes of their quarterfinal game against Peoria Manual . One was on the bench , one on a player . <p> Simeon coach Tim Flowers sprang into action , immediately and loudly making sure that his team 's spirit stayed positive and focused . Just one technical foul in a stressful game sometimes sends a team spiraling . The Wolverines did n't miss a beat . <p> Flowers ' instructions from the sidelines often focus on attitude and the mental side of basketball . <p> " It 's something you have to do with this generation , " Flowers said . " It 's so easy for them to be distracted and consumed with things outside the actual game of basketball . Sometimes you have to reinforce to them that they need to leave the outside stuff alone and just focus . " <p> Flowers is a lifelong friend of former NBA star Derrick Rose . The pair won two state and city championships at Simeon . Those Wolverines ' teams were sensations . They beat national powerhouse Oak Hill and traveled to play at Madison Square Garden in New York City . <p> " Even with all the hoopla around Derrick , we did n't have to deal with all this , " Flowers said . " This is a new generation , the social media era . They care about the perceptions of people outside of their team . So I 'm just trying to get them to stay locked in and not let the outside things get to us . " <p> Benet 's Daniel Pauliukonis may be the area 's most under-the-radar Division I recruit . <p> The 6-9 senior , signed with SIU , had some nice games last season , and sparkled in club basketball over the summer . His full arsenal of skills was displayed in a 58-44 win against Bloom in the quarterfinals of the 93rd Pontiac Holiday Tournament on Friday . <p> Pauliukonis finished with 20 points and six rebounds . He scored on threes , midrange jumpers , takes to the basket and post moves . <p> " I got off to a good start so that was nice , got in my groove , " Pauliukonis said . " In the second half when they started face-guarding me I set some screens and helped get the other guys open . " <p> Pauliukonis scored 18 in the first half to help the Redwings jump out to a 34-20 halftime lead . Benet stayed in control throughout the second half . <p> From the outside , both Curie and New Trier are new teams that graduated most of their starting lineups last season . <p> In reality , this group at Curie has been playing together for three or four years . <p> " Since day one freshman year , " Curie senior Rashaad Wilson said . " We have great chemistry now and that makes it easier for us to get open looks . " <p> The Condors have been playing together at the lower levels and that continuity has paid off early in the season . They keep finding a way to win close games late . <p> " They do n't quit , " Curie coach Mike Oliver said . " They just play hard . We do n't have the talent of everybody else but they know how to win . " <p> New Trier ( 11-4 ) led throughout the second half and 50-46 with 2:05 left . <p> A three-pointer from Curie 's Mike Oliver Jr . cut the deficit to one point with 1:17 to play . The Trevians turned the ball over on the next possession and the Condors capitalized with a three-point play by Justin Oliver to take the lead . <p> " We work on these late game situations in practice so we feel prepared at the end of games , " Justin Oliver said . " That 's credit to the coaches . We know what plays to run and what to do on defense . " <p> Curie 's Michael Oliver , Jr. , ( 3 ) hits a three in the fourth quarter against New Trier . <p> Allen Cunningham/For the Sun-Times <p> Justin Oliver led Curie with 18 points , five rebounds and four assists . Brad Johnson added 14 points and nine rebounds . He scored nine consecutive points for Curie in a stretch of the third and fourth quarter . <p> Wilson finished with 13 points . <p> " These guys just love to play basketball , " Mike Oliver said . " They are n't big names . They just play hard for 32 minutes . " <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza . 
@@119374687 <p> But it was n't all terrible , was it ? Please -- do n't answer all at once . <p> In this week 's " Polling Place , " your home for Sun-Times sports polls on the social platform X , we asked for the best Chicago sports story of the year . The Bears drafting Caleb Williams ? Something else ? <p> " You will respect Shota Imanaga ! " @saberflextrics commented , a reference to the Cubs lefty . <p> Some , like @chicagoanthony , did n't feel like calling anything " best . " He wrote , " Horrible , embarrassing year . Worst time of Chicago sports in most of our lifetimes . " <p> And the worst sports story of the year ? It was neck-and-neck in the voting between the White Sox ' and Bears ' disastrous seasons . <p> " The Bears because there was so much hope , " @MySoxSummer offered . <p> " The Sox had the worst season in baseball history , " @jlazowski pointed out . <p> Last , we asked whom you 'd like to see as the next coach of the Bears . Commenters @Muwarrior82x and @MrMayhem1978 went with ex-Titans coach Mike Vrabel , but most voters opted for Lions offensive coordinator Ben Johnson . <p> On to the polls : <p> Poll No. 1 : What was the best Chicago sports story of 2024 ? <p> It 's time for this week 's " Polling Place . " Let us hear from you ! Selected comments will appear in Sunday 's paper . <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza . 
@@119374688 <h> Illinoisans could play slots , blackjack and other casino games on their phones if the state legalizes an industry that has generated hundreds of millions of dollars in other states . But opponents warn it could cut into the state 's massive video gaming terminal business -- and drive an explosion in gambling addiction . <p> Placing a legal bet in Illinois once required a trip to a racetrack . Then riverboat casinos set sail and eventually made landfall , followed by an ever-growing wave of slot machines installed at bars and restaurants statewide . <p> Now , the advent of mobile sports betting means gamblers can get in on the action anywhere there 's a cell signal . <p> And soon , the full gamut of casino games could be just a phone tap away , too , as lawmakers consider crossing the final frontier of legalized gambling in a state already teeming with temptations . <p> Gaming interests are expected to make a full-court press next year in Springfield to legalize internet casino gambling , known in industry parlance as iGaming , that would bring state-regulated slots , blackjack , poker and more to the palm of your hand . <p> It 's not the first time gaming industry players have pushed to expand Illinois ' sprawling menu of gambling options . Nor is it the first time they 've faced stiff pushback from business owners who rely on video gaming terminals to draw customers through their doors -- or from opponents who warn of a surge in addiction to what some have branded " gambling fentanyl . " <p> But internet gambling could have better odds of advancing in the upcoming legislative session as Gov . JB Pritzker and statehouse leaders scramble for new money to help cover an estimated $3 billion budget shortfall . <p> " In a tough budget year , you 're looking at ways to increase revenue . This is one tool for that , " said state Sen. Cristina Castro , an Elgin Democrat who has introduced iGaming bills that previously fell short . " And it 's something that could be more palatable to constituents . " <p> State Sen. Cristina Castro , D-Elgin , pictured at a Chicago news conference in March . <p> Ashlee Rezin/Sun-Times <p> Proponents estimate the state would rake in $450 million in new tax revenue within a year of allowing Illinoisans to play casino games on their mobile devices , eventually generating up to $800 million a year . <p> Opponents argue it would be a zero-sum game for a state that has more places to bet than Nevada does , when counting Illinois ' 16 casinos , two racetracks and 8,660-and-counting bars , restaurants , gas stations and VFW halls authorized to operate video gaming machines . <p> " When you start letting people play from home , do you think they 're going to go to those places and spend money ? " said state Rep. John Cabello , R-Machesney Park . " It 's cutting off the nose and spiting the face . " <h> Potential tax jackpots <p> Illinois government relied on a record-high $2.1 billion in gaming tax revenue in the fiscal year ending in June , including $158 million from casinos , $190 million from sports betting , $848 million from video gaming and $886 million from the lottery , according to the state Commission on Government Forecasting and Accountability . <p> Seven other states that have authorized internet gambling in recent years have seen significant tax windfalls -- and surging interest from gamblers . <p> New Jersey casinos reported a record $214 million in gross revenue from internet gambling in November , generating about $32 million in state taxes . Pennsylvania , which taxes iGaming at a higher rate , pulled in almost $86 million in taxes on $200 million in revenue . <p> A person gambles on a tablet in New Jersey in this 2015 file photo . <p> Wayne Parry/AP Photos <p> Gov . Pritzker called the idea " worthy of consideration " for Illinois . His office is drafting its yearly budget proposal , which he 'll present in February and negotiate with lawmakers for passage by the end of May . <p> Pritzker 's administration has overseen a massive gambling expansion that added six new casinos , expanded video gaming and ushered in the sports betting industry -- which the governor and state lawmakers slapped with hefty tax hikes last year . <p> Lobbyists for major gambling companies like DraftKings and FanDuel banded together as the Sports Betting Alliance to fight the new graduated tax system before it was passed , threatening to leave the state due to the cut into their profits . <p> But they 're back this time around to push for internet gambling , which the companies offer on their platforms in other states in addition to sports betting . <h> Cannibalizing concerns <p> The ubiquity of casino games could go live within a few months of potential legislative passage in Illinois , with licenses likely tied to partnerships with brick-and-mortar casinos , according to Sports Betting Alliance president Jeremy Kudon . That 's how the state handles sports betting licenses . <p> " All of this iGaming already exists in Illinois , " Kudon said , pointing to illegal online casinos that have long operated offshore . " All we 're trying to do is legalize , regulate and tax it . " <p> He rejected the idea that internet gambling would cannibalize dollars from other corners of Illinois ' saturated gaming market . <p> " People who play online blackjack are not the same people going to bars and restaurants and casinos to play . Those have a certain social appeal and physical element that brings people in , " Kudon said . <p> The companies say they 've found that internet gamblers tend to be younger than casino or video gaming customers , with demographics skewing toward women with higher salaries who wager no more than $15 per session . <p> " Something entirely on your phone attracts a different customer . It 's almost like mindless entertainment , or meditation . You 're present in this moment , not thinking about anything else , " Kudon said . " For me , it 's more of a relief than Netflix . " <p> Castro agreed , saying " there is enough business to go around . We should do everything we can to shut down the illegal market . " <p> But bar and restaurant owners are worried it would cut into their clientele who are often drawn in by video gaming . Keith Wetherell , executive director of the Illinois Licensed Beverage Association , estimates some businesses could see their revenue drop by 40% if customers have the option to gamble on their couch instead . <p> " It lowers foot traffic in our establishments . That would be devastating to smaller bars and liquor license holders . A good portion of them would n't survive , " Wetherell said . " A lot of these are Mom-and-Pop shops . Gaming helps subsidize health insurance options and keeps people employed . They would n't be able to shoulder that big of a loss . " <p> Those losses would hit local governments that split video gaming revenue at the benefit of large out-of-state gambling corporations , Wetherell said . <p> " Their software is n't in Illinois . This is a whole lot of money leaving the Illinois economy , " he said . <p> More money would be made if Chicago were to adopt video gaming , Wetherell argued , an idea that Mayor Brandon Johnson has supported but has n't pushed to implement . State law allows municipalities to opt out of it . <p> State Rep. John Cabello , R-Machesney Park , pictured at a July news conference outside Milwaukee . <p> Ashlee Rezin/Sun-Times <p> Cabello , the Republican state lawmaker , called it " absolutely , positively stupid " that Chicago bars and restaurants are missing out on video gaming revenue -- a windfall the state could use , too . <p> " How stupid can any elected official be , to know that your budget is ballooning out of control , and you do n't allow gaming in your city ? " Cabello said , adding that he 'd push for legislation requiring Chicago and other Cook County municipalities to allow video gaming . <p> Kudon suggested the iGaming lobby would be open to potentially licensing some video gaming operators to cut them into the action -- but Wetherell said he has n't seen " any mechanism that would make the system equitable . " <h> ' Gambling fentanyl ' <p> Other opponents are urging lawmakers to look past the massive dollar signs being flashed by the internet gambling industry and to consider the social costs . <p> " This literally is the equivalent of gambling fentanyl , " said Les Bernal , national director of the Stop Predatory Gambling advocacy group . " This is putting gambling fentanyl on every smartphone , in every living room , every dorm room , every office in the state of Illinois that has an internet connection . " <p> A study commissioned by the state in 2021 found that 3.8% of adults in Illinois , or about 383,000 people , have a gambling problem , with additional 7.7% -- about 761,000 people -- potentially at risk for developing a problem . <p> None of that makes up for an inevitable rise in an addiction disorder that is closely linked to suicide , Bernal said . <p> " The idea that you have this incredibly dangerous and addictive product , and you 're going to have state officials welcoming it when Illinois has already got as much predatory gambling as any state in America -- it 's a threat to public health , " Bernal said . " There 's no grassroots movement for any of this . It 's being driven by very powerful gambling interests with the help of a handful of officials in both parties . " <p> The new General Assembly will be inaugurated Jan. 8 . <p> Castro , the Elgin state senator who has supported internet gambling , said she expects extended talks on potential legislation through May . <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza . 
@@119374689 <p> A new year is only a few days away , and do you realize what that means ? There 's still time for Chicago 's professional sports teams to kick yet another coach to the curb before 2024 is in the books . <p> It probably wo n't happen . Then again , this is a year whose final seconds one could spend counting down all the coaches and managers fired or otherwise replaced before the city lights up the downtown sky with fireworks over the river . <p> Our teams partied like it was 1999 -- probably the worst previous year on record -- when , for the most part , they ranged in quality from terrible to , " Man , do n't you wish these guys were merely terrible ? " But helmsmen such as the Bears ' Dick Jauron , the Bulls ' Tim Floyd and the White Sox ' Jerry Manuel were still in the early going , so at least pink slips did n't drive the news cycle . <p> Cheating just a little , we can flip the 2024 calendar back to October of 2023 , when , after a last-place finish , the Red Stars fired Chris Petrucelli , who would be replaced by Lorne Donaldson . Of greater note , in November , the Cubs fired David Ross -- " He 's our guy , " chairman Tom Ricketts had said at season 's end -- and replaced him with Craig Counsell , enticing Counsell with a record-setting $8 million-a-year contract . <p> In June of this year , the Wolves hired Cam Abbott to replace Bob Nardella , who six months earlier had been suspended by the AHL for using a homophobic slur during a game , a charge Nardella denied . Nardella , a former championship player with the Wolves , no longer is with the organization . <p> When baseball 's All-Star break arrived in July , the city had two last-place teams on its hands . The Sox were 27-71 -- a major-league record for losses at the break -- on the way to a record 121 for the season . The Cubs had followed a promising 24-17 start with an excruciating 15-31 stretch and reached the break 8 ? games behind the first-place Brewers , Counsell 's former team , in no discernible way , shape or form any better off than they 'd been with Ross . <p> By the time Grifol was relieved of his duties in August , his overall Sox winning percentage at an almost unfathomable .319 , GM Chris Getz characterized things as " broken . " In firing Grifol , Getz cited " underperformance , some misalignments along the way , some different belief systems , " and those were some of the nicer things being said at the time about the beleaguered skipper . <p> Counsell 's first Cubs team failed to make the playoffs and finished in third place , 10 games back . After the Brewers clinched , Counsell lamented the " big gap " between the teams and called it " daunting " -- an urgent message to management , no doubt , but also a bitter concession speech . At least he 's far closer to winning than the Bulls ' Billy Donovan is . In his fifth season , which is heading nowhere , Donovan has one winning record and one playoff series to show for his time here . But he 's still clocking into work every day , which is saying something . <p> In September , the Sky fired Teresa Weatherspoon , who had n't lasted a full calendar year in her first WNBA head-coaching post . Angel Reese , the rookie star to whom Weatherspoon had perhaps catered too much , posted on social media , " I 'm heartbroken . I 'm literally lost for words knowing what this woman means to me at such a pivotal point in my life . " They were lovely words , though little about the 13-27 Sky had been lovable . <p> The Fire 's coaching turnstile never stops spinning . In October , they hired Gregg Berhalter , a fitting appointment given he 'd been fired a few months before as coach of the U.S. men 's national team . That meant another passing of the whistle from Frank Klopas , who multiple times has stepped in on an interim basis . The Fire , who would n't recognize success if it kissed them on the mouth , have had two first-round playoff appearances in 15 years . <p> But now we 're into November , and that means -- who else ? -- the coach who stood dumbfounded like a deer in headlights with a timeout in its back pocket as the clock melted to zeros in a humiliating Thanksgiving fiasco at Detroit . No , a pocketed deer makes no sense at all , but neither did Matt Eberflus during his run with the Bears , which ended at 14-32 . <p> " I like what we did there , " Eberflus said of the final Bears drive on his watch , unwittingly uttering an absolutely perfect epitaph . <p> Ah , well , Eberflus and Grifol are free to make the world 's worst buddy movie together now . <p> Not to miss its chance , December brought the firing of the Blackhawks ' Luke Richardson . The team 's record at the time -- 8-16-2 -- was almost exactly on par with Richardson 's full Hawks record of 57-118-15 , one of the NHL 's worst of all time . Richardson never had much of a roster with which to work , but he failed to get young superstar Connor Bedard going and juggled lines worse than a bad improv comic . <p> " The results did not match our expectations for a higher level of execution this season , " GM Kyle Davidson said . <p> But the results sure fit the city 's year in sports . <p> Sox outfielder Andrew Benintendi might as well have been speaking for all of us when he said of the team 's historic loss No. 120 , " Same as every other loss -- they all suck . " <p> The year is ending , and none too soon . Even if it 's too late to use the one in our collective back pocket , we all deserve a timeout . <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza . 
@@119380995 <h> Yasiin Bey &amp; The Alchemist Announce New Album " FORENSICS " With Live World Premiere <p> LONDON , ENGLAND - JULY 18 : Mos Def ( R ) is seen backstage at the UK Launch of ' Gin &amp;amp ; Juice By Dre and Snoop ' at Flipper 's Roller Boogie Palace on July 18 , 2024 in London , England . ( Photo by Kevin Mazur/Getty Images for Flipper 's ) <p> Link Copied to Clipboard ! <p> Folks will get to hear the album on January 25 , but there 's a catch . <p> If hip-hop fans were n't looking forward to 2025 before this weekend , then they definitely are now . Yasiin Bey -- formerly known as Mos Def -- and The Alchemist recently announced their group name and self-titled album FORENSICS for a 2025 release , which they will preview via a January 25 live world premiere at Le Trianon in Paris . Tickets are available via the DICE platform , and it looks like the album will still come out via more traditional formats later in the year . However , this is n't super clear , so do n't get your hopes up too high . This follows Bey 's Money Christmas EP from just a couple of weeks ago . <p> The Alchemist also released some new material recently , namely the collaborative album The Skeleton Key with Roc Marciano . It forms part of a prolific run as usual for the producer in 2024 : Gangrene 's ( his group with rapper and beatsmith Oh No ) Heads I Win , Tails You Lose , his The Genuine Articulate solo album , and the Big Hit and Hit-Boy collab Black &amp; Whites . With all this in mind , FORENSICS with Yasiin Bey should make for an amazing experience that we 're very much looking forward to . <h> Yasiin Bey &amp; The Alchemist Are FORENSICS <p> Other than that , both hip-hop leaders have kept busy in the year with performances , fan events , and other endeavors outside of their musical releases . The Alchemist is always on go mode , whereas Yasiin Bey is sometimes more elusive but nonetheless captivating and active , even if it 's from more of a behind the scenes festival . That was n't the case for a Sudan and Gaza benefit show in London , though , where he performed along with artists like Earl Sweatshirt , King Krule , Mustafa , Blood Orange , Ramy Youssef , and more . So they 've both been honing their craft and making magic happen , which makes the lead-up to FORENSICS all the more exciting . <p> Meanwhile , apart from Yasiin Bey , The Alchemist has also hinted at many more big things to come in 2025 , which can only mean good things coming from Uncle Al . He already had a heck of a year with a diss track beat that shook the world and loads of amazing music on top of that , so to see this crossover with another rap legend is a true treat . Even if it 's just for this live setting or if FORENSICS drops in a limited capacity , we 're simply happy and content to witness this . <p> Gabriel Bras Nevares is a staff writer for HotNewHipHop . He joined HNHH while completing his B.A. in Journalism &amp;amp ; Mass Communication at The George Washington University in the summer of 2022 . Born and raised in San Juan , Puerto Rico , Gabriel treasures the crossover between his native reggaet ? n and hip-hop news coverage , such as his review for Bad Bunny 's hometown concert in 2024 . But more specifically , he digs for the deeper side of hip-hop conversations , whether that 's the " death " of the genre in 2023 , the lyrical and parasocial intricacies of the Kendrick Lamar and Drake battle , or the many moving parts of the Young Thug and YSL RICO case . Beyond engaging and breaking news coverage , Gabriel makes the most out of his concert obsessions , reviewing and recapping festivals like Rolling Loud Miami and Camp Flog Gnaw . He 's also developed a strong editorial voice through album reviews , think-pieces , and interviews with some of the genre 's brightest upstarts and most enduring obscured gems like Homeboy Sandman , Bktherula , Bas , and Devin Malik . 
@@119381682 <h> Days of Jewish Music : A German festival aiming to fight rising antisemitism <p> You do n't need to be a media junkie to know these are challenging times for Israel in the global arena , as if we did n't have enough ongoing existential threats right here at home . There are reports of rising antisemitism all over the show , and Jews around the world are far more wary these days . <p> All of which makes the advent of the seventh annual International Tage J ? discher Musik ( Days of Jewish Music ) Festival , which took place in Germany at the end of November , a more than welcome occurrence and a boost to our flagging spirits , at least in the offshore domain . <p> Citing the opener of the official festival bumf printed material sets the political scene . " These days , it takes some courage to attend a concert series with Jewish music , " it posits . That may be so , and , truth be told , the shows did not attract hordes of culture consumers -- it was a similar state of affairs when I attended last year -- but there is clearly some pervading interest in the contribution Jews have made over the centuries to German arts and culture . <p> Germany is keen to keep that ball rolling . Even though it is not yet quite up to full speed , the German government is demonstrably determined to keep its official and -- more to the pragmatic point -- financial clout firmly behind the invaluable initiative . <p> The above sobering observation about the challenges presented by merely turning up to hear some Jewish music at a public venue was made by Dr. Felix Klein , the first holder of the office of Federal Government Commissioner for Jewish Life in Germany and the Fight against Antisemitism.Dr . Felix Klein , Federal Commissioner for Jewish Life in Germany and the Fight Against Antisemitism. ( credit : Courtesy ) <p> The position was created in May 2018 , as the state website puts it , " in response to the intense debate over growing antisemitism in Germany and the question of how the federal level can best counter this phenomenon . " <h> Pushing the Days of Jewish Music festival forward <p> THOMAS HUMMEL is fully on board the enterprise . A trained musician in his own right , Hummel 's numerous professional hats include membership on the board of the European Festivals Association , ensuring that the wheels of the Baltic Sea Philharmonic Orchestra are well oiled , and serving as the perennial artistic director of International Tage J ? discher Musik . <p> Hummel is keenly aware of the importance of sustaining the Jewish music festival and is convinced the project will eventually bear more plentiful fruit and spawn wider public interest . For now , it is more about gradually establishing the facts on the ground and nudging toward momentum . <p> " I think every person who shows up at the concerts is a reason to do this festival , " he declares . <p> The federal government venture also , naturally , targets the younger crowd with a view to engendering in them a nondiscriminatory take on life which , hopefully , will inform their attitude toward " the other " as they grow and take their place as full-fledged adult members of society . <p> " In Stavenhagen we had 80 school students who , maybe for the first time , learned about Jewish life and saw a real cantor , " Hummel notes . The liturgical vocalist in question was Jerusalem-born Yoed Sorek , who relocated to Europe in 2005 , working with various choirs in academic institutions and synagogues in Germany in Switzerland . <p> For Hummel , personal encounters like the Stavenhagen date are integral to the festival credo and what he , Klein , and Dr. Josef Schuster , president of the Central Council of Jews in Germany , are aiming to achieve . The November 26 event also echoed the thematic dark subtext . " Yoed asked the students if they saw police there outside the erstwhile synagogue , " Hummel recalls . " They said they had n't . " <p> He puts that down more to location than a pervading sense of acceptance . " Of course , that was not needed -- to have police protection -- because the synagogue is not on the main street . Yoed told them they are lucky to be left in peace in this small synagogue . " <p> Perhaps there was some requisite timely divine intervention , too . " Yoed mentioned the war in Gaza and all those bad things , but he said we also must see a future . At this exact moment , the sun came through the synagogue window . It was very touching , " Hummel laughs . Nothing like a sunny vignette to add some good cheer to the proceedings . <p> The building , which now serves as a Jewish cultural center , was lovingly restored under the aegis of local engineer Robert Kreibig and reopened for new business around a decade ago . Tellingly , the team of young volunteers who helped with the makeover included students from Syria , Israel , and Iraq . <p> THERE WAS more evidence of positive unison vibes on the first evening of the four-day itinerary , in Berlin , with the Kamocha -- Er ist wie Du ( He Is Like You ) concert . <p> The lineup for the show -- the title of which was shared with the full festival header -- a 20-minute drive from my accommodation at the fabulously appointed Kempinski Adlon Hotel , right next to Brandenberg Gate , was intriguing , to say the least . <p> For starters , there was young Berlin-based Israeli horn player Bar Zemach , who is making a name for himself around the world in a unique slot as a melodic shofar player . That is , in addition to his more conventional vehicle of sonorous expression , the French horn . His opener was followed by Iranian-Israeli troupe Sistanagila performing a program of numbers that ran the gamut from traditional Jewish liturgical material to Persian music from the Sistan region of Iran -- hence the band moniker , which also references the timeworn Jewish staple " Hava Nagila " -- with the odd , more intimate work thrown in . <p> The idea of Iranians and Israelis , from any walk of life , joining forces , particularly in this challenging day and age , may seem fanciful if not downright unbelievable to many a media information consumer . But there they were , right in front of me at the Kammermusiksaal des Nachbarschafthauses cultural facility , mixing it up in perfect musical and personal harmony . <p> There was so much going on there . There were soulful deliveries of staples " Shalom Aleichem " and " Oseh Shalom Bimromav , " with Iranian singer Luna Cavari producing more than credible emotive renditions with ne'er a trace of an extraneous accent in her Hebrew diction . <p> The three instrumentalists were n't exactly found wanting , either . Guitarist Hemad Mansouri reeled off blistering riffs aplenty , dipping into flamenco , Ladino , Persian , bluesy , and jazzy climes ; and reedman Omri Abramov wended his undulating way through some of the latter , as well as klezmer-leaning fare ; while Israeli compatriot bassist Avi Albers Ben Chamo underpinned the whole shebang with some soulful velvety textures , occasionally striking out on a solo limb . <p> Longtime Berlin-based Soviet-born Jewish pianist and musicologist Prof. Jascha Nemtsov added some rich historical , cultural , and sonic layers to the outing with several stirring slots , including a reading of a score by composer Max Bruch , and one by Polish-born Jewish composer Juliusz Wolfsohn , who was a member of the Society for the Promotion of Jewish Music , founded in Vienna in 1928 . <p> Nemtsov 's largely Jewish repertoire also featured fitting nods to Alexander Veprik , a celebrated member of the " Jewish school " in Soviet music , and Soviet-born composer and conductor Lazare Saminsky , who was also a founder member of the Society for Jewish Folk Music in his homeland in the late 19th century . <p> Nemtsov is heavily invested in the field , not only as a performer but also as an academic and learned researcher . He felt it was important to enlighten Germans about some of the backdrop to the offerings of Jewish musicians who , over the centuries , were at the core of German culture . <p> " You can not do only contemporary music without thinking of the whole history , " he observes . " I think Judaism is actually tradition . Without the tradition , there is no Judaism , " he chuckles . <p> The concert certainly made for quality entertainment , but International Tage J ? discher Musik is not just about offering -- hopefully growing -- members of the German public a good time . Does Nemtsov , who has appeared in the festival several times , feel it is having some kind of impact and spreading the word in Germany about Jewish culture ? <p> Limited clientele notwithstanding , he goes along with the positive intent . " This is not a big festival . There were maybe 50 or 60 people attending the concert . There are bigger festivals in Germany with bigger audiences , but all together there were different events in the program . And it is amazing that Jewish music is so widespread in Germany . " <p> That goes for academia , too . " We have two professorships and I do n't know how many festivals with Jewish music and Jewish culture . " <p> The proof of the proliferation pudding , says Nemtsov , is there , among both consumers and artists , including some from outside the fold . " It works very well . Also , it works without Jews . Many protagonists of Jewish music are not Jewish . " <p> That goes for audiences , too . " Besides you and the other journalist Eliana Jordan from the London-based Jewish Chronicle , I do n't think there were any Jews there at the concert , " he tells me . <p> That is an encouraging sign that , despite not yet packing them in , the festival is setting off ripples and advising Germans that -- putting it bluntly -- their national culture would have been a lot poorer without the gems created by the likes of Felix Mendelssohn , Gustav Mahler , and Kurt Weill , to mention but a few . <p> ONE WONDERS whether the thinking of the average German goes so far as to consider what their homeland 's cultural scene would have looked like if the Holocaust had not happened . <p> Nemtsov believes that is the case , although not necessarily out of a sense of remorse or regret , or wish to atone for the atrocities their forebears committed . It is , he says , more a matter of pragmatism . <p> " This is a point which sometimes disturbs me . It took me quite some time to get used to hearing German people talking about the Holocaust , and they say ' It is such a pity that we killed them , because they made such a great contribution to our culture . ' <p> " It 's not like empathy or compassion for the fate of Jewish people . It is that the Jews were so useful , so it was not reasonable to kill them . " If that is really the case , Messrs . Hummel , Klein , and Schuster still have their work cut out for them . <p> Then again , if the Sistanagila troupe is anything to go by , Middle Eastern affairs -- at least in Germany -- seem to be faring pretty well . The band , which normally performs as a quintet , was brought together by Babak Safian , another Berlin-based Iranian , who comes from a musical family although not a musician himself . <p> Safian had developed a great interest in Judaism and reached out to fellow Berlin resident Yuval Halpern , the group 's vocalist and musical director , who gradually overcame his reservations about hooking up with an Iranian , and so Sistanagila eventually came to be . <p> Ben Chamo is completely behind the togetherness train of thought . " I have a sense of mission , playing in this band , " he declares . " <p> I am not naive . I know there are people out there who are not happy about Israelis and Iranians playing music and , of course , about Israel at all . But this is a wonderful project . " <p> The synergy among celebrated Jewish Austrian singer Roman Grinberg , Latvian-born Yiddish vocalist Sasha Lurje , and conductor-musical director Michael Alexander Willens and the K ? lner Akademie Big Band was also a boost for the spirit and a joy for the ears . <p> The concert , at the Jewish community center in Berlin , was a grand affair . The ensemble was a tight-knit unit and exuded the joy and the krechtzen -- gripes -- to a consummate degree , with a little jazzy flavoring added , while Grinberg , who has performed in Israel , too , in particular doled out a heaping helping of pathos . <p> International Tage J ? discher Musik certainly produced quality music . Whether that continues to make the desired inroads into German awareness of Jewish culture remains to be seen . <p> For now , the efforts of the German government to combat antisemitism are to be applauded . ? 
@@119388586 <p> Israeli forces detained more than 240 Palestinians including dozens of medical staff and the director of a north Gaza hospital they raided on Friday , according to the Health Ministry in the enclave and Israel 's military . <p> The Health Ministry said it was concerned about the well-being of Hussam Abu Safiya , director of the Kamal Adwan Hospital , as some staff freed by the Israeli military late on Friday said he was beaten up by soldiers . <p> The Israeli military said the hospital was being used as a command center for Hamas military operations and those arrested were suspected militants . It said Abu Safiya was taken for questioning as he was suspected of being a Hamas operative . <p> ' WHO is appalled ' <p> On Friday , Hamas dismissed as lies Israel 's assertion that its fighters had operated from the hospital throughout the 15-month-old Gaza war , saying no fighters were in the hospital . The group had not yet commented on the 240 arrests . <p> The raid on the hospital , one of three medical facilities on the northern edge of Gaza , put the last major health facility in north Gaza out of service , the World Health Organization , WHO , said in a post on social media platform X. <p> The " WHO is appalled by yesterday 's raid . The systematic dismantling of the health system and a siege for over 80 days on North Gaza puts the lives of the 75,000 Palestinians remaining in the area at risk , " the WHO said . <p> Some patients were evacuated from Kamal Adwan to the Indonesian Hospital , which is not in service , and medics were prevented from joining them there , the Gaza Health Ministry said . Other patients and staff were taken to other medical facilities . <p> The Israeli military said 350 patients and medical personnel were evacuated prior to the Kamal Adwan operation , while another 95 were evacuated to the Indonesian Hospital during the operation , in co-ordination with local health authorities . <p> Separately , the Gaza Health Ministry said Israeli strikes across the enclave killed 18 Palestinians on Saturday , at least nine of them in a house in Maghazi camp in central Gaza Strip . <p> The Israeli military had no immediate comment on the strikes and fatalities . <p> Targets in Northern Gaza <p> In the past few months Israeli forces have pushed people out and razed much of the area around the northern Gaza towns of Jabalia , Beit Hanoun and Beit Lahiya . <p> Palestinians have accused Israel of carrying out ethnic cleansing by depopulating those areas to create a buffer zone . <p> Israel denies it is doing this , saying it aims to prevent Hamas fighters from regrouping in these areas . <p> The Israeli military said on Saturday it had begun operating overnight against targets in the Beit Hanoun area , adding that " troops are enabling civilians still in the area to move away for their own safety . " <p> The military also posted new evacuation orders to residents of Beit Hanoun , ordering them to leave and head towards the southern areas of the Gaza Strip , citing rockets fired from the area . <p> In a statement , it said two rockets fired from north Gaza toward Jerusalem and other Israeli territory were intercepted . <p> Israel 's campaign against Hamas , which previously controlled Gaza , has killed more than 45,400 Palestinians , according to health officials in the enclave . Most of the population of 2.3 million have been displaced and much of Gaza is in ruins . <p> The war was triggered by Hamas ' terror attack on southern Israel on October 7 , 2023 , in which 1,200 people were killed and 251 taken to Gaza as hostages , according to Israeli tallies . <p> Hamas has been designated as a terror group by the United States , Britain and other Western countries . <p> Reuters is a news agency founded in 1851 and owned by the Thomson Reuters Corporation based in Toronto , Canada . One of the world 's largest wire services , it provides financial news as well as international coverage in over 16 languages to more than 1000 newspapers and 750 broadcasters around the globe . 
@@119403685 <h> Born at war , dying in the cold : Gaza 's babies struggle to cope with plummeting temperatures <p> Seela al-Faseeh was only 2 weeks old when her father , Mahmoud al-Faseeh , 31 , said he took her from their makeshift tent near Khan Younis to the pediatric emergency ward at Nasser Hospital on Wednesday , shortly after her body turned blue and stiff . <p> She was born amid the war , Faseeh said , but she died because of the cold . <p> Ahmed al-Farra , director of the hospital 's pediatric ward , confirmed to NBC News that Seela had died from hypothermia , a medical emergency that occurs when the body 's temperature drops to dangerously low levels . Dying from hypothermia can take hours or days , with babies and children especially vulnerable . <p> The lifeless body of an infant being carried to Nasser Hospital after she died from the cold weather Wednesday . Hani Alshaer / Anadolu via Getty Images <p> He added that he is tending to such cases daily , with at least four babies dying from the bitter cold in Gaza in the past week . <p> " Every day , we have two to three cases of hypothermia , " he said . " This is catastrophic and a disaster . " <p> As a harsh winter sets in across the besieged territory , temperatures in southern Gaza have dropped especially low at night , with most Palestinians in displaced tents unable to find ways to stay warm in the cold , wind and rain . <p> " Cold injuries , such as frostbite and hypothermia , pose grave risks to young children in tents and other makeshift shelters that are ill-equipped for freezing weather , " Edouard Beigbeder , UNICEF 's regional director for the Middle East , said in a statement on Wednesday . <p> " With temperatures expected to drop further in the coming days , it is tragically foreseeable that more children 's lives will be lost to the inhumane conditions they are enduring , which offer no protection from the cold , " he added . <p> Tamim Marouf , 6 , inside his family 's tent with his siblings Hala , 10 , and Malek , 4 , at a tent camp on the beach in central Gaza.Abdel Kareem Hana / AP <p> Beigbeder said that aid workers ' ability to provide essential winter protection like blankets , warm clothing and other emergency supplies is severely restricted by the limited humanitarian aid Israeli authorities are allowing into Gaza . <p> Lazzarini said Friday that blankets and other winter supplies " have been stuck in the region for months waiting for approval to get into Gaza . " <p> COGAT , Israel 's military liaison with the Palestinians , said in a post on X Sunday that over the past three months , the agency had facilitated the entry of 9,300 tons of winter-related items into Gaza , for a total of 24,000 tons of winter supplies since the start of the war . <p> Mahmoud Faseeh described his family 's situation as " harsh " in the sands of al-Mawasi , once a seaside village along southern Gaza 's Mediterranean coast that has since become a crowded tent camp for hundreds of thousands of the enclave 's displaced people . <p> " We sleep on the sand without any covers , and the tent does not protect us from the cold and chill , " he said . " I do n't know what to say . It 's a very tragic life , exhaustion , and the children are constantly sick due to the cold and the effects of the war . " <p> Ahmad al-Zahrani , a nurse working at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital , is among those who have died from the cold weather in recent days . <p> His body was found inside a tent in al-Mawasi on Friday , the Palestinian Health Ministry said in a statement confirming his death . " Ahmad al-Zahrani has passed away due to the severe cold that the residents of the Gaza Strip are experiencing . " <p> " This incident comes amidst the difficult humanitarian conditions faced by displaced citizens , as the suffering of Gaza 's residents increases due to falling temperatures and a lack of heating resources in the tents , " it continued . <p> The war that followed the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas terror attacks that Israeli officials say killed 1,200 people in southern Israel has decimated Gaza . <p> Israeli forces have since killed some 45,000 Palestinians , according to local health officials , and destroyed much of the enclave 's basic infrastructure and health system . <p> " Winter has now descended on Gaza . Children are cold , wet and barefoot . Many still wear summer clothes . With cooking gas gone , many are searching through rubble for scraps of plastic to burn , " Rosalia Bollen , a UNICEF spokesperson , said during a press briefing in Geneva . <p> Astha Rajvanshi <p> Astha Rajvanshi is a reporter for NBC News Digital , based in London . Previously , she worked as a staff writer covering international news for TIME . 
@@119403981 <p> Israeli forces evacuated the hospital on Saturday and arrested more than 240 people under the suspicion of being a terrorist . REUTERS <p> " We do not know the fate of Dr. Hussam . He was actually threatened by the army as soon as they arrived at the hospital , " nurse Rawiya Al Batsh told CNN . <p> The IDF said it conducted a raid on the hospital because it was allegedly being used as a shelter by terrorists looking to escape Israel 's bombardments in northern Gaza against their bases . <p> The Israeli military described the health facility as " Hamas 's last bastion in Jabalia , " which had last been cleared by the military in late October after Safiya 's predecessor was arrested and admitted to being a Hamas commander . <p> Prior to the raid , the IDF facilitated the evacuation of 350 patients , caregivers and staffers in the hospital , Israel said . Soldiers then entered the hospital and forced everyone remaining to leave . <p> While few weapons were found in the hospital , the IDF said a rocket was fired from the building and 19 terrorists were killed in the skirmish . <p> The Hamas-run ministry of health , however , said about 50 people were killed in the fighting , including medical staff . The health ministry does not differentiate between civilians and terrorists in its tallies . <p> Health officials said about 50 people died during the raid , with IDF officials saying 19 terrorists were killed . AFP via Getty Images <p> " The detention of suspects involved in terrorism , their arrest , and the search conducted on their bodies were carried out in accordance with international law , " the IDF said in a statement . <p> Safiya 's whereabouts remain unknown following his arrest on Saturday , triggering outcry from humanitarian groups who slammed the raid as effectively shutting down the last major hospital in war torn northern Gaza , where the IDF continues to struggle to eradicate Hamas . <p> " Dr. Abu Safiya has dedicated his life to protecting the health and lives of children in Gaza , providing care under conditions no medical professional should have to endure , " MedGlobal , the humanitarian NGO providing healthcare in disaster areas that Safiya works for , said in a statement . <p> " We demand the sending of international observers to these facilities to ascertain the truth of what is happening and to refute the lies and claims of the occupation regarding their use for military purposes , " the terror group said in a statement . <p> The patients who were evacuated from Kamal Adwan were moved to other hospitals , which Gaza health officials said are not equipped to handle their needs . <p> Many have criticized the operation against the hospital as a method to evacuate northern Gaza , which the IDF has repeatedly denied . 
@@119404797 <p> Politicians talk a lot . They say moving things , insightful things , and incredibly dumb things . Whether it was a meticulously prepared speech , an off-the-cuff retort , or a late night social media post , 2024 was a year of dissecting , analyzing , mocking , and feeling the impact of political speech . <p> Amid a heated contest for the presidency , wars abroad , monumental Supreme Court decisions , and the trials of a former and now future president , a list of the year 's most memorable political quotes could feature hundreds of entries . We narrowed it down to 15 . <h> " We finally beat Medicare . " -- Joe Biden <p> Joe Biden 's lone debate against Donald Trump was an act of political self-immolation . The president began the debate hoarse and halting , with an unsteadiness that belied his age and now-blindingly-obvious decline . But Biden sealed his fate with an incomprehensible answer to a question about the national debt . First he mixed up billionaires and trillionaires , before pivoting to the need to " continue to strengthen our health care system . " Then , oddly touting " what I 've been able to do with the Covid , excuse me , with -- " In this moment , the president fully glitched , stalling out for full painful seconds of silence , before regaining his voice only to blurt out : " We finally beat Medicare . " <p> If the first part of his answer was like dousing his political career with petrol , the claim of having vanquished the nation 's most beloved social safety net program was the match . It took some weeks for the party machinery to formally oust him , but with that utterance , Biden 's storied political career as a senator , vice president , and president was over . ( Not that it merits anymore than a footnote , but a spokesperson later said of Biden : " He meant to say he beat Big Pharma. " ) -- TD <h> " They are eating the dogs . The people that came in , they are eating the cats . They are eating the pets of the people that live there . " -- Donald Trump <p> No soundbite better encapsulated the vitriolic , dishonest approach the Trump campaign took to immigration than the smear the president-elect leveled against Haitian migrants during his sole debate against Vice President Kamala Harris . <h> Editor 's picks <p> For weeks before the debate , right-wingers -- J.D. Vance , most notably -- had been spreading false allegations that Haitians in the town of Springfield , Ohio , were terrorizing the local population by killing and eating pet cats and local geese . It seemed inevitable that Trump would repeat the lie in public , and he did so on the biggest stage possible . <p> " In Springfield , they 're eating the dogs -- the people that came in -- they 're eating the cats , " he railed as the debate moderators attempted to fact check him . <p> Springfield 's immigrant population , most of which is documented and legal , has continued to exist under a cloud of harassment and fear -- especially following Trump 's electoral victory . -- NMR <h> " Not a thing that comes to mind . " -- Kamala Harris <p> Sometimes softball questions do more damage than the high heat . On a friendly appearance on The View in early October , Vice President Kamala Harris was asked if there 's anything she would have done differently than Joe Biden . Harris had taken over the top of the ticket for a man with an approval rate in the low 40s , and here was a chance to cut some of the dead weight , either by distancing herself from an unpopular Biden decision , or at least indicating how she might take the country in new directions . Instead , Harris -- out of caution or a misbegotten sense of loyalty to Biden -- deflected , insisting : " Not a thing that comes to mind . " <p> The answer was not only a missed opportunity , it became an albatross , enabling the Trump campaign to tie Harris to every last unpopular policy of the sitting president . ( Harris appeared to realize the error quickly . On another interview later in the day , she did highlight a difference that was hamfisted in its own way : " I 'm going to have a Republican in my Cabinet " ) -- TD <h> " V-E-R-G-O-G-N-A " -- Martha Ann Alito <p> Martha-Ann Alito , wife of Supreme Court Justice Samuel , has some thoughts about flags . We all learned back in the spring after reports that the Alitos were displaying flags associated with right-wing movements that question the legitimacy of the results of the 2020 election at their residences . <p> When asked about the upside-down American flag and the Appeal to Heaven flags at her homes , Martha-Ann told liberal documentary filmmaker Lauren Windsor about how much she dislikes seeing rainbow Pride flags during Pride Month and that she would like to fly a Sacred Heart of Jesus flag in response . Or she might design her own flag , she said , one sporting the Italian word for " shame . " <p> " I made a flag . It 's white and has yellow and orange flames around it . And in the middle is the word ' vergogna . ' ' Vergogna ' in Italian means shame -- vergogna . V-E-R-G-O-G-N-A . Vergogna. " -- LT <p> In a saturated media environment , Harris ' plainspoken vice presidential candidate broke through with a simple message about Trump and his MAGA minions . " These are weird people on the other side , " he said during a July appearance on MSNBC . Walz highlighted the GOP 's big government intrusions -- to ban books and " be in your exam room " -- and their lack of constructive ideas on health care and the economy . For a spell , the " weird " attack took hold , creating an avenue to highlight the unpalatable extremism of the MAGA platform . And it got under the skin of the GOP ticket . Both Trump and J.D. Vance tried to defend themselves from the charge -- " we 're not weird people , we 're actually just the opposite , " Trump said -- in ways that just underscored the point . For whatever reason ( see : cautious , overpaid , polling-pilled Democratic consultants ) the campaign dropped this organic , resonant attack ( as well as Harris ' battlecry of , " We 're not going back " ) for milquetoast slogans like : " A New Way Forward . " -- TD <p> " Arnold Palmer was all man , and I say that with all due respect to women , and I love women , " Trump said as part of his closing campaign message . " But this guy , this guy , this is a guy that was all man . This man was strong and tough . And I refuse to say it , but when he took showers with the other pros , they came out of there , they said , ' Oh my God , that 's unbelievable . ' I had to say it . " <p> Why did he feel the need to mention that the late legendary golfer was " all man " ? We 're still not sure , but he 's had an obsession with size for most of his political career ( from exaggerating the crowds attending his rallies , to the size of his hands and all it implies ) . <p> Trump called Kamala Harris a " shit VP " at that same rally for good measure , because when decorum has gone out the window , why the hell not ? -- AL <h> " I 'm not a church boy . " -- Robert F. Kennedy Jr . <p> One of the most disturbing allegations made against Robert F. Kennedy Jr . ' s over the course of his 2024 campaign did not involve vaccine conspiracies or a zoo of dead animals , but a sexual assault allegation that Kennedy responded to with a boys-will-be-boys attitude . <p> In July , Eliza Cooney , a former babysitter for the Kennedy family , told Vanity Fairthat RFK Jr . had assaulted her when she was 23 years old and working in his household . In response Kennedy told the publication that he was " not a church boy . " <p> " I said in my announcement speech that I have so many skeletons in my closet that if they could all vote , I could run for king of the world , " he added . <p> Kennedy wo n't be king of the world , but he 's slated to become one of the top public health officials in the country as Trump 's nominee to lead the Department of Health and Human Services . -- NMR <h> " I will give you a child and guard your cats with my life . " -- Elon Musk <p> Republicans have long been obsessed with Taylor Swift as a representative totem for all that they despise about successful , economically independent women more interested in their self fulfillment than domestic life and motherhood . It 's a weird fixation , and it became outright gag-inducing throughout the 2024 campaign cycle . <p> Trump credits the border and the economy for his win . He repeatedly tried to pin inflation on Biden , often highlighting the high cost of " groceries " -- a word he seemed to believe he coined himself . " I won on groceries , " he said on Meet the Press in December . " It 's a very simple word . Who uses the word ? I started using the word . " <p> He was even more awkward when invoking the term during an event at the Detroit Economic Club in October . " The word grocery , " he said . " You know , it 's a sorta simple word , but it sorta means like everything you eat . The stomach is speaking . It always does . " <p> Trump was apparently able to convince Americans he could bring down the price of everyday goods -- but now that he 's won he does n't seem so sure . In the same early-December interview with Meet the Press , Trump said he could n't " guarantee " he 'd bring costs down , and then insisted to Time that his presidency would n't be a failure if grocery prices remained high . " Look , they got them up . I 'd like to bring them down . It 's hard to bring things down once they 're up . You know , it 's very hard . But I think that they will . " -- RB <p> Vice President Kamala Harris made several attempts throughout her campaign to appeal to moderates by teasing a more conservative-coded attitude to flashpoint issues than your standard Democratic politician . It clearly did n't work , and none were more bizarre than her insistence that she owned a gun and was not afraid to shoot someone . <p> In several interviews -- when questioned about her views on gun control -- Harris told reporters that she was a gun owner ( a glock to be precise ) , and was not interested in taking away <p> Some found the bit outright absurd , while others were convinced it would pull moderates and some Republicans to Harris 's side . Unfortunately , while Harris still has her gun , she will not be standing her ground in the White House . -- NMR <h> " It would depend on the hypothetical but we can see that could well be an official act . " -- Trump lawyer D. John Sauer , arguing before the Supreme Court that the president could order the assassination of his political opponents and be immune from prosecution <p> This year , the Supreme Court handed down what could become one of the most consequential decisions in its history : granting presidents immunity from prosecution over " official " acts taken while in office . <p> The ruling in itself is a time bomb , one that effectively allows presidents to be criminals while in office -- as long as they can come up with a plausible " official " rationale for their actions and act through the levers of power at their disposal . During oral arguments in April , when Justice Sonya Sotomayor asked Trump attorney D. John Sauer whether " a president who ordered SEAL Team Six to assassinate a political rival " would " be subject to criminal prosecution . " <p> " It would depend on the hypothetical but we can see that could well be an official act , " Sauer responded . <p> The absurdity of the claim did not dissuade the conservatives of the court from ruling 6-3 in his favor in July . The ruling through the criminal cases against Trump into flux , and the Justice Department has since dropped both of theirs . -- NMR <h> " Women will be happy , healthy , confident , and free . You will no longer be thinking about abortion because it is now where it always had to be , with the states . " -- Donald Trump <p> There are myriad reasons , too many to list , why the incoming Trump administration poses a threat to our democracy , but the president-elect 's role in decimating Roe v. Wade already gave us insight of how our once-assumed inalienable rights and freedoms can be crushed under his vision . Trump is delusional , though , believing he 's done women a favor by helping axe the federal right to abortion . <p> During a rally in Wilmington , North Carolina , in September , Trump claimed women will be better off should he be reelected , claiming , " Women will be happy , healthy , confident , and free . You will no longer be thinking about abortion because it is now where it always had to be , with the states . " <p> Women have been thinking plenty about abortion since Trump 's Supreme Court killed Roe in 2023 , allowing states to ban the procedure . Many conservatives ones have , some even in cases of rape , incest , or when abortion is necessary to save the life of the mother . Meanwhile , 63 percent of U.S. adults in a Pew Research Center survey say abortion should be legal in all or most cases . -- AL <h> " Gerry 's a young 74. " -- Don Beyer <p> Joe Biden tanked Democrats ' chances to hold onto the White House by waiting until the end of July to drop out of the race despite clearly being too old to compete . Biden 's demise , as well as the nation 's dissatisfaction with establishment politicians , should have led the party to do some soul searching about its leadership . It is n't really happening , though . House Democrats overwhelmingly voted for Rep. Gerry Connolly ( D-Va. ) over Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez ( D-N.Y. ) to become the new ranking member of the House Oversight Committee . Connolly is 74 years old and was recently diagnosed with cancer , while AOC is a popular , progressive 35-year-old who has brought plenty of energy to her committee assignments . Rep. Don Beyer , Connolly 's fellow 74-year-old representative from Virginia , tried to spin the decision by claiming : " Gerry 's a young 74. " -- RB <h> " It is a red line , but I 'm never going to leave Israel . " -- Joe Biden <p> Since Oct. 7 , 2023 , when Hamas-led groups killed more than 1,200 Israelis and took 254 people hostage , Israel has led a brutal assault and near-total blockade on Gaza . Tens of thousands of Palestinians have been killed , millions have been forcibly displaced under orders of evacuation , and populations in northern Gaza are at imminent risk of famine . <p> President Joe Biden has periodically called on Israel to permit in more aid and enact temporary cease-fires , but he and his administration have continued to both financially and rhetorically support the Israeli war . In March , five months into the war , for the briefest moment , it seemed that posture could change , as Biden warned Israel not to invade Rafah in southern Gaza -- a maneuver that would force displaced Gazans to flee once again . He called it a " red line , " before immediately backtracking . " It is a red line , but I 'm never going to leave Israel , " Biden said . " The defense of Israel is still critical . So there 's no red line at which I 'm going to cut off all weapons so they do n't have the Iron Dome to protect them . " <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu did not ultimately heed Biden 's warning , at first launching a limited invasion . Biden issued a new warning in May : " If they go into Rafah , I 'm not supplying the weapons that have been used historically to deal with Rafah , to deal with the cities -- that deal with that problem . " Those threats were ignored , too , and Israel has laid siege to Rafah . The war has continued , with U.S. support , and may well outlast Biden 's presidency . -- AP <h> " Fight ! Fight ! Fight ! " -- Donald Trump <p> Donald Trump ascended to deified status among his supporters when during a July 13 rally he survived an assassination attempt . <p> After a sniper 's bullet grazed Trump 's ear in Butler , Pennsylvania , Trump dropped to the ground before rising amid a gaggle of Secret Service agents attempting to rush him off of the rally stage . Raising a defiant fist , a bloody Trump shouted the words " Fight ! Fight ! Fight ! " to the panicked crowd . <p> The image of the moment , and Trump 's rallying cry , became iconic overnight , with his supporters declaring that God himself had spared Trump from death . Trump has made hay off of the incident in more ways than one . He 's currently selling " Fight ! Fight ! Fight ! " assassination attempt sneakers , cologne , and more . -- NMR 
@@119404995 <p> Jimmy Carter wore a button-down shirt in Khartoum . It was a sweltering morning and the sun shone on the Nile as the clamorous city was rousing to life . Carter was in the Sudanese capital to monitor the 2010 election that was certain to extend the rule of autocrat Omar Hassan Ahmed Bashir , who had been indicted on international charges of crimes against humanity . <p> Carter was not deterred . He believed the first multiparty election in decades -- no matter how flawed -- would bring the war-scarred country closer to democracy . His blue eyes agleam , his trousers pressed , the former president , a wanderer accustomed to the planet 's cruel and harsh predicaments , offered coffee and pastries in his hotel room . He was optimistic but knew well what could happen when leaders with outsize ambitions controlled holy men and armies . <p> I was in town covering the story for The Times , and a representative from the Carter Center called and invited me to breakfast . <p> Advertisement <p> Carter , who died Sunday at 100 , was president when I was a teenager . I knew him well from TV -- that swoop of hair , Southern accent and disarming resolve that confronted a post-Watergate world of gas lines , inflation , the Iranian hostage crisis and a sense that America was adrift . His presidency had been much maligned . But his second act as humanitarian , house builder , Guinea worm exterminator and Nobel Peace Prize winner was a portrait of perseverance and grace . <p> Carter , with wife Rosalynn at the 1976 Democratic National Convention , was much-maligned for his presidency amid multiple crises , but went on to shine as a humanitarian . <p> ( Associated Press ) <p> An aide greeted me when I entered the hotel room . She quietly vanished . Carter walked in and sat on a small couch . Coffee was poured . A Danish slid onto a plate , a bit of fruit . Fishing boats were busy in the currents below and tea ladies dressed in plumes of colors stoked fires beneath blackened kettles on the corners . <p> Advertisement <p> Carter spoke about Sudan -- its possibilities and dangers , and the fact that in coming months the country 's south , with its vast oil reserves , would hold an independence referendum on whether to secede from the north . Would Bashir relinquish the south to let it be governed by a former enemy in a cowboy hat , who presided over a territory with fewer than 100 miles of paved roads and a population that was 80% illiterate ? <p> Carter knew the personalities and pitfalls , the egos and secrets , the maps and ledgers . He had traveled across Sudan ; years earlier he 'd brokered a ceasefire in its civil war . He always went to the source , to places of refugees , poverty , disease and despair . To see and bear witness , much like the Bible school teacher he was back in Plains , Ga . He did n't know what would happen . But he had hope . <p> The sun rose higher in the midmorning sky . The room quieted . <p> " You 're based in Cairo , " he said . <p> " Yes . " <p> He leaned closer . <p> " Tell me about things , " he said . " What 's happening ? " <p> I felt like I was being quizzed by a man who had read countless dossiers and was intimate with the rise and fall of power . It was at once intimidating and bracing . <p> Advertisement <p> The restlessness and anger in the Arab world were nearing a breaking point that would erupt months later . Tunisia would ignite into nationwide protests . An uprising in Egypt would bring down President Hosni Mubarak . Tremors would spread from Syria and Yemen and from Libya to Bahrain . There were few inklings when we met of what would unfold , but the Middle East that Carter had spent so much time navigating was about to come undone yet again . <p> He mostly wanted to discuss the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and the possibilities , no matter how remote , of any progress toward reconciliation on that front . In 1978 , Carter had held talks at Camp David with Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin and Egyptian President Anwar Sadat that would lead to a historic peace treaty . Carter believed then -- apparently wrongly , given the problems that would come -- that the pact would bring wider regional stability . And he hoped it would one day lead to a two-state solution for Israelis and Palestinians . <p> Carter celebrates in 1979 with Egyptian President Anwar Sadat , left , and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin , right , after they signed a peace treaty Carter helped their nations reach . <p> ( Associated Press ) <p> Carter would later face criticism for his opinions on the issue . Many Jews and others were angered by his 2006 book , " Palestine Peace Not Apartheid , " which they saw as painting Israel as an aggressor and being overly sympathetic to Palestinians . Carter defended the book as well as his meetings with Hamas , which critics argued enhanced the stature of the militant group that the U.S. and Israel consider a terrorist organization . Carter later told an audience in Cairo that apartheid " is the exact description of what 's happening in Palestine now . " <p> But his vision remained focused , his commitment to peace unwavering . Three years later , in his book " We Can Have Peace in the Holy Land , " Carter wrote : " Everyone who engages in Middle East peacemaking is bound to make mistakes and suffer frustrations . Everyone must overcome the presence of hatred and fanaticism , and the memories of horrible tragedies . Everyone must face painful choices and failures in negotiations . Nevertheless , I am convinced that the time is ripe for peace in the region . " <p> Carter had been in hospice since before Hamas attacked Israel on Oct. 7 and killed some 1,200 people . Israel has been retaliating with an ongoing bombardment of the Gaza Strip that health authorities there say has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians . <p> Advertisement <p> The Carter Center released a statement late last year saying : " The violence must stop now . There is no military solution to this crisis , only a political one that acknowledges the common humanity of both Israelis and Palestinians , respects the human rights of all , and creates a path for both societies to live side by side in peace . " <p> It would have been good to have heard Carter 's own voice , his Southern-inflected resolve and traveler 's wisdom . <p> What struck me most in that Khartoum hotel room were his empathy and his insatiable need to know . He was relentless in his pursuit , to track down threads and unfold scenarios , to follow the great maneuverings and go where needed -- like to Sudan , where years earlier he 'd landed to try to help end fighting between Bashir 's troops and rebels who later ascended to power in a new country . Bashir was overthrown in 2019 , and Sudan is again in turmoil . <p> It is difficult to mend the hard corners of the world . To find justice amid the stain of transgression . Carter 's gift was his capacity to wonder ; to know the bitter truths and imagine something better . <p> Jeffrey Fleishman is a senior writer at the Los Angeles Times . Previously , he was the foreign and national editor . A 2002 Nieman fellow at Harvard University , Fleishman was a Pulitzer Prize finalist in feature writing . A longtime foreign correspondent , he served as bureau chief for The Times in Cairo and Berlin , and was previously based in Rome for the Philadelphia Inquirer . He also was a writer on film , art and culture . Fleishman has been a finalist for the Goldsmith Prize for Investigative Reporting and a finalist for the Center for Public Integrity 's Award for Outstanding International Investigative Reporting . He is the author of five novels , including " Good Night , Forever " and " Last Dance . " 
@@119405282 <h> Twenty-day-old baby dies of cold in Gaza , fifth such fatality this winter <p> Jumaa al-Batran is the fifth infant to die from winter-related causes as Israeli genocide causes harsh living conditions . <p> Yahya al-Batran grieves as he holds the body of his 20-day-old son Jumaa , who died from hypothermia , at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital in central Gaza Abdel Kareem Hana/AP <p> Published On 29 Dec 202429 Dec 2024 <p> A 20-day-old baby in Gaza has died from severe cold , the fifth such fatality from hypothermia in six days in the Israeli-besieged Palestinian enclave . <p> Jumaa al-Batran died on Sunday while his twin brother , Ali , remains in intensive care at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital , Gaza 's Ministry of Health said in a statement . <p> Jumaa 's father , Yahya al-Batran , said his son was found with his head as " cold as ice " when he woke up on Sunday . <p> He said the twins were born one month prematurely and spent just a day in the nursery at the hospital in Deir el-Balah , which like other health centres in Gaza has been overwhelmed and is only partially functioning due to relentless Israeli bombings . <p> He said doctors told their mother to keep the newborns warm but it was impossible because they live in a tent and temperatures regularly drop below 10 degrees Celsius ( 50 degrees Fahrenheit ) at night . <p> Advertisement <p> " We are eight people , and we only have four blankets , " al-Batran said as he cradled his son 's pale body . He described drops of dew seeping through the tent cover overnight . <p> " Look at his colour because of the cold . Do you see how frozen he is ? " said al-Batran , whose family has sought shelter inside a tattered tent in the city of Deir el-Balah in central Gaza . <p> " There is no electricity . The water is cold , and there is no gas , heating or food . ... My children are dying in front of my eyes , and nobody cares . Jumaa has died , and I fear his brother Ali may follow . " <p> Children , some of them barefoot , stood outdoors and watched Yahya mourn . The shrouded infant was laid at the feet of an imam , barely larger than his shoes . After prayers , the imam took off his ankle-length coat and wrapped it around the father . <p> Imam Islam Abu Suaied prays over the bodies of Jumaa and another baby who died at birth at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital in Deir el-Balah Abdel Kareem Hana/AP <p> Al Jazeera 's Hind Khoudary said the area where the al-Batran family was sheltering is " very close to the sea and very windy " . <p> " There are no tarps or tents , and Jumaa 's father was unable to give his children basic necessities , " she said . " Not only are Palestinian babies and children dying from air attacks and artillery but also from malnutrition and hypothermia . " <p> Israeli forces have displaced nearly the entire 2.3 million residents of Gaza , forcing tens of thousands of them to huddle in unsuitable tents along the rainy , windswept coast in southern Gaza . <p> Advertisement <p> Three of the five Palestinian babies who froze to death in less than a week lived in the " humanitarian zone " in al-Mawasi . <p> Marwan al-Hamas , head of field hospitals in Gaza , confirmed Jumaa 's death , saying it brought to five the number of children " who have died due to severe cold " in recent days . <p> ( Al Jazeera ) <p> Ahmed Alfarra , a doctor at Al Tahreer Maternity Hospital in Khan Younis , said he sees an average of five to six cases of hypothermia among babies every day . <p> " I visited the tents where these infants are living , and I saw the condition . It is miserable , " Alfaraa told Al Jazeera . <p> Since the war began in October last year , Gaza 's residents have endured severe shortages of electricity , drinking water , food and medical services as they have been forced out of their homes and displaced -- many repeatedly . <p> The Israeli genocide in Gaza has killed at least 45,484 Palestinians and wounded 108,090 . At least 1,139 people were killed in Israel during Hamas-led attacks on October 7 , 2023 , and more than 200 were taken captive . 
@@119405284 <p> From opinion polls to rallies and the barbs traded on the campaign trail , all eyes were turned to the showdown between Democrat Kamala Harris and Republican Donald Trump on November 5 . <p> Since Trump 's decisive victory , much of the world has shifted its focus to analysing what the former US president has planned for his second term in office , set to begin in January . <p> But 2024 has not only been about Trump and American politics . <p> The past year saw a slew of critical developments in countries around the world , from Israel 's deadly bombardment of the Gaza Strip to the devastating war in Sudan and the recent ouster of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad . <p> In the Americas region , 2024 was marked by changing political landscapes , crackdowns on dissent , deadly violence and the effects of a worsening climate crisis . <p> Here 's a look at seven stories that shaped the Americas this year . <h> Venezuela 's disputed election <p> Mass protests broke out in Venezuela after longtime President Nicolas Maduro was declared the winner of a third term in the country 's July 28 presidential election . <p> Advertisement <p> With the government refusing to release the usual voting tallies , the opposition published its own documents that it said proved Maduro had claimed victory through fraud . <p> Public anger at the results spilled into the streets for weeks after the race was called . Police fired tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse thousands of demonstrators in the capital , Caracas , and other cities . <p> Human Rights Watch reported that at least 23 protesters or bystanders , as well as one National Guard member , were killed in the government crackdown . Thousands of Venezuelans also were arrested . <p> Maduro blamed the protests on his political opponents and foreign powers , accusing them of seeking to destabilise the South American country . He has promised to release full vote tallies but has yet to do so . <p> In early September , a Venezuelan judge issued an arrest warrant for opposition presidential candidate Edmundo Gonzalez , who had gone into hiding following the vote . Gonzalez has since fled to Spain , where he requested political asylum . <p> " We are witnessing an intensification of the state 's repressive machinery in response to what it perceives as critical views , opposition or dissent , " Marta Valinas , chair of a United Nations fact-finding mission on Venezuela , said in a report on September 17 . <p> Protesters in Maracaibo , Venezuela , carry Venezuela 's flag in the wake of the country 's contested election on July 30 Isaac Urrutia/Reuters <h> Haiti gang violence soars <p> Over the past 12 months , Haiti has experienced a deepening political , security and humanitarian crisis as authorities struggle to stem a wave of deadly gang violence . <p> Advertisement <p> In late February , the situation deteriorated when powerful armed groups launched coordinated attacks on prisons and other state institutions in the capital , Port-au-Prince . The gang leaders demanded the resignation of unelected Prime Minister Ariel Henry . <p> Henry stepped down in March , and a transitional presidential council was formed with the goal of leading Haiti 's political transition and organising elections . The council then named an interim prime minister , Garry Conille , in May . <p> But the violence continued across Port-au-Prince , forcing tens of thousands of Haitians to flee their homes in search of safety . Access to adequate food , healthcare and other services was severely restricted , and reports of massacres , rape and other violence were frequent . <p> The deployment of a UN-backed , Kenyan-led police mission has done little to halt the gangs , which are now believed to control about 85 percent of the Haitian capital . Observers say the deployment is understaffed and lacks resources . <p> Meanwhile , political infighting between the transitional presidential council and Conille 's interim government led to the prime minister 's ouster in November . An interim prime minister , Alix Didier Fils-Aime , was appointed in his stead . <p> Police accused Bolsonaro of taking part in a failed scheme aimed at preventing his left-wing rival , current President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , from taking office following their closely fought race in 2022 . <p> They said in a statement that Bolsonaro and 36 other people , including some of the ex-president 's aides and former government ministers , had planned the " violent overthrow of the democratic state " . <p> Bolsonaro , a former Brazilian army captain who served as president from 2019 to 2022 , has denied any wrongdoing and said he is the victim of a political witch hunt . He has promised to mount a legal " fight " in his defence . <p> Jair Bolsonaro has denied any wrongdoing and promised to launch a legal ' fight ' to defend his reputation File : Adriano Machado/Reuters <h> Sinaloa violence surges after cartel boss 's arrest <p> It was a big year in Mexican politics , as the country held the largest election in its history and Claudia Sheinbaum became its first female president . <p> But the election was also one of Mexico 's bloodiest -- in part because of the influence of the country 's prominent drug-smuggling cartels . <p> One state where the violence continues to rage is Sinaloa , in the northwestern part of the country . There , rivals within the Sinaloa Cartel have been battling to fill the power vacuum left after co-founder Ismael " El Mayo " Zambada Garcia 's arrest . <p> US authorities detained Zambada on July 25 along with Joaquin Guzman Lopez , one of the sons of another co-founder of the cartel , Joaquin " El Chapo " Guzman . <p> Advertisement <p> Zambada has said he was kidnapped and taken against his will to the US , where he pleaded not guilty to a slew of criminal charges , including murder and drug trafficking . <p> The deteriorating situation in Sinaloa has posed one of the first major challenges to Sheinbaum since she took office in early October , succeeding her mentor and fellow Morena Party leader Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador . <p> Jacobo Quintero , a restaurant owner in Culiacan , the state capital , told Al Jazeera in September that the city had been brought to a standstill as residents were afraid to leave their homes amid the violence . <p> " We 've got about 15 percent of our usual customers , " he said . " People do n't want to come out because there are risks . They 're scared . " <h> Energy crises hit Ecuador , Cuba <p> Ecuador , which has long grappled with a surge in violence linked to drug trafficking , faced another dangerous threat this year : the effects of climate change . <p> A regional drought worsened by the El Nino weather phenomenon forced Colombia to cut off electricity exports to the country in April , spurring a crisis for Ecuadorian President Daniel Noboa . <p> The situation further deteriorated as record wildfires broke out near the capital , Quito , as well as in other parts of the country . In November , Ecuador declared a 60-day state of emergency to help mobilise funds to respond to the blazes . <p> The drought -- widely viewed as the worst to hit Ecuador in decades -- has hampered water levels at the hydroelectric dams that power much of the country . The authorities have ordered hours-long daily power cuts as they urge residents to conserve electricity . <p> Advertisement <p> A similar crisis has unfolded in Cuba , where authorities have imposed rolling daily blackouts in an effort to shore up dwindling supplies of electricity on the Caribbean island . <p> Cuba 's national power grid collapsed several times in 2024 , leading to a number of nationwide blackouts over several weeks between October and early December . <p> The country 's power plants are ageing , and the Cuban authorities have struggled to get enough oil to keep them running amid shrinking imports from Russia , Venezuela and Mexico . <p> Powerful storms also knocked out the grid in October and November as they lashed Cuba with strong winds and storm surges . <h> Canada accuses Indian agents of being involved in Sikh activist 's killing <p> A simmering diplomat row between Canada and India reignited in October when Canadian officials said they had evidence showing Indian government agents took part in activities that threatened Canadian national security . <p> The federal Royal Canadian Mounted Police said it had found evidence Indian agents participated " in serious criminal activity in Canada " , with links " to homicides and violent acts " and interference in democratic processes , among other things . <p> Ties between Ottawa and New Delhi soured in 2023 after Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Canada was investigating possible ties between India and the killing of a prominent Canadian Sikh separatist leader , Hardeep Singh Nijjar . <p> After the latest accusations were made public in October , Canada ordered the expulsion of six Indian diplomatic and consular staff . Foreign Affairs Minister Melanie Joly said the individuals were considered " persons of interest " in Nijjar 's case . <p> In a tit-for-tat move , the Indian government also ordered six Canadian consular staff to leave . <p> India 's Ministry of External Affairs vehemently rejected Canada 's allegations , saying in a statement that " on the pretext of an investigation , there is a deliberate strategy of smearing India for political gains " . <h> Argentina 's poverty rate soars <p> Poverty has soared in Argentina over the past year as far-right President Javier Milei -- sworn in at the end of 2023 -- pursued his libertarian economic agenda and slashed government programmes . <p> " This is very hard . Before , we had a home . We had access to subsidies . But the government suddenly took everything away , " Marianela Abasto , 24 , recently told Al Jazeera at a soup kitchen in the capital , Buenos Aires . " I do n't know what we are going to do . " 
@@119405287 <p> Calls have been made for the release of Hussam Abu Safia , the director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , who was detained on Saturday with dozens of others by the Israeli military during a raid on the facility in northern Gaza . <p> Fears are growing over the safety of Abu Sufia , whose whereabouts remain unknown since he was detained from the last barely functioning medical facility in northern Gaza , which has been pulverised by relentless Israeli bombings during a weeks-long military siege of the area . <p> MedGlobal , a humanitarian NGO providing healthcare in disaster areas , has demanded Abu Safia 's immediate release , while the World Health Organization ( WHO ) said it was " appalled " by the raid on the hospital . <p> The last picture of Abu Safia , widely shared on social media , showed him walking towards an Israeli tank near the Kamal Adwan Hospital , which was burned down by Israeli forces during the violent raid on Friday . <p> The Israeli military said on Saturday that Abu Safia was held for questioning , on suspicion of " being a Hamas terrorist operative " . It arrested more than 240 people from the hospital premises . <p> Advertisement <p> Since October 6 , Israel 's operations in Gaza have focused on the north , where the military says its land and air offensive aims to prevent Hamas from regrouping . <h> Location unknown <p> Zaher Sahloul , the president of MedGlobal , said in a statement that Abu Safia 's arrest was " unjust and a violation of international humanitarian law " . <p> " His arrest is not only unjust -- it is a violation of international humanitarian law , which upholds the protection of medical personnel in conflict zones . MedGlobal urgently calls for the immediate and unconditional release of Dr Abu Safia . " <p> Agnes Callamard , the secretary-general of Amnesty International , said Abu Safia is considered a human rights defender by Front Line Defenders , an Irish-based organisation that works to protect people who are " at risk for their peaceful and legitimate human rights work " . <p> The raid was also the latest on a hospital during the war , in which Israel targeted healthcare complexes . <p> " The systematic dismantling of the health system and a siege for over 80 days on north Gaza puts the lives of the 75,000 Palestinians remaining in the area at risk , " the UN health agency said in a statement . <p> Dr Ali Elaydi , an orthopaedic surgeon originally from Gaza , says Israel 's raid on Kamal Adwan Hospital and the arrest of Dr Abu Safia are aimed at emptying the north of the enclave of its residents . <p> " It essentially robs the entire population of northern Gaza of any sustainable medical care . I believe this is truly intentional to force the people out of northern Gaza , " Elaydi told Al Jazeera from the US city of Dallas . <p> Advertisement <p> " It is systematic . The Israelis have decided that without medical care , they the Palestinians in north Gaza would have to evacuate . " <p> " It is a warning to every other physician to not speak out for their patients . " <p> On Friday , Hamas dismissed Israel 's assertion that its fighters had operated from the hospital throughout the 15-month Gaza war , saying no fighters had been in the hospital . <p> WHO said the Kamal Adwan Hospital 's remaining 15 critical patients , 50 caregivers and 20 health workers were transferred on Friday to the nearby Indonesian Hospital , which it described as " destroyed and non-functional " . <p> It said WHO would undertake an urgent mission to the Indonesian Hospital on Sunday , partly to move the critical patients to Gaza City . <p> On Sunday , an Israeli attack on the upper floor of al-Wafaa Hospital in Gaza City killed at least seven people and wounded others , some critically , according to Gaza 's civil defence . <p> " The seven Palestinians who were killed in al-Wafaa Hospital are obviously patients because the hospital treats the elderly , " Al Jazeera 's Hind Khoudary said from Deir el-Balah in central Gaza . <p> " And after the war started , it started admitting people with chronic diseases and functioned as a rehabilitation centre . " <p> The Israeli military claimed the attack on the hospital targeted a Hamas " command and control centre " . <h> Killing of Adnan al-Bursh <p> Abu Safia , who is a paediatrician by training , has refused multiple Israeli orders to evacuate Kamal Adwan Hospital . <p> Advertisement <p> He was briefly arrested and released when Israeli forces stormed Kamal Adwan in late October . <p> During that same operation , Israeli forces killed Abu Safia 's son , Ibrahim , in a drone attack on the gate of the hospital . <p> Abu Safia was wounded by shrapnel from another Israeli attack on the hospital on November 23 , but he continued his work , keeping the world informed on the developments in the hospital . <p> This is not the first time the Israeli forces have attacked a hospital and medical professionals . Adnan al-Bursh , a prominent Palestinian orthopaedic surgeon and the head of orthopaedics at al-Shifa , Gaza 's largest medical facility before it was destroyed , was killed reportedly due to torture in an Israeli prison . <p> He was working at the al-Awda Hospital in northern Gaza in December when he and other medics were arrested by the Israeli army . 
@@119405289 <h> The world should not forget Afghanistan <p> Two Afghan women and an 18-month-old boy warm themselves while waiting for alms along the Kabul-Pul-e-Alam highway in eastern Afghanistan File : Kathy Gannon/AP <p> In a world where crises compete for attention , Afghanistan , once at the forefront of international aid and media coverage , now sits in the shadows . This year , the global focus has overwhelmingly been on victims of wars in Gaza , Sudan and Ukraine . <p> In 2024 , 23.7 million people -- more than half of the population -- required humanitarian assistance . Reports show that Afghanistan has the fourth largest number of people facing severe hunger and food shortages . About 12.4 million Afghans do not know where their next meal will come from , placing their country among the top " hunger hotspots " alongside Palestine , Yemen , Haiti and Syria . <p> About 80 percent of families live on less than $1 per day per person . Nearly four million children , pregnant women and breastfeeding mothers are malnourished . These already dire circumstances are exacerbated by frequent natural disasters from which communities do not have the capacity to recover . <p> Advertisement <p> Earthquakes , floods and landslides regularly devastate the country . For instance , in October 2023 , several magnitude 6.3 earthquakes struck Herat province , killing at least 2,000 people and injuring thousands more . More than 10,000 homes were destroyed and more than 20,000 severely damaged . At least 275,000 people were affected and were in need of assistance . <p> Despite some relief efforts in the immediate aftermath of the earthquakes , Herat remains devastated . Thousands of families are facing harsh weather for a second winter without permanent housing or proper access to water , food and sanitation . Destroyed schools have not been rebuilt . <p> Climate change has also affected Afghanistan . Despite contributing less than 0.1 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions , it ranks among the top 10 countries most vulnerable to climate change . Issues like drought and water scarcity are particularly severe . <p> In Kabul , water shortages have become so dire that UNICEF warned this year that the city could run out of groundwater by 2030 if immediate action is n't taken . The lack of water threatens not only urban populations but also rural communities where droughts have devastated local agriculture and livestock . <p> Afghanistan has also struggled with a weak economy . Unemployment has doubled since last year while the forced return of Afghan nationals from neighbouring Pakistan has cut off vital economic lifelines . Despite increasing hostility towards Afghans in neighbouring countries , emigration continues at a high pace . About eight million people have left the country since 2020 , according to the International Organization for Migration . <p> Advertisement <p> Many families consider leaving not only because of economic hardship but also because girls and women are denied education and employment . <p> These multiple crises are starkly visible in Kabul . Having no access to jobs , many women are forced to beg with their children in the streets while boys sell plastic bags , polish shoes and collect rubbish to earn money . Many labourers and wheelbarrow carriers have turned to begging , often waiting outside bakeries for scraps of bread . <p> Despite the severity of the situation , Afghanistan rarely makes international headlines . This silence is especially heartbreaking when considering the growing number of children who are forced to work even in the cold of winter to earn a meagre living . Their stories of suffering deserve to be heard and acknowledged . <p> However , Afghanistan needs more than attention . It requires meaningful action . The international community must recognise that the plight of the Afghan people is as urgent as those of the populations of Gaza , Sudan and Ukraine . A poverty and disaster-stricken Afghanistan abandoned by the international community can only be a source of instability in the region . <p> To break the cycle of hunger and poverty permanently , the international community , NGOs and donor countries must invest in sustainable , long-term solutions . These include building irrigation canals and dams , developing agriculture and livestock , improving infrastructure and creating jobs . Such efforts will help rural people remain in their communities , work their land and secure a better future for their children . Rural development would inevitably also help urban centres prosper . <p> Advertisement <p> Afghanistan 's silent suffering and its plight require urgent action . By addressing the root causes of its crises , the international community can restore hope and dignity to its people and work towards a prosperous world where no nation is left behind . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance . 
@@119407082 <p> " Rosalynn was my equal partner in everything I ever accomplished . She gave me wise guidance and encouragement when I needed it , " Carter wrote in a heartfelt tribute to his wife after her death . " As long as Rosalynn was in the world , I always knew somebody loved and supported me . " <p> Carter 's grandson , Jason , said at the time that his grandfather 's life was " coming to an end . " <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " ( My grandfather ) is doing OK , " he said during a speech honoring his grandmother at the Carter Center . " He has been in hospice , as you know , for almost a year and a half now , and he really is , I think , coming to the end that , as I 've said before , there 's a part of this faith journey that is so important to him , and there 's a part of that faith journey that you only can live at the very end and I think he has been there in that space . " <p> Jason Carter added that Rosalynn 's passing was " difficult " for his grandfather . But , he added , the " outpouring of love and support that we , as a family , received from people in this room and from the rest of the world was so remarkable and meaningful to us . And it really turned that whole process into a celebration . " <p> Carter was a peanut farmer , Navy officer and moderate Democrat who served as the 39th president from 1977 to 1981 . He became a global humanitarian after leaving office , and " decided to spend his remaining time at home with his family and receive hospice care instead of additional medical intervention , " The Carter Center said last year . On Sunday , they announced his death in a statement on the social media platform X. <p> The previous winter , in a moment when Carter was at his sickest and his family feared for his life , the former president is said to have refused hospital care so he could remain by Rosalynn 's side , historian Michael Beschloss told MSNBC following her passing . <p> " I am told that President Carter said , ' No , I want to get home , and be in bed with Rosalynn , and just sit holding hands , and that 's the way I 'd like to close my life , ' " Beschloss said , emphasizing the love the two shared and how their close partnership played a role in Carter 's presidency . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Carter was born on Oct. 1 , 1924 , in Plains , Georgia . He married Rosalynn Smith in 1946 , and they had four children -- Jack , James III " Chip " , Donnel and Amy -- as well as 12 grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren . The Carters celebrated their 77th anniversary on July 7 , 2023 and held the record for the longest-wed presidential couple , overtaking the late President George H. W. Bush and his wife Barbara . <p> After returning home from military service in 1953 , Carter rose as an activist in the Democratic Party , opposing segregation and supporting the growing civil rights movement . <p> Carter served as the lesser-known Georgia governor and former state senator who defeated then-President Gerald Ford in the aftermath of the Vietnam War . He connected with many Americans who felt betrayed by former President Richard Nixon and the devastating effects of the war in Southeast Asia . <p> " If I ever lie to you , if I ever make a misleading statement , do n't vote for me . I would not deserve to be your president , " Carter said frequently during his campaign for president . <p> On his second day as president , Carter famously pardoned all Vietnam War draft evaders . Throughout the course of his presidency , Carter would have to govern amid Cold War pressures , racial tensions and unpredictable oil markets . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Carter was well known for his work in foreign policy , including brokering the Camp David Accords , a peace treaty signed by Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin in 1978 . He also restored the Panama Canal back to Panama and signed the SALT II nuclear arms reduction treaty with Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev . <p> He designated millions of acres of land in Alaska as national parks and wildlife reserves . He also appointed a then-record number of women and Americans of color to federal posts and was best known for his promotion of civil rights attorney Ruth Bader Ginsburg to the country 's second-highest court . <p> Carter was one of the last Democratic presidents to gain widespread support from the South before the rise of his Republican opponent , Ronald Reagan . Carter lost much of his base after the 444-day hostage crisis in Iran culminated in a failed rescue mission in April 1980 , resulting in the deaths of eight Americans . <p> He served one term before losing to Reagan in 1980 . In the years after his loss , Carter dealt with a lack of trust from his Democratic colleagues and was treated as a punchline amongst Republicans . However , decades later , he reflected on his presidency with a sense of pride , telling the Associated Press that he did " protect our nation 's security and interests peacefully " and " enhance human rights here and abroad . " <p> " I 'm perfectly at ease with whatever comes , " he said in 2015 . " I 've had an exciting , adventurous and gratifying existence . " <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> The loss of a second term ultimately brought about Carter 's decades of work in public health and human rights with The Carter Center , whose motto is " wage peace , fight disease , and build hope . " <p> The Carters opened the center in 1982 and their work was recognized in 2002 with the Nobel Peace Prize . While the former president spent most of his life in Plains , he traveled the world in his 80s and early 90s , including annual trips with Habitat for Humanity to build homes . Last year , the center celebrated 40 years of promoting democracy worldwide , including monitoring at least 113 elections in Africa , Latin America and Asia since 1989 . <p> The Carter Center also worked alongside the World Health Organization to ensure the near-eradication of the tropical disease known as Guinea worm . <p> The former president was concerned with the health of those who did not have access to safe drinking water and were contracting the disease . <p> " I would like to see Guinea worm completely eradicated before I die , " he said at a news conference in 2015 . " I 'd like for the last Guinea worm to die before I do . " <p> Due to the Carter Center 's work , the end of the destructive parasite is near . <p> " It 's an audacious and mind-boggling idea , " Emily Staub , the press liaison to health programs for the Carter Center told CNN when Carter entered hospice care . " A whole bunch of people with the Carter Center decided that they were going to eradicate a disease that has no vaccine , no immunity , no medication . It 's thousands of years old and has a one-year incubation . The odds are totally stacked against you . And the people that suffer from it speak thousands of different languages , and some have never had outsiders interact with them . <p> " President Carter just jumped in with two feet , " she said . <p> Carter in 2006 delivered the eulogy at the funeral of his close friend Coretta Scott King , the wife of Martin Luther King Jr. , and praised her for " breaking down the racial barriers that had separated us one from another for almost two centuries . " <p> After the news broke that Carter was entering hospice care last year , Bernice King , the youngest child of Coretta and Martin , said she was joining the nation in praying for him . <p> " Former President Carter 's love and compassion for all people set him apart as a leader , servant , and simply a great man striving to achieve a Beloved Community , " she wrote . " We are praying that you feel God 's grace , mercy , and love as well as the love of your family , The King Center , and the world that you have so graciously served . " <p> We are praying that you feel God 's grace , mercy , and love as well as the love of your family , The King Center , and the world that you have so graciously served . ( 3/3 ) <p> " I 've had the good fortune to meet many presidents , kings , Nobel Peace Prize winners and truly impressive people . Few are as truly good as Jimmy Carter , who at age 98 is now entering hospice , " wrote New York Times columnist Nicholas Kristoff . " He leaves this planet so much better than he found it . A great , great , great man . " <p> I 've had the good fortune to meet many presidents , kings , Nobel Peace Prize winners and truly impressive people . Few are as truly good as Jimmy Carter , who at age 98 is now entering hospice . He leaves this planet so much better than he found it . A great , great , great man . https : //t.co/x2SLzicmFj <p> Kai Bird , the former president 's biographer , wrote in a guest essay for The Times that Carter " was not what you think . " <p> " Jimmy Carter was probably the most intelligent , hard-working and decent man to have occupied the Oval Office in the 20th century , " Bird wrote . " A Southern liberal , he knew racism was the nation 's original sin . He was a progressive on the issue of race , declaring in his first address as Georgia 's governor , in 1971 , that ' the time for racial discrimination is over , ' to the extreme discomfort of many Americans , including a good number of his fellow Southerners . " <p> Bird also reflected on Carter 's post-presidential life , writing , " Some of his controversial decisions , at home and abroad , were just as consequential . He took Egypt off the battlefield for Israel , but he always insisted that Israel was also obligated to suspend building new settlements in the West Bank and allow the Palestinians a measure of self-rule . " <p> After the release of his 2006 New York Times bestselling book " Palestine : Peace Not Apartheid , " Carter gave a radio interview in which he described apartheid to be the " forced separation of two peoples in the same territory with one of the groups dominating or controlling the other , " and claimed that Israel 's policies resulted in apartheid worse than South Africa 's . <p> " When Israel does occupy this territory deep within the West Bank , and connects the 200-or-so settlements with each other , with a road , and then prohibits the Palestinians from using that road , or in many cases even crossing the road , this perpetrates even worse instances of apartness , or apartheid , than we witnessed even in South Africa , " Carter said . <p> While the book and his subsequent interviews generated controversy , including some accusing him of antisemitism , Carter continued to stand up for his beliefs in racial equality . " The hope is that my book will at least stimulate a debate , which has not existed in this country . There 's never been any debate on this issue , of any significance , " he said . <p> " He was not afraid to warn everyone that Israel was taking a wrong turn on the road to apartheid , " Bird wrote . " In or out of the White House , Mr. Carter devoted his life to solving problems , like an engineer , by paying attention to the minutiae of a complicated world . " <p> The Carter Center carried on its founder 's voracious criticism of Israel 's treatment of Palestinians in the wake of Israel 's ongoing bombardment of Gaza , citing his Nobel Peace Prize speech in their call for a ceasefire in the city , the return of the hostages seized during Hamas ' deadly attack and the reinstatement of services and resources to the besieged territory . <p> " In his 2002 Nobel Peace Prize lecture , our founder , former U.S. President Jimmy Carter , said , ' We will not learn to live together in peace by killing each other 's children , ' " the center wrote in a statement . " His words resonate with us today more than ever as the Israel-Hamas conflict enters a new and even more dangerous phase . " <p> " Carter is widely considered a better man than he was a president , " The Independent noted in 2009 -- a sentiment widely shared by many Americans . <p> President Carter 's dedication to making the world a better place has had a lasting impact on countless lives through the @CarterCenter . Thank you Pres. Carter for your decades of leadership , service , &amp; wisdom -- the future is brighter because of your work https : //t.co/MF0M2w4WNC <p> Reverend William J. Barber II reflected on Carter 's legacy through a theological lens . <p> " President Jimmy Carter 's leadership &amp; moral commitment were so strong that some tried to undermine his legacy by calling him weak , " he wrote on Twitter . " The so-called religious right said they wanted a Christian President , but Carter was one , &amp; they stood against him -- exposing their hypocrisy . Before Obama , Jimmy Carter broke through the Southern strategy . " <p> " Carter walked in the halls of power &amp; never lost his humanity . He never let power and money change him , " he added . " As he transitions to life evermore , I pray we forever learn from the model of leadership he showed us as President &amp; , more importantly , as a person . " <p> Carter walked in the halls of power &amp; never lost his humanity . He never let power and money change him . As he transitions to life evermore , I pray we forever learn from the model of leadership he showed us as President &amp; , more importantly , as a person . <p> Residents of Plains , Georgia remember Carter fondly for his " small-town boy " demeanor . He was known to greet everyone he came in contact with , including in one instance every passenger on a commercial flight he took . <p> " President Carter 's very unique , " Millard Simmons , a lifelong resident of Plains , told the Augusta Chronicle . " President Carter could have lived anywhere in the world he wanted to live , but he wanted to come back to a place that I think he loves ; I know he loves . " <p> Local pastor Tony Lowden spent time with the former president in his last few days and told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution that Carter has " given us so much . " <p> Carter was an integral figure in the local community and was committed to diversity and inclusion within the church . After the Southern Baptist Union announced in 2000 that they would no longer allow women to become pastors , the former president renounced his membership . <p> " I 'm familiar with the verses they have quoted about wives being subjugated to their husbands , " he told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution in 2000 . " In my opinion , this is a distortion of the meaning of Scripture . I personally feel the Bible says all people are equal in the eyes of God . I personally feel that women should play an absolutely equal role in service of Christ in the church . " <p> Lowden said he looked to Carter for guidance in the aftermath of George Floyd 's murder in 2020 . " He gave me better advice than anyone could have , " Lowden told the outlet . " He told me not to hold back with my advice , even if it 's tough . Tell the truth . You 're not trying to win an election -- you 're trying to save America . " <p> The two had a rule each time they saw each other for prayer sessions or private conversations : Never say goodbye . <p> Instead , Lowden told Carter three things : I love you , I 'll see you again -- and there 's nothing you can do about it . <h> Recommended Stories <p> Here 's a look back , through photos , at the inspirational life of 39th U.S. President Jimmy Carter , encapsulating his beloved birthplace of Plains , Ga. , his rise to the White House , his presidential years and his humanitarian life post-White House . 
@@119407088 <h> Israeli official reveals how ' to truly defeat Hezbollah ' <p> An Israeli official said on Sunday that the return of normal civilian life in northern Israel along the border with Lebanon is the way " to truly defeat Hezbollah . " <p> " In order to truly defeat Hezbollah -- because militarily , we have already won , and our victory is very clear -- to truly win , to achieve long-term victory , is to have many residents living here ( northern Israel ) , vast tourism , to reopen the restaurants and cafes that used to be here , to have people coming to cycle , agriculture flourishing -- everything thriving , " Israeli Defense Forces ( IDF ) Chief of the General Staff , LTG Herzi Halevi , said while visiting southern Lebanon . <p> " This is a long-term victory . And the state must step in and strongly reinforce this responsibility , " he added . <p> Fox News confirmed that Halevi had conducted a situational assessment on Sunday in southern Lebanon with the Commanding Officer of the Northern Command , MG Ori Gordin ; the Commanding Officer of the 146th Division , BG Yiftach Norkin ; the Commanding Officer of the 300th Brigade , COL Omri Rosenkrantz ; and other senior officers . <p> The IDF Chief of the General Staff , LTG Herzi Halevi , conducted a situational assessment on Dec. 29 , 2024 in southern Lebanon with the Commanding Officer of the Northern Command , MG Ori Gordin ; the Commanding Officer of the 146th Division , BG Yiftach Norkin ; the Commanding Officer of the 300th Brigade , COL Omri Rosenkrantz ; and other senior officers . <p> A cease-fire deal between Israel and the Iran-backed terrorist group Hezbollah in Lebanon has held for a month as of Friday . <p> Since the 60-day agreement went into effect on Nov. 27 , Israeli forces have been conducting operations in southern Lebanon that they say are meant to dismantle terror tunnels and Hezbollah 's command center . <p> According to the New York Times , Israeli forces have continued strikes as the cease-fire deal has held , mostly in southern Lebanon but now , as of days ago , also in the eastern Bekaa region . <p> Thousands of Israelis have evacuated villages along the Lebanon border after Hezbollah , in allegiance with Hamas terrorists in Gaza , began launching rockets at Israel following the Oct. 7 , 2023 , attacks . <p> The IDF Chief of the General Staff , LTG Herzi Halevi , conducted a situational assessment on Dec. 29 , 2024 , in southern Lebanon . <p> Israeli forces in response have pummeled Lebanon , severely weakening Hezbollah , forcing the group to make concessions . <p> India 's payments regulator is set to decide as early as Monday whether to curb the dominance of Walmart 's PhonePe and Google in the nation 's fast-growing mobile payments market , a move that could reshape how its billion-plus population moves money . The decision centers on UPI , or Unified Payments Interface , a network backed by more than 50 retail banks that has changed how Indians pay for everything from groceries to taxi rides . At issue is whether the National Payments Corporation of India , which reports to India 's central bank , will enforce a rule limiting companies to handling no more than 30% of all UPI transactions . 
@@119437485 <p> Concerns are growing for the safety of a prominent hospital director in Gaza who was taken into Israeli custody after the Israel Defense Forces raided the site , detained scores of people and forced the closure of one of the last functioning medical facilities in the enclave 's north . <p> Video captured outside Kamal Adwan Hospital and verified by NBC News shows its director , Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , wearing a white medical overcoat and walking alone toward a military vehicle . The street is strewn with rubble and the buildings around him appear destroyed , the video shared widely on social media shows . <p> While it is n't clear exactly when the video was shot , the Israeli military confirmedMonday that it haddetained and interrogated Abu Safiya.He was being held as a " suspect " and being questioned over " potential involvement in terrorist activity , " IDF spokesperson Nadav Shoshani said in a post on X. <p> Before his detention , Abu Safiya , a pediatrician , repeatedly warned about the IDF 's raid on the hospital and how it endangered patients , including premature babies . <p> On Friday , he posted video on hisInstagram account showing a quadcopter dropping a bomb a few yards from Kamal Adwan Hospital , with the bomb exploding with a loud bang before sending plumes of smoke into the air . <p> On Friday , video geolocated by NBC News to the area around the hospital showed a crowd of men stripped down to minimal clothing walking in a line with their hands raised . Separately , NBC News ' crew on the ground in Gaza captured video of a blaze tearing through several units at the hospital on the same day . In it , people could be seen racing to try to douse the flames with buckets of water , while others sifted through the rubble . <p> Shoshani previously said there was no connection between the fire and the IDF 's activities at the site . <p> Since Friday , there has been no sign of Abu Safiya , with international organizations , including the World Health Organization , sounding the alarm and demanding his release . <p> " Hospitals in Gaza have once again become battlegrounds and the health system is under severe threat , " WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said Monday in a statement on X , adding that Kamal Adwan was forced to go out of service following the IDF 's raid . <p> " We call for his immediate release , " Ghebreyesus said , while noting that Abu Safiya 's " whereabouts are unknown . " <p> Hospitals and medical workers are considered protected under international law , which states that they must never become targets in warfare . <p> The IDF did not immediately respond to questions about Abu Safiya 's whereabouts , condition or any possible charges against him . <p> The IDF alleged that Kamal Adwan had been used as a " Hamas command center . " More than 240 people were detained over the weekend , all of them " terrorists , " it added in a statement . <p> Sharing a photo of Abu Safiya , over the weekend , the international human rights group Amnesty International said it was " extremely concerned over the fate &amp; wellbeing " of the medical director . <p> " He must be released immediately and unconditionally , " the organization said in a statement posted on X. <p> Ghebreyesus said critical patients had been moved out of Kamal Adwan to the nearby Indonesian Hospital , which he noted was " itself out of function . " <p> He said WHO workers on the ground and partnering groups were able to deliver basic medical and hygiene supplies , as well as water Monday to the Indonesian Hospital , in addition to transferring 10 critical patients to Al-Shifa Hospital , which has been heavily bombed and raided by Israeli forces repeatedly throughout the war in the Gaza Strip . <p> But Ghebreyesus said that at least four patients were detained during WHO 's efforts . " We urge Israel to ensure their health care needs and rights are upheld , " he said . <p> Meanwhile , the WHO director-general noted that multiple other hospitals in Gaza had also been attacked over the past several days . <p> The IDF has repeatedly said that hospitals and other civilian infrastructure are being exploited by Hamas and used as military sites , and frequently targeted the facilities during the more than a yearlong offensive in the enclave . <p> Local health officials vehemently dispute claims that medical centers are used by Hamas or other militants . <p> Israeli forces ' repeated attacks on hospitals and medical facilities in Gaza have left the enclave 's health care system decimated amid a spiraling humanitarian crisis , with most facilities damaged or destroyed in Israel 's more than a yearlong military offensive . <p> " If a hospital has been reduced to a bombed-out shell , it would cease to be protected , but otherwise a hospital , whether immediately used or not , is presumptively protected as an important civilian institution , " Kenneth Roth , former executive director of Human Rights Watch , previously told NBC News . " It can be attacked only if actively used for military purposes , and even then , only if the civilian harm is not disproportionate . " <p> The Illinois-based nonprofit organization MedGlobal was also among those to condemn the IDF 's attack on Kamal Adwan Hospital , calling it a " brutal violation of a protected medical space " as it echoed calls for Abu Safiya 's release . <p> " Dr. Abu Safiya and his team constitute the lifeline of healthcare provision in northern Gaza , " Rajaa Musleh , MedGlobal 's Gaza country director , said in a statement . <p> More than 45,000 people have been killed in the Gaza Strip since Israeli forces launched their offensive in the enclave after the Hamas-led Oct. 7 terrorist attack , in which some 1,200 people were killed and around 250 others taken hostage , marking a major escalation in a decadeslong conflict . 
@@119438389 <p> Rebel forces in Syria are building a transitional government after toppling the regime of President Bashar Assad in a lightning-quick advance across the country . <p> The Israel Defense Forces continues its intense airstrike and ground campaigns in Gaza , particularly in the north of the strip around several Palestinian hospitals . <p> Meanwhile , the November ceasefire in Lebanon is holding despite ongoing Israeli airstrikes on Hezbollah targets , which Israeli officials say are responses to ceasefire violations by the Iranian-backed militant group . <p> Tensions remain high between Israel and Iran after tit-for-tat long-range strikes in recent months and threats of further military action from both sides . The IDF and the Yemeni Houthis also continue to exchange attacks . <p> Sybiha became the latest foreign representative to meet with Sharaa in Damascus , where the latter 's Hayat Tahrir al-Sham forces and their allies are establishing a transitional government having toppled former President Bashar Assad . <p> Sybiha wrote on X that he " personally conveyed the message " of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy . " We are with you and ready to assist in restoring normal life , stability and food security , " Sybiha said . <p> " We rely on the new Syria respecting international law , including Ukraine 's sovereignty and territorial integrity , " he added . " This will pave the way to fully restoring our diplomatic ties , political dialogue and diplomatic presence . We are ready to develop cooperation in a number of areas . " <p> The visit came days after Zelenskyy announced Kyiv 's dispatch of 500 tons of wheat flour to Syria as part of the " Grain from Ukraine " humanitarian program in cooperation with the World Food Program . <p> 4:24 AM EST <h> Gaza hospitals become ' battlegrounds , ' WHO chief says <p> World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said early Monday that Gaza 's beleaguered hospitals " have once again become battlegrounds and the health system is under severe threat . " <p> Ambulances transport wounded Palestinians from the Kamal Adwan Hospital to the Al-Shifa hospital in Gaza City , on Dec. 28 , 2024 . <p> Omar Al-qattaa/AFP via Getty Images <p> Ghebreyesus said the Kamal Adwan Hospital in the north Gaza town of Beit Lahia " is out of service , " following an Israeli raid which itself came after several weeks of encirclement and bombardment . <p> Israeli forces raided the compound on Friday , forcibly evacuating all remaining patients and staff . The Israel Defense Forces said it detained 240 alleged militants , among them hospital director Dr. Hossam Abu Safiya . The IDF said the hospital was a " command center " for Hamas " military operations " in the surrounding area . <p> Ghebreyesus said Safiya 's " whereabouts are unknown . We call for his immediate release . " <p> Kamal Adwan patients were transferred to the Al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza City and the Indonesian Hospital in Beit Lahia , both of which have also reported repeated Israeli attacks . The latter " is itself out of function , " Ghebreyesus said . <p> " Seven patients along with 15 caregivers and health workers remain at the severely damaged Indonesian Hospital , which has no ability to provide care , " he added . <p> Four patients were detained by the IDF during their transfer out of Kamal Adwan Hospital , the WHO chief said . <p> Two other facilities -- the Al-Ahli Hospital and Al-Wafa Rehabilitation Hospital in Gaza City -- were also attacked and sustained damage on Monday , Ghebreyesus said . <h> Family of Gaza hospital director asks international community to help find him <p> The family of Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , the director of Kamal Adwan Hospital in the Gaza Strip , is pleading with the international community to help learn his whereabouts , alleging he was detained by Israeli forces during a recent raid on the medical facility . <p> The family posted a message on Abu Safiya 's official Instagram page , on which the doctor had been posting updates about the hospital 's functioning , pleading , " We do not know the fate of our father . " <p> " We appeal to every compassionate individual and all international organizations and institutions to take action , " said the family , asking the international community to apply media pressure and make appeals to " help us push for his swift release from captivity . " <p> The message said Abu Safiya is still recovering from injuries he suffered a month ago while working at the hospital . <p> The Israel Defense Forces said in a statement released on Saturday that Abu Safiya is suspected of being a Hamas terrorist and is being held in Gaza . <p> Abu Safiya had not been arrested in previous IDF raids of the hospital . <p> -ABC News ' Camilla Alcini and Nadine Shubailat <p> Dec 28 , 2024 , 11:57 AM EST <h> IDF issues statement on Kamal Adwan Hospital raid <p> The IDF released a statement outlining their operations in and around Kamal Adwan Hospital in the last few days . <p> The Israel Defense Forces said the hospital was a " command center " for Hamas " military operations in Jabaliya , " although the statement and attached media do not provide corroborating evidence of this . <p> The statement says the IDF faced heavy fighting in areas near the hospital , and says the IDF detained 240 terrorists , including the director of the hospital , Dr Hossam Abu Safiya , whom it says is is " suspected of being a Hamas terrorist operative . " <p> Abu Safiya was one of the only male staff members at the hospital not detained during the IDF 's raid of the hospital in October , and he would have helped coordinate numerous resupply and patient evacuations with Israel over the last several months . <p> Kamal Adwan is the last functioning hospital in northern Gaza and is operating at a limited capacity due to a lack of medical supplies and the repeated attacks on the hospital . 
@@119439392 <p> The year started as rains poured on Southern California , causing massive landslides , and ended in equally dramatic fashion with wildfires ripping throughout the Southland . <p> Genaro Molina documented the end of an era at The Times ' Olympic printing plant . After deciding to outsource , the company had announced that the facility , once a crown jewel in a vast media empire , would shut down sometime in 2024 . <p> Times photographer Robert Gauthier captured all the commotion behind the scenes of the 2024 Emmys as winners made their way backstage and presenters waited in the wings . The stars mingled , read their cue cards and watched the monitors offstage . <p> The Times photo staff covered the university protests , where groups of demonstrators clashed at UCLA , one of numerous universities where students have erected tents as part of a wave of protests by students , faculty members and staffers demanding an end to Israel 's actions in Gaza and divestment from firms that sell weapons or services to the country . USC access was also restricted to students , faculty , staff and registered guests after more than a week of protests over the Israel-Hamas war . <p> Advertisement <p> The sports year ended with the Dodgers and the Galaxy both hoisting championship trophies in 2024 , marking a year of ups and downs . <p> We hope you are able to look back at the year 's events through the lenses of the Los Angeles Times ' staff photographers . <p> ( Robert Gauthier/Los Angeles Times ) <h> Taggers have marked up what appears to be more than 25 stories of a downtown Los Angeles skyscraper that 's been sitting dormant for several years . Construction on Oceanwide Plaza -- a $1-billion , mixed-use retail and luxury apartments project with three towering , unfinished structures -- stalled in January 2019 after its Beijing-based developer lacked the funds to complete it . <p> ( Allen J. Schaben/Los Angeles Times ) <h> Evan Ricciardi , 18 , a student at Biola University , takes his turn using a rope from a footbridge to surf storm water rushing through a La Mirada flood control channel during heavy rain in Southern California on Feb. 6 . <p> ( Genaro Molina/Los Angeles Times ) <h> A pressman picks up stray newspapers from a conveyor belt at the Olympic Printing Plant in Los Angeles on Feb. 15 . <p> ( Robert Gauthier/Los Angeles Times ) <p> Advertisement <h> The calm waters of Manly Lake in Badwater Basin on the morning of Feb. 26 . <p> ( Robert Gauthier/Los Angeles Times ) <h> San Quentin SkunkWorks , a nonprofit made up of inmates and prison reform advocates , holds a chess tournamenton March 5 . <p> ( Robert Gauthier/Los Angeles Times ) <h> John Cena waits backstage during the the 96th Annual Academy Awards in in Hollywood on March 10 . The nearly nude actor and professional wrestler was preparing for a comic homage to a streaker who ran across the stage during the 1974 Oscars ceremony . Cena presented the award for costume design . <p> ( Allen J. Schaben/Los Angeles Times ) <h> A surfer heads out to surf as the morning sun creates shadows near the pier in San Clemente on March 11 . <p> ( Brian van der Brug/Los Angeles Times ) <h> Vehicles are escorted through a closed section of Highway 1 after the road slipped out south of the Rocky Creek Bridge on April 2 in Big Sur , Calif . <h> Hundreds of asylum seekers await interviews with U.S. Customs agents at the San Ysidro Border Crossing on April 25 . <p> ( Allen J. Schaben/Los Angeles Times ) <h> Emory Douglas , capture and rescue specialist with the Wetlands and Wildlife Care Center , rescues a dying Brown pelican on the Balboa Pier in Newport Beach on May 8 . <p> ( Brian van der Brug/Los Angeles Times ) <h> Climber Jonathan wears belay glasses , which give climbers a 90-degree view without craning their neck , at Robbers Roost , a world-class rock climbing destination near Las Vegas on May 13 . <p> ( Robert Gauthier/Los Angeles Times ) <h> Jessie Ortiz practices his roping skills in the backyard of his family 's home in unincorporated Bloomington , in San Bernardino County . Ortiz has helped organize ' cabalgatas , ' or traditional horesback rides that celebrate the charro cowboy lifestyle . <p> ( Robert Gauthier/Los Angeles Times ) <h> Scores of law enforcement personnel from various agencies move hundreds of demonstrating students , faculty and supporters protesting the treatment of Palestinians and the UC system 's investments in Israeli interests on May 15 . <p> ( Dania Maxwell/Los Angeles Times ) <h> A group with The Rare Gems Productions participates in the Los Angeles Pride Parade in Hollywood on June 9 . <p> ( Genaro Molina/Los Angeles Times ) <p> Advertisement <h> Grant Wactor , left , joins a June 12 rally to protest the shooting death of his brother Johnny , an actor who was killed after a late-night shift at Level 8 bar in downtown L.A. Police said Johnny Wactor and his co-worker encountered a crew of people trying steal the catalytic converter from Wactor 's car , and one of them shot him as he approached . Wactor , 37 , starred in " General Hospital , " the NBC series " Siberia " and HBO 's " Westworld . " <h> Mike Anderson of Las Vegas wears a mask and hat while having a drink at The Huntington House in Huntington Beach on July Fourth . <p> ( Allen J. Schaben/Los Angeles Times ) <h> Carli Dugan of San Louis Obispo dances in the water during a July Fourth fireworks show in Huntington Beach . <p> ( Wally Skalij/Los Angeles Times ) <h> The Pacific Park Ferris wheel at the Santa Monica Pier is illuminated with red , white and blue . <p> ( Genaro Molina/Los Angeles Times ) <h> Law enforcement officers on July 5 investigate the scene of multiple stabbings that left two dead at 16th Street and Pelican Avenue in Huntington Beach . Violence erupted when a man began attacking July Fourth celebrants the night before , leaving four others hospitalized . <p> ( Michael Blackshire/Los Angeles Times ) <p> Advertisement <h> A audience member watches the Seek immersive show experience at Cosm on July 18 in Inglewood . <p> ( Jason Armond/Los Angeles Times ) <h> Former President Trump walks onstage during the Republican National Convention on July 18 . <p> ( Robert Gauthier/Los Angeles Times ) <h> Donald Trump arrives for day two of the Republican National Convention at Fiserv Forum in Milwaukee . <p> ( Wally Skalij/Los Angeles Times ) <h> Performers during the closing ceremony of the 2024 Paris Olympics at Stade de France on Aug. 11 . <p> ( Robert Gauthier/Los Angeles Times ) <h> Vice President Kamala Harris embraces husband Doug Emhoff after she delivered a speech at the Democratic National Convention at the United Center . <p> ( Gina Ferazzi/Los Angeles Times ) <h> Mary Serritella , 71 , performs at the Comedy Pole Show at the Bourbon Room on Sept. 18 in Hollywood . <p> ( Christina House/Los Angeles Times ) <p> Advertisement <h> Barbie collector Azusa Sakamoto is photographed in West Hollywood on Oct. 15 . <p> ( Genaro Molina/Los Angeles Times ) <h> Maristella Burchietti is immersed in the exhibit " BB , " by artist Tadao Cern , at the Balloon Museum 's " Let 's Fly Los Angeles " show at the Ace Mission Studios in Los Angeles on Oct. 30 . The museum consists of interactive installations and artworks created by 18 internationally renowned artists . It is open until March 16 . <p> ( Genaro Molina/Los Angeles Times ) <h> The Dodgers celebrate their World Series win , traveling in a parade along 5th Street in double-decker buses in downtown Los Angeles on Nov. 1 . <p> ( Allen J. Schaben/Los Angeles Times ) <h> Jenna Fuentes of Harbor City makes an angel in confetti after the Nov. 1 Dodgers parade . <p> ( Wally Skalij/Los Angeles Times ) <h> A man runs into the water at the Manhattan Beach Pier as Christmas approaches . <p> The award-winning Los Angeles Times ' photo staff works across Southern California , the state , the nation and the world to bring readers images that inform and inspire daily . A complete list of the Visual Journalism staff can be found on the Newsroom Directory . Recent galleries can be seen on our photography page . 
@@119445284 <h> The remote Kazakh Steppe that became a gateway to space <p> A Soyuz landing module lies on the Kazakh Steppe shortly after its return to Earth from the International Space Station . <p> Andrew McConnell <p> CNN -- <p> Space travel 's documentarians have long been preoccupied by departures -- launchpads engulfed in billowing smoke and flames shooting from ascendant rocket boosters . But after seeing footage of a Russian Soyuz spacecraft crash down on the remote Kazakh Steppe 10 years ago , photographer Andrew McConnell became more enraptured by astronauts ' unceremonious return to Earth . <p> " Every three months , this capsule would land in the middle of nowhere , and no one was really going to see it , " he recalled of the astronauts , of various nationalities , returning from the International Space Station ( ISS ) . " It was sort of an obscure event , but such an extraordinary one , " added McConnell in a video call from Enniskillen , Northern Ireland . <p> McConnell , who often works in conflict zones ( and had just returned from assignment in Gaza ) , said he felt compelled to document a " positive human enterprise " rather than " just misery and suffering . " So , in 2015 , he embarked on the first of over a dozen trips to Kazakhstan , where manned Soyuz craft -- or rather their conical three-person landing capsules , no larger than a car -- return to Earth with their human cargo . <p> NASA 's Kate Rubins , Anatoly Ivanishin of the Russian Federal Space Agency and Takuya Onishi of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency after returning to Earth on Soyuz MS-01 in 2016 . <p> Andrew McConnell <p> NASA had decommissioned its Space Shuttle program four years earlier , meaning the former Soviet republic was , at the time , the only gateway to the ISS . With the help of local photographers , McConnell contacted the crew that intercepts the capsules after their three-and-a-half-hour journey to Earth . <p> He camped out with them on the grasslands northeast of the Russian-owned Baikonur Cosmodrome ( where Soyuz missions depart from ) , waiting for what he called the " big explosion in the sky " that marked the spacecraft 's reentry . The ground team would then assess the wind 's impact on the capsule 's trajectory before racing across the steppe in Jeeps to meet it . <p> Initially , McConnell hoped to capture portraits of the astronauts immediately after landing . ( " What would these people 's faces show after such a momentous event ? " he had wondered . ) But the reality of their return was not as profound as one might imagine : " They put hats on them , and give them a bunch of flowers , maybe a phone , and they 're like , ' Hey , Mom , yeah , I 'm back , " " he said . <p> On that first trip in 2015 , however , the Irish photographer encountered a different phenomenon -- one he had not anticipated : The arrival of villagers from one of the few settlements in the sparsely populated region . <p> A shepherd on the Kazakh Steppe , where Soyuz craft land after their journey from the Earth 's thermosphere . <p> Andrew McConnell <p> Villagers in Kazakhstan 's Karaganda region , to the east of the Russian-owned Baikonur Cosmodrome . <p> Andrew McConnell <p> " This little white car appeared on the horizon , and it drove up to us , weaving through these massive Russian Air Force helicopters that were sitting on the steppe , " McConnell recalled . " They were locals who 'd come to see this extraordinary thing happening in their backyard . I was just fascinated by this ; it had n't occurred to me that people actually live here . " <h> Two worlds collide <p> So , while some of McConnell 's images feature renowned astronauts like Tim Peake and Kate Rubins , his new photo book is more about the Kazakh communities whose lives have become inadvertently intertwined with space travel . <p> Portraits of nomads on horseback appear alongside everyday scenes around Kenjebai-Samai , the village in which the photographer stayed before venturing onto the grasslands . The image of a young girl climbing on a makeshift fence made from space debris speaks to the curious indifference McConnell encountered among locals . <p> " They were , surprisingly , unfamiliar with the landings . Some people in the village said they 'd seen it once , and had gone out look at it , " he said , adding : " ( The kids ) are curious what these objects are , and they have a basic understanding that this thing happens somewhere ' over there . ' But no one 's bringing them over to see it . ( The landings happen ) 30 kilometers away , but it may as well be 300 miles away . " <p> A girl plays on spacecraft debris on the grasslands . <p> Andrew McConnell <p> Yet , the photographer saw strange parallels between these coexisting worlds : " You have the modern-day nomad -- the astronaut -- and the original nomads . And that 's sort of the heart of the whole book : a contrast between the two ... It 's extraordinary the different lives we lead on this planet , and that these two worlds collide here . " <p> The book 's other protagonist is the steppe itself . McConnell 's photos of this " portal to space , " as he described it , depict a vast , empty landscape littered with the detritus of space travel and scarred with open-pit coal mines . <p> At times , the otherworldly scenes evoke a remote alien planet -- an ambiguity the photographer exploits to powerful effect . His striking image of a ground crewmember approaching a Soyuz capsule , a wall of dust cloud before him , could easily be a faraway world in a science fiction movie . The book 's title , " Some Worlds Have Two Suns , " and the absence of accompanying captions , further suspends readers ' disbelief about where the images might be set . <p> " I was struck by how , sometimes , you did n't know what planet you were on , " McConnell said . " You think , ' well , this might be Earth , but could this be another world ? ' " <p> Two men on horseback with centuries-old ancestral tombs close to where Soyuz descent modules land back on Earth . <p> Andrew McConnell <h> Cold War relic <p> Kazakhstan 's role in Russia 's space program dates to the 1950s , when it was still part of the USSR . Located beside the Ural Mountains , a traditional dividing line between Europe and Asia , the arid steppe was further south -- and thus closer to the equator -- than most of Russia , shortening the journey to the thermosphere the ISS inhabits . <p> The Baikonur Cosmodrome played a central role in both space travel and the Cold War . Humankind 's first ever artificial satellite , Sputnik , was launched there in 1957 . So , too , were Laika the dog and Yuri Gagarin , who became the first human in space in 1961 . The Soyuz ( " union " in Russian ) program began five years later and has since completed more than 1,600 missions . <p> After the Iron Curtain fell and Kazakhstan gained independence in 1991 , Russia continued to lease the land on which the cosmodrome stands . And while McConnell was largely focused on the steppe , he visited the facility several times , capturing everything from gargantuan launchpads to intimate shots of astronauts undergoing spacesuit checks ahead of launch . <p> McConnell saw locals using old rocket parts for garages , fences and coal stores . <p> Andrew McConnell <p> In a sense , these photos document the end of an era for Kazakhstan 's ( and , in McConnell 's view , Russia 's ) role in spacefaring . The Russian space agency Roscosmos now operates a similar facility on its own soil , in Siberia , rendering the Baikonur Cosmodrome increasingly obsolete . Moreover , Soyuz craft are no longer the only way to transport crew to and from the ISS : In 2020 , SpaceX 's Crew Dragon began shuttling passengers to the space station from US soil , while Boeing launched a manned Starliner test mission earlier this year . <p> " Investment is n't there anymore , " McConnell said of Russia 's space program . " Their innovation is n't there . If you look at what SpaceX is doing now , it 's just extraordinary . And so , this place where it all began , I think , will fade -- and that 's part of the story too . " 
@@119474794 <h> Natural disasters , conflicts that ravaged the world in 2024 Photos <p> A report , ' Counting the Cost 2024 ' , said climate disasters in 2024 caused $229 bn in losses , killed 2,000 people ; Conflicts continued in West Asia , Ukarine etc . <p> Share Via <p> Copy Link <p> 1 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> An Afghan woman holds her child as a man salvages his belongings from flood waters outside their house in Maymana , the capital city of Faryab Province , Afghanistan , May 19 , 2024 . ( REUTERS ) <p> 2 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> A drone view shows a flooded area following the impact of Typhoon Yagi , in Chiang Rai in the northern province of Thailand , September 13 , 2024 . ( REUTERS ) <p> 3 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> Flooded streets and buildings in Thai Nguyen on September 10 , 2024 , a few days after Super Typhoon Yagi hit northern Vietnam . ( AFP ) <p> 4 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> A boy sits in a floating basket as people wade through a flooded street following the impact of Typhoon Yagi , in Hanoi , Vietnam , September 11 , 2024 . ( REUTERS ) <p> 5 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> People carry bags in the aftermath of a landslide in Enga Province , Papua New Guinea , May 24 , 2024 . ( Reuters ) <p> 6 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> Rescuers assist residents on a boat as they wade through a flooded road following heavy rains brought by Typhoon Gaemi , in Marikina City , Metro Manila , Philippines , July 24 , 2024 . ( REUTERS ) <p> 7 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> Residents look out at the Madeira River , a tributary of the Amazon River amid a drought in Humaita , Amazonas state , Brazil , Sept. 7 , 2024 . ( AP ) <p> 8 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> Residents transport drinking water from Humaita to the Paraizinho community , along a dry part of the Madeira River , a tributary of the Amazon River , amid a drought , Amazonas state , Brazil , Sep . 8 , 2024 . ( AP ) <p> 9 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> Pedestrians stand next to piled up cars following deadly floods in Sedavi , south of Valencia , eastern Spain , on October 30 , 2024 .. Floods triggered by torrential rains in Spain 's eastern Valencia region left at least 70 people dead . ( AFP ) <p> 10 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> Emergency services remove cars in an area affected by floods in Catarroja , Spain . ( AP ) <p> 11 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> Damage from Hurricane Helene near Asheville , N.C. , is seen during an aerial tour for US President Joe Biden . ( AP ) <p> 12 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> Hillsides burn around Pepperdine University during the Franklin fire in Malibu , California , US , on Tuesday , Dec. 10 , 2024 . Hundreds of firefighters are racing to control a fast-moving Southern California wildfire thats threatening the wealthy town of Malibu and has forced the evacuation of thousands of residents . Photographer : Kyle **28;800;TOOLONG <p> 13 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> Firefighters monitor a burning hillside around Pepperdine University during the Franklin fire in Malibu , California , US , on Tuesday , Dec. 10 , 2024 . Hundreds of firefighters raced to control a fast-moving Southern California wildfire thats threatening the wealthy town of Malibu and has forced the evacuation of thousands of residents . ( Bloomberg ) <p> 14 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> A firefighter aircraft drops fire retardant near Malibu , California . The wildfire scorched over 2800 acres near Pepperdine University prompting evacuations along the coast amid high winds with some homes destroyed . ( AFP ) <p> 15 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> Town of Vahibe , on the outskirts of Mamoudzou , on the French Indian Ocean territory of Mayotte , on December 24 , 2024 , a week after the cyclone Chido 's passage over the archipelago . ( AFP ) <p> 16 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> Mariana ( C ) reacts during the funeral of her son Nazary Gryntsevych , a Ukrainian soldier of the Azov Brigade callsign " Grinka " , at a cemetery in Vinnytsia , on May 10 , 2024 , amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine . " Grinka " was one of the youngest soldiers to hold the Azovstal steel plant in the southern city of Mariupol during a three-month-long siege that gave its defenders a cult status , before being captured by Russian troops when they seized Mariupol in May 2022 , before being repatriated to Ukraine as part of a prisoner deal with Russia before once again returning to the battlefield where he was later killed . ( AFP ) <p> 17 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> Ukrainian doctor Ihor Kolodka ( C ) stands amid the rubble of the destroyed building of Ohmatdyt Children 's Hospital following a Russian missile attack , in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv on July 8 , 2024 , amid the Russian invasion in Ukraine .. Russia launched more than 40 missiles at several cities across Ukraine on July 8 , 2024 in an attack that killed at least 20 people and smashed into a children 's hospital in Kyiv , officials said . ( AFP ) <p> 18 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> A Ukrainian infantry soldier of the 23rd Mechanized Brigade sits as he waits to deploy toward the frontline in the Avdiivka direction , in the Donetsk region , on April 3 , 2024 , amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine . ( AFP ) <p> 19 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> A mother 's farewell to the body of her child who was killed in the aftermath of overnight Israeli bombardment in al-Maghazi in the central Gaza Strip , at the morgue of the Aqsa Martyrs hospital in Deir el-Balah on June 25 , 2024 amid the ongoing conflict in the Palestinian territory between Israel and Hamas . ( AFP ) <p> 20 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> Palestinians who returned briefly to the Jabalia refugee camp in the northern Gaza Strip to check on their homes , ran for cover after a school was hit by an Israeli strike on May 30 , 2024 , amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and the militant group Hamas . ( AFP ) <p> 21 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> Mourners watched as medical personnel prepared the bodies of 47 Palestinians that were taken and later released by Israel during a mass funeral in Rafah , in the southern Gaza Strip , on March 7 , 2024 , amid ongoing battles between Israel and the Palestinian militant group Hamas . ( AFP ) <p> 22 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> People look through the rubble of buildings which were levelled on September 27 by Israeli strikes that targeted and killed Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah , in the Haret Hreik neighbourhood of Beirut 's southern suburbs , on September 29 , 2024 . Israel killed Hezbollah chief Hassan Nasrallah in a huge air strike in Lebanon , dealing the movement a seismic blow that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on September 28 called a " turning point " for his country . ( AFP ) <p> 23 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> Rockets fired from southern Lebanon are intercepted by Israel 's Iron Dome air defence system over the Upper Galilee region in northern Israel , on August 4 , 2024 , amid ongoing cross-border clashes between Israeli troops and Lebanon 's Hezbollah fighters .. Middle East tensions soared as Iran and its allies readied their response to the assassination of Hamas 's political leader , blamed on Israel , spurring fears of a regional war . ( AFP ) <p> 24 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> People celebrated at Umayyad Square in Damascus on December 8 , 2024 . Islamist-led rebels declared that they have taken Damascus in a lightning offensive on December 8 , sending President Bashar al-Assad fleeing and ending five decades of Baath rule in Syria . ( AFP ) <p> 25 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> Members of Ta'ang National Liberation Army ( TNLA ) received military equipments at a graduation ceremony after getting special combat training for three months in a secret jungle near Namhkam , Myanmar 's northern Shan State . The Ta'ang National Liberation Army ( TNLA ) , a major Myanmar ethnic rebel group said on November 25 , 2024 that it was ready for talks with the junta to end more than a year of renewed fighting that has ravaged areas along the China border . ( AFP ) <p> 26 / 26 <p> View Photos in a new improved layout <p> Updated on Dec 31 , 2024 04:38 PM IST <h> Robaika Peter , 25 , holds her severely malnourished child at the paediatric ward of the Mother of Mercy Hospital in Gidel , South Kordofan , Sudan June 25 , 2024 . ( REUTERS ) <p> News/Photos/ Natural disasters , conflicts that ravaged the world in 2024 Photos 
@@119475088 <h> 10 big stories from the Spokane area in 2024 <p> Tue. , Dec. 31 , 2024 " They put their heart and soul into their jobs here , " says Cody Griffin from Idaho Department of Lands as he hugs waitress Macy Barnes in front of the burned down Wolf Lodge Inn in Coeur d'Alene on Monday , September 2 , 2024 . Macy has worked there for six years . ( Kathy Plonka/The Spokesman-Review ) <p> Another year has come and gone , and 2024 was one for the history books . A consequential presidential election filled with twists and turns , the escalation of deadly conflict in Gaza , devastating hurricanes , the rapid expansion of commercial uses for artificial intelligence , the fall of the Syrian autocracy and the death of Jimmy Carter . <p> The year may not have been nearly as climactic for Spokane or the region , with a quieter local election season than 2023 and without the devastation wrought by that summer 's fires in Medical Lake and Elk , but news broke that could have profound impacts on the region in the year ahead . <p> In some cases , these stories were directly impacted by the big events of 2023 . Other major events wholly belonged to the year now coming to a close . <h> Cellphone ban at Spokane Public Schools <p> Sometimes it 's the small things that make big waves . <p> Spokane Public Schools was n't the first school district to ban cellphone use in classrooms in the area . That honor goes to the Reardan-Edwall School District . Still , the decision to ban cellphones at all of the Spokane school district 's 57 schools was a major change that helped spur conversations about technology , childhood and the seismic impact the pandemic had on attention spans and social dynamics in schools . <p> Staff at Salk and Flett middle schools were trailblazers for this reform , implementing the district 's first bans in 2023 , and were named Difference Makers by The Spokesman-Review for their groundbreaking efforts . <h> Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers announces her retirement <p> By the May filing week deadline , more than a dozen people had thrown their hats in the ring , including some of the region 's most prominent Republicans . <p> The monthslong election generated numerous debates and highlighted rifts between and inside the local Republican and Democratic parties , as the open seat offered an opportunity to bring a fresh voice to a position that has changed hands only a handful of times in the past century . <p> County Treasurer Michael Baumgartner and former diplomat Carmela Conroy advanced after the August primary , pitting one of Spokane 's most experienced Republican politicians against a political newcomer who had been a career official in the U.S. State Department . Baumgartner sailed to victory in the November general election , winning by one of the largest margins in recent memory . <h> Spokane 's troubled downtown <p> The issues downtown Spokane is facing -- drug use , litter , homelessness -- are not new , nor are they unique to the Lilac City , but they have indisputably been one of the most common themes in the news this year , regardless of news outlet . <p> In some ways , the fact that these problems are n't new is what makes them so concerning : mayors change , as do governors and presidents , but the damage seems intractable and the solutions elusive . <p> Fentanyl continues to ravage the lives of many , killing hundreds last year while contributing to crime , particularly downtown , and a sense of unease among visitors and locals alike . Sleeping on the streets remains the miserable reality for hundreds as another winter bears down on Spokane . Some businesses have credited downtown blight for their closure . Though the downtown police precinct covers less than 2% of the city , most of the drug- and trespassing-related crime is reported from within their jurisdiction . <p> Despite changes this year in the legal and political landscape , many have expressed concern about downtown Spokane 's long term health , as evidenced by dour polling data released this fall by the business coalition Greater Spokane Incorporated . <h> Brown 's first year <p> Lisa Brown 's election as Spokane 's mayor was one of the region 's most significant events of 2023 , defeating one-term Mayor Nadine Woodward and ending a 12-year streak of conservative mayors in the city . <p> Much of that election centered on how the city should deal with the aforementioned problems facing the city , like homelessness and downtown blight . She made good on some campaign promises , including closing the **25;981;TOOLONG shelter on Trent Avenue that had housed as many as 500 people at a time and ramping up alternatives to law enforcement like behavioral health units in both the fire and police departments . <p> She has also faced criticism for her slow rollout of an alternative system of smaller decentralized shelters , with hundreds fewer beds available as winter arrives , and a perceived lack of enforcement of " quality of life " laws like homeless camping , though enforcement of some of those laws doubled this year . <p> With a new mayor also came a major shakeup in the city 's top-level administrative roles , with a new fire chief , police chief , city administrator , deputy city administrator and more . <p> For a time , the 16-year-old became a focal point for outrage at policies that allowed her to compete , just as transgender rights were reaching their peak as a major national political issue , as encapsulated by the political advertisement commissioned by President-elect Donald Trump : " Kamala is for they/them ; President Trump is for you . " <p> In December , the Washington Interscholastic Activities Association , which governs school sports in the state , proposed an amendment that would create a separate athletic program for transgender student -athletes to prevent them from playing in girls ' sports . <h> Elections roundup <p> Attention on the 2024 elections may have been largely focused on the presidential race , and the Spokane-area did n't see as much potential shakeup as it faced last November , but the issues on local ballots were n't insubstantial . <h> Merkel 's first year <p> Spokane Valley City Councilman Al Merkel has also faced his fair share of controversies this year , ruffling the feathers of his fellow council members and city staff in what he has argued has been a campaign to undermine him . <p> His antics have become somewhat legendary after only a year on the council . His iconic use of hunter-orange for his attire and campaign materials was adopted by some of his supporters , who have attended meetings with orange clothes of their own or orange armbands . During a failed run for state Senate this summer , Merkel was seen driving around in what was dubbed the " Merkmobile , " a small vehicle strapped with a loudspeaker that announced " Vote Al Merkel " on repeat . <p> By March , he had been warned to stay out of City Hall after an investigation alleged he has been displaying a pattern of " disrespectful and intimidating behavior " toward city staff . He accused the investigation of being politically motivated and possibly influenced by his Latino heritage . <p> In June , a private investigator alleged that Merkel 's behavior had n't started in City Hall , arguing he had engaged in similar harassment when he was an executive for a local detox center . Merkel accused the investigator of harassing his family . <p> Merkel was also accused of violating city policy and state public records law with his use of the social media platform NextDoor . On Dec. 19 , his council colleagues unanimously voted to censure him and remove him from a committee overseeing the use of money from the state 's prior lawsuits against opioid manufacturers and distributors . Merkel described the decision as " fundamentally flawed , biased " and a personal attack . <h> Racism mars Utah women 's basketball team 's tournament experience <p> Coeur d'Alene was in an uproar this spring after a team donor reported to police that the University of Utah women 's basketball team had suffered racist harassment on March 21 as they walked to a local restaurant . <p> Initial reports suggested that , as some 100 members of Utah athletics walked down Sherman Avenue , two lifted pickups passed by waving confederate flags and yelling racist slurs at the black players . <p> Some condemned the alleged treatment of the team , while others focused on the disparaging language used by donor Robert Moyer as he was reporting the incident to police , describing the offenders as " hillbilly " and " white trash " and , as some saw it , characterizing the region as racist . The alt-right publication Idaho Tribune and some conservative politicians heavily implied the entire incident was made up . <p> In the end , while suspects were identified and an 18-year-old initially admitted to yelling the N-word and sexual remarks at some of the team members , prosecutors stated that some of the details Moyer reported did n't match the evidence . Prosecutors characterized the conduct as " grotesque , " but declined to file charges , arguing that his conduct was protected by the First Amendment . <h> Pac-12 shakeups continue <p> It 's been another difficult year for what 's left of the Pac-12 , and while there are a few silver linings , they 've often been overshadowed by dark clouds . <p> Oregon State and Washington State were the only member schools who did not move to a different conference , and those that left have been only partially replaced by the new additions of Boise State , Colorado State , San Diego State , Fresno State , Utah State and Gonzaga . <p> Washington State University specifically has been hit hard by events this year as much of its top talent has departed , including former athletic director Pat Chun 's defection to the former Pac-12 member University of Washington and Wake Forest 's poaching of Coach Jake Dickert . University president Kirk Schulz is also set to retire this coming summer . <h> Icons burn <p> The region may have escaped the kind of devastating wildfires that ripped through Spokane County last year , but there were still smaller fires that destroyed several iconic pillars of their respective communities . <p> The Big Eddy , a remote inn and restaurant along the St. Joe River popular with summer recreationists , was destroyed by a fire in May . In July , a suspected arson leveled the Sandpoint Army Surplus store . And in September fire razed the Wolf Lodge Inn Steakhouse , long a staple of the Coeur d'Alene area , in the middle of Labor Day . <p> The Spokesman-Review Newspaper <p> Local journalism is essential . <p> Give directly to The Spokesman-Review 's Northwest Passages community forums series -- which helps to offset the costs of several reporter and editor positions at the newspaper -- by using the easy options below . Gifts processed in this system are not tax deductible , but are predominately used to help meet the local financial requirements needed to receive national matching-grant funds . 
@@119475381 <p> David Corenswet , the actor playing Superman , and Edi Gathegi , the actor playing Mister Terrific , return to their positions after a take . Filming for " Superman " was held various places in downtown Cleveland this summer.Joshua Gunter , cleveland.com <p> CLEVELAND , Ohio -- What a year it 's been for Northeast Ohio . From a Hollywood blockbuster taking over our streets to a historic celestial event , 2024 brought plenty of moments that made Cleveland shine . Throughout the year , the audience on cleveland.com 's Instagram page engaged with posts that showcased the highs , lows , and everything in between of life in Northeast Ohio . <p> cleveland.com 's social media team used reporting tools made available through Social News Desk , a social media management program , to pull data on every single social media post on our Instagram page between Jan. 1 and Dec. 1 . From there , we sorted the data for total engagement , which includes Instagram likes , comments and shares , to curate the 20 most popular Instagram posts of the year . <p> For the purpose of this list , we filtered out sports-specific content , which we 've shared in a separate story about the top sports posts on Facebook from 2024 . That article published on cleveland.com on Dec. 28 . <p> Let 's take a look back at the Top 20 cleveland.com Instagram posts that made 2024 unforgettable for Clevelanders : <p> 1 . ' Superman ' homecoming in Cleveland <p> This summer , director James Gunn brought the production of " Superman " to Cleveland , transforming the city into Metropolis . David Corenswet , who stars as Superman , was spotted in costume , and cleveland.com 's coverage captured worldwide attention . Photos and videos of iconic characters from the upcoming film were shared widely , marking the first public glimpses of the production . <p> For locals , these sightings carried extra significance , as the legendary superhero was created in Cleveland . One of cleveland.com 's posts , featuring what is likely the first-ever published video of David Corenswet in costume , racked up 18,813 likes , 279 comments , approximately 13,700 shares and about 519,000 views . Several additional " Superman " posts also saw impressive engagement . <p> A superhero in his own right , cleveland.com 's Instagram posts about Jim Donovan 's battle with cancer throughout 2024 touched the hearts of Clevelanders , all the way through his eventual death at age 68 in October . Our first post of the year about his journey garnered 12,731 likes , 94 comments and 72 shares . <p> One thing that was n't on the Northeast Ohio bingo card for 2024 was the viral appearance of a Browns-themed Tesla Cyber Truck dubbed the " Cyber Dawg " in homage to the Browns ' Dawg Pound . <p> Social media producer Josh Duke tracked down the owner to get the story behind the vehicle and the comments were ablaze with a mix of Browns fans cheering the owner on and others criticizing the truck . Our video post featuring the owner received 5,282 likes , 170 comments , 6,092 shares and approximately 161,000 views . <p> Cleveland found itself in the path of totality for the April 8 Total Solar Eclipse . A jaw-dropping photo by cleveland.com photographer David Petkiewicz captured the eclipse over Terminal Tower , leaving followers in awe . The post earned 8,101 likes , 29 comments and about 1,200 shares . <p> Food and entertainment reporter and DineDrinkCLE : The Podcast host Alex Darus ' preview video for Steak in Tremont had our Instagram audience eager to book a reservation . It 's no surprise given the whimsical presentation , trendy vibes and juicy steaks on display . The video garnered 3,937 likes , 25 comments , 5,283 shares , and approximately 113,000 views . <p> Frontier Airlines announced 10 new destinations from Cleveland Hopkins International Airport in February . The excitement was short-lived , as most routes were cut by August , but the initial news post garnered 3,337 likes , 90 comments and 3,300 shares . <p> News of Atlas Cinemas closing at Mayfield Heights ' Eastgate Shopping Center to make way for Dave &amp; Buster 's sparked mixed reactions . Some welcomed the new addition , while others lamented the location as a pour spot for the gaming space . The post received 2,272 likes , 183 comments and 4,300 shares . <p> In November 2023 , Ohio 's Issue 2 passed , legalizing recreational cannabis use . But the official start of recreational marijuana sales did n't occur until August 2024 . Our post announcing that Ohio regulators had greenlit dispensaries for recreational sales sparked excitement among our Instagram audience , as if a new state holiday had been unlocked . The post received 2,786 likes , 76 comments and approximately 3,800 shares . <p> The viral internet sensation known as " Hawk Tuah " girl sparked plenty of chatter -- mostly groans -- when she was announced to visit Welcome to the Farm in the Flats . The post garnered 1,995 likes , 392 comments and 4,300 shares . <p> Clevelanders showed their love for seafood when Cousins Maine Lobster announced regular appearances in the local food truck scene . Questions like " When ? " and " Where ? " flooded the comments of this post , which racked up 3,338 likes , 58 comments and 2,800 shares . <p> 15 . Pro-Palestinian protesters spray-painted at Case Western Reserve University <p> In the midst of the Israel-Hamas conflict , students at Case Western Reserve University painted a wall on campus with art and messages of support for Palestinians in Gaza , prompting the university to hire contractors to cover the wall with spray paint . In a striking video we shared on our Instagram page , pro-Palestinian protesters stood in front of the wall as workers sprayed white paint directly over them . The video received 2,594 likes , 797 comments , 2,348 shares and about 136,000 views . <p> Following the 2024 Presidential Election , in which Donald Trump reclaimed his position as Commander-in-Chief , we shared data reporter Zachary Smith 's voting results map for Cuyahoga County . It illustrated how the two candidates fared in the county . The post drew significant engagement , with people from both sides of the political spectrum commenting on their support or opposition to the communities that as a whole voted for or against their preferred candidate . The post received 2,827 likes , 295 comments and about 2,300 shares . <p> Our annual post listing Cleveland restaurants and stores that received the most food inspection violations left many followers shocked to see familiar names on the list . The post gathered 1,559 likes , 179 comments and 3,500 shares . <p> When food and entertainment reporter Alex Darus brought our Instagram audience to Majestic Meadows in Medina and showcased the wide range of exotic animals guests can get up close and personal with , our audience could n't get enough . The video received 2,953 likes , 29 comments , 2,364 shares and about 67,200 views . <p> In 1831 , the newspaper " The Cleveland Advertiser " changed the city 's name from " Cleaveland " to " Cleveland " to fit on the paper 's masthead . Our post marking the 193-year anniversary of the name change garnered 3,965 likes , 36 comments and 1,200 shares . <p> When we shared the announcement that 12-time Grammy winner ( and Ohio native ) John Legend was coming to Blossom Music Center for a special August show , our audience on Instagram largely said , " We 're there ! " Due to severe weather , the show had to be rescheduled without the Cleveland Orchestra . Our post sharing the announcement of the original concert date garnered 3,413 likes , 45 comments , and about 1,500 shares . <p> If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site , we may receive compensation . By using this site , you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks , interactions , and personal information may be collected , recorded , and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy . 
@@119476083 <h> Palestinian health authorities say 45 patients and wounded people have been evacuated for treatment outside the war-ravaged Gaza Strip <p> Palestinian health authorities say 45 patients and wounded people have been evacuated for treatment outside the war-ravaged Gaza Strip . <p> They left the European Hospital in the southern city of Khan Younis early Tuesday and traveled through the Kerem Shalom Crossing into Israel . They will receive treatment in the United Arab Emirates . <p> The patients are accompanied by over 100 of their relatives , according to the hospital . <p> Among them was a 10-year-old boy , Abdullah Abu Yousef , suffering from kidney failure . The child was accompanied by his sister after the Israeli authorities rejected his mother 's application to join him . Israel says it screens escorts for security . <p> " The boy is sick , " said his mother , Abeer Abu Yousef . " He requires hemodialysis three to four days a week . " <p> The Health Ministry says several thousand Palestinians in Gaza need medical treatment abroad . Israel has controlled all entry and exit points since capturing the southern city of Rafah in May . Israel 's offensive , launched after Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 attack , has gutted the territory 's health care system and forced most of its hospitals to close . Those that remain open are only partially functioning . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@119476088 <h> AP News Summary at 12:49 a.m . EST <p> Jimmy Carter is being mourned in his tiny hometown and around the world <p> PLAINS , Ga . ( AP ) -- Tributes to former President Jimmy Carter are pouring in from his small hometown of Plains , Georgia , and around the world . In Plains , black ribbons are hung alongside U.S. flags , as residents mourn the 39th president who died Sunday at the age of 100 . They are remembering Carter as " Mr. Jimmy , " the approachable neighbor who was friendly and approachable . But in Washington , at the United Nations and abroad , Carter 's status as a global figure is on display . President Joe Biden has set Jan. 9 as a day of mourning . Federal offices will be closed for Carter 's state funeral . And the U.N . Security Council praised Carter for his diplomatic and international peace efforts as president and after his one White House term . <p> Jimmy Carter sought to expand democracy worldwide long after he left the White House <p> HARARE , Zimbabwe ( AP ) -- Jimmy Carter helped expand democracy around the world long after he left the White House . His efforts gave rise to the Carter Center , which promotes fair elections as a vehicle for peace . It has monitored 125 elections in 40 countries and three tribal nations since it first started the work in 1989 . David Carroll is head of the center 's democracy program . He says the former president had moral authority and credibility as someone who had both won and lost elections . That was essential to the trust people placed in him . Carter died Sunday at 100 . <p> AP WAS THERE : Carter announces Middle East peace agreement <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- One of Jimmy Carter 's crowning achievements as president was the Camp David talks that would deliver Israel 's first peace agreement with an Arab nation and make Nobel Peace Prize winners of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin . The Associated Press is republishing its story on Carter 's announcement that the talks had succeeded in a " framework for peace " in the Middle East . The AP 's Barry Schweid reported that Begin said Carter worked harder than the Israelis ' " forefathers did in building the pyramids of Egypt . " Schweid wrote that " the gentle reference to the Biblical period of Jewish slavery drew appreciative chuckles from the dignitaries on hand . " <p> Middle East latest : Israel intercepts Houthi missile fired from Yemen <p> Israel 's military says it intercepted a missile fired toward the country by Yemen 's Houthi rebels . The attack set off sirens late Monday in central areas of Israel , including Tel Aviv . The Houthis have been firing drones and missiles at Israel as well as attacking shipping in the Red Sea corridor -- attacks they say wo n't stop until Israel agrees to a ceasefire in the Gaza Strip . The Israel-Hamas war in Gaza has seen intensified Israeli operations targeting Palestinian hospitals in recent days in the largely isolated north , where a 3-month-old offensive by Israeli forces has cut off nearly all medical or other aid . <p> South Korea to inspect Boeing aircraft as it struggles to find cause of plane crash that killed 179 <p> SEOUL , South Korea ( AP ) -- South Korean officials plan to conduct safety inspections of all Boeing 737-800 aircraft operated by the country 's airlines , as they struggle to determine what caused a weekend plane crash that killed 179 people . Acting President Choi Sang-mok also instructed authorities on Monday to conduct an emergency review of the country 's aircraft operation systems . The plane operated by South Korean budget airline Jeju Air skidded off a runway at Muan International Airport , slammed into a concrete fence and burst into a fireball . All but two of the 181 people aboard were killed . <p> Biden announces nearly $2.5 billion more in military aid for Ukraine <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- President Joe Biden says the United States will send nearly $2.5 billion more in weapons to Ukraine . Biden 's administration is working quickly to spend all the money it has available to help Kyiv fight off Russia before President-elect Donald Trump takes office in three weeks . The package announced Monday includes $1.25 billion in presidential drawdown authority , which allows the military to pull existing stock from its shelves and gets weapons to the battlefield faster . The deal also puts more long-term weapons packages on contract through a separate Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative , which pays for longer-term weapons deliveries . Biden said all longer-term funds have now been spent and pledged to use the remaining drawdown money before leaving office . <p> CHISINAU , Moldova ( AP ) -- Moldovans are bracing for a difficult winter ahead as a looming energy shortage could leave them without enough energy . On Jan. 1 , Russia 's state-owned energy giant Gazprom is set to halt gas supplies to the European Union candidate country over an alleged $709 million debt for past supplies , a figure fiercely disputed by Moldova 's pro-Western government , which has accused Moscow of weaponizing energy to destabilize the country . The cessation will stop gas flowing to the Kuciurgan power plant , the country 's largest , which is situated in the separatist pro-Russian Transnistria region . The plant generates electricity that powers a significant portion of Moldova proper . <p> South Korean adoptees and families rocked by fraud allegations <p> Peg Reif was among more than 120 who contacted The Associated Press this fall , after a series of stories and a documentary made with Frontline exposed how South Korea created a baby pipeline , designed to ship children abroad as quickly as possible to meet Western demand . The reporting shook adoption communities around the world with details about how agencies competed for babies -- pressuring mothers , bribing hospitals , fabricating documents . Most who wrote were adoptees , but some were adoptive parents like Reif , horrified to learn they had supported this system . Reif fretted that her greatest fear might be true : had she adopted and raised a kidnapped child ? <p> Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt reach divorce settlement after 8 years <p> LOS ANGELES ( AP ) -- Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt have reached a divorce settlement , bringing an apparent end to one of the longest and most contentious divorces in Hollywood history . Jolie 's attorney James Simon confirmed to The Associated Press on Monday that the couple had come to a deal . He says she is exhausted but relieved the ordeal is over . The two Oscar winners were among Hollywood 's most prominent couples for 12 years . She filed for divorce in 2016 after a private flight where she said he was abusive to her and their children . A judge declared the two divorced and single in 2019 , but they still had to work out the splitting of assets and child custody . <p> Times Square ball takes final test for New Year 's Eve <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- The crystal-covered ball that descends down a pole in Times Square to ring in the new year was taken for a test run , as New York City officials laid out their plans for the iconic New Year 's Eve event . Officials flipped a switch to light up the the dazzling geodesic sphere -- weighing almost 6 tons and featuring 2,688 crystal triangles -- which then successfully ran up and down a 139-foot pole atop the One Times Square skyscraper . Monday 's rehearsal was just one of many pre-ball drop promotional events . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article . 
@@119485790 <p> Up First briefing : Joe Biden ; Jimmy Carter funeral ; Gaza hospital raidPresident Biden signed significant legislation that his backers say will leave a lasting impact . And , north Gaza 's last major hospital has been shut down with no ceasefire in sight . <h> Gaza War 2024 , Gaza Hospital Shutdown , Biden 's Complicated Legacy <p> Good morning . You 're reading the Up First newsletter . Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox , and listen to the Up First podcast for all the news you need to start your day . <h> Today 's top stories <p> President Biden will finish his term and leave the White House soon in a way almost no other president has . He will be replaced by the president he once replaced , marking a big factor for any assessment of his legacy . <p> President Biden , seen here on Dec. 10 , 2024 , said he plans to issue more pardons and commutations in the final weeks of his presidency . Jim Watson/AFP via Getty Images hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Jim Watson/AFP via Getty Images <p> ? ? When announcing his campaign , Biden explicitly said in a video that he wanted Trump to be a one-term president , NPR 's Tamara Keith tells Up First . During his single term , Biden passed significant legislation including the American Rescue Plan , the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill and the Inflation Reduction Act . White House communications director Ben LaBolt says the administration 's legislation will have a lasting impact , long after Biden leaves office . Historian Tevi Troy told Keith that Biden 's legacy flipped from the guy who defeated Trump to the one who enabled his return . <p> The last major hospital in northern Gaza , Kamal Adwan , has been shut down with no ceasefire in sight . Israeli forces raided the hospital this past weekend and detained many of its doctors and nurses . For the past several months , the hospital has treated patients as Israeli forces conducted an offensive at Gaza 's northern edge . <p> Sponsor Message <p> ? ? The hospital 's director , Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , refused to abide by Israeli evacuation orders for north Gaza , NPR 's Aya Batrawy says . Earlier this month he told NPR that the collapse of the hospital would mean the end of life in north Gaza . Israel says Hamas was using the hospital and that it detained 240 suspected militants during the latest raid . The World Health Organization is calling for the immediate release of Dr. Abu Safiya , who was also taken . <p> ? ? People in the Middle East have spent 2024 waiting on a ceasefire deal . As the year ends , Up First is reviewing the efforts made to stop the war in Gaza . Listen here . <p> Funeral arrangements for former President Jimmy Carter will span six days , three cities and multiple stops at locations that held significance during his life . In a release , the Joint Task Force-National Capital Region said the celebration of his life begins Saturday , Jan. 4 , which is when his remains leave Phoebe Sumter Medical Center in Americus , Ga . The public will be able to pay their respects from Saturday evening to the morning of Tuesday , Jan. 7 at the Carter Presidential Center , where his remains will lie in repose . Here are the other services being held <p> Sponsor Message <h> Today 's listen <p> Lindsey Buckingham and Stevie Nicks joined Fleetwood Mac 50 years ago today . Their tumultuous relationship captivated fans and inspired hit songs . But before their arrival , early Fleetwood Mac was difficult to categorize . They were popular in England and Europe and were beginning to gain traction in the U.S. as a blues rock band . At the same time , Buckingham and Nicks released an album as a duo that did not sell very well . <h> Picture show <p> Graduating students protests remarks by Washington University Chancellor Andrew Martin on May 13 , at the university 's campus near Clayton , Mo . Full story here . Brian Munoz/St . Louis Public Radio hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Brian Munoz/St . Louis Public Radio <p> In 2024 , photographers at NPR 's member and affiliate stations captured images of protests that unfolded on college campuses , a total solar eclipse , one of the most important Election Days in U.S. history , multiple celebrations and more . NPR compiled a selection of photos from this year showcasing their impactful photojournalism . Click here to see these photos . <p> Magnus Carlsen , the world 's top chess player , is at the World Blitz Championship after going head-to-head with organizers over his refusal to change out of jeans to conform to a strict dress code at a tournament last week . <p> A federal appeals court has rejected an appeal by President-elect Donald Trump of a 2023 jury decision that he sexually abused and defamed E. Jean Carroll . 
@@119491589 <p> If you buy something using links in our stories , we may earn a commission . This helps support our journalism . Learn more . Please also consider subscribing to WIRED <p> Let 's face it -- 2024 has felt at times like a relentless conveyor belt of doom . The climate crisis is still gaining momentum , COP underlined the lack of consensus on what to do about it , and attempts to create a plastics treaty failed . Political violence rose to the surface in the US , and there was an election result that foretells four years of chaos and persecution for many . And war , conflict , and violence continue to afflict millions worldwide , from the DRC to South Sudan , Haiti to Yemen , Ukraine to Gaza . <p> But in the midst of the darkness , there were some bright rays of light . Scientists made big strides in countering some of the greatest health problems faced by humanity . Efforts to fight climate change have pressed on . And a cute baby hippo bit her zookeeper 's knee in a fit of childish rage , launching a thousand memes . Here 's our rundown of the best news to come out of 2024 . <p> Routine Childhood Vaccination Against Malaria Began <p> Malaria has proven a stubborn foe -- the quest to produce a vaccine against it began more than a century ago . Now , two are available , and in early 2024 , the world 's first routine childhood immunization campaign against malaria began in Cameroon . The disease kills more than half a million people worldwide every year , but this could be the starting point for bringing this number down significantly . Read more on WIRED . <p> Humans Gathered Their First Rocks From the Far Side of the Moon <p> In May , China 's Chang'e-6 mission began its journey to the far side of the moon , and when it returned to Earth on June 25 , it was carrying a very precious cargo -- almost two kilos of lunar material from a region rarely glimpsed by humans , the dark side of the moon . Researchers hope these rock samples will help reveal how the moon , and other planets , evolved . Read more at Nature . <p> SpaceX 's Starship Completed a Stunning Vertical Landing <p> Elon Musk has said Starships will start journeying to Mars in 2026 . That 's an ambitious goal , but SpaceX made great progress toward it this year . The Starship program completed a number of test flights , the most eye-catching being the fifth test , in October , which saw the giant craft launch successfully and its booster return to and land on its launch tower . It was an exhilarating spectacle -- and potentially a historic milestone in the history of interplanetary travel . Read more on Ars Technica . <p> We 're currently close to solar maximum , the peak of the sun 's predictable 11-year cycle of activity , which is resulting in large waves of charged particles being spewed out from the star . When these reach Earth they create auroras , and bigger waves result in the northern and southern lights being visible at latitudes far from our planet 's poles . With the peak of solar maximum not arriving until the middle of next year , we can expect further vivid and widespread auroras for some more time yet . Read more on WIRED . <p> HIV Vaccines Moved Closer to Reality <p> One reason HIV has been such a threat is because there 's no vaccine against it . Making one remains fiendishly difficult -- the virus mutates rapidly , meaning it can quickly outmaneuver immune defenses . But , for the first time , researchers have successfully managed to use an experimental vaccine to stimulate broadly neutralizing antibodies against many forms of the virus , paving the way for a potential vaccine . The next step is to get the human body to produce these antibodies in greater quantities . Read more on WIRED . <p> A PhD Student Discovered a Lost Mayan City <p> Archaeologists discovered an ancient lost Mayan city this year , unearthing monumental structures such as pyramids and plazas using lidar -- a form of laser mapping that works a bit like radar . Named Valeriana , the city is believed to have been founded before 150 AD . The first person to notice the city 's existence was Luke Auld-Thomas , a PhD student at Tulane University in Louisiana , USA . Hear from Luke about making the discovery on WIRED . <p> The UK Shut Off Its Last Coal Power Station <p> For the first time since 1882 , the United Kingdom has no coal-fired power plants generating electricity , becoming the first country in the G7 to move fully away from coal power . A number of factors combined to bring about the end of coal power in Britain : the growth of natural gas-powered plants and renewables , pollution controls , carbon pricing , and the UK government 's goal to hit net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 . Read more on Ars Technica . <p> New Solar Panels Broke Records for Producing Electricity <p> Experimental cells that combine silicon with a material called perovskite broke the efficiency record for converting solar energy into electricity , producing 60 percent more electricity than conventional solar cells . However , these record-breaking cells are currently made in laboratories and are smaller than a postage stamp . Translating such high performance to meter-square areas remains a vast challenge . Read more on WIRED . <p> Back in February , LA received half a year 's worth of rain in a day -- but the city 's water managers were prepared . In recent years LA has been preparing for more extreme rainfall by transforming into a " sponge city , " replacing impermeable surfaces , like concrete , with permeable ones , like dirt and plants . This avoids flash flooding while at the same time channeling water into the region 's aquifers , to help in times of drought . This is something more and more cities will need to do as the world warms . Read more on WIRED . <p> A Startup Unlocked a Way to Make Cheap Insulin <p> At a time when many Americans are struggling to afford the drugs they need to manage their diabetes , Houston biotech startup rBIO is working to produce an affordable copycat version of insulin via a process involving custom-made bacteria . rBIO says its insulin product is structurally and functionally similar to a brand-name drug , and the company will now move on to clinical testing . Read more on WIRED . <p> Retinal Implants Restored Vision in Blind People <p> Science Corporation -- a California-based brain-computer interface company -- is developing an experimental eye implant to restore vision . After receiving the implant as part of a clinical trial , some participants could see well enough to read from a book , play cards , or fill in a crossword puzzle despite being legally blind . Read more on WIRED . <p> Scientists Tested a Protective Pill for Lyme Disease <p> Tarsus Pharmaceuticals is developing a pill for humans that could protect against tick-borne Lyme disease for several weeks at a time . In February , the Irvine , California -- based biotech company announced results from a small , early-stage trial showing that 24 hours after taking the drug , it can kill ticks on people , with the effects lasting for up to 30 days . Read more on WIRED . <p> Weight Loss Drugs Showed Promise Against a Host of Diseases <p> Ozempic , Zepbound , and other GLP-1 drugs seem to boost heart health , protect the kidneys , improve sleep apnea , and lower the risk of certain obesity-related cancers . Recent studies have also hinted at their potential to treat addiction and even slow the cognitive decline that comes with dementia . Scientists are still working out exactly why they seem to have these positive effects . Read more on WIRED . <p> Fans may not have warmed to them , but Guardian Caps ' results speak for themselves -- since they started being used in practices in 2022 , concussions have roughly halved in these sessions . Only a handful of football players have used the caps in NFL games so far , but with the health impacts of concussion under the spotlight , expect to see them -- or even more effective successors -- become gradually more and more common . Read more on WIRED . <p> Global EV Sales Continued to Rise Strongly <p> November 2024 saw the most electric vehicles sold worldwide in a month ever -- 1.8 million -- breaking a record set just the month before . EV sales have slowed in Europe but are surging in China , and globally , year-on-year growth of EVs in 2024 was about 25 percent , according to the consultancy firm Rho Motion . Read more on Euronews . <p> Adult Obesity in the US Fell -- for the First Time in a Decade <p> Rates of obesity in US adults dipped slightly in 2024 , halting the steady increase seen over the past decade . Observers have been quick to point to the influence of Ozempic , Wegovy , Zepbound , and other GLP-1 drugs , but researchers caution that Covid-19 may also have played a role -- as it disproportionately killed Americans with obesity . Read more at CNBC . <p> Geneticists Solved the Mystery of Why Some Cats Are Orange <p> Two independent studies run by American and Japanese researchers appear to have answered the enduring question of why some cats have orange coats . It turns out the culprit is a genetic variant on cats ' X chromosome . The research also explains why tortoiseshell and calico cats tend to be females . Read more at Smithsonian Magazine . <p> The World 's Largest Sail Cargo Ship Successfully Crossed the Atlantic <p> The wind-propelled Anemos left the French port of Le Havre on August 16 and reached New York on September 3 , having carried 1,200 tons of cargo across the Atlantic . The sail ship traveled at an average speed of 10 knots ( 18.5 km/h ) -- slower than fossil-fuel-powered ships , which average 14 to 25 knots ( 25 to 46 km/h ) -- but it eliminated between 150 and 200 metric tons of CO2 emissions on its journey . It 's estimated that shipping produces 900 million tons of CO2 each year -- roughly 3 percent of global emissions . Read more on RFI . <p> It 's been a tumultuous year in French politics , but there was at least some good news at the end of 2024 : After being badly damaged by a fire in its roof-space in 2019 , Notre Dame reopened its doors in December after five years of repair and renovation works . The cathedral boasts a new altar and a dazzling ivory-colored interior . Repair works are continuing on the exterior of the building . Read more on the Guardian . <p> The US Homicide Rate Continued to Decline <p> In 2020 , homicides in US cities rose on average by 30 percent -- the largest recorded spike in American history . They remained high for several years , before beginning to fall , and are now projected to return to pre-2020 levels for the first time . Data suggests that male unemployment and school closures , particularly in low-income neighborhoods , as a result of the pandemic were the key drivers of the rise in violence . Read more on Brookings . <p> One of the World 's Rarest Cats Is No Longer Endangered <p> The Iberian lynx , one the rarest species of cat in the world , is no longer classified as endangered . There are now thought to be more than 2,000 of these wild cats spread across Spain and Portugal -- up from just 62 mature cats back in 2001 . Read more on the BBC . <p> EVs Are Lasting Longer Than Predicted <p> Rather than having a shorter lifespan than internal combustion engines , as everyone thought , EV batteries may actually last longer . Warranties typically cover EV batteries for eight years , but they look like they might last for up to 20 . But right now it is hard to be certain -- there are very few EVs on the road that are even a decade old . Read more on WIRED . <p> These Guys Hacked AirPods to Give Their Grandmas Hearing Aids <p> When Apple released a software update that enabled its AirPods Pro 2 earbuds to act as hearing aids , Rithwik Jayasimha rushed out to get some for his grandma -- only to realize location restrictions meant the feature did n't work in India . Most people would just admit defeat , but Jayasimha grabbed two friends , some foil , and a microwave , and set to work building a homemade device to get rid of the geolocation restrictions . Read more on WIRED . <p> A Baby Pygmy Hippo Conquered the Internet <p> In July , a global sensation was born . Since being revealed to the public on July 25 at Khao Kheow Open Zoo in Thailand , Moo Deng ( which translates as " Bouncy Pork " ) has become one of the most recognizable faces of the internet . Sure , she 's cute . But what 's propelled her to stardom is her sassy personality : sitting in her mom 's food bowl , biting her zookeeper , charging around her enclosure , and screaming . In 2024 , lots of people could relate . Read more at The New York Times . <h> You Might Also Like ... <p> Rob Reddick is the science editor at WIRED . He commissions and edits stories on health and medicine , biotech , environment and climate , space , energy , and robotics . Before joining WIRED , he was a commissioning editor at the Conversation and Mosaic Science . He is a graduate of the University of Oxford and is ... Read more <p> WIRED is where tomorrow is realized . It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation . The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives -- from culture to business , science to design . The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking , new connections , and new industries . 
