@@118325217 <h> The Month of Christmas and Message of Christianity - EDITORIAL <p> As the month of December dawns , it brings to the minds of Christians the world over of the birth of Christ in a stable at Bethleham in Palestine . Christ 's message is love of fellowmen and peace to this world . Christ himself , a man of love and peace , paid price of his convictions with his life . <p> Sadly , most political leaders in the ' Christian US and the West ' , seem to have lost sight of Christ 's message.Today , the political leadership in these countries , trample underfoot , Christ 's message of love and peace . <p> Instead , they promote a doctrine of killing and maiming in the very land of Christ 's birth . <p> They provide death dealing arms , armaments and political backing to the State of Israel which is continuing an on-going massacre of Palestinians . To date Israel has killed over 44,000 Palestinians in retaliation for the attack of the armed group ' Hamas ' on Israeli civilians . In that attack over a thousand Israelis were killed . <p> The charity ' Oxfam ' reveals Israel has killed more than 6,000 women and 11,000 children in Gaza over the last 12 months . The United Nations adds 1.9 million people were displaced in Gaza as of October 2024 , out of a population of 2.2 million . <p> Separate data from ' Action on Armed Violence ' reveals , from October 2023 Israel has hit civilian infrastructure across Gaza with explosive weapons once every three hours on average . Since Israel began attacking the Gaza Strip it records Israeli explosive weapons hit on average , homes every four hours . It hit temporary shelters every 17 hours , schools and hospitalsevery four days and aid distribution points and warehouses every 15 days . <p> Describing herself as ' a reluctant chronicler of genocide ' , Ms. Albanese UN Special Rapporteur on the Situation of Human Rights in the Palestinian Territory Occupied since 1967- said the international community must recognise what is happening in Gaza as a genocide . <p> Pope Francis the leader of the Catholic Church , according to excerpts from an upcoming book has called for an investigation into whether Israel 's strikes on the Gaza Strip constitute genocide . <p> Sadly , the United States vetoes resolutions at the United Nations Security Council demanding an immediate cease-fire in Gaza even as civilian casualties rise . According to the US , ' a ceasefire would only plant the seeds for the next war , as Hamas has no desire to see a durable peace ... ' <p> On the other hand we see our newly elected President Dissanayake -a died in the wool Marxist- on Friday the International Day for Solidarity with the people of Palestine , condemning the immense loss of civilian lives , suffering , and the ongoing destruction , continuing for over a year in the Palestinian territories and across West Asia , as unacceptable and intolerable . He called for an immediate halt to the massacre . <p> The Lankan President also drew attention to Israeli threats against the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) . He said it was disappointing and disheartening to see the humanitarian services that sustained the lives of the refugees were on the verge of collapse . <p> In today 's context the love and peace preached by Christ seems to have fallen by the wayside . The so-called Christian political leaders of the West , who preach value of these sentiments to us Asians , Africans and the indegenous peoples of the Americas collaborate with the profit-oriented ' merchants of death ' in the armaments industry by continuing to supply weapons of destruction to the Israeli rulers . <p> But this should not surprise anyone . After all slavery in its all its inhumanity was enforced by the West.All Asian people were subject to Western imperial rule with all its barbarity . <p> However large numbers of ordinary people in the Christian west are today standing up against their governments and the actions of the state of Israel . <p> Hopefully we will witness the message of Christmas -peace and love of mankind , prevail during the month dedicated to the man who brought a message of love and peace to the world . <h> Comments - 0 <h> Comments - The Month of Christmas and Message of Christianity - EDITORIAL <h> Add comment <p> Comments will be edited ( grammar , spelling and slang ) and authorized at the discretion of Daily Mirror online . The website also has the right not to publish selected comments . 
@@118360752 <h> UN Day for Solidarity with Palestine Bloodshed and Politics : Wake Up ! <p> Twelve-year-old Mazyouna suffered devastating injuries to her face from an Israeli rocket and endured five months of unbearable pain before finally receiving approval for emergency surgery . She was unable to eat , speak , or move without discomfort . Although global attention led to her evacuation , 2,500 children in Gaza are still being denied access to critical medical care . <p> UNICEF reports that less than one child is evacuated daily , with many medical applications denied without explanation . Parents are often barred from accompanying critically ill children , causing painful family separations . In a miscarriage of justice in 1947 , the UN , backed by Western powers , sanctioned an European Zionist invasion , forcibly evicting indigenous people to establish Israel . <p> Act now to demand international pressure on Israel to allow urgent medical evacuations.Meanwhile , Israeli forces have raided homes across Hebron in the occupied West Bank , according to the Wafa news agency . They searched and reportedly destroyed the contents of Issa Abu Mayala 's home in southern Hebron and raided other homes in Ash-Shuyukh and Sair , though no additional arrests were reported . <p> Neglect or Moral Failing <p> As global citizens , we can not remain silent while children endure needless suffering and death . Mazyouna 's story is a stark reminder that the youngest and most innocent are the greatest casualties of war . They lose their lives not only to bombs but also to the unjust barriers denying them life-saving medical care . <p> Every moment of inaction costs children 's lives . The right thinking citizens of the world must unite to break this cycle of violence . Sri Lankans have stood up before for Palestinian lives . As Gaza 's children continue to die , we must act again to demand an end to these atrocities . <p> Palestinian civilian deaths currently stand at over 45,000 , representing an almost unimaginable ratio of nearly forty Palestinian civilians killed for every one Israeli civilian . This stark disparity raises an urgent and haunting question : what number of lives lost will satisfy the Israeli demand for revenge ? Is there a limit to the destruction , or does the scale of the ongoing assault point to an even more sinister objective , a new Holocaust targeting 3.5 million Palestinians , amounting to nothing less than ethnic cleansing and genocide ? <p> If the goal is not outright extermination , then the actions must be halted , and the perpetrators must be held accountable for the profound human rights violations that have occurred . The world can not turn a blind eye to the mounting evidence of disproportionate force , collective punishment , and a blatant disregard for civilian lives . This is no longer a question of geopolitics or security , it is a moral crisis demanding global intervention . <p> The actions of Hamas are reprehensible , but it is crucial to recognise that Gaza 's children are innocent and can not be blamed for the deeds of terrorists . Ensuring the safety and well-being of children is a shared global responsibility . Unfortunately , political biases often shape responses to such conflicts , overshadowing the innocence of those most affected . The interplay of terrorism , powerful states , and geopolitical interests frequently prioritises national agendas over justice and humanity . <p> The Israelis , driven by pain and fury , launched widespread retaliation against nearly two million Palestinians in Gaza for the horrific acts of Hamas terrorists based there . The attacks have now expanded to include Palestinian areas in the West Bank , home to 1.8 million people . Palestinians in both regions face constant fear of losing their homes and lives under relentless Israeli airstrikes , enduring a terror reminiscent of what Jews faced in Germany during the 1930s , targeted solely for their ethnic identity . <p> Using Starvation as a Method of War <p> A November 14 , 2024 , UN Committee report stated that Israel 's actions in Gaza display ' characteristics of genocide ' , accusing it of ' using starvation as a method of war ' , leading to ' mass civilian casualties and life-threatening conditions ' . Last week , the International Criminal Court in The Hague issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu , Defence Minister Gallant , and deceased Hamas leader Ibrahim Al-Masri for alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity in the Gaza conflict . <p> Can politicians bring peace ? Albert Einstein once said , " We can not solve problems at the same level of thinking that we were at when we created those problems . " Joe Biden , after vetoing the Brazilian ceasefire proposal , rushed to Tel Aviv , with Sunak following to show solidarity . In such crises , the apolitical global community must prioritise peace , justice , and humanitarian aid while addressing the root causes of conflict . Impartial international authorities need to act swiftly . <p> Collective compassion , support for human rights , and diplomacy are essential to easing suffering and building a just , peaceful future . Since Egypt and Syria 's surprise attack on Israel on October 6 , 1973 , pushed negotiations over the Sinai and Golan Heights , many thought the conflict had cooled . Yet , unresolved tensions smoldered , erupting catastrophically on October 7 , 2023 . The Gaza Strip remains in ruins after the October 7 Hamas attack , where 2,000 militants killed over 1,000 civilians and took more than 200 hostages , including Americans . <p> On October 18 , President Biden affirmed U.S. support for Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu . This raises a key question : how far should Israel 's self-defence go in response to the massacre ? <p> What motivated them to deliberately target hospitals and its defenceless occupants ? All humanity should take action to stop this unprecedented brutality in Gaza . This historical context serves to highlight the long and complex history of the Jewish people in the region , marked by periods of displacement , occupation , and dispersion . It is important to recognise the historical experiences of both Israelis and Palestinians in order to better understand the roots of the ongoing conflict in the Middle East . <p> How many more innocent Palestinian lives must be lost , how many more billions of dollars must be spent by the U.S. , before Israel 's desire for revenge is fully quenched ? When will the punishment of innocent Palestinian civilians be considered sufficient in the eyes of Israel and the U.S. for the October 7 Hamas attack ? <p> The re-election of Donald Trump has shifted the ideological path of the United States , at least for the foreseeable future , and it has sealed the fate of the Palestinian people in Gaza and the West Bank , potentially forever . Trump , eager to showcase his commitment to Christianity , took his oath on two Bibles , perhaps as a safeguard against one catching fire during the ceremony . There was backlash from the Arab-American community , particularly in Dearborn , Michigan , an essential battleground state , and it was a major factor in Trump 's victory in a state that Biden had won handily in 2020 . This played a crucial role in securing Trump 's re-election . <p> In November 2024 , Trump won Michigan by 120,618 votes , largely due to the anger of Arab-American , Muslim , and Palestinian communities over Biden 's support for Israel 's ongoing attacks on Palestinian civilians in Gaza and the West Bank.Months into the conflict , with tens of thousands of Palestinian civilians dead and hundreds of thousands displaced , the Biden-Harris administration has continued backing Israel 's right to self-defence , providing military and financial aid despite the worsening humanitarian crisis . <p> Let us stand united for justice and humanity , demanding an end to the suffering and a path toward lasting peace . 
@@118404737 <h> Classified <h> Other <h> Tides , from Colombo to Arugam Bay <p> Arugam Bay is no Gaza , thankfully , but Chabad-Lubavitch members are bringing Gaza into Arugam Bay -- just as Maccabi Tel Aviv fans brought Gaza into Amsterdam <h> " Do n't let it happen . It <h> depends on you . " <h> -- Orwell ( 1984 ) <p> By Tisaranee Gunasekara <p> They are back , creeping of the woodwork . The gathering outside Colombo 's main railway station was mercifully small , just the mandatory monk and a handful of civilians . Having offered flowers to a statue of the Buddha , they proceeded to violate his teachings by trying to ignite an ethno-religious fire . Their target was the welcome decision by the NPP/JVP Government to release some of the military-occupied land in the north to their original owners . <p> The monk accused President Anura Kumara Dissanayake of being a diaspora agent trying to rejuvenate the Tigers and start the next Eelam War . Madubhashana Prabath , the secretary of Sinhala Ravaya , called the new president King Elara of Tambuttegama and promised to struggle till the ' last drop of blood ' to ' save the nation ' . ( https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=oc613tLk3Cs ) ... During the Kurundi controversy in 2023 , the same Madubhashana Prabath threatened the then president with violence : " Ranil should pay attention to what happened to Rajiv Gandhi . Because patriots are near even you ... " ( ( https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? app=desktop &a; ... The NPP/JVP ( and the SJB ) watched in silence because the target was their political opponent . Now the same extremists are coming for the NPP/JVP . <p> The new Government is young , and hopes are still high of a change for the better . Yet , Sinhala Ravaya decided to aggressively confront the President , probably because they sense a coming change in tides , due to the gravitational force of economic malaise . The two speakers repeatedly challenged the Government to fulfil its economic promises , especially about slashing fuel prices . Little wonder , given the most recent price revision , which saw the price of kerosene oil going up by Rs. 2 ! <p> Kerosene is called the " poor man 's oil " and as Peter Breuer of the IMF said during his Colombo visit , " The poor people are least equipped to deal with it ( high prices ) because they have no buffers " ( https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=XQ-KnTxpLfI ) ... To increase the price of kerosene in a time of massive flood damages to ordinary lives is an act of colossal political blindness , the malady generally associated with Ranil Wickremesinghe . <p> According to the latest IHP poll , consumer confidence increased substantially in early October . The JVP/NPP 's landslide parliamentary victory was reflective of this upbeat mood . Whether this optimism remains or not depends on how the Government performs . Eschewing privileges is necessary and excellent , but the feel-good factor such measures create can not endure in the absence of tangible economic improvements . <p> A plurality of Lankans think education , health , and agriculture should be top spending priorities of the new Government , again according to the IHP opinion poll . Not a single Lankan voter wants an increase in military spending . Most Lankans also want to see high income-earners taxed at a much higher rate . Backing for a marginal tax rate of 50% on those earning more than Rs. 500,000 per month has remained above 50% since 2023 . Since only 2.2% of adults pay PAYE , an immediate reduction in PAYE rates would not be popular nationally or among NPP voters , excepting the small stratum of professionals in the NPP 's upper ranks . <p> Most Lankans seem closer to the IMF 's Peter Breuer than the NPP/JVP on the make-or-break issue of revenue-generation . " During one of our staff visits we went to Nuwara-eliya and met with some estate workers who showed us their bills and their income slips . It was just shocking how the high cost of electricity and other things are essentially absorbing all their incomes . Better off people are better equipped to deal with this high inflation . So it is very important that those who can make a contribution to society do that ... so having a personal income tax system and corporate income tax system that asks richer people , better off people for more contributions is essential for the Government to deliver the essential services ... including to the poor people " ( https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=XQ-KnTxpLfI ) ... France 's Macron fiasco provides the latest warning about the politico-economic consequences of tax cut economics . During his first term , President Macron , basing himself on the less-taxes-more-growth dogma , reduced corporate taxes from 33% to 25% and ended the Solidarity Tax ( a wealth tax on assets over 1.31 million euros ) . The result was an increase not in growth but in deficit , as France 's Central Bank and Court of Auditors have acknowledged . <p> The world is experiencing a swing towards the blood-and-faith populist right . In France , the tidal changes favour Marine Le Pen . When tides turn in Sri Lanka , the main beneficiary will not be the squabbling SJB/UNP but the Rajapaksas and other ethno-religious saviours . <p> Which way the Opposition ? <p> Addressing his first meeting in Jaffna as president , Anura Kumara Dissanayake promised to return military-occupied land gradually to original owners and release all political prisoners . Both measures are long overdue . The war ended 15 years ago . Saturating the north and east with army camps makes no sense from security , economic , or human point-of-view . Most Tamil political prisoners have spent decades in jail without being charged . <p> If the Government honours the President 's promises to the full , the SJB and the UNP are unlikely to cry " Tiger ! Tiger ! " The Rajapaksas are another matter , and other presidential wannabes who dream of grabbing a slice of Gotabaya Rajapaksa 's infamous 6.9 million . This week 's coming out of Sinhala Ravaya is only the latest instance of blood-and-faith populists testing political waters . Before that came Namal Rajapaksa 's dog-whistle comment on the removal of Katkovalam army camp in Jaffna ( https : **38;799;TOOLONG ... According to media reports Medagoda Abeytissa thero ( he who preached that voting for the SLPP was a meritorious deed -- pinkama ) is also back in action , talking about ' enemies ' and the need for a rejuvenated ' national movement ' . If the SJB and the UNP continue to squabble like infantile children , if they fail to oppose the Government rationally , the resulting vacuum will be filled by irrational forces promising to save us from Tamil/Muslim/Hindu enemies -- again . <p> If the JVP did n't effect a change of guard in by replacing Somawansa Amarasinghe with Anura Kumara Dissanayake as leader , there would have been no NPP in 2019 and no electoral triumph in 2024 . To face the new times , the Opposition too needs such a change , of leaders and of policies . Both Ranil Wickremesinghe and Sajith Premadasa are a bar to the necessary reunification of the UNP and the SJB and the creation of a new organisation more attuned to the hopes and needs of Sri Lanka in the second decade of the 21st Century . Since both leaders will continue to cleave to their positions even at the cost of their respective parties , it will not be they but blood-and-faith populists who will benefit from the electorate eventual disenchantment with the NPP/JVP . <p> So back to the past , of showcasing this or that minority as the enemy , creating nation-in-peril crises by myriad ways . What could have happened but did n't with Sihalaramaya -- is an indication of where Sri Lanka could be headed . Soon after the war ended , the Sinhala Ravaya ' resettled ' several Sinhala-Buddhist families in Navakkuli , Jaffna . According to an article in the Irida Divaina ( of 18 August 2013 , by Dinasena Ratugamage and appropriately captioned ' Inane Piety which creates Religious Wars ' ) , a temple was built there under Rajapaksa and military patronage , supposedly for these new residents : Sihalaramaya -- Sinhala Temple . <p> In August 2013 , this Sinhala Temple was reportedly attacked by an unknown entity . The attack did n't create a frenzy , maybe because the Rajapaksas had by then replaced the Tamil enemy with the Muslim enemy . 2019 lies about Muslim residents vandalising Muhudu Maha Viharaya in Pottuvil gained more purchase in Sinhala fears . This time around too , Rajapaksas and their imitators are likely to experiment with various ' enemies ' until they come up with the most effective one , not to mention ally with anyone to improve their political fortunes . As the Government disappoints and the SJB/UNP fails to step into the breach , the lure of extreme solutions would grow , again . Most Lankans seem to be in a less-irrational place today , but who knows what comes tomorrow ? <p> From Sihalaramaya to Chabad-House <p> Let 's start with the true meaning of things . What is a Chabad House ? A Chabad House , according to the official website of the Chabad-Lubavitch Movement " is a Jewish community centre in the truest sense of the term -- the nerve centre of all the educational and outreach activities of the Chabad-Lubavitch shilach ... " ( https : **37;839;TOOLONG ... So a Chabad House is not just another synagogue ; it is the synagogue of a particular Jewish cult , one which believes in greater Israel . The same way Sihalaramaya was not just another Buddhist temple but a temple of an ethno-religious supremacist organisation which believes in a Sinhala-Buddhist Sri Lanka . <p> So talking about Chabad Houses without taking into account the politics of the Chabad-Lubavitch Movement ( as Mark Salter did in his response to me ) is like talking about Sihalaramaya without talking about the politics of Sinhala Ravaya . <p> The best way to understand the politics of a Chabad House is to understand the politics of the Chabad-Lubavitch Movement 's last head ( rebbe ) , the hugely influential Menachem Mendel Schneerson . An implacable supporter of Greater Israel , he opposed every peace accord from Sadat-Begin to Arafat-Rabin , opposed the setting up of the Palestinian Authority , opposed Israel 's withdrawals from Syria , Egypt , Gaza , and the West Bank -- as his admiring biographer Joseph Telushkin admits . His approach was : " It is forbidden to relinquish any part of the land of Israel " ( https : **38;878;TOOLONG ... And when you are in a conflict , finish the job , meaning no ceasefires , no deals , no concessions ( https : **38;918;TOOLONG ... Mark Salter writes that he agrees with me " that any right-wing , ' Greater Israel ' directed ideology poses a potentially serious problem wherever it exists . " That is precisely the problem with allowing a Chabad House in Muslim-majority Arugam Bay ; Chabad-Lubavitch Movement is a firm adherent and a committed vehicle of the Greater Israel ideology , which threatens not only Palestinians and other people of the region ( including the people of Israel ) but also the world . And as for the Iranian-hand he parrots , let 's remember the US 's Weapons of Mass Destruction hoax which enabled the second invasion of Iraq , a colossal crime which gave violent Islamic extremism wings . Perhaps Mark Slater has n't heard of Curveball , the Iraqi defector who imagined quite a lot of the WMD tale , which the Americans believe because they were looking for any excuse to attack Iraq -- just as they are looking for any excuse now to attack Iran . <p> A constitution is a covenant between the governing and the governed , rulers and citizens . It does n't apply to tourists . There is no bar from Israel tourists praying as much as they want , but they do n't need a Chabad House to do that . As Bishop Duleep de Chickera reminds us in his timely piece on Arugam Bay , even Lankan citizens can not set up places of worship as they please ; " Why would tourists on short stays want this when they can pray in their rooms ? " ( https : **38;958;TOOLONG ... Incidentally , Mark Salter can not be unaware that Jews do n't need a synagogue to worship , that they can worship in their places of residence , be it home or hotel . <p> I deliberately did n't refer to the Chabad House in Colombo , because it has not created waves . The problem is the one in Arugam Bay . Permitting a Chabad House in Arugam Bay is as deranged as allowing the Bodu Bala Sena or Sinhala Ravaya to set up a temple in Jaffna . <p> True to their most revered rebbe 's teaching , Chabad-Lubavitch Movement is an active participant in Israel 's war against Gaza . The war has been identified as genocidal not just by the UN but also by Israel-American historian and eminent Holocaust expert , Omar Bartov : Israel 's war , he said , is " a combination of genocidal actions , ethnic cleansing , ( and ) and annexation of the Gaza strip ( https : **38;998;TOOLONG ... Mark Slater is silent about Chabad House publicly commemorating the IDF war-dead in someone else 's country , and in a town without a single Jewish citizen . Arugam Bay is no Gaza , thankfully , but Chabad-Lubavitch members are bringing Gaza into Arugam Bay -- just as Maccabi Tel Aviv fans brought Gaza into Amsterdam . Two days before the soccer match between Israel 's Maccabi-Tel Aviv team and the Netherland 's AFC Ajax team , Maccabi fans arrived in Amsterdam . Over the next 48 hours , hundreds of them roamed the city , tearing down Palestinian flags , destroying a taxi belonging to a Dutch-Arab citizen , and chanting such racist slogans as ' Victory to the IDF . F*%$ the Arabs ' . During the match , they interrupted the two-minute silence for Valencia flood victims and chanted ' There are no schools in Gaza , ( because ) there are no kids ' , a reference to tens of thousands of children murdered by Israeli forces . <p> As Yuval Gal of the anti-Zionist collective Erev Rav said , " If somebody just came from Gaza , came back from killing a lot of people you do n't expect them to behave normally in your city . They have just come back from Gaza they wo n't act normally " ( https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=moPFJD3L16k ) ... After losing the match , Maccabi fans went out to the streets attacking passers-by and the police . In retaliation , Ajax fans , made up of Amsterdam residents of Arab and Dutch origin , unleashed their own brand of violence . Though the counter-violence contained traces of anti-Semitism , it was not a pogrom , as the Amsterdam mayor was compelled to admit later . <p> An article I read in Yedioth Ahronoth , Israel 's highest circulation newspaper , made it easier for me to understand Mark Salter 's mental gymnastics . The opinion piece titled , ' This is what a pogrom looks like , this is the new antisemitism ' by Smadar Perry begins thus . " This is what an Israeli woman who arrived in Amsterdam two days before the soccer match between Maccabi Tel Aviv and Ajax clubs wrote about the atmosphere in the city : ' There were huge gatherings and shouts of ' Death to Arabs ' in Amsterdam 's main squares alongside violence against people against Palestinian flags ... Leaving the games Maccabi Tel Aviv fans were roaming looking for Palestinians to beat up " ( https : **38;1038;TOOLONG ... To call the fracas in Amsterdam a pogrom is to belittle actual pogroms and insult the memory of their countless Jewish victims . <p> So the Israeli visitors incited the violence , then cried antisemitism . Like those Jewish settlers from West Bank who are trying to take over Jerusalem 's Armenian quarter , home for Armenian Christians -- the city 's smallest religious minority -- for more than a millennium . When the Armenians resist , they are accused of being anti-semitic ( https : **38;1078;TOOLONG ... If Chabad-Lubavitch Movement is given a legal foothold in Arugam Bay , it may not be long before our own Muslims are accused of antisemitism and of igniting a pogrom ! Imagine with what glee the BBS/Sinhala Ravaya types would hop on that bandwagon . <p> As tides turn , and the magic fades , we will have enough headaches with our own fundamentalists . We do n't need to add Jewish fundamentalists ( Chabad-Lubavitch Movement ) to our lot . 
@@118419235 <h> Are we ready for boom time ? <p> However , all of this seems to be happening in the interim . The new U.S president would be the former president , Donald Trump , who would be taking his oaths on January 20th . Trump has already , according to reports told Netanyahu the Israeli prime minister that the wars being waged against Hamas and Hezbollahshould end before he is in office . <p> Are all bets off with regard to world peace with the advent of a new Trump administration in the U.S in early 2025 ? There is no betting on world peace , because the bookmakers -- even the most oddball of them -- do not offer odds on that subject . <p> But there is a ceasefire on at the time of writing between Hezbollah and Israel . In contrast , the war in Ukraine continues and has now come back to Russia , with president Zelenskyy taking aim at Russian targets with weapons obtained courtesy the outgoing U.S President , Joe Biden . <p> However , all of this seems to be happening in the interim . The new U.S president would be the former president , Donald Trump , who would be taking his oaths on January 20th . Trump has already , according to reports told Netanyahu the Israeli prime minister that the wars being waged against Hamas and Hezbollahshould end before he is in office . <p> As for the war in Ukraine , Trump already had spoken to President Zelenskyy during the campaign , and it is expected that he would push for a deal . He has asked that the war ends , and according to reports told Zelenskyy that he should find a way to end the unproductive confrontation with the Russians . <p> For this he has indeed come for a great deal of flak as it is expected by many analysts that Trump may force Zelenskyy to agree to terms that would favour the preferences of Russian President Vladimir Putin . <p> STIFLING <p> The bottom line however is world peace is bound to improve with Trump in office . That was his record in his previous four years in the job as president , which had him roundly vilified by the war-hawks . <p> This record would indicate that a Trump presidency would herald a peace dividend in all parts of the world . A de-escalation of crisis would probably stabilise the Middle East , having a positive impact on crude oil prices . Most analysts believe that a peace dividend due to de-escalating situations in Gaza and the other hotspots of the Middle East , and in Ukraine , is a naive expectation however . <p> But the facts indicate that overall the world economy suffered deleterious consequences due to the situation in Ukraine , and the destabilisation of the Middle East . The ongoing warsport end a threat of escalation of hostilities , which acts as a brake on economic activity , which probably could be one reason that the stock-markets performed much better all over the world after anti-war Trump was elected president . <p> In any event , Trump or no Trump , the fact that the world economy progresses in cycles , points to the fact that the post-Covid slump would now end and new era and cycle of economic gain should dawn . We in Sri Lanka should be prepared for the possible opportunities that could come our way due to this expected turnaround of the economy . <p> Tourism numbers have increased dramatically since the Covid-induced slump , but this is in spite of the fact that the air travel has been extremely expensive . <p> Airline ticket prices have essentially not come down after Covid . On the contrary this year saw airline ticket prices increasing by around 25 percent globally on the average . One reason is that there is n't enough supply to meet demand . <p> PLUMMETED <p> People want to travel , even if it means that they would sustain some debt in the effort . But the airline industry has been grappling with post Covid re-adjustments and a stifling regulatory atmosphere . This has resulted in their inability to cater to the increased demand for airline tickets since Covid ended , and people wanted to catch up for lost time . <p> It is expected that a new Trump administration would ease up regulations imposed on the airline industry , accounting for a new dynamic approach to air-travel on the part of airline companies that have been hoping to open up more business opportunities , but have n't had the chance to do so because the burdensome regulatory atmosphere did n't change . <p> Now , it is expected that there would be a generally more sanguine approach to business everywhere , and in all sectors , which would have a knock-on positive effect on the travel industry as well . If there is a significant effort to cater to demand in the travel industry by increasing supply of aircraft and making more airplane seats available for flyers , the tourism industry would skyrocket . <p> The Sri Lankan policymakers should be on the ready to grab the opportunities that are bound to present themselves . Though the world economy is expected to grow at a modest rate of a little over 3 percent over the course of the next year -- as it did in 2024 -- it is expected that the U.S economy would outperform expectations in 2025 . Many analysts have predicted that . If the world 's number one economy starts booming , it stands to reason that the global economy would also start growing faster in the immediate future than expected . <p> This would be an ideal opportunity to grow our economy too , but readiness is the key to any success . We should be aware that the new opportunities present unique openings , which would mean that we can look for our own market niche . <p> Over-reliance on tourism may not be the answer , even though certainly we should be able to increase arrival numbers of all categories of tourists as planned . But there are other opportunities in less competitive markets than tourism , and these are the openings we should be eager to exploit . <p> Most importantly there are the intangibles . There is an expectation of world peace with the advent of a new Trump administration , and a boom in the U.S economy as pointed out . All this would mean that there will be more optimism in the business world , which generally has a contagious effect . It is common sense in the world of economics that good vibes generate greater good vibes , accounting for a general uptick in economic growth spurred on by a renewed sense of optimism and can-do spirit . <p> There is more competition also that would be on the cards of course . Sri Lankans are notorious for missing opportunities . When China slowed down due to Covid , the Vietnamese for instance were able to rise to the opportunity and take some of these opportunities afforded by the Chinese slowdown . <p> PREDICTION <p> On the contrary we in Sri Lanka were burdening ourselves with a absurdly myopic organic-fertiliser project that exacerbated our problems after the Covid related tourism bust , and the decreases in remittances from Sri Lankan workers abroad due to Covid . So while Vietnam thrived in adversity , we plummeted . <p> Now that there is at least a glimmer of hope that the bust-cycle of the world economy would gradually transform into a boom-cycle , we Sri Lankans should be able to devise the means to exploit new opportunities and get a headstart on the competition . <p> There are theories afloat that a Trump administration would cause inflation to surge due to high tariffs that the new president promises to impose , especially on Chinese goods . But these seem to be jaundiced views coming from the establishment , which is notoriously anti-Trump for political reasons . These negative prognostications generally downplay the positive effects of tax cuts etc. , which would help businesses under Trump , and provide an overall stimulus to the economy . The stock market indices would not be surging if the Trump economy is poised to have a negative impact . The truth is that despite the doomsaying of the pundits -- who also claimed the US presidential election would be a very close race , which it was not -- the market behaviour is a far more reliable indicator of what is expected from the economy , and therfore the predictions of the skeptics can be safely set aside . <p> It is good to plan for a general boost for the world economy and all the opportunities that it would bring . We should get out of the habit of never missing an opportunity to miss an opportunity , a negative Sri Lankan trait that has hitherto always kept us ten paces behind the competition . 
@@118494894 <h> Trump threatens to let loose hell on Middle East <p> At Al-Ahli Arab hospital , also known as the Baptist hospital yesterday , a boy cries as he holds the shoes of a toddler who was killed from shrapnel following an Israeli strike in Gaza City . AFP <p> The United States President-elect , Donald Trump , read the riot act this week , warning Hamas -- by extension all Palestinian civilians trapped in the Gaza Strip -- that if the hostages are not released by the time he is in office , there will be " all hell to pay in the Middle East " . <p> The warning from Trump should be taken seriously , though he seems to portray himself as a peacenik . He cares less about international laws and ethics do not cover his actions . Consequences , adverse or otherwise , of his actions do not worry him . He seems to believe that the Middle East has no other way except how he defines it . <p> For Trump and his team , the Gaza war is not about genocide , the massacre of children , or the Israel-made famine . It is about Israel and the release of the 100-odd Israeli hostages in the custody of Hamas and other Palestinian groups . They are the remainder of the 250 hostages the Palestinian resistance groups took prisoner during the daring raid on a border town on October 7 , 2023 . For the Trump team , the release of the hostages is a top priority , even if it means the annihilation of Gaza 's 2.3 million people . <p> Trump wrote in Truth Social -- a social media platform run by Trump Media and Technology Group -- this week that nothing was being done to free those being held by the Iran-backed terror group since Oct. 7 , 2023 ... " Everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire world in the Middle East -- but it 's all talk and no action . <p> " If the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against humanity . Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied history of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " <p> Hamas and other Palestinian resistance groups link the release of the hostages to an immediate and permanent ceasefire that will allow food and other essentials to flow into Gaza and the release of thousands of Palestinian political prisoners in Israeli jails . Israel has not agreed to this condition , though the temporary ceasefire worked out during the early stages of the Gaza war in November last year saw the release of several hundred Palestinian prisoners in exchange for 100 Israeli hostages . <p> Trump 's warning came soon after Hamas released a video clip in which a 20-year-old Israeli-American hostage was seen tearfully appealing to Israel 's Prime Minister and International Criminal Court war crimes suspect Benjamin Netanyahu to cut a deal for the hostages ' release . <p> Trump and his team demonstrate no interest in ending the catastrophic humanitarian situation in Gaza and Israel 's genocide , in which nearly 45,000 Palestinians have been killed , two-thirds of them being children and women . They accuse the Biden administration of not doing enough to get the hostages released . <p> Trump 's warning to Hamas was manna to Netanyahu . He heaped praises on Trump for his strong statement . Though outgoing US president Joe Biden gave Netanyahu whatever he wanted to carry out the genocide in Gaza , it was no secret that Netanyahu was yearning for a Trump victory . <p> Despite protests by family members of the hostages , Netanyahu shows no urgency to strike a deal with Hamas . He often accuses Hamas of not having any interest in striking a deal . But analysts believe that Netanyahu is prolonging the war to boost his chances at the next election , with the Israeli public mood swinging in favour of the war , genocide , and ethnic cleansing of Gaza . The war also helps him to defer his corruption trial and a possible inquiry into the Hamas attack . <p> Trump 's warning also comes at a time when the pro-genocide Western media has succeeded in normalising Palestinian suffering . Rarely do the daily deaths of Palestinians due to Israeli attacks make news in Western media outlets with global reach . Trump is unpredictable , but what is predictable is his eccentric behaviour . After he takes office on January 20 , 2025 , he may even redraw the map of the Middle East , with , who knows , Palestine being completely wiped out . If Trump recognises the Gaza Strip and the West Bank as exclusively part of Israel , which world power dares to challenge it ? Which Middle Eastern nation has the capability or the willpower to go to war with nuclear power Israel to liberate Palestine , even if the Gaza Palestinians were forced into Sinai in Egypt and the West Bank Palestinians into Jordan ? Even if Jerusalem 's Al Aqsa mosque , Islam 's third holiest mosque , is demolished during the Trump presidency to build the Jewish Third Temple that will hasten the arrival of the long-awaited Jewish messiah , there will not be an Arab-Israeli war . Let the events take their course : this appears to be the mood of the Arab world . The Palestinians have become expendable . <p> During his first term from 2017-2021 , Trump recognised Jerusalem as the undivided capital of Israel , disregarding the international law position that Jerusalem is an occupied territory and the international consensus that East Jerusalem is where Palestinians will set up their capital when they have full control of their state with clearly defined boundaries . Instead of undoing these mistakes , Biden legitimised them . <p> Await far more atrocious decisions in Trump 's second term . He has packed his team with Israeli vassals . His Secretary of State will be Marco Rubio , who is being backed by Zionist billionaires . He has vowed to extend unconditional support to Israel . He stands by the apartheid Zionist expansionist state , no matter what wrong it does . <p> Mike Waltz , Trump 's pick for the national security advisor post , is another diehard Israeli supporter and Iran hawk . Elise Stefanik , Trump 's choice for the United Nations envoy post , has threatened the United Nations even before she has assumed office . She has slammed the UN as " corrupt and anti-Semitic " and threatened to cut funds to the UN Human Rights Council , which she sees as anti-Israel . <p> Add to this team Vivek Ramaswamy , who , together with SpaceX and X billionaire Elon Musk , will run Trump 's Department of Government Efficiency , has said Israel should not be restrained . Trump 's Israeli ambassador pick , Mike Huckabee , has said there are no such things as Gaza and the West Bank . " They are Judea and Samaria.There 's no such thing as a settlement . They 're communities , they 're neighbourhoods , they 're cities . There is no such thing as occupation , " he told CNN in 2017 . With such hawks and admirers of genocide and injustice dominating the Trump team , tarnishing the Republican Party , which is but a shadow of its former self when it upheld values and global justice , Palestinians ' fate is more or less sealed . When world history 's chapter on Palestinian genocide is written , the US will surely go down as the country that made it happen , though it had the power to stop it . <h> Comments - 0 <h> Comments - Trump threatens to let loose hell on Middle East <h> Add comment <p> Comments will be edited ( grammar , spelling and slang ) and authorized at the discretion of Daily Mirror online . The website also has the right not to publish selected comments . 
@@118509605 <p> We live in a specialised world . Here ethics , integrity and professionalism are of the utmost importance . Employees with specialised skills are in demand . The world needs leaders with vision who can lead the next generation of professionals . They should be able to tackle the challenges of the future with confidence and boldness , making a real difference in the world and in the lives of people . <p> The Chartered Management Institute ( CMI ) UK , in collaboration with CMI Sri Lanka ( CMI-SL ) , hosted ' CMI Communities Live ' at the Galle Face Hotel , Colombo . Themed " Navigating Change in Uncertain Times , " the event provided an exclusive platform for CMI members in Sri Lanka to connect , engage , and enhance their skills in today 's evolving professional landscape . <p> There is only one way to Navigate Change in Uncertain Times . You ca n't let life just happen to you . You need to take control of your future . You need to be bold and assertive . Times maybe uncertain , yet you need to be resolute . <p> A key highlight of the evening was the presentation of new Chartered Manager and Fellow certificates , awarded to individuals who demonstrated exceptional leadership and management skills . The awards were presented by Chief Executive Officer of CMI-UK , Ann Francke OBE , who served as the Guest of Honour , reinforcing CMI 's dedication to promoting management excellence globally . <p> Outstanding leadership <p> Dr. Thesara Jayawardane , the Project Chair of the event , was specially recognised for her shortlisting as a nominee for the 2024 Chartered Manager of the Year Award . She received a Certificate of Recognition from Ann Francke , honoring her outstanding leadership and contributions to the field of management . <p> The event also included a Felicitation of Past Presidents , acknowledging their invaluable contributions to the growth and success of CMI Sri Lanka over the years.The Chartered Management Institute Sri Lanka ( CMI-SL ) is the only chartered professional body for management and leadership in Sri Lanka . Established in 1996 , CMI-SL is dedicated to advancing management practices through thought leadership , skills development , and the promotion of CMI-UK certifications . <p> President of CMI Sri Lanka , Kamaya Perera , called the event a significant milestone , a historic session , and a new chapter of collaboration , learning and growth . " This event is truly a celebration . It is a celebration of each and every one of you , and the remarkable progress that each and every one of you have made in your professional and personal journey . As members of CMI , we are united by a common purpose and that is to drive excellence in management and leadership together . Events like this allows us to come together and celebrate our achievements , explore the latest trends in our own fields and build deeper connections that will help us grow professionally and personally , " said Perera . <p> She called the event an opportunity to connect . It is an opportunity to engage , learn and grow and have a fantastic evening of networking . " CMI 's commitment to nurturing the next generation of managers and leaders will play a pivotal role in strengthening the management profession in Sri Lanka , enriching the strong educational ties between the UK and Sri Lanka . Our ongoing efforts to elevate professional standards , champion ethical leadership , and promote continuous development within the management community are making a tangible difference in how institutions are managed , " pointed out Perera . <p> British qualification <p> British High Commissioner to Sri Lanka , Andrew Patrick , pointed out that Education is an enormous part of the relationship between the UK and Sri Lanka . " Many Sri Lankans study in the UK , and in recent years British Universities have formed partnerships with local institutions here to work to educate people in Sri Lanka . There are some 45,000 undergraduates in this country , who are studying with local institutions , who are studying for a British qualification . There are around 40 universities who are a part of that . That is an impressive statistic . Sri Lanka is now the second largest destination for transnational education for the UK in the world . You have overtaken Malaysia , and China is number one . CMI is a different kind of experience , and a different kind of education . CMI and the other chartered institutes offer something complementary . <p> And the reason is because they are a qualification , they are a mark of distinction , which you can acquire whatever degree you have studied and whoever you have studied with ( Sri Lankan university or International university ) , you can go ahead and have CMI certification and become a member of the CMI . And that is important for many reasons . The CMI is a worldwide organization , present in around 170 countries with 220,000 members across the world . <p> That is an incredible global community . If you become a member of the CMI , or take their courses , you are connected to that huge community and you are taking the advantage of that knowledge , the latest worldwide best practice . You have access to all of that by working with the CMI . And the same is true for all the other chartered institutes that are present in Sri Lanka . I am tremendously pleased that the CMI is enjoying enormous growth here in Sri Lanka for the reasons I have just said , " explained Patrick . <p> Certainty and predictability <p> In his address Patrick pointed out that the topic , Navigating Change in Uncertain Times is meaningful to him . He started his diplomatic career during the Cold War . " The Soviet Union was still running Eastern Europe in those days , and it brought a kind of certainty and predictability , you had a sense of what was going to happen . <p> Of course immediately after I joined in 1989/1990 , all of that changed , and we had a period of incredible change in the world . My guess is that since Covid19 , we are seeing the signs of another period of extraordinary change in the world and unpredictability . That is going to make it more difficult for all of us to manage whatever we are doing , it makes it more difficult for us as diplomats . <p> It makes it more difficult for you as managers . So what is the solution to that ? One of the answers to that is not to do it alone . Do it as part of a global community of people who are facing similar problems . Exchange views with them . Understand how they are approaching it and share your experiences . That gives you a sense of confidence , the confidence to manage change . That is why this event is so important , " he added . <p> President , Council of Business with Britain , Sri Lanka , Mark Surgenor , said that he is no stranger to difficult times having been in the country during the economic crisis . He added that the world that we live in is rapidly changing politically and economically . There 's so much uncertainty in the world right now . Surgenor is right on the money . <p> Both USA and Sri Lanka have a new president , the ongoing conflict/violence in Gaza is worsening , and the Russia-Ukraine War continues . " Geo politics are all around us . There is uncertainty in the business community . Why is that important to Sri Lanka ? Sri Lanka is a connected country which is in an enviable location where the busy East-West shipping route passes just six to ten nautical miles south of the island . More than 60,000 ships ply this route annually , carrying two-thirds of the world 's oil and half of all container shipments . Tourists come to Sri Lanka from all around the world . The world is shifting and it is a complex world , and a complex environment , and managing through it is difficult . So how do you do that ? First make sure you have a plan , " said Surgenor . <p> He took the example of a pilot . He spoke of situational awareness . Think about a pilot flying a plane . He needs to know how to fly the plane . He needs to know where he is going . He needs to know how to communicate . But one of the most critical skills he needs is knowing where the other planes are . What they are doing , and why they are doing what they are doing , and what impact they might have on his trajectory . <p> " We need to know what is going on with other economies . Why are people behaving the way they are ? Why are people doing what they are doing ? What is that going to do for the trajectory we wish to follow ? We need to understand their motivations . Think about other countries , other governments and other competitors . <p> They all have influences . Look inwards and make sure you know your people . Know what they want and what they need . What their thoughts , ambitions and capabilities are . Be honest about how you work together . None of us are perfect . Make sure your messages are getting through , top to bottom . There needs to be structure and discipline . Think about what might happen and what you will do if it happens . Any significant event has its potential challenges . You need to plan and have something to work with . You need to be able to navigate your challenges . The more you test the more you build confidence in yourself , your organisation and your team . You need to be a good communicator , " pointed out Surgenor . <p> Chief Executive Officer of CMI-UK , Ann Francke OBE , reflected on the rapid growth of CMI 's learner community in Sri Lanka , which has expanded from 350 members in 2021 to over 500 today , with total membership now exceeding 650 . She noted , " Over the last three years , we have witnessed tremendous growth in our presence and impact in Sri Lanka . This growth reflects the increasing recognition of the value of professional management qualifications and the demand for skilled leadership across the region . " <p> She added that CMI is the global professional body for managers and leaders , and the only organisation able to award chartered management status . " We turn accidental managers into conscious , capable and confident leaders . Now why is that important ? Say you are a great IT professional or a fabulous finance professional or super sales professional . You have functional expertise and you excel . So one day , your boss taps you on the shoulder and says , congratulations ! ' You are promoted ! You are now running the department . Good luck with that ! ' . And they leave you to get on with it . In actual fact 82% of people promoted into managerial positions in the UK do not receive any managerial training . And it is therefore no wonder that they are not really sure what they are doing . They lack the skills , confidence and self-awareness to successfully lead the team for their organisations . And that is what CIM is there for . We help people overcome these obstacles , make them part of our global community and provide them with qualifications . We are very proud of our global community , " explained Francke . <p> They are united in the conviction that learning how to manage and lead , and constantly learning how to do it better and better makes a huge and positive impact on individuals in organisations , and in the end has an impact on society . " We work with managers and leaders to develop the knowledge , behaviors and skills that the next generation of managers and leaders need . You need to manage yourself , manage others and manage the impact of your organisation . To be a great manager and leader , you need to be able to do all this . Managers and leaders exist at every level . You need to be able to manage the complex aspects of your organisation on a daily basis . You need to manage change all the time in these uncertain times . You need to think clearly and come up with plans . " <p> 2nd Vice President/Project Chair , Dr. Thesara Jayawardane , called the event remarkable and special in many ways . All speakers highlighted the many facets of CIM and how important it is to the next generation of leaders , honing the skills of the youth and having such a positive impact on society . She specially thanked all participants for contributing with their expertise . The perspectives of navigating change in uncertain times was impactful and the dissemination of knowledge and information was well received . Jayawardane said that the significance of the event will resonate for many years to come . <p> " Let us continue to build stronger connections and strive for excellence in management . " 
@@118539443 <h> Classified <h> Other <h> All at sea ? <p> But if the Chabad House movement 's ideology -- politics , if you will -- is the core issue here , why so in one place , but apparently not in another ? <p> Mental gymnastics -- something Gunasekara suggests I am guilty of indulging in -- are hardly needed to appreciate the wider context here . A fair bit of media commentary on these events includes a final note to the effect that three-quarters of all Dutch Jews -- many of my own relatives included -- were murdered by the Nazis , mostly in concentration camps but all too many , like those Israeli and Jewish football supporters , hunted down on the streets of Amsterdam and a host of other Dutch towns and villages . It 's this history that underlies Dutch politicians ' responses to the recent violence <p> " Thou shalt not be a victim , thou shalt not be a perpetrator . But above all , thou shalt not be a bystander " -- Yehuda Bauer <p> Tisaranee Gunasekara has been gracious enough to respond to me on the Arugam Bay controversy , and I shall do so in kind . ( https : **38;957;TOOLONG ... Like all racism , anti-Semitism can be a shocking thing : witness this quotation , from the writings of a well-known 19th century American novelist . " The ugliest , most evil-minded people , resembling maggots when they overpopulate a decaying cheese . " -- Nathaniel Hawthorne , The Marble Faun . <p> Amsterdam violence <p> When it comes to the recent football-related violence in Amsterdam , however , Tisaranee Gunasekara 's latest article suggests that she suffers from something of a tin ear in relation to anti-Semitism . In particular , she seems to be convinced that the primary source the violence that erupted on the streets of Amsterdam in the wake of Maccabi Tel Aviv 's match there earlier this month lies with their fans . <p> There 's no doubt that some of these so-called ' fans ' are a deeply worrying bunch , and for all the reasons she outlines . Anybody familiar with Israeli football can confirm that the ' Ultras ' , as they 're known , routinely chant racist , anti-Arab slogans , some of them as offensive as it gets in the expletive overloaded world of soccer support , as well as demonstrating a very high propensity towards violence . Their performance in Amsterdam was clearly no exception -- not least the endless repetition of the slogan ' F*ck you Palestine ' and other related obscenities . And yes , there 's also visual evidence of some of them tearing down Palestinian flags on display in the neighbourhood . <p> Where Gunasekara 's account breaks down , however , is precisely at this point . Where is the display of any sense of feeling for or understanding of the other side of the story ? Let 's start with one , not insignificant detail . Media accounts of events that night indicate that a number of people , Israelis and Dutch Jews alike , were asked if they were Jewish -- in some instances even to show their passports -- before being beaten up by local assailants ( by all accounts , ' local ' chiefly meaning men from the Moroccan immigrant community ) . Indeed , a BBC report indicates that two British Jews ' saw men yelling antisemitic threats and stamping on a man ' . They intervened , then eventually went to leave . Shortly after another group asked them whether they were Jewish , to which they replied that they were British . ' But you helped the Jew ' , one of them replied , ' and he punched me in my face and broke my glasses ' . <p> An everyday story of football-related violence ? No . The ' hit and run ' attacks on Israeli supporters subsequently perpetrated by small , motorbike gangs picking them out , Gestapo style , on the streets of Amsterdam before beating them up suggests something altogether more sinister , and organised . ( Subsequent revelations of ad hoc WhatsApp and Telegram discussion groups bear out this contention ) . The reference to the Gestapo is not ill-considered , either . Undoubtedly , the predominantly Muslim perpetrators of these hate crimes are mostly unaware of the historical significance of their actions , which fell on the anniversary of Kristallnacht , the 1938 ' Night of Broken Glass ' , sometimes known as the night of pogroms , during which the Nazis indulged in a brutal orgy of destruction of Jewish buildings and property . <p> Mental gymnastics -- something Gunasekara suggests I am guilty of indulging in -- are hardly needed to appreciate the wider context here . A fair bit of media commentary on these events includes a final note to the effect that three-quarters of all Dutch Jews -- many of my own relatives included -- were murdered by the Nazis , mostly in concentration camps but all too many , like those Israeli and Jewish football supporters , hunted down on the streets of Amsterdam and a host of other Dutch towns and villages . <p> It 's this history that underlies Dutch politicians ' responses to the recent violence . From the Dutch king movingly insisting that ' Jews must feel safe in the Netherlands , everywhere and at all times . We put our arms around them and will not let them go ' . To Amsterdam Mayor Femke Halsena 's version of the same underlying sentiment , suggesting that the violence ' brings back memories of pogroms . Jewish culture has been deeply threatened . This is an outburst of antisemitism that I hope never to see again ' . ( The Guardian , 12 Nov. 2024 ) . <p> Let 's be clear here . No one is suggesting that Kristallnacht and the recent violent outbursts in Amsterdam are directly synonymous . That said , it is heartening to know that in response to recent events , the Dutch authorities appear to be calling things by their proper names . Prime Minister Dick Schoof , for example , has described the events in Amsterdam as ' anti-Semitic attacks against Israelis and Jews ' that were ' nothing short of shocking and reprehensible ' . Importantly , he acknowledged the Maccabi fan 's appalling behaviour , but described it as being of a ' different category ' and as ' no excuse whatsoever for what happened later on that night in attacks the attacks on Jews in Amsterdam ' . ( BBC 12 Nov. 2024 ) . <p> A pogrom it certainly was not . Nor was it , as Gunasekara seems to imply , a simple case of Israeli fans inciting violence . A careful survey of the evidence clearly shows that there were two sides to this story , with young men filled with hate and intent on violence gathered on both sides of the fence . The truth , in other words , lies somewhere in between the historically resonant but contextually inappropriate epithet ' pogrom ' , and Tisaranee Gunasekara 's manifestly insufficient suggestion that the ' counter-violence ' -- a questionable description in itself -- ' contained traces of anti-Semitism ' : a forensic analogy does little to hide the insufficiencies of the underlying analysis . <p> All in all , an object lesson in the dangers of ' seeing what you want to see ' , as opposed to what 's staring you in the face . <p> Affirming the consequent <p> Gunasekara takes me to task for ' parroting an Iranian hand ' when it comes to the situation in Arugam Bay . More useful than this would have been if she had looked at the available evidence , which remains essentially unchanged . But facts have an annoying habit of upending assumptions . The fact that US intelligence over Iraq was spectacularly wrong -- or ' sexed up ' , as the UK government variant of the notorious Bush/Iraq/ WMD allegations had it -- in no sense implies that it will always and forever wrong thereafter . <p> The latest publicly available information on the allegations with respect to an Iranian plot to carry out killings in Sri Lanka focused on Arugam Bay remains as is : https : //edition. **29;997;TOOLONG ... And unless and until contradictory information emerges , arguments such as Gunasekara 's based on ' affirming the consequent ' remains as logically tenuous as my philosophy professors used to insist they were . <p> In the same context , Gunasekara suggests that I gloss over the politics of the global Chabad movement . Not so . In fact , I state that I do n't consider the movement 's politics to be the main issue at stake in the Arugam Bay controversy -- hence my lack of attention to them . On this question , moreover , Gunasekara 's argument is somewhat confusing . On the one hand , she states that the Chabad House movement 's stance on Greater Israel , Gaza , etc. is so toxic as to justify its exclusion from Arugam Bay . On the other , she readily admits that the sister house in Colombo , which I have attended on a couple of occasions , ' has not created waves ' -- hence her lack of reference to it . But if the Chabad House movement 's ideology -- politics , if you will -- is the core issue here , why so in one place , but apparently not in another ? <p> Gunasekara herself supplies the answer to this apparent contradiction . According to her , it seems , the real problem is not Chabad House politics or ideology , but rather ' creating waves ' . And in the case of the Arugam Bay house of worship , those ' waves ' have been created , not by its fanatical adherents , as is the case with the BBS and Sinhala Ravaya-dominated temples she suggests we should consider in the same breath as Chabadists , but by a US travel advisory whose origins were revisited earlier in this article . Chabadists did n't ' create waves ' , in other words : US intelligence and a related travel advisory did . <p> Further , media reports from Arugam Bay in the run up to , and since the US travel advisory indicate that , far from antagonising the local majority Muslim population , the Israeli tourists who flock to the place in droves during the winter months are viewed positively in the main , not least by local businesses , who appreciate the much-needed income they are generating . And reports of occasional confrontations between Israeli tourists and locals need to be set against the local demonstration reportedly held earlier this month in support of them , complete with Israeli flags ( although where those came from is anybody 's guess -- the Chabad House being the obvious answer ) . <p> On the question of commemorating your war dead -- one of which Sri Lankans have plenty of experience -- I would seriously question Gunasekara 's contention that doing this in a foreign country is any more objectionable than doing so in your own country . And here , this year 's Tamil ' Heroes Day ' commemorations suggest this issue is still far from being resolved within Sri Lanka itself . All in all , the old adage ' it ai n't what you do , it 's the way that you do it ' suggests itself . If the visitors to the Chabad House in Arugam elect to honour their war dead -- a normal , wholly comprehensible human urge -- they should be reminded , perhaps by local authorities , to do so in a respectful , non-provocative manner . <p> In this context , setting up a dedicated visitor liaison unit within , say , the Foreign Ministry suggests itself , whose task would be specifically to maintain lines of communication . ( I am not suggesting such a unit should deal with the vexed issue of tourists overstaying their visas and/or setting up local businesses illegally . That also requires robust action from the authorities , but in a different setting ) . Nor would its remit be exclusively Israeli-focused . Citizens of another country engaged in a brutal , continuing war of occupation -- Russia -- constitute a far larger portion of foreign visitors to this country ( roughly 129,000 as against Israel 's c.30,000 so far this year ) and are likewise known to engage in visa overstays and illegal business ventures . For good measure some have reportedly organised ' Whites Only ' parties in the South , to the extent that the Russian embassy felt compelled to issue a statement earlier this year condemning ' all forms of racial discrimination and nationalism ' . <p> In short , behaviour worthy of critical examination -- no less than that of Israeli visitors . This is unlikely to happen , however , for the same reason that that the Russian occupation of Ukraine has yet to excite sympathy and solidarity within Sri Lanka on a level even remotely comparable to Palestinians in Gaza . A friend recently explained the matter to me as follows : ' Russians , we love , we read their books as students . We will never really criticise them . Whereas with Israelis , we see them as part of the West . So it 's open season on them . ' <p> Freedom of religion <p> Gunasekara 's treatment of freedom of religion is as brusque as it is poorly informed . First the condescending -- if unintentionally so -- suggestion , from both her and Bishop Chickera , that Israeli visitors do n't need a synagogue or Chabad House : after all , they argue , they can pray in their own rooms . This is , to put it mildly , a somewhat high and mighty proposal : since when did outsiders get to tell the religious how they should or should not be allowed to pray ? Would Gunasekara such an approach to other religious groups ? I sincerely hope not . The desire to worship together is a feature of just about every known religion . What could possibly justify excluding Jews from this fundamental religious freedom ? <p> Second , her suggestion that a constitution is ' a covenant between the governing and governed ... It does n't apply to tourists ' is wide off the mark . The Sri Lankan constitution provides for religious freedom as per Article 9 ( foremost place of Buddhism ) , Article 10 ( freedom of religion ) and Article 14 ( right to worship ) . These articles contain nothing to suggest that such rights apply exclusively to citizens . Indeed , a survey of legal provisions regarding religious practice clearly indicates that non-citizens as much as citizens are covered by the relevant constitutional provisions . <p> Thus , under the country 's constitution non-citizens enjoy the right to maintain religious institutions , although to operate them they must register formally ( an issue with the Chabad House in Arugam Bay , it should be noted ) . All in all , when it comes to non-citizens ' exercise of religious freedom , constitutionally speaking , a balance is maintained between fundamental freedoms and official oversight of religious activity , including questions of property ownership , foreign funding and official registration . <p> In view of the debate this issue has given rise to , might it perhaps be time to have these freedoms spelt out clearly in the Constitution ? If such an exercise were to be undertaken , it might be relevant to look at comparative regional experience . A brief survey indicates that in countries from Japan and South Korea to Malaysia , Singapore , India and Nepal , religious freedom for all is explicitly acknowledged constitutionally speaking , mostly irrespective of citizenship . Time in other words , for Sri Lanka to seek to join , not just BRICS , but this informal regional club ? <p> ( The writer is a BBC journalist , researcher and consultant . He first visited this country in the early 2000s , has been a consistent visitor ever since , and currently lives in Colombo . His next book , ' From Independence to Aragalaya : A Modern History of Sri Lanka ' will be published by Hurst , London in autumn 2025. ) 
@@118612497 <p> The EconomyNext on December 5 reported that the International Truth and Justice Project ( ITJP ) is seeking sanctions and travel bans for human rights and economic crimes in Sri Lanka for more than 60 Sri Lankans , including military officials . The submissions have been sent to the governments of the United States , United Kingdom , Australia , and Canada as well as the European Union and the United Nations , <p> Yasmin Sooka , the Executive Director of the ITJP affirmed that in the absence of accountability to date , " ... it is vital to continue to document past and current crimes , analyse the evidence and use every channel to keep on asserting the truth ... " <p> Three cheers to Sooka for raising the issue nearly 25 years after the war was brought to an end . Reportedly over 70,000 persons lost their lives during that near three-decade period . We at the Daily Mirror ' raise our hats ' so-to-say to the Executive Director and her team for their diligent work , carried out over an extended period of time . <p> She added , " We hope the new government in the UK will sanction Sri Lankans on Human Rights Day this year ( 10 December ) for their alleged role in war crimes during the end of the country 's conflict . " <p> War criminals if any , need to be brought to book and punished for their crimes . Similarly , is it by gross oversight that Sooka , and her team continue to receive international scale remuneration for their work with no time line in sight ? <p> Lanka 's human rights record is often raised whenever the sponsors of project ITJP feel it is necessary to divert attention away from ongoing current events ; as well as to ' persuade ' recalcitrant governments to toe a particular line . <p> Most often these tactics are used to twist the arm of governments , whom ITJP sponsors believe are not falling in line with their thinking . <p> The ITJP has submitted it report to the governments of the United States , the United Kingdom , Australia , Canada , the European Union and the United Nations . <p> Curiouser and curiouser , as the mythical figure in Lewis Carol 's ' Alice in Wonderland ' would have said . The five government 's whom the ITJP has sent its report on alleged war criminality in Lanka are the very powers who are wantonly backing the ongoing commission War of Crimes , Commission of Apartheid and what has now been described as genocide by Israel in Palestine . <p> In the near three-decade long ethnic war in Lanka , over 70,000 persons may have been killed . Most of them were civilians . The criminals responsible for their deaths need to be brought to justice . We do not dispute this . <p> But why has the ITJP asked these Western powers to sanction the Lankan individuals ? Are they akin to white knights in shining armour ? <p> Presently Israel has murdered over forty-three thousand Palestinian civilians . It has , according to the United Nations , attacked refugee camps in the Gaza Strip . It continues killing children . According to the United Nations Secretary General , Gaza has become a killing field for children . <p> A new Oxfam ( a British-based international charity ) analysis has found more women and children have been killed in Gaza by the Israeli military over the past year than the equivalent period of any other conflict over the past two decades . <p> Separate data from ' Action on Armed Violence ' up to September 23 shows , Israel hit civilian infrastructure across Gaza with explosive weapons once every three hours since the war began . <p> Homes were hit every four hours . Tents and temporary shelters every 17 hours . Schools and hospitals every four days and aid distribution points and warehouses every 15 days . <p> Earlier this year , a study published in ' The Lancet ' estimated the true number of deaths in Gaza could be over 186,000 , taking indirect deaths -- for example , due to burial under rubble , starvation and lack of health care . <p> So why Sooka do you call on persons collaborating in genocide to sanction Lankans on Human Rights Day ? Is it to divert attention away from the ongoing genocide in Palestine by a friend named Israel ? 
@@118622434 <h> How Iran Sees the Path to <h> The Islamic Republic Is Open to Negotiations-Including With America <p> On July 30 , Masoud Pezeshkian was sworn-in as Iran 's new President . Mere hours after the ceremony , Ismail Haniyeh , the former Prime Minister of the Palestinian National Authority and chairman of the Hamas political bureau , was assassinated by Israel in a guesthouse near the Presidential complex . Haniyeh had been invited to attend the inauguration , and his killing on Iranian soil cast a shadow over the proceedings . It also previewed the challenges Pezeshkian will face in pursuing his foreign policy ambitions . <p> But Pezeshkian is well-prepared to handle all the difficulties that will arise over the coming years . Pezeshkian recognises that the world is transitioning into a post-polar era where global actors can simultaneously cooperate and compete across different areas . He has adopted a flexible foreign policy , prioritising diplomatic engagement and constructive dialogue rather than relying on outdated paradigms . His vision for Iran 's security is holistic , encompassing both traditional defense capabilities and the enhancement of human security through improvements in the economic , social , and environmental sectors . <p> Pezeshkian wants stability and economic development in the Middle East . He wants to collaborate with neighbouring Arab countries and to strengthen relations with Iran 's allies . But he also wants to engage constructively with the West . His government is ready to manage tensions with the United States , which has also just elected a new President . Pezeshkian hopes for equal-footed negotiations regarding the nuclear deal -- and potentially more . <p> Yet as Pezeshkian has made clear , Iran will not capitulate to unreasonable demands . The country will always stand up to Israeli aggression . And it will be undeterred from protecting its national interests . <p> POLITICS IS LOCAL <p> This is a historic moment for stability that the world should not let slip . Tehran certainly wo n't . After over two centuries of vulnerability , Iran -- under the leadership of Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei -- has finally proven that it can defend itself against any external aggression . To take that achievement to the next level , Iran , under its new administration , plans to improve relations with neighbouring states to help create a regional order that promotes stability , wealth , and security . Our region has been plagued for far too long by foreign interference , wars , sectarian conflicts , terrorism , drug trafficking , water scarcity , refugee crises , and environmental degradation . To tackle these challenges , we will work to pursue economic integration , energy security , freedom of navigation , environmental protection , and interfaith dialogue . <p> Eventually , these efforts could lead to a new regional arrangement that reduces the Persian Gulf 's reliance on external powers and encourages stakeholders to address conflicts through dispute resolution mechanisms . To do so , the region 's countries may pursue treaties , create institutions , enact policies , and pass legislative measures . Iran and its neighbors can start by mimicking the Helsinki process , which led to the formation of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe . They can use the never-implemented mandate that the UN Security Council gave to the UN Secretary-General in 1987 , under Resolution 598 . That resolution , which ended the Iran-Iraq War , called on the Secretary-General to consult with Iran , Iraq , and other regional states to explore measures that could enhance security and stability in the Persian Gulf . The Pezeshkian administration believes this provision can serve as the legal basis for comprehensive regional talks . <p> Of course , there are obstacles that Iran and its neighbours must overcome to foster a peaceful , integrated regional order . Some differences with its neighbours have deep-rooted origins , shaped by varying interpretations of history . Others arise from misconceptions , mainly rooted in poor or insufficient communication . Still others are political constructs implanted by external forces , such as allegations concerning the nature and objective of Iran 's nuclear programme . <p> But the Persian Gulf must move on . Iran 's vision aligns with the interests of Arab countries , all of which also want a more stable and prosperous region for the sake of future generations . Iran and the Arab world should thus be able to work through their differences . Iran 's support for Palestinian resistance could help kick-start such cooperation . The Arab world , after all , is united with Iran in its support for restoring the rights of the Palestinian people . <p> HITTING RESET <p> After more than 20 years of economic restrictions , the United States and its Western allies should recognise that Iran does not respond to pressure . Their intensifying coercive measures have consistently backfired . At the height of Washington 's most recent maximum-pressure campaign -- and just days after Israel assassinated Iran 's leading nuclear scientist , Mohsen Fakhrizadeh -- Iran 's parliament passed a law directing the government to rapidly advance its nuclear programme and reduce international monitoring . The number of centrifuges in Iran has increased dramatically since 2018 -- when U.S. President Donald Trump withdrew from the nuclear deal -- and enrichment levels have skyrocketed from 3.5 percent to over 60 percent . It is hard to imagine any of this would have happened if the West had not abandoned its cooperative approach . In this regard , Trump , who will take office again in January , and Washington 's partners in Europe have themselves to blame for Iran 's continued nuclear progress . <p> Instead of increasing pressure on Iran , the West should pursue positive-sum solutions . The nuclear deal provides a unique example , and the West should look to revive it . But to do so , it must take concrete and practical actions -- including political , legislative , and mutually beneficial investment measures -- to make sure Iran can benefit economically from the agreement , as was promised . Should Trump decide to take such steps , then Iran is willing to have a dialogue that would benefit both Tehran and Washington . <p> On a broader scale , Western policymakers must acknowledge that strategies aimed at pitting Iran and Arab countries against one another by supporting initiatives such as the so-called Abraham Accords ( which normalised ties between various Arab countries and Israel ) have proven ineffective in the past and will not succeed in the future . The West needs a more constructive approach -- one that takes advantage of Iran 's hard-earned confidence , accepts Iran as an integral part of regional stability , and seeks collaborative solutions to shared challenges . Such shared challenges could even prompt Tehran and Washington to engage in conflict management rather than exponential escalation . All countries , Iran and the United States included , have a mutual interest in addressing the underlying causes of regional unrest . <p> That means all countries have an interest in stopping the Israeli occupation . They should realise that the fighting and fury will continue until the occupation ends . Israel may think it can permanently triumph over the Palestinians , but it can not ; a people who have nothing to lose can not be defeated . Organisations such as Hezbollah and Hamas are grassroots liberation movements that have emerged in response to occupation and will continue to play a significant role as long as the underlying conditions persist -- which is to say until the Palestinians ' right to self-determination is realised . There can be intermediate steps , including immediate cease-fires in Lebanon and Gaza . <p> Iran can continue to play a constructive role in ending the current humanitarian nightmare in Gaza and work with the international community to pursue a lasting and democratic solution to the conflict . Iran will agree to any solution acceptable to Palestinians , but our government believes that the best way out of this century-long ordeal would be a referendum in which everyone living between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea -- Muslims , Christians , and Jews -- and Palestinians driven to diaspora in the twentieth century ( along with their descendants ) would be able to determine a viable future system of governance . This is in line with international law and would build on the success of South Africa , where an apartheid system was transformed into a viable democratic state . <p> Constructive engagement with Iran , coupled with a commitment to multilateral diplomacy , can help build a framework for global security and stability in the Persian Gulf . It can thereby reduce tensions and foster long-term prosperity and development . This shift is crucial for overcoming entrenched conflicts . Although today 's Iran is confident that it can fight to defend itself , it wants peace , and it is determined to build a better future . Iran can be an able and willing partner , as long as its partnerships are based on mutual respect and equal footing . Let us not miss this opportunity for a new beginning . <p> ( The writer is Associate Professor of Global Studies at University of Tehran . He has been Iran 's Vice President for Strategic Affairs since August 2024 . From 2013 to 2021 , he served as Foreign Minister of Iran . He was the country 's Chief Nuclear Negotiator from 2013 to 2015 and its Ambassador to the United Nations from 2002 to 2007. ) 
@@118661760 <h> The fall of Damascus <p> The smell of freedom was in the air around Damascus on Sunday as rebel forces stormed the world 's oldest city , forcing Syrian strongman Bashar al-Assad to flee to Moscow with his family , where they have been granted asylum . <p> Assad , who ruled Syria with an iron fist for 24 years , had no other option as rebel forces led by the charismatic Abu Mohammed al-Jawlani of the Islamist Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , stormed into the city amidst the cheers of residents . The rebellion against the Assad regime has been simmering for around 13 years without much progress , which is why the speed of the rebel advance took even the foreign intelligence community by surprise . World leaders were however quick to welcome it , with United States ( US ) President Joe Biden describing Assad 's ouster as an " act of justice " . Nevertheless , they have been cautious not to overtly praise the rebels either . <p> The rebels ' swift victory marks a revolutionary milestone for Syria , which has been mired in a Civil War since 2011 , which itself turned into an international proxy war involving Tehran , Washington , Moscow , Ankara and Tel Aviv . Syria also turned into a breeding ground for the Islamic State ( IS ) terrorist group , which was later vanquished through an international effort . <p> Jawlani , who has increasingly been using his real name Ahmed al-Sharaa in official communiqu ? s and openly appearing in public without any disguise for the past few years despite a US$ 10 million bounty offered by the US on his head ( HTS has been designated by the United Nations ( UN ) , US , United Kingdom and many other countries as a terrorist organisation ) may or may not be the leader that Syria needs at this critical juncture when there is a war raging in neighbouring Lebanon and Gaza . In fact , Israel exploited the chaos in Syria to attack what it called military targets in some parts of the country . <p> Jawlani has taken pains to cultivate a more moderate image , cutting off ties with the extremist terror groups such as al-Qaeda and the Islamic State ( IS ) . He has also shed the traditional garb worn by Jihadist militants and opted for Western attire and battlefield fatigues , apparently inspired by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky , who has been seen in similar attire since the Ukraine War began in February 2022 . Jawlani , though still a firm believer of Sharia Law , has also recognised the rights of believers of other faiths . <p> While the world watches the meteoric rise of Jawlani with concern , what is certain is that no tears will be shed for the deposed Syrian dictator Assad , who has been accused of ordering brutal physical and chemical attacks on his own people to consolidate power . In fact , members of the Assad family have been ruling Syria for almost 50 years . Assad was actually studying to become an eye surgeon in London when his brother Bassel , being groomed to succeed their father Hafez , was killed in a car crash . <p> This , coupled with his father 's death in 2000 after three decades in power , propelled the younger Assad to the political limelight , with Parliament taking just four hours to lower the Presidential eligibility age to 34 to accommodate him at the Presidential Election in 2000 . Naturally , this was a sham election with no real opposition and Assad has been in power since then . He was returned to power every seven years through similar " elections " , despite several attempts by various external forces to end his regime . <p> According to a report by the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , over 100,000 people have been executed or have died in prisons of the Assad regime . An Amnesty International ( AI ) investigation also found that " murder , torture , enforced disappearances and extermination carried out at Syrian prisons since 2011 have been perpetrated as part of an attack against the civilian population that has been widespread , as well as systematic , and carried out in furtherance of state policy " . <p> Incidentally , 2011 was the year that the " Arab Spring " came to the streets of Damascus with calls to overthrow Assad , who put down the protests violently . In May 2011 , then US President Barack Obama said Assad 's regime had " chosen the path of murder and the mass arrests of its citizens " and called on him to lead a democratic transition " or get out of the way " . <p> The conflict is now a cornerstone of Assad 's brutal legacy , leaving hundreds of thousands of dead , and what the UN earlier this year said was more than seven million Internally Displaced People ( IDPs ) and over six million international refugees . <p> But now , Syria has an opportunity to turn a new page , leaving that dark era behind . For the moment , Jawlani has promised a peaceful transition to democracy and Assad 's own Prime Minister Mohammed Ghazi al-Jalali has been tasked with supervising this process . <p> It is not yet clear whether Jawlani has Presidential or Prime Ministerial ambitions , which is complicated by his international pariah status and the US$ 10 million bounty . But what is clear is that a new generation of Syrians ( Jawlani himself is just 42 ) has a golden opportunity to take Syria out of its present quagmire and rejoin the community of nations . 
@@118781296 <p> The crisis unfolding in Syria is indeed a major geopolitical quake , the likes of which the Middle East has not seen since the defeat of the Ottoman Empire and the balkanisation of the region into more than a dozen nation-states some 105 years ago in keeping with the Western imperialists ' sinister design to divide and rule the Arabs . <p> After the ouster of the oppressive regime of Bashar al-Assad , the tectonic plates beneath the Middle East are shifting , creating a new reality -- a new political landscape . <p> If one were to apply the criminal investigators ' follow-the-motive approach to determine who might have benefitted from the crime , it becomes easy to identify the architects behind the Syrian regime-change project : Israel , the country that is most benefiting from the fall of the Assad regime . <p> Israel seized on the opportunity in the chaotic aftermath of the ouster of the Assad regime to grab more Syrian territory in pursuance of its Eretz Israel or Greater Israel dream . Already , it has annexed Syria 's Golan Heights , which it captured in the 1967 war . The illegal annexation has won the immoral recognition of the US , the diehard defender of Israel 's genocide in Gaza , and the morally most unfit big power to be a global leader . <p> After last Sunday 's fall of the Assad regime , Israel captured the Golan Heights buffer zone established in 1974 following a United Nations resolution and moved beyond it , bringing under its control the strategic Quneitra Heights and Qatana . Moreover , Israel carried out more than 400 airstrikes this week , destroying Syria 's military assets , including fighter jets , naval craft , and military bases in what it boasts as the most intense airstrikes in its military history . <p> Mark our words : Israel will not hand over the newly captured territories to a new Syrian government when stability returns . To sting is the nature of the scorpion . The nature of Israel is to grab and annex other people 's land . Israel has justified the capture of the Syrian territory by invoking the right to defend itself . If this is Israel 's logic , where does it stop ? Not until it conquers the entire Middle East and even Afghanistan and Pakistan . Not until Israel brings under its control the entire world of the Gentiles . <p> The new Syria that is emerging is being parcelled out among regime-change architects . Israel is taking a big chunk and has succeeded in dismantling the Iran-led Shiite Crescent -- a territorially contiguous line connecting Iran , Iraq , Syria , and South Lebanon controlled by the Shiite militant group Hezbollah . The fall of the Assad regime is a big blow to Iran , the Palestinian cause , and the axis of resistance against Israel . <p> The Zionist state 's immediate goal is to set up in truncated Syria a puppet regime beholden to Israel so that it will cede the Golan Heights to Israel . International law bars an occupying power from selling the resources of an occupied nation , but once Syria secedes the Golan Heights , Israel will be able to sell the Golan oil and gas in the international market . <p> It is not only Israel that is into land grabs . Turkey is holding on to parts of the Syrian territory along the border , justifying its action on security grounds . The Kurds are trying to form their statelet with the help of the US , their ally during the Syrian civil war , though Washington 's NATO ally Turkey is determined to vanquish them to weaken the Kurdish separatism within Turkey . The result is Syria is being balkanised in keeping with Zionism 's vision of enfeebling the Arab nations . <p> The Syrian civil war was not autochthonous . It was engineered by interested outside parties , the same forces that effected the regime change in Libya and had Muammar Gaddafi killed . The decision to get rid of the Bashar al-Assad regime was taken after Syria rejected a Saudi-Qatari pipeline proposal to send Middle Eastern oil and gas to Europe via Turkey . The pipeline project posed a geopolitical threat to Russia 's domination of the European energy market . Russian companies met about 60 percent of Europe 's energy needs . Assad rejected the project following opposition from Russia and Iran , Syria 's closest allies . <p> Syria 's new rulers , a coalition led by Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) -- the Committee for the Liberation of the Levant -- have neither the political will nor the military assets to fight Israel , while a dominant faction within the group is more interested in establishing a Sunni fundamentalist regime under which , it is feared , the minorities -- Shiites , the Christians , and the Alawites -- will be oppressed not because they supported the Assad regime but because they are considered ' others . ' <p> Not many media outlets are telling us that the Syrian rebels who toppled the Assad regime got their weapons from Israel . A January 14 , 2019-dated Times of Israel article quoted the outgoing Israel Defence Forces chief of staff , Gadi Eisenkot , as acknowledging , for the first time , that Israel had been providing weapons to the Syrian rebels . <p> During the campaign to oust Assad , Israel acted as the air force of the rebels and evacuated wounded rebels , including al-Qaeda-affiliated members , to be treated in Israeli hospitals . So expecting Syria 's new rulers to fight Israel and retake Syria 's lost territories is wishful thinking , though in a video clip during the victory celebrations this week , some jihadis who were part of the anti-Assad coalition were vowing to fight Israel to liberate Palestine and bring Jerusalem under the control of Muslims . <p> The regime change is an Israeli-American project that had the support of regional players , each trying to achieve its geopolitical and geo-economic objectives . For the US , the Syrian project was about weakening Iran . For President-elect Trump , the US is in Syria to steal its oil . " Do you know what I did ? I took the oil . The only troops I have are taking the oil ; they are protecting the oil , " Trump said during a January 2020 interview with Fox News . <p> Despite its jihadi credentials , the government being formed in Syria appears to be pro-Israel . The grim reality is that the men who are running the new setup are al-Qaeda affiliates . Those who follow the Syrian civil war know how Al-Qaeda in Syria was part of the global jihadi movement led by al-Qaeda global leader Ayman al Zawahiri , the successor to Osama bin Laden . With the West getting militarily involved in the civil war , the group colluded with the West and underwent name changes to mask its al-Qaeda identity and finally emerged as Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham ( THS ) under the leadership of Abu Muhammad al-Julani to capture Damascus and declare victory . <p> In 2013 , the US listed al-Julani as a " specially designated global terrorist , and four years later announced a $10 million reward for information leading to his capture . It is not clear how the US would deal with Syria 's HTS-controlled interim regime . <p> As the dust began to settle in Syria after days of celebrations amid chaos , Syrians are beginning to worry about the future . To sum up , let me quote Middle Eastern affairs commentator Bassam Youssef . In an X post , he says , " The Syrians are finally starting to ask and look for logic . Does anyone know who al-Julani is ? What is his nationality , family , and roots ? Where was he ? Where did he suddenly come from ? Neither his name is Golani nor even Ahmed Al-Sharaa ; these are all nicknames . Imagine you wake up in the morning to find that an anonymous man is running your country . It 's madness . " <p> The worst is yet to come . <h> Comments - 0 <h> Comments - Syria : The grim reality behind the celebration <h> Add comment <p> Comments will be edited ( grammar , spelling and slang ) and authorized at the discretion of Daily Mirror online . The website also has the right not to publish selected comments . 
@@118884873 <p> New Govt. must counter fearmongering and resistance to equality and justice within Muslim personal law By Ermiza Tegal In the wake of the presidential and general elections , the National People 's Power ( NPP ) government will have to navigate the disinformation and scare tactics that were deployed during the campaign period about reform of the Muslim Marriage ... <p> By Thalif Deen UNITED NATIONS ( IPS ) -- If and when the devastating military conflicts in Ukraine and Gaza come to an end , the ultimate winners will not be the Russians , the Americans or the Israelis but the world 's arms manufacturers -- contemptuously described as " merchants of death . " And so will be the winners in a rash of ... <p> Review : The Rout of Prabhakaran by MR Narayan Swamy. 432 pages published by Vijitha Yapa Publications Rs 4950 By Padma Rao Sundarji . Hindustan Times New Delhi Veteran journalist M.R.Narayan Swamy 's fourth book on the Sri Lankan civil war provides fresh insights into the chief of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam ( LTTE ) , and the roles played ... <p> Ten veteran media personalities who have rendered a yeoman service in journalism are to be honoured at the 69th anniversary convention of the Sri Lanka Press Association and the D F Kariyakarawana Memorial Journalism Awards on Tuesday , December 17 , at the Sri Lanka Foundation Auditorium . The veterans who are to be felicitated are Daya Lankapura , ... <p> By Justina Nixon-Saintil Project Syndicate , Exclusive to the Sunday Times in Sri Lanka NEW YORK -- With artificial intelligence poised to reshape industries worldwide , a paradox is emerging . Despite growing demand for people with the knowledge to leverage the technology 's potential , AI-related skills remain in short supply . The scarcity of AI-related skills -- from proficiency in machine ... <p> By Dr Channa Ratnatunga In a contemplative mood , I wondered ; It could be conceptualised according to Buddhist philosophy , that in reality , we as humans are , Time Travellers in Sansara . All life-forms , it could be also alleged , that they too could be so classified as well . That they too are in varying stages of ' mental-evolution ( in ... 
@@118908728 <h> An insight into Global Terrorism trends 2024 <p> As we step into 2025 , there are indications of a sustained escalation in the tempo of global terrorist activities from diverse threat groups . During 2024 the intricate interplay of ideological fervor , geopolitical shifts and technological advancements is poised to define the global terrorism landscape in unprecedented ways . Concurrently , the resurgence of state-supported terrorism ( by some powerful nations ) amplifies challenges for security forces , contributing to a more volatile and intricate security landscape . 2025 will see the use of weaponized drones by terror cells and precision attacks by " loitering munitions " . There will be challenges to " air " security as this new dimension , augmented with " swarm tactics " unleashes its airborne violence . World peace will be challenged and harassed . <p> Following the 7 October Hamas attack and Israel 's robust response a third wave of global Jihadi terrorism is blossoming . Comparable to the aftermath of al-Qaeda 's attack of the World Trade Centers in 2001 and the U.S. response marking the first wave , and the second wave was catalyzed by the Islamic State 's ( IS ) proclamation of a caliphate in 2014 . <p> The current wave is evolving in the wake of the Hamas attack and subsequent Gaza operations by Israel . The main protagonist within the Jihadi milieu , the IS group is poised to escalate its activities . Having transitioned from a centralised caliphate to a decentralized organisational entity ( with multi-national foreign fighters ) , IS has proven to be a formidable challenge on the global stage . <p> The surge in radicalisation within once peaceful Muslim communities , coupled with the mobilisation of threat groups , significantly heightens the probability of future attacks worldwide . Consequently , as we move into 2025 , the potential for attacks by foreign actors ( with various ideologies and motives ) in Sri Lanka can not be discounted . This is not a pessimistic warning but there is possibility of foreign terror groups ( already active in South East Asia ) exploiting and abusing the friendly elements of our beautiful culture , and manipulating vulnerable locals to " act out " with violence . However our formidable Armed Forces and prudent Intelligence agencies are very capable to face any such threat . <p> Globally we have witnessed terror acts -- shown on international news channels . Based on that one can anticipate attack scenarios leaning towards strikes on targets with high concentrations of people , utilising methods ranging from knives and small weapons to the use of vehicles as battering rams . This is not to be taken as " isolated incidents " - every human life is precious . While these may lack the symbolism of a major attack , they can inflict fear on an individual level and negatively impact tourism . Some terror groups may feel compelled to orchestrate more ambitious attacks <p> Far-right terrorism <p> As far-right terrorism gains further momentum , an escalation in attacks is anticipated from racially and ethnically motivated violent extremists , including White supremacists and neo-Nazis . Many xenophobic populist movements have resorted to political violence to express their objectives . Both Europe and the U.S. have witnessed a surge in militant right-wing extremist groups . <p> Right-wing extremism refers to political ideologies and movements characterised by extreme conservative views , nationalist tendencies andauthoritarian beliefs.Far-right terrorism in the West continues to be characterized as small independent groups or lone actors targeting government institutions and minorities through small-arm attacks and assassinations . We can define extremism as follows : " Political opinions that are intolerant toward opposing interests and divergent opinions . Extremism forms the ideological foundation for political violence . Radical and reactionary extremists often rationalise and justify acts of violence committed on behalf of their cause . " <p> Organised hate groups such as the Ku Klux Klan and various incarnations of Hitler 's National Socialist ( Nazi ) Party have existed in the United States for decades . However , the advent of extremist paramilitary groups oriented toward survivalism , outdoor skills , guerrilla training , and outright sedition is a new phenomenon . These groups are bound by a shared hostility to any form of government above the county level , the vilification of Jews and nonwhites as children of Satan , an obsession with achieving the religious and racial purification of the United States . <p> Techno Terror <p> In the realm of operational strategies , terrorist groups are actively exploring emerging technologies to magnify the impact of their attacks . A noticeable trend over the past few years involves militants learning and adapting tactics from counterparts in different conflict zones , leading to more sophisticated terrorist acts.In addition , while the current level of the nuclear , biological , chemical , and radiological ( NBCR ) threat remains relatively low , technological advancements pose the potential to alter its trajectory significantly . New technologies , such as artificial intelligence , bioengineering , and 3D printing- emerge as noteworthy developments in the technology sector that could elevate the NBCR threat . The dual-use nature of chemical materials and the technology for weaponising these agents introduce a new dimension to the threat faced by counter- terrorism authorities . <p> Cyber-crime and terrorism <p> The world community has entered the age of the information boom . Each of us is becoming increasingly dependent on the information circulating in global computer networks , on its reliability , protection , and security . <p> Cybercriminals are using various types of attacks that allow them to penetrate corporate networks , seize control over them , or block exchanges of information . They also use computer viruses , including network worms , which modify or delete data or block the operation of computer systems . The weapons of cybercriminals are constantly being improved , and their tools for mounting information attacks are becoming increasingly refined . In the future , we can expect to see new nontraditional types of network attacks and computer crimes . <p> The goal of most criminal acts is to generate a profit . To enjoy their ill-gotten gains , criminals and terrorist groups commonly seek to disguise the illegal source of those profits.Money laundering is the process of dealing in , disguising or concealing the origin of illicit funds to make it appear legitimate . <p> Terrorism financing refers to the means and methods that terrorist organisations use to finance activities that pose a threat to national and international security . The money that enables terrorist organisations to carry out terrorist activities can come from both legitimate and criminal sources . <p> A particular concern is that global computer networks present unique new opportunities for facilitating the laundering of proceeds from criminal activity . This phenomenon is manifested in the creation and operation of so-called " virtual banks " . The main problem is that such banks operate with very little oversight , and it is not always clear where crimes involving them are committed.Terrorism financing and the ways in which it intersects with organised criminal activities including drug trafficking , arms trafficking , smuggling of migrants , and kidnapping-for-ransom is increasingly attracting the attention of the international community . <p> The Global Terrorism Index 2024 ( GTI ) highlights that terrorism remains a serious global threat , with total deaths from terrorism increasing by 22% . <p> The central Sahel region has conclusively overtaken the Middle East as terrorism 's epicentre with Islamic State ( IS ) and Jamaat Nusrat Al-Islam wal Muslimeen ( JNIM ) , a franchise of Al-Qaeda , being the most active terrorist organisation . Violent conflict remains the primary driver of terrorism , with over 90% of attacks and 98% of terrorism deaths in 2023 taking place in countries in conflict . Terrorism also thrives in areas of political instability ; it is imperative that current political tensions and minor conflicts do not escalate and that current conflicts are resolved , otherwise further increases in terrorism are likely.Left unchecked regional instabilities could fan the flames of a new wave of terrorism . <p> Indeed , counterterrorism forces will grapple with the increasingly defragmented and decentralized nature of the terrorism threat , making resilience a pivotal factor in addressing the evolving challenges of global security in 2024. 
@@119008349 <h> Belgium-based NGO claims Israel soldier ' terminator ' in Sri Lanka <p> Colombo , Dec 18 ( Daily Mirror ) - Belgium-based NGO Hind Rajab Foundation has accused that Gal Ferenbook , an Israeli soldier allegedly responsible for the death of a Palestinian civilian and the degrading treatment of the body , is now in Colombo , Sri Lanka . <p> The Foundation claimed that it has formally urged Sri Lankan authorities to arrest Ferenbook , known as the " terminator ' for his role in killing Palestinian civilians , and cooperate with the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) . A formal complaint has been lodged with the ICC , and the case has been communicated to Interpol to issue an international Red Notice for his apprehension , they said . <p> According to the Foundation , on August 9 , 2024 , Ferenbook , a member of Company B , Sayeret Golani , posted a video on his Instagram account showing him inside an armored personnel carrier ( APC ) in Gaza , viewing the remains of a deceased Palestinian civilian on the vehicle 's monitor . The Foundation claimed Ferenbook is seen laughing and boasting about his involvement in the killing , treating the deceased as a war trophy and violating international humanitarian law by showing disregard for the dignity of the deceased . <p> " The presence of Ferenbook in Sri Lanka offers a crucial opportunity to hold him accountable . Sri Lankan authorities , the ICC and Interpol must act swiftly to ensure justice and demonstrate that impunity for such atrocities will not be tolerated , " the Foundationsaid . <p> However , when contacted , Ministry Secretary Ravi Seneviratne from the Public Security Ministry said that the Ministry had not received specific information regarding the matter . 
@@119065692 <h> Israeli soldier " Terminator " forced to flee Sri Lanka <p> An Israeli soldier , identified as the " Terminator " visiting Sri Lanka had to flee the country after he was identified by a pro-Palestinian organization , Channel 12 reports . <p> The Hind Rajab Foundation posted a picture of the soldier , Gal Ferenbook , and said that it had appealed to Sri Lankan authorities , the International Criminal Court , and Interpol , demanding his arrest over the killing of a civilian in Gaza . <p> According to the organization , Ferenbook posted a video on his Instagram account on August 9 showing what it claims is a dead Palestinian civilian . Ferenbook laughs as another soldier calls him " the Terminator . " <p> Ferenbook received an urgent call from Israeli authorities telling him to leave Colombo before he was arrested , Channel 12 reports . <p> Other similar incidents have taken place abroad , according to the report , including in Cyprus . <p> " The IDF does everything it can and uses all available means to protect its servicemembers at home and abroad , " says the IDF . <p> The military refuses to indicate whether Ferenbook will face disciplinary or criminal proceedings upon returning to Israel . ( The Times of Israel ) 
@@119152581 <p> Pope Francis prays before the " Nativity of Bethlehem 2024 " during its inauguration in the Vatican . The picture shows the " Christ Child " displayed on a keffiyeh scarf gifted by the Palestinian Higher Committee of Churches Affairs , as part of the " Nativity of Bethlehem 2024 . " It drew worldwide attention in the context of the ongoing war in ... <h> Palestinian Keffiyeh holds Baby Jesus <p> View(s) : <p> Pope Francis prays before the " Nativity of Bethlehem 2024 " during its inauguration in the Vatican . The picture shows the " Christ Child " displayed on a keffiyeh scarf gifted by the Palestinian Higher Committee of Churches Affairs , as part of the " Nativity of Bethlehem 2024 . " It drew worldwide attention in the context of the ongoing war in Gaza , where more than 45,000 people , including 20,000 children , have died in Israeli attacks . AFP <h> Share This Post <p> The best way to say that you found the home of your dreams is by finding it on Hitad.lk . We have listings for apartments for sale or rent in Sri Lanka , no matter what locale you 're looking for ! Whether you live in Colombo , Galle , Kandy , Matara , Jaffna and more - we 've got them all ! 
@@119166193 <h> Christ 's message of peace amid the reality of war - EDITORIAL <p> In three days ' time we will celebrate the festival of Christmas . Since the beginning of December our cities have been gaily decorated . Shops remain open until late as children excitedly flood shops in search of gifts . <p> Christmas is celebrated world-wide to remember the birth of Jesus Christ , whom Christians believe is the Son of God . The central message of Christ is of love , hope and joy . In a single word it 's about ' peace ' to the world . Without love , hope and joy , there can be no peace . This message does not change from year to year . <p> At almost every street corner we see depictions of the birth of Christ in a stable at Bethlehem . For children , Christmas is symbolised by the figure of Santa Claus , and attending midnight Mass dressed in clothes their parents have bought them . <p> While for some of us Christmas is an exciting time , for a large number of people in underserved segments of society , this Christmas like Christmas last year , will be stressful . Many have lost employment , others have had their wages cut and sadly , the cost of living has simply kept rising way beyond their means . <p> Studies reveal that the average Lankan earns between Rs. 45,000/- to Rs. 60,000/- per month . Those employed in temporary jobs - around 500,000 persons , earn even less than this sum , as they do not have regular work . Making this situation worse a family of four ( father , mother and two children ) will need at least Rs. 2,800/- per day to have three meals ( breakfast , lunch and dinner ) which would cost approximately Rs. 84,000/- per month . <p> This leaves families in the lower rungs of society without sufficient money for clothes , recreation or travel . For them , there is no peace as theirs is a struggle to simply find the cost of providing their children the essential supplies of food . Many children in our country do not have sufficient daily food . <p> According to the UNICEF ( United Nations Children 's Fund ) 2.3 million children in Sri Lanka do n't have enough to eat . Even worse a World Bank study estimates more than half of Colombo 's residents live in housing conditions unfit for human habitation . <p> For the poor , the dispossessed and their families , Christmas day is just one more day of struggle -no peace , no love and no happiness . <p> It was to change this situation these people voted the new government into power <p> However , since they came into power nearly three months ago , the situation of the poor and dispossessed has in fact got worse . The media tells us a few rice millers have cornered the rice market and withholding supplies to the market - causing prices to rise . <p> In a similar manner a number of corrupt individuals with backing from political elites continue robbing the country . People expected the new government to take action against these corrupt individuals . While our government has been unable to nab these robbers , the US has already sanctioned two among the thieves for their involvement in corrupt practices . <p> Perhaps the new leadership will initiate steps to take them and other corrupt persons down . Or will we see another round of ' you scratch my back , I 'll scratch yours ' . <p> Meanwhile , far across the sea in the land of Palestine -the home of Christ- his message is being torn asunder by the Israel which is waging a ferocious war in the land of his birth . <p> The New York-based ' Human Rights Watch ' detailed what it called deliberate efforts by Israeli authorities " of a systematic nature " to deprive Palestinians in Gaza of water , which had " likely caused thousands of deaths ... and will likely continue to cause deaths " . Israel 's war has killed at least 45,129 Palestinians , a majority of them being civilians . <p> In a separate report on Thursday , Doctors Without Borders ( MSF ) accused Israel of causing widespread devastation in Gaza and noted " signs of ethnic cleansing " in the north of the Palestinian territory . <p> Israel 's genocide against Palestinians has been continuing for over a year . Sadly it is the ' Christian ' US which is blocking attempts to call for a cease-fire . Christ 's message is being bombed out in the land of his birth . <h> Comments - 0 <h> Comments - Christ 's message of peace amid the reality of war - EDITORIAL <h> Add comment <p> Comments will be edited ( grammar , spelling and slang ) and authorized at the discretion of Daily Mirror online . The website also has the right not to publish selected comments . 
@@119249902 <h> A Hope for Peace <p> " Peace I leave with you ; my peace I give to you . Let not your hearts be troubled , neither let them be afraid . " John 14:27 <p> Peace is the theme of Christmas and Christianity itself , but this year , the flames of conflict are not far from Bethlehem , the birthplace of Jesus even as we celebrate that Holy Day -- Christmas , which marks His birth . In fact , the War in Gaza has killed nearly 45,000 , mostly women and children who had nothing to do with the rebel movement there . It is just revolting that a war is taking place in the very Holy Land that Jesus himself walked on and where four major religions originated . <p> Elsewhere , a war is raging in Ukraine/Russia , which too has killed thousands of combatants and civilians . And there are dozens more forgotten conflicts mainly in Africa and the Middle East that still kill thousands every year . We can relate to the horrors of conflict as we experienced it firsthand for almost 30 years . <p> The answer to conflict is not more conflict -- peace is the only way out . In this context , we hope that the current negotiations between Israel and Hamas will end in a permanent ceasefire and a de-escalation of the conflict . Perhaps Christmas is the ideal time for working towards peace in the Middle East region . <p> But peace is not only about nations living in harmony with each other . It comes all the way down to the individual level . This is why they say that Christmas is a time for Giving and for Forgiving . " Judge not , and you will not be judged ; condemn not , and you will not be condemned ; forgive , and you will be forgiven " Luke 6:37 . <p> If we can resolve the conflicts that arise at family level , it could permeate the wider society as well . Hope for a better future endures at Christmas because man alone is capable of reason and compassion . When we allow ourselves to reflect , we understand that power to overcome hate is rooted in love . This is all the more important in the world we now inhabit . We can do better if we put our heart and soul into it . <p> Christmas is also an occasion to look back at the life of Jesus Christ and learn many lessons that are appropriate for our lives even today , more than 2,000 years later . After all , it is often said that history is His Story . Throughout his life , he served the poor , the downtrodden and the helpless . Helping others should be our mission in life too and such kindness can be infectious . " Whoever is generous to the poor lends to the Lord , and he will repay him for his deed . " Proverbs 19:17 <p> One obstacle that may prevent us from celebrating Christmas in a more spiritual way is the excessive commercialisation of Christmas right around the world . Given the inexorable pull of commercialism , we too get caught up in celebrating this significant day in purely materialistic terms . <p> Around the world , many children apparently think that Christmas marks the birthday of Santa Claus , that jolly character who supposedly comes down the chimney to leave gifts for well-behaved children on Christmas Eve . We must look beyond the lights and the decorations to discern the true meaning of Christmas . Christians must take time to truly remember the tenets of their faith and reflect on exactly why this day is important . The idea is that there is a task for each of us in the grand scheme of life . " We are God 's masterpiece . He has created us anew in Jesus Christ , so we can do the Good Things he planned for us long ago . " Ephesians 2:7 <p> Some of these tasks do not require any money at all . If you know someone who is living alone and in need of help , just spend some time with them . If you know someone who might not be able to have a hearty meal on this holiest of days , make that wish come true . But good deeds should not be limited to one day of the year -- it is a lifelong commitment that pays it forward every day . And purge any evil thoughts from your heart that may hinder your progress . " Turn away from evil and do good " Psalm 34:14 <p> Of course , reflecting on the spiritual side of Christmas does not mean that it should be a somber affair devoid of joy . Jesus Christ brought joy to a forsaken world and gave hope to millions who followed in his footsteps . To this day , joy and hope are central themes of Christmas . It is , in fact , the ideal occasion to spread both in abundance . " Rejoice in hope , be patient in tribulation , be constant in prayer " Romans 12:12 <p> Indeed , Christmas is an ideal time to be determined to face the trials and tribulations of life with patience and fortitude . Life is not a bed of roses but faith and prayer offer a path that helps us to face the challenges coming our way . As the Bible itself points out " all things are possible for one who believes " . Mark 9:23 
@@119301071 <p> There have been occasional transgressions , but in general , there has been tolerance towards asylum seekers by the government . <p> Jesus was born in Bethlehem , in Palestine , during a time of colonisation , political and economic oppression by Roman imperialism . Those who dared to call for freedom and justice were brutally crushed . Some were thrown to the lions or crucified in public . This was to instill fear and prevent further uprisings . <p> Jesus ' mother , Mary , was a young unwedded girl who was courageous to have said yes to God 's call to carry baby Jesus in her womb , as part of God 's revolutionary plan to establish a kingdom of love , equality and peace with justice here on earth . Mary 's fianc ? e Joseph , a carpenter by profession , was a courageous man who accompanied her in a difficult journey before and after Jesus ' birth , despite the baby not being his biologically . Mary had to give birth to Jesus in a stable ( like modern-day-cattle-shed ) as there was no room anywhere else , as refugees and displaced people are often compelled to do , especially during wars . <p> Palestine today and international solidarity <p> Today 's realities in Palestine appear to be much harsher than when Jesus was born . Palestine is occupied by Israel , supported by America and other powers . It 's a land of genocide and displacement . Humanitarian workers are being prevented from supporting affected persons and journalists are being killed . The situation has led to widespread condemnation around the world . Many diplomats walked out when Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu addressed the UN General Assembly in September this year , defending Israeli aggression against Palestine . Earlier this month , the UN General Assembly adopted resolutions demanding ceasefire in Gaza and supporting UN 's work for Palestinian refugees , with 158 and 159 member states out of 193 supporting the resolutions with only 9 being against . <p> There have been protests against Israeli aggression across the world . About two weeks ago , Pope Francis unveiled a nativity scene in the Vatican created by Palestinian artists from Dar al-Kalima University in Bethlehem , with baby Jesus ' cradle draped in a traditional Palestinian Keffiyeh . <p> Yesterday in Colombo , there was a Christmas eve vigil and a march with the theme that there can be no real Christmas for the world without peace and freedom for Palestine . The march started outside the United Nations building , stopped outside the British High Commission to protest against Britain 's support and other states towards Israeli aggression and ended at the Palestinian embassy . Despite it being around 7pm , the Palestinian embassy opened its gates to enable those participating to share some reflections and light candles . <p> Rohingya refugees in Sri Lanka <p> Christmas in Sri Lanka is being celebrated just after the arrival of about 100 Rohingya asylum seekers after a difficult and dangerous journey at sea in a basic boat . Rohingyas are a stateless and persecuted community from Myanmar , who have been compelled to flee their homes , especially since the most recent violence unleashed on them in 2017 . The persecution of the Rohingya is now the subject of a genocide case at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) . About 1.1 million Rohingya people are estimated to be refugees and asylum seekers across the world , with more than a million of them being hosted in Bangladesh . Before the recent arrivals , Sri Lanka has been hosting about 100 Rohingya refugees who were rescued from the seas in December 2022 by the Navy . <p> On 19th December 2024 , fisherfolk in Mullaitivu in Northern Sri Lanka had observed a boat in the sea , a few hundred meters away from the shore , crowded with many people and children . Together with some Navy officers , local residents had taken a smaller boat to visit them and provided food and drinking water . A local doctor had also visited them . Despite many in the boat being unwell and not having enough food , they were not brought ashore in Mullaitivu by Sri Lankan authorities , and kept at sea most of the day . <p> By coincidence , Rohingyas fleeing genocide had come to a place which signifies similar incidents against Sri Lankan Tamils in 2008-2009 , including the period of Christmas 2008 , in the last phase of the war in Sri Lanka . It was a time when babies were born on the move , in camps for the displaced and in bunkers , amidst showers of bombs and shells , while festivities went on in churches , malls , hotels and other places in Colombo and the rest of the country . <p> In the evening of the same day , after what would have been a long , uncertain and perhaps hopeful day for the people on the boat with land within their sight , the Navy had escorted them to Trincomalee through a further journey by sea . They were finally able to land on the morning of 20th December . They were provided health care and food on arrival and produced before the Magistrate . 12 were remanded for violating the Immigrants and Emigrants Act . Other 103 were reported to have been ordered to be sent to the Immigration Detention Centre in Mirihana . They were temporarily accommodated at a school in Trincomalee on the 20th of December , with local government officials and local civil society groups providing emergency assistance . On 21st December , they were taken in buses destined for the Mirihana Detention centre , but along the way , the buses were turned back and they were taken back to Trincomalee to stay in the same school for a few more days . On 23rd December , they were expected to be taken to the Mirihana Detention Centre , but were instead taken to an Air Force camp in Mullaitivu . Plans for their immediate and distant future are uncertain . <p> Media reports and other sources have indicated there were three boats , two had sunk and about 5 persons including children had perished at sea . The group that landed is reported to have included about 50 children and 30 women , including one pregnant . The Navy spokesman had indicated to the media that the destination of the Rohingya may have been Malaysia or Indonesia and weather conditions may have pushed the boat towards Sri Lanka . <p> The pregnant mother Mary was on the move with Joseph just before giving birth to baby Jesus . Immediately after Jesus ' birth , they were again on the move as refugees , fleeing for safety to protect baby Jesus from the wrath of the powerful ruler Herod . Like them , the Rohingyas have been on the move , including an arduous journey at sea and even after arriving in Sri Lanka . It is time for them to settle down and have hope for a more dignified , stable and better future . <p> UNHCR 's closure <p> A 2005 agreement between the Sri Lankan government and United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) allows asylum seekers and refugees like the Rohingya to remain temporarily in Sri Lanka and for the UNHCR to process asylum claims and facilitate permanent resettlement to other countries . There have been occasional transgressions , such as mass deportation of asylum seekers in 2014 and attacks on asylum seekers and refugees in 2017 and 2019 , but in general , there has been tolerance towards asylum seekers and refugees in Sri Lanka by successive governments . Now , the UNHCR has decided to close its office in Sri Lanka at the end of this year and this will pose new challenges for Sri Lanka to host , care and support asylum seekers and refugees . <p> UNHCR must ensure continuation of at least the minimum and most essential services such as issuing of asylum certificates to new arrivals , interviewing and doing refugee status determination of all asylum seekers . They must also make extra efforts to facilitate permanent resettlement of those recognized as refugees , including Rohingyas who were rescued in 2022 and others in Sri Lanka for prolonged periods , including more than 12 years . Various other UN agencies in Sri Lanka working with children , women , food , education , health , housing and development must include asylum seekers and refugees in the work they are doing here . The UN Resident Coordinator must give stronger leadership to ensure protection of rights and wellbeing of refugees and asylum seekers , including coordination with UN agencies and the government . Member states of the UN must assist by facilitating permanent resettlement of the relatively small number of refugees in Sri Lanka . <p> The closure of the UNHCR 's office also offers opportunities for the Sri Lankan government and society to offer better protection , care and support to persecuted and vulnerable persons amongst us who are asylum seekers and refugees . <p> They must not be detained in Immigration Centres or other facilities like Air Force camps . The Sri Lankan constitution recognizes the right of all persons ( not just citizens ) , not to be discriminated on any grounds and freedom from arbitrary arrest , detention , torture , cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment . The constitution also guarantees all persons are equal before the law and entitled to the equal protection of the law . <p> Asylum seekers and refugee 's rights to housing , food , healthcare must be ensured and rights of children to receive education must be respected , by including them in the country 's free education policy . They must be included in various social welfare schemes offered to vulnerable Sri Lankan citizens . <p> In the long term , the Sri Lankan government must have a legal and institutional framework to offer permanent citizenship to those recognized as refugees , particularly those stateless like Rohingyas and others who have been in Sri Lanka for prolonged periods . Our adherence to domestic and international legal obligations , hospitality and spiritual , religious and cultural values will be tested on how we treat this small number of vulnerable and persecuted people among us and our willingness to contribute meaningfully to address a global crisis . <p> May the birth of Refugee Jesus be an inspiration for us to strengthen our love , care , support and solidarity for those most vulnerable , within and beyond modern borders of nation states , such as for Palestine and Rohingyas . <p> Parts of this reflection were informed and inspired by a conversation with Bishop Duleep de Chickera and his writing . 
@@119301072 <h> Christ-less West vs . Christ-filled Palestinian resilience <p> With a nearby billboard proclaiming " stop the genocide in Gaza " , the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem , Pierbattista Pizzaballa , delivers a speech in Bethlehem town in the Israel-occupied West Bank on December 24 . AFP <p> While glittering Christmas decorations adorn malls and mansions across the Western world , a stark contrast emerges in Bethlehem , the birthplace of Jesus . As babies are being massacred and frozen to death in nearby Gaza by those who have no regard for Christ 's message , the festive spirit commemorating the birth of the Prince of Peace feels sombre and desolate . <p> This grim reality serves as a poignant reminder of the spiritual disconnect between the Christ-less Christmas of Western ' nominal ' Christianity and the suffering endured by those who live closest to the site of Christ 's birth . <p> " Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness ' sake , for theirs is the kingdom of heaven . " So said Christ -- Matthew 5:10 -- advocating justice and righteousness and giving hope to the marginalised and the oppressed that the suffering would be rewarded with a high place in the Kingdom of God . If only Jesus were to return today , on whose side would he be ? Will he side with those who kill Palestinian babies by bombing them to smithereens and starving and freezing them to death by denying them access to food and warm clothes ? Or will he go to the Gaza Strip and stop the carnage ? <p> While Christ-filled Christianity will have no difficulty in answering this question and saying Jesus is against all forms of oppression , the Christ-less , Zionist-controlled Western Church may still justify Israel 's genocide even if its stance meant blasphemy or was against Christ 's teachings . <p> With Gaza 's historic churches being reduced to rubble , Christianity and its symbols are being wiped out from the holy land in preparation for Israel to take over the whole of Palestine . Israel 's strategy , it appears , is to de-Christianise the Holy Land before de-Islamising it . This strategy is being implemented with the full support of the Christ-less West , which is preoccupied with an Islamophobic civilisational clash fuelled by the Benjamin Netanyahu-led Zionist leadership . <p> Palestine 's Christian population , which was ten percent when Israel was set up in 1947 through an anything-but-just United Nations resolution , is less than two percent today and shrinking . Yet , the Christ-less Western Church is little concerned about the vanishing flock . <p> Christ was and is a Palestinian . Period . Despite the conflicts of the Crusades between European kingdoms and Muslim caliphates from the 11th to 14th centuries , historical accounts suggest periods of relative coexistence among Muslims , Christians , and Jews in Palestine , Syria , and other parts of the Middle East . However , the peace was lost with the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948 by European Jews with doubtful Semitic origins and having a vision for an expansionist state in collusion with Western imperialism . <p> Regaining the lost peace of the Holy Land now appears to be entwined in the Christ-less church 's warped interpretation of the Second Coming of Jesus and in its moves to expedite the most awaited prophecy . <p> While the Zionist-friendly , Christ-less church let the Middle Eastern region bleed instead of making peace in keeping with Christ 's teaching and working for global justice , Jesus came alive in Bethlehem in the sermon delivered by Lutheran Priest , Rev. Dr. Munther Isaac . A son of Palestine , he sees Jesus in Palestinians ' struggle for freedom and justice . <p> His message in his Christmas sermon was as powerful as it was in his last Christmas message . Yes , Jesus is under the rubble this year too , he proclaimed , but the Christ-less West feigned deaf and blind to his message filled with the spirit of Jesus ' teachings . The Zionist-controlled Western media ignored or downplayed his message , whereas it should have topped the news bulletin if the Western media were true to their claim that their journalism was fact-based , agenda-free , and value-driven . <p> Delivering his Christmas message on December 21 at the Bethlehem Lutheran Church at a time when the Gaza war had seen nearly 45,000 Palestinian deaths , including those of some 17,000-20,000 children , Rev. Isaac 's criticism of the Western church was biting , if not despondent . <p> Here is an excerpt from his spellbinding sermon : <p> " Last year I said silence is complicity . We are past that . Numbness is a betrayal of humanity . Yours and those in Gaza . " <p> " Equally , we must insist that all who committed war crimes must be held accountable . We can not normalise impunity . What kind of a world and future are we leaving our children -- if we accept a reality where war criminals go unpunished , even emboldened -- where they openly boast of their crimes , and rather than met with justice , they are met with applause in the halls of Congress and defended by European parliaments ? And they still dare to lecture us on human rights and international law . " <p> " Never again is only a slogan . Empty words . Never again should mean never again to all peoples . Never again has become yet again ! Yet again to supremacy . Yet again to racism . Yet again for genocide . " <p> " And sadly , never again has become yet again for the weaponization of the Bible and the silence and complicity of the Western church -- yet again for the church siding with power , with the Empire . " <p> A similar message resonated in Pope Francis 's statement on Saturday . Widely hailed for his reform-centred and social justice crusade , the Pope , in his forthright message , criticised Israel and described Israel 's killing of Palestinian children in Gaza as ' cruelty ' . <p> And when the Zionist state , which is no respecter of Christ 's message , reacted angrily , saying that the Pope 's remarks were disconnected from the truth , the Pope on Sunday doubled down on his remarks . " With pain , I think of Gaza , of so much cruelty , of the children being machine-gunned , of the bombings of schools and hospitals . What cruelty , " the pope said after his weekly Angelus prayer . Yet , while the Christ-filled churches cry for justice for Palestine and the return of peace in the Holy Land , the Christ-less West has become the war party and complicit in the genocide . Blind to the truth and the message of Christ , they fail to see that the suffering the Palestinians are going through is not defeat ; it is victory ; it is resilience , as Rev. Isaac highlighted in his sermon last week . <p> He said , " It has been 440 days of Palestinian resilience -- sumud . Indeed , 76 years of sumud . But we have not and will not lose hope . Yes , it is 76 years of the ongoing Nakba , but it is also 76 years of Palestinian steadfastness , sumud , clinging to our rights and the justice of our cause : 76 years of praying and singing for peace . We are a stubborn people . We will continue echoing the words of the Angels : Glory to God in the Highest , Peace on Earth ! " <p> " And today we say : Our faith in the God of truth and justice is our hope . Today we continue to cry out to Him because we believe that He hears us and because we believe in His justice and goodness . And because we believe in His solidarity with the oppressed ! " " I know that the Lord maintains justice for the poor and righteousness for the needy . " ( Psalm 140:12 ) <h> Comments - 0 <h> Comments - Christ-less West vs . Christ-filled Palestinian resilience <h> Add comment <p> Comments will be edited ( grammar , spelling and slang ) and authorized at the discretion of Daily Mirror online . The website also has the right not to publish selected comments . 
@@119335248 <h> Classified <h> Other <h> Cost of living pandemic and food security <p> Although the current cost of living pandemic is the product of viruses originated from outside Sri Lanka , no preventive measures were taken by previous Governments to minimise the infection <p> There are a few academics and economists who seem to believe that Sri Lanka 's economic revival and future growth should follow the developed world 's techno-industrial trajectory . The former President Ranil Wickremesinghe turned out to be a disciple of this philosophy . Do n't they realise that it is that trajectory which has led humanity to the brink of self-destruction ? Let us reject the one size fit all model and cut the cloth to suit our size . This is not a backward-looking strategy but one sustainable in the face of unpredictable and disastrous swings in mega economies <p> Cost of living crisis is an economic pandemic spreading to almost every country whether developed or developing . Therefore , the constant barrage of attack on NPP Government over the last few weeks about rising price of coconuts , shortage of rice and salt in the market is not unique to Sri Lanka even though there are certain specific factors such as oligopolistic control and hoarding which make the problem more acute in this country . <p> Worldwide of course , Governments and central banks are treating the rise in prices as a sign of inflation . While central banks are fighting to kill this inflation by hiking interest rates , democratic governments that face voter backlash are looking at budgetary solutions to increase the money income of consumers . These are temporary palliatives and not permanent cure to kill the viruses that brought this pandemic in the first place . <p> Real reason behind crisis <p> Neither the banks nor the governments are seriously interested in discussing in public the real reason behind this crisis i.e. , the supply constraint . There is an absolute shortage in the supply of many consumer items partly because of fall in production and partly because of difficulties in transporting what is produced to consumer outlets . While unpredictable climate changes affect agricultural production the wars in Europe and Middle East disrupt distribution . Shortages therefore raise market prices . Both these viruses originated in the imperial and industrial laboratories of Global North . <p> CoP29 Climate Conference held in Baku , Azerbaijan this year was a tacit admission of guilt by Global North for its climate damaging techno-industrial economic development trajectory , but it got away from it lightly with a promise of $ 300 billion miserly annual compensation for 10 years to Global South . Tamara Pearson 's " From Gaza to COP29 : The 9 Types of Violence Wealthy Countries are Inflicting on the Global South " published in Counterpunch ( 22 Nov. 2024 ) summarises the different ways by which Global North inflict violence against developing countries and the current cost of living crisis is the result of that violence . <p> The latest craze over AI is expected to add to the climate crisis . According to one estimate AI servers to be sold in 2027 will consume between 84 and 134 terawatt-hours annually equivalent to electricity consumption of 18 million people in Netherlands . It is Global North 's limitless avarice for global resources and reckless industrialisation that has led to the current climate crisis which is responsible for global shortages in the supply of humanity 's basic needs . <p> Imperial drive for domination <p> The other side is of the coin is the imperial drive for domination which is what is prolonging the wars in Europe and Middle East . Wars divert resources for production of weapons which need to be deadlier than the ones employed already . What is more is that wars make travel unsafe if not impossible . The war in the Middle East has made the Red Sea unsafe for commercial shipping which means economies that depend on this route for external trade are imperilled . Safer but longer routes make exports and imports costly which pushes up the final price in the market and worsen the cost of living . <p> Small countries like Sri Lanka have no power on their own either to reverse the climate crisis or halt the wars . But individually they could take precautionary measures to minimise the effects from the two . Ecological and environmental catastrophes could be reduced if development projects are subjected to ecological and environmental auditing . This aspect had been neglected for too long under previous governments . For example , the fascination over building highways and expressways under Rajapaksa governments seem to have ignored the impact of bulldozing the hills along those ways which had created havoc during rainy seasons with too many earth-slips and falling trees . <p> Similarly , deforestation in the name of land reclamation has led not only to frequent flooding and unusually long droughts but also has deprived animals of their livelihood . Elephants are now invading the paddy fields and areas of human settlement . It is in this context that India 's Adani financed wind power project scheduled to be erected in Mannar islands has raised serious concern among local ecologists and environment experts . Their letter to President AKD regarding this matter deserves serious consideration . In general , one would hope that the NPP government does not issue carte blanche to any foreign investment without doing a thorough cost benefit analysis which should include environmental costs . <p> Environment and cost of living <p> What does environment got to do with cost of living ? Prolonged droughts have forced hundreds of thousands of families in Africa to starve . Their corn crops have been destroyed because of the climate crisis . Food has become a luxury to many of them . The war in Sudan which no news media wants to cover has made the situation intolerable . When compared to Africa , Sri Lanka is a gifted country with salubrious climate and fertile land surrounded by the sea which should create no difficulty to provide food security . It has been a history of systematic economic mismanagement and lopsided prioritisation of peoples ' needs that has created shortages in the supply of victuals and therefore high prices for them . <p> Everyone knows that the 2006 tsunami destroyed the coconut plantations along the coastline . But was there a Government sponsored replantation project soon after the tsunami ? Had there been one the country would not be facing a shortage of coconuts now . Similarly , for far too long the rice market had been under the control of a few large millers . Prices of paddy and rice were systematically manipulated by these oligopolists . They became untouchables by law because of their connections inside corrupt governments . <p> No preventive measures <p> Thus , although the current cost of living pandemic is the product of viruses originated from outside Sri Lanka , no preventive measures were taken by previous Governments to minimise the infection . President AKD 's resolve to provide food security by increasing resources to the agricultural sector is to be welcomed . The barrage of attacks levelled by the Opposition against him and NPP Government for shortages in rice , salt and coconut is unwarranted , because these problems have a long history . Rising cost of living is indisputable but a permanent solution to the problem should be found not in raising money income but in increasing local supply and removing supply constraints . The forthcoming Budget and the ones to be prepared thereafter should methodically follow a plan of action and resourcing to tackle the crisis in cost of living . <p> There are a few academics and economists who seem to believe that Sri Lanka 's economic revival and future growth should follow the developed world 's techno-industrial trajectory . The former President Ranil Wickremesinghe turned out to be a disciple of this philosophy . Do n't they realise that it is that trajectory which has led humanity to the brink of self-destruction ? Let us reject the one size fit all model and cut the cloth to suit our size . This is not a backward-looking strategy but one sustainable in the face of unpredictable and disastrous swings in mega economies . 
@@119335252 <p> Sri Lankans have been politically scammed as never before . With AKD and the NPP , there 's been generational , gender and governance change , no structural reform ( let alone ' system-change ' ) , and most crucially no change of economic policy paradigm and corporate/superrich bias . In an inversion of their mandate , there 's stark continuity in the economic policy framework that caused Sri Lanka 's debt crisis and perpetuates mass economic austerity . <p> As presidential candidate Anura emphasised improvement of human resources , upgrading of human capital , as his economic keystone , but his presidential policies have placed the keystone in the opposite direction , and his macroeconomic commitments are and can not but be ruinous to human resources/human capital . <p> What would it mean if , as Deshal de Mel , ( former ? intermittent ? ) advisor to the Finance Ministry exults , three Presidents who were perceived to have been and publicly purported to be very different from each other -- Gotabaya Rajapaksa , Ranil Wickremesinghe , Anura Kumara Dissanayake -- deployed one and the same team , on core economic policy including the deal with the private creditors ( ISB holders ) ? <p> Is it because the team comprised the best of the best ? Then why the ' stealth ' ? Surely we should know the names of everyone involved so the nation could be grateful . <p> Logically , three widely disparate presidents should have issued instructions with different emphases to the team , and under AKD they should have concluded with a quite different package than that which Ranil had chalked-out . <p> But if there were three widely different presidents , one team , and the package that was worked on was the same , it means that whatever their public postures the three Presidents were of essentially the same view , shared the same economic policy paradigm . <p> Bluntly , all 3 Presidents , 3 Finance Ministers and their unchanging team , over ' 983 days ' and counting , served the same interests : big private financial corporate interests , local and foreign . <p> Leaving MR wide-open <p> Though the threat to him is qualitatively higher than to any other Sri Lankan , former President Mahinda Rajapaksa 's security contingent is being stripped of its military component , reducing it to a purely Police detachment . <p> Dinesh Schaffter 's brutal murder has not been solved . His shadowy , sadistic killers have not been identified let alone apprehended . How difficult would it be for a die-hard pro-Tiger Diaspora billionaire or consortium of contributors to hire foreign mercenaries specialised in Black Ops to infiltrate a team into Colombo and assassinate Mahinda Rajapaksa , in bitter , bloody revenge for their ' Mahaveera ' Prabhakaran 's demise and the LTTE 's decisive defeat ? <p> AKD 's administration is leaving Mahinda wide-open . It has cold-bloodedly jeopardised the security and safety of the leader who restored security and safety for the immense majority of Sri Lanka 's citizens . <p> AKD 's economics godfather <p> Disguised as Santa , President AKD gifted social sectors who are among the most vulnerable , a tax on their fixed deposits i.e. , their life savings , which will reduce the monthly or annual interest on which they live , buy medicines etc . Undertaken to offset loss of revenue through the slender , spotty VAT reduction , this heartless measure could be avoided by increased direct taxes on the top corporate earners and the superrich . <p> The economic callousness of the Government is manifest when reading data provided by numbers.lk : <p> " The government has decided to increase the Withholding Tax ( WHT ) on interest income from 5% to 10% . <p> In simple terms , if you had a fixed deposit of Rs. 1 million at an interest rate of 8% , you were originally set to receive Rs. 80,000 per year . <p> With the current 5% WHT , you receive Rs. 76,000 , reducing your effective interest rate to 7.6% . <p> With the proposed 10% WHT , you will receive Rs. 72,000 , further reducing your effective interest rate to 7.2% . <p> If your taxable income is below Rs. 1.5 lakhs per month , you can theoretically claim this withholding tax as a refund from the Inland Revenue Department ( IRD ) . <p> The government has promised to streamline the tax refund process . However , the IRD and other government refund processes are notoriously slow and inefficient . The administrative cost of processing such refunds often exceeds the actual refund amount , particularly in these WHT cases . <p> If the government truly wants to address this issue , they need to explore alternative solutions . One practical suggestion is to offer a 1% -- 2% higher interest rate for fixed deposits held by senior citizens and low-income earners . This would help offset the impact of WHT at the bank level . <p> The government would n't even have to bear the extra cost directly . Instead , they could compensate banks through negotiated regulatory incentives allowing them to absorb the cost without financial strain . " <p> The apologia for Anuranomics-- ' what alternative did Anura have ? ' -- a pseudo-left echo of Thatcher 's ' there is no alternative ' ( TINA ) is masterfully answered in concrete detail by Kusum Wijetilleke last Sunday , in a piece entitled ' The Curse of Incrementalism : NPP Capitulation to the Status-Quo ' . <p> The Government has relaxed foreign exchange regulations for an initial period of six months . ( https : **38;910;TOOLONG ... That 's sugar to a diabetic . Foreign exchange regulations in place through the JR and Premadasa presidencies were relaxed by Ranil Wickremesinghe and Ravi Karunanayake in 2017 , causing or contributing to a massive outflow of dollars , which according to figures provided in parliament by then Minister of Justice Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe , is larger than our total foreign debt . <p> Former President Ranil Wickremesinghe ( appointed not elected , then electorally trounced ) made an appearance on television , addressing the nation in robust support of President Anura Dissanayake 's recent address to parliament and specifically his ISB deal . Ranil kept using the term " we " ( " api " ) , as in " we have now arrived at an agreement with the sovereign bond holders and a new bond will be issued on December 20th " . ( https : //youtu.be/IUAHz8mmwpk ) <p> He faulted the Opposition for its criticism of President Dissanayake 's economics and insisted the Opposition make it clear than any and all criticism was within the existing agreement with the IMF , i.e. , without advocating renegotiation/revision , as Sajith does . Is Ranil Wickremesinghe AKD 's Emeritus Economic Advisor or ' Economics Godfather ' ? <p> Has his security been slashed as badly as Mahinda 's , or does Ranil ( still ) have Army Commandos and/or the STF ? <p> ' Ranil Wickremesinghe &amp; The Emasculation of the United National Party ' ( Neptune , Colombo 2024 ) a brand-new book by Prof Rajiva Wijesinha ( his cousin ) , is mandatory reading for any student of Sri Lanka 's politics and contemporary history . A chronicle by an erudite observer-participant in the politics of the last few decades , it is the seedbed of several doctoral dissertations . <p> As I noted in my remarks at Rajiva 's book launch , Ranil Wickremesinghe 's story is one of negative dominance of Sri Lankan affairs . He is a reverse Midas , dooming through corrosion , every party and leader he has touched or has touched him . The long list includes the UNP , SLFP and SLPP , all of which have had their large vote bases fissure , decompose and disintegrate . Ranil 's toxic economic ideas and ideology have now possessed Anura Dissanayake and the JVP-NPP . <p> Red baby elephants <p> The JVP was thought of either as ( a ) the anti-capitalist ' third force ' or ( b ) the radical wing of the national liberation struggle , the leftwing vanguard of the anti-UNP bloc . It authentically occupied each role at different periods . <p> During the so-called Yahapalanaya ( ' Good governance ' ) coalition of Ranil 's UNP and dissident Maithripala Sirisena 's SLFP faction , Anura and the JVP were seen in a third way : as the leftwing ally of a centre-right neoliberal coalition . The green elephant being the UNP symbol , the JVPers were nicknamed " rathu ali pataw " or " red baby elephants " with Anura as the ' Rathu Ali Patiya ' . Malik Samarawickrema and Mangala Samaraweera were Ranil 's " AKD Whisperers " . <p> Distorted strategic thinking <p> This Christmas season it is even more appropriate than usual to call to mind the circumstances of bloody repression by the authorities that surrounded the birth of Jesus . Netanyahu 's Israel has been perpetrating the modern-day equivalent of King Herod 's Slaughter of the Innocents . <p> One of the most unforgettably heart-rending episodes was of a 6-year-old girl Hind Rajab , who made a plaintive telephone call for help which we all heard on TV around the world before she went missing and was discovered slaughtered by the IDF . According to a Belgium-based NGO dedicated to justice for Hind Rajab , an Israeli soldier who has earned the nickname ' Terminator ' for self-advertised war-crimes was on holiday in Sri Lanka . Alerted by the IDF he has since skipped the island . ( https : **38;950;TOOLONG ... Sirimavo Bandaranaike or Ranasinghe Premadasa would have deported him and shut down the pipeline bringing IDF soldiers on R&amp;R to Sri Lanka while Israel continues to attack countries and communities in a Nazi-like rampage . Not so , Anura Dissanayake . <p> Two propositions stated by the very smart younger analysts startled me . The first was that Israel 's war on Gaza and the West Bank was essentially the same as Russia 's invasion of/intervention in Ukraine . <p> That 's a classic ' category error ' ; apples and oranges . Israel 's is an Occupation and has been so for decades as acknowledged by numerous UN Security Council resolutions . Israel 's Occupation has structural characteristics of Apartheid , as affirmed both by former US President Jimmy Carter and the ANC leaders who fought apartheid in South Africa . This , and NATO expansion towards the East in the post-Cold war era , make the response to Ukraine far more muted in the global South ( notably among the BRICS Plus constituency , containing the global majority ) than the response to Gaza . <p> The second , far more dangerous proposition , presented by the young academic in the strategic/security studies sector , issued from what he repeatedly insisted was ' strategic thinking ' : Sri Lanka should not recalibrate and retrench from its present policy on Israel which includes ' R&amp;R war tourism ' , because from a ' strategic ' point of view , Sri Lanka needs strong relations with Israel , an AI weapons hub . <p> This is bad strategy and bad thinking . Which strategic interests -- the strategic interests of what and who -- are we or should we be thinking of , when we speak of strategy ? Surely , of Sri Lanka as a country or more precisely Sri Lanka as State . <p> The worst crisis and challenge the Sri Lankan state faced since Independence was in the 1980s when it had two civil wars -- North and South , secessionist and anti-systemic--and an external military force on Sri Lankan soil . That crisis was caused by the mismanagement of Sri Lanka 's internal relations with one of its constituent communities ( Sri Lanka 's Tamils ) , which had a co-ethnic rear-base , an ethnic kin-state as neighbour . <p> No strategic thinking about Sri Lanka 's foreign policy or pathway can start from or limit itself to bilateral relations -- diplomatic , economic or military relations with another state . <p> Strategic thinking must flow from the foundational set of questions , axiomatically geostrategic but also ontological-existential , which I borrow from Mervyn de Silva : ' who we are , what we are , where we are ' . <p> Strategic thinking about the Sri Lankan state must place high priority on grasping Sri Lanka 's composition and the necessity to manage with prudence its internal relationships between its constituent communities , especially when those communities have a larger global/globalised extended family they belong to . <p> The Ranil-Manusha expansion of Sri Lanka 's relations with Israel during and despite its genocidal Gaza war , continued and maintained by Anura-Vijitha , does not take into account : <p> Israel 's on-going ferocious wars which have isolated it from most of the world , especially in the global South and East , where we are located . <p> Sri Lanka 's Muslim community and the impact of Israel 's current behaviour on its collective consciousness . <p> The impact on Lankan Muslims of the presence and exhibitionistic behaviour on Sri Lankan soil of IDF participants in a genocidal war against fellow Muslims , mainly women and children . <p> What kind of ' strategic thinking ' can recommend robust , expansive relations with Israel ignoring these three factors ? <p> What kind of ' strategic thinking ' can ignore the possible outreach to Islamist militancy outside Sri Lanka or the gaze of Islamist militancy falling on Sri Lanka as a place which welcomes IDF war criminals with open arms ? <p> How can the expanded equation with Israel under the Ranil-Manusha and Anura-Vijitha dispensations not be seen for the strategic and security threat it poses to the Sri Lankan state by alienating an entire community which has already experienced one round of radicalisation , providing the backcloth of the Easter Massacre 2019 , though external infiltrators and provocateurs were very probably involved ? <p> Strategic prudence <p> Sri Lanka 's passage in a turbulent world must be navigated with awareness of the tempest to come . <p> The Israeli rampage in the Middle East is a softening up for a joint US-Israel attack on Iran or a scenario in which Iranian retaliation for an Israeli attack is met with an American response . <p> The Ukrainian front is used by NATO for the purpose of weakening Russia and keeping it off- balance , hopefully triggering regime-change . <p> The Trump-Marco Rubio team will be aggressive , even warlike towards Cuba , hoping for regime-change . <p> Washington is undecided : should Russia be neutralised with a Trump-propelled deal on Ukraine , or should the collective West go for broke on Ukrainian/Russian and Iranian fronts and possibly open a Cuban/Latin American front ? <p> Both the Israeli campaign in the Middle East and NATO/Ukraine in Europe , aimed at Iran and Russia respectively , are flanking moves in the West 's grand strategy aimed at the ultimate target , China . <p> If Sri Lanka has a strong strategic bond with Israel , it is taking sides wittingly or unwittingly , and painting a target on its back . <p> Our doctrine must be one of strategic prudence . This holds true of any Defence Cooperation Agreement with India . Just as Sri Lanka should not allow anything hostile to India to emanate from Sri Lanka 's land or sea , we must not allow anything hostile to China to do so either , still less allow ourselves to be enmeshed in a type of defence relationship which may be a subset of an Indian strategic configuration aimed separately or in conjunction with its fellow Quad partners , against China . <p> It is absurd to regard moral-ethical factors and world opinion as unrelated to strategic policy-making , and compartmentalise the two . Prof Joseph Nye 's famous concepts of ' soft power ' and ' smart power ' incorporate the moral-ethical ingredient into the all-important ' story ' or ' narrative ' which seeks to persuade . Israel 's story is the nastiest in the world today ( and in my lifetime since the Vietnam War ) . We should take our distance from it . Yet , Sri Lanka on the NPP 's watch is turning a blind eye to Zionist genocidaires enjoying themselves on our island . <p> For Sri Lanka , a small state , it is strategically imperative that : <p> ( I ) We establish a presence ( a toehold ) and participate in as many spaces in the world system as possible , raising our profile . <p> ( II ) We share the same broad , autonomous -- I call it ' Neo-Nonaligned ' --space and outlook as the majority of the world 's nations and peoples , in support of a multipolar world order which can contribute to global balance , global equilibrium . 
@@119369861 <h> 2024 : A pivotal year of political shifts , economic recovery and global upheaval <p> From ground-breaking advancements in Artificial Intelligence ( AI ) to democratic upends , 2024 has been a transformative year . Political realignments , economic challenges and new global conflicts have reshaped the world order , setting the stage for a complicated 2025 . <p> This year marked a monumental shift in Sri Lanka 's political landscape . President Anura Kumara Dissanayake won the public 's mandate , securing 55 percent of the vote in September . His victory marked the first time a third-party candidate being elected President . <p> Come November , the Parliamentary polls caused further setbacks to seven-decades of UNP-SLFP dominated politics . The centre-left NPP , led by the JVP , won stronghold after stronghold including the indomitable Northern and Eastern electorates , with the exception of Batticaloa . Pundits said the reorganisation of the political map was an end to communal politics and the beginning of a unified national identity playing a larger role in Sri Lankan society . <p> Greater accountability and transparency to eliminate decades of graft and corruption in governance were all on the ballot in this year 's elections . <p> As the polls clearly showed , the Sri Lankan public had grown alienated from traditional parties and the political elite which dominated for over 75 years . The demand for reforms in Government has gained momentum since the 2022 Aragalaya and the vast majority chose the NPP as a vehicle to exact that change . <p> Cynics on both the Left and Right disagreed that the NPP could overturn decades of rot ingrained in Sri Lanka 's political culture . While the Left accuses the NPP of compromising with the neoliberal establishment and abandoning socialism , the right says that the party 's ' honeymoon ' with the public will be over soon given the harsh economic realities . <p> Stumbling blocks <p> However , the Government is not without a few stumbling blocks . The scandal over education qualifications of a few of its members including the Speaker is one example . The Speaker 's swift resignation , after his supposed doctorate was brought to light , has been lauded by constituents who said it shows the NPP Government 's commitment to transparency while others decry it as political shenanigans . <p> The challenges posed by Toque Macaques and the fluctuating availability of rice have tested the resilience of the newly-formed Government . While the Sri Lankan public has shown an increasing degree of self-awareness , recognising that complex issues need time and steady effort to resolve , the political rhetoric often fails to reflect this reality . Instead , fiery speeches and empty promises continue to dominate the stage , doing little to address the frustrations of a populace craving meaningful action and transparency . <p> 2024 has been dubbed ' The Year of Elections ' : more than 100 countries around four billion voters -- approximately half of the world 's population -- were eligible to vote in elections this year , including eight of the world 's 10 most populous nations -- Bangladesh , Brazil , India , Indonesia , Mexico , Pakistan , Russia , and the United States ; in addition , the EU held elections for the European Parliament in June . <p> The U.S. Presidential election gained the largest media attention as President-elect Donald Trump secured a second term in office ; bouncing back from his 2020 loss by winning the Electoral College and all swing states , in addition to the popular vote . The second Trump Presidency is expected to make significant changes to America 's foreign policy -- especially regarding de-escalating ongoing conflicts in the Middle East and the war between Ukraine and Russia . Trump also pledged to raise tariffs on imports to stimulate U.S. domestic production , which will send huge ripples in the global economy . <p> Sri Lanka 's economy is getting back on track after facing its worst crisis since independence , marking a major milestone in 2024 by successfully completing its international bond restructuring , a critical step toward financial recovery following its 2022 debt default . The deal involved exchanging USD 12.5 billion in defaulted bonds and back interest for new GDP- and governance-linked instruments , with debt service payments reduced by USD 9.5 billion over four years under an IMF-backed plan . <p> The agreement , achieved after two years of negotiations , reduced the net present value of bonds by 40.3 percent and secured debt relief of USD 17 billion . Creditors , including global players such as BlackRock and Amundi , supported the plan , overcoming initial scepticism . China also backed equal treatment for all creditors . <p> President Dissanayake and Treasury Secretary Mahinda Siriwardana hailed the deal as a turning point , emphasising its role in restoring economic stability . With lower bond coupon rates , extended maturities , and governance reforms , the restructuring promises significant fiscal relief and economic recovery . <p> With the new administration 's anti-corruption agenda , markets are responding positively- reflecting renewed investor confidence and optimism for future growth . <p> The year was also shaken by political upheavals and escalating conflict . <p> Freedom fighters <p> The Bangladesh quota reform movement began as a student-led protest against the country 's Supreme Court 's reinstatement of a 30 percent job quota for descendants of freedom fighters , which students said limited merit-based opportunities . The protests rapidly evolved into a nationwide uprising fuelled by public anger over Government corruption , human rights abuses and economic mismanagement . <p> The Government 's violent response , including the deployment of armed forces , a shoot-at-sight curfew , and an internet blackout , exacerbated tensions . Hundreds were killed , thousands injured , and mass arrests followed , sparking global condemnation . Protesters expanded their demands to include accountability for violence , a ban on the ruling party 's student wing , and the resignation of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina . <p> On December 8 , 2024 , the Assad regime collapsed during a major opposition offensive led by Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) and the Turkish-backed Syrian National Army . The capture of Damascus ended the Assad family 's five-decade rule , which began with Hafez-al-Assad 's 1971 coup . Bashar -al-Assad fled to Russia , joining his exiled family , and was granted asylum . <p> We also saw the Israel-Hamas war escalate into a broader conflict this year with Israel 's invasion of southern Lebanon to combat Hezbollah forces and Houthi 's targeting global shipping through the Red Sea in solidarity with the Palestinians . More than 45,000 people have been killed in the Gaza strip as human rights groups and the UN have declared a humanitarian crisis as a result of the Israel-Hamas war . <p> Both sides have blamed each other for violating the ceasefire . On December 1 , the truce ended with Hamas alleging that Israel rejected a hostage exchange deal to prolong the truce , and Hamas then launched rockets into Sderot . <p> There has been a surge of anti-Semitism around the world , due to the Israel-Hamas war . This year was rife with news reports of vandalised synagogues and Jews being assaulted and even killed . <p> In November 2024 , Chabad rabbi Zvi Kogan was found murdered in Al Ain , UAE . Emirati officials said he was abducted by three Uzbek nationals who fled to Turkey , where authorities apprehended and extradited them to the UAE . Also in November , a terror plot targeting Israelis in Arugam bay was thwarted by Sri Lankan authorities thanks to reports by Indian intelligence agencies . <p> Record-breaking temperatures <p> The year was disastrous for the environment . 2024 is set to be the hottest on record -- the first six months had record-breaking temperatures , extending the streak that started in 2023 to 13 months , with the world 's hottest day in history recorded on July 22 . <p> In Sri Lanka , environmentalists said that the climate crisis is escalating the human-elephant conflict and poor harvests . Scientists are setting off alarm bells as conditions worsen year-on-year . <p> The most shocking studies this year found microplastics in human bodies including our bloodstream , brain and reproductive organs . But it was not all panic when it comes to plastics in 2024 ; scientists at RIKEN developed a strong plastic that breaks down in seawater , avoiding microplastic pollution . <p> Speaking of scientific developments , Artificial Intelligence took front and centre in headlines this year . In 2024 , AI innovation mainly centred around chatbots , with capabilities such as voice cloning , image generation , transcribing , music-making and realistic video-generation . <p> As the media , we are trying our best to strike a balance with the new technology . The press is being accused of using ChatGPT but who can really point a finger at this point ? As a matter of fact , we might just be seeing glimpses of a future where many jobs will be automated . Roles involving rule-based , repetitive tasks or ones where interaction is primarily standardised will be replaced by AI . Jobs that are most likely to be automated by 2030 include cashiers , telemarketers , data entry clerks , and customer service agents . <p> 2024 was a year of profound change -- it showcased humanity 's resilience , innovation , and the challenges ahead . It highlighted the need for accountable governance , sustainable practices , and ethical technological integration to navigate an increasingly complex world . 
@@119400624 <h> The year 2024 looks scary ; but the future looks worse <p> The aftermath of the Gaza conflict . Statistics reveal that over 46,000 people -- 44,786 Palestinian and 1,706 Israeli -- have been killed so far . File photo <p> All of Western Europe has become a ' Fortress Europa ' closing its doors to immigrants <p> The danger is that a trade war can become an actual war with tanks , missiles and ships . Most colonial wars were based on trade conflicts with other nations <p> It 's always good to look back as the year draws to a close , take stock and sum up . But that should leave us with some good feeling , not just relief at having survived . In retrospect , 2024 looks scary , with much of the world in turmoil . <p> There are two major wars going on -- Russia and Ukraine , which is no less than the West and NATO taking on Russia , with threats of nuclear retaliation by Russian President Vladimir Putin . <p> Then there is the seemingly endless conflict in Gaza , a mind-numbing tragedy that can be better described as one-sided carnage more than war . As of 10 December 2024 , over 46,000 people -- 44,786 Palestinian and 1,706 Israeli -- have been killed , with huge food and medicine shortages in Gaza and babies dying of cold . <p> The long-suffering people of Syria may be in for an even bleaker future with a notorious hardline Islamic ' liberator ' in power , with the resource-rich country at risk of being parcelled out between more powerful neighbours such as Israel and Turkey . <p> The economy of Western Europe ( The European Union or the EU ) is troubled , with Germany , its biggest powerhouse , facing bankruptcies and its mighty car industry in deep trouble . Britain and France , too , have been hard hit by economic slumps as well as poverty , while the usually prosperous Nordic countries have become very hostile to immigrants and have lost their traditional tolerance . All of Western Europe has become a ' Fortress Europa ' closing its doors to immigrants . <p> China and India claim greater economic growth but there are simmering tensions between these two hostile nations . Bangladesh achieved a peaceful people 's revolution driving out the corrupt government of former Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina , but is yet to achieve political stability and a stable government . <p> Pakistan is in economic trouble and political turmoil with former Prime Minister Imran Khan being jailed on what his supporters call ' trumped up charges . ' Myanmar is facing a bitter civil war between the much-hated military rulers and persecuted civilians turned rebels , with no end in sight . <p> Then there is the inescapable shadow of President Elect Donald Trump , whose hardline and mercurial policies are going to affect the lives of not just Americans but millions of people all over the world . <p> Trump is described as an isolationist , but some analysts call him predatory , and I can agree with that . After World War II , the United States formed strong alliances to protect its interests and those of its allies around the world . Donald Trump does n't believe in allies and alliances ( hence the threat to scrap NATO ) , he wants other countries to pay tribute ( in deed , not just in words ) to the U.S. <p> He has not yet stepped into the White House , but has already set the tone by saying he wants back the Panama Canal . In 1977 , then President Jimmy Carter signed a historic treaty with Panama , giving that country all rights to this important waterway . Now , Trump wants it back . <p> Not only that , he has called Canada another U.S. province and calls Canadian Premier Pierre Trudeau ' governor Trudeau ' which is downright insulting . He has also suggested a ' soft ' invasion of Mexico . The last time the US invaded Mexico was in 1848 , when a sizeable amount of Mexican territory was annexed , including the state of Texas . <p> This history may not repeat itself . The Panama Canal may remain under the control of Panama , and there may not be any invasion of Mexico , soft or hard . But Trump has set the tone for the future , and it 's belligerent , harking back to the 19th century ' gunboat diplomacy ' of colonial powers such as Britain , France , Germany and the United States . Under Trump , the US is more and more likely to bully smaller nations , and that includes Western Europe , too , as demonstrated by Trump 's threat of tariffs . <p> China was a victim of such arm-twisting tactics in the 19th century , and Chinese President Xi Jinping has spoken of ' a century of humiliation . ' How he 's going to redress that remains to be seen now that China is a global power and economic giant . China is more interested in trade than war at present . But Beijing is expanding its military power rapidly , and has just announced the launch of the world 's biggest amphibious landing ship . <p> As one analyst has noted , while the US has military and naval bases all over the world , China is flexing its muscle only in the South China Sea , which is after all its own backyard . But all these are simmering tensions , and the issue of Taiwan remains thorny and volatile . <p> Meanwhile , China 's economic expansion is already hurt by tariffs imposed on Chinese EV vehicle exports to the US . A decade ago , the Chinese car industry was not taken seriously . But the Chinese government subsidised its car makers , who saw that EV vehicles were the future . It is n't just in vehicles that China now has the lead , but in EV components such as batteries too . China has a monopoly on lithium which is essential to battery manufacturers and all other EV vehicle makers need to purchase batteries from China . <p> The US , too , was in the EV race , but American EVs are far more expensive . President Joe Biden 's answer was to impose tariffs , and Chinese EV vehicle sales in the US have dropped dramatically as a result . Donald Trump wants to wage an even bigger tariff war with China . <p> Japan too sees China as a rival and a threat . Japan 's giant automaker Nissan was facing bankruptcy and looking desperately for a partner after Renault pulled out . Instead of a Chinese partner , Nissan announced a merger with Honda , which sees Chinese vehicles as a threat . This could be another trade war . <p> The danger is that a trade war can become an actual war with tanks , missiles and ships . Most colonial wars were based on trade conflicts with other nations . <p> Nonetheless , let 's hope for the best in 2025 . <h> Comments - 0 <h> Comments - The year 2024 looks scary ; but the future looks worse <h> Add comment <p> Comments will be edited ( grammar , spelling and slang ) and authorized at the discretion of Daily Mirror online . The website also has the right not to publish selected comments . 
@@119400625 <h> The cataclysmic year 2024 draws to an end ... - EDITORIAL <p> We have come to the end of 2024 a cataclysmic year , not just nationally but internationally as well . As September was drawing to a close Lankan 's elected a brand new president to lead the country . He did not receive the 50% plus one votes as required by the Constitution , but won after a recount as per Constitutional requirements . <p> Comrade Anura Kumara Dissanayake -popularly known as AKD- of the JVP/NPP defeated the more seasoned political leaders at the Presidential Election . In November , the President 's party -the NPP- crushed the political opposition winning a two-thirds majority at the snap general election . <p> More than a victory for the NPP , the results at the 2024 general elections was a people 's vote to drive the corruption-tainted politicians off the political map . As often happens in such times , a few incorruptible politicians too were swept away , by the sweeping broom . <p> A campaign platform of the President and his party was to bring to book politicians involved in corrupt practice . The government , while speaking of this malaise had taken no practical steps to combat the same . More recently a son of a past president of the country was summoned to the Criminal Investigation Department ( CID ) to record a statement regarding an issue concerning state lands . <p> Another major change which took place in the aftermath of the election of President Dissanayake , was the change in voting patterns of minority communities . For the first time since independence , the Tamil community in the North did not vote en masse for regional or ethnicity-based political parties . The Muslim community too voted in large numbers for a national party rather than for parties based on a particular religion . <p> The new regime has also brought in measures to cushion the worst effects of the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) bailout which imposed harsh conditions on poorer sections of the community . One example being an increase in charity handouts to those living below the poverty line . World Bank reports reveal , nearly 25% of our countrymen and women live in situations of malnutrition and hunger . <p> On the international scene too , 2024 has been a cataclysmic year . In November this year the people of US elected Donald Trump as President . <p> According to an Associated Press ( AP ) report of 31 May 2024 , Donald Trump became the first former American President to be convicted of the crime of felony . A New York jury found Trump guilty of 34 charges in a scheme to illegally influence the 2016 election through a hush money payment to a porn actress who said the two had sex . <p> Violation of Human Rights took a body blow during the year . The US backed by the West -who portray themselves as protectors of human rights the world over- repeatedly refused to call for a ceasefire in Gaza where Israel is attacking and killing Palestinian civilians . <p> Between 7 October 2023 and 17 December 2024 , the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) quoting the Ministry of Health ( MoH ) in Gaza stated at least 45,059 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza and 107,041 have been injured . <p> The United Nations Human Rights Chief Volker Turk condemned Israel 's " apparent indifference " to the killing of civilians in Gaza . A report from his agency showed that nearly 70 percent of verified deaths were of women and children . UN Secretary General Ant ? nio Guterres described Gaza as being the grave yard for children . <p> In Ukraine rather than bringing an end to the war in that region , the US and the West keep pouring arms , armaments to the Ukraine regime to continue an unwinnable war . According to the US State Department , it has provided approximately $64.1 billion in military assistance to Ukraine since the conflict began in 2014 . <p> On a less serious note Indian cricket fans are up in arms against their team 's performance in the ongoing series in Australia . Pity the Indian national cricket team which until the present series , has dominated the world cricket scene . <p> Yet , according to CNN around 60% of India 's nearly 1.3 billion people live on less than $3.10 a day . <h> Comments - 0 <h> Comments - The cataclysmic year 2024 draws to an end ... - EDITORIAL <h> Add comment <p> Comments will be edited ( grammar , spelling and slang ) and authorized at the discretion of Daily Mirror online . The website also has the right not to publish selected comments . 
@@119445790 <h> After Syria , more aggression in 2025 ? <p> Over the Christmas festival , beginning with Christmas Eve , Israeli forces were burning northern Gaza 's last functioning hospital after detaining 200+ staff and forcing out patients into the winter cold . Yemen 's western population centres , ports and airports were bombed literally hundreds of times in that same period . And , Russian forces launched scores of assaults across Eastern Ukraine , capturing hundreds of square kilometres , with Ukrainian units now cut off from supply lines . <p> Iran , alarmed by the West 's military occupation of two-thirds of Syrian territory and installation of a puppet regime in Damascus , has , meanwhile , announced national military defence exercises , involving the numerically biggest armed forces in West Asia . <p> Even as Lankans tried to celebrate the Holy Nativity , they were anxiously praying for their loved ones in that now wholly war-torn region to the west of South Asia . This festive season , much of South Asia , with millions of migrant workers now in warring West Asia , can not be partying as much as praying for their loved ones and their all-important livelihoods . <p> In churches across Asia , Africa and other Third World countries , the commemoration of the Nativity this year must uneasily acknowledge the enormous rates of killing and destruction and total dislocation of human life in that very Holy Land of a religious founder 's Birth . While the already impoverished populations of war-affected West Asia directly suffer genocide and conquest , much of the Third World 's population face rising food and fuel prices , risk of livelihood loss and , other life-changing woes , due to the global affects of West Asia 's chaos . <p> Certainly , church pastors in this country 's Christian community , preached critically on Palestine 's ongoing tragedy in their Christmas sermons on the Nativity of Christ . Prayers during Mass were for both the victims as well as the perpetrators . News media also reported that pro-Palestine anti-war protests continued in the country right through the Season . <p> Confronting domestic economic crisis and institutional decay , Sri Lanka 's own new rulers must appreciate their country 's improved diplomatic credibility as shown in the successful first Presidential foreign visit earlier this month , to India . That adroit geopolitical gesture helps seal our giant neighbouring state 's commitment to supportive relations with Colombo , support that would be crucial in the event of worsening world conditions . <p> Today , West Asia is again beset by a similar scale of regional war as it had to suffer during the Western invasions of the Persian Gulf region in the late 1990s-early 2000s period . The scale of regional economic disruption has , however , yet to reach that same catastrophic scale that threw out entire migrant worker populations . <p> Belligerent proxies <p> Despite all the Western posturing about ' peace processes ' and ' negotiations ' , the violence has only worsened , despite world condemnation of the blatant genocide and sustained belligerence by region-based proxies of the Western power bloc . Israel is the principal region-based belligerent , attacking neighbouring states and beyond , militarily and politically sustained by the West . <p> NATO member state Turkiye has also played a pivotal role in West Asia on behalf of the Western alliance in systematically undermining Syria . Turkiye forcibly occupied large parts of that country even as Ankara supported anti-Damascus insurgent groups that most recently toppled the repressive Assad regime . The Turkiye armed forces occupying northern Syria , work in tandem with the US military units that have continued to occupy the entire , thinly-populated but oil-rich , eastern region of Syria ever since the US invaded neighbouring Iraq . <p> With Syria virtually dismantled as a state and , a supposedly ' Islamist ' militia coalition as a West-backed ' interim ' government in Damascus , Israel and NATO has seemingly now expanded its aggressive military operations across West Asia . The collapse of the Arab nationalist ' Baathist ' dictatorship in Damascus has somewhat reduced the pan-Arab geopolitical pressure against the Israeli Zionist state coming from its north . <p> The Lebanese Hezbollah political movement , whose Iranian-backed militia is a persistent ( if barely effective ) paramilitary resistance in support of Palestinian independence , has now been severely emasculated by the loss of supply lines provided by , a similarly pro-Palestinian , Assad regime in Damascus . This eases the pressure on Israel from its Lebanese border . <p> Solidarities <p> Analysts are watching to see how much further the West and its proxy colony , Israel , can go at this juncture , in dismantling local trans-Arab and trans-Moslem solidarities that stand in their way to regional dominance . The complex of indigenous Arab-Muslim-modernist political networks and alliances that stretch across West Asia are the ultimate obstacle to the West 's uncontrolled access to the vital energy resources of this region . <p> The destruction of the strong Syrian state controlled by a , no doubt , unpopular regime , is epochal in terms of the history of West Asia and the Arab nationalist movements that emerged with European colonial withdrawal after World War 2 . That colonial withdrawal was , however , paradoxically , then replaced by the imposition of a fresh European-populated colony , Israel , which has pursued an attempted regional dominance to ensure its own survival . <p> How much more and longer can these former colonial powers , that now aspire to a continued global hegemony , sustain their current geopolitical manoeuvres that disrupt West Asia 's ethno-religious and cultural affinities and transnational loyalties ? Can popularly elected Arab and Moslem regimes be undermined ? Can unpopular Arab and Moslem monarchies already bought up by the West , be further enticed by petro-dollar investments ? <p> With Palestine 's continuing resistance to European Jewish colonisation , this martyred nation remains at the centre of this volatile regional complex of West Asia . Decades of Palestinian ' barefoot ' insurgency by tiny , poorly armed and equipped , militias embedded within small neighbourhoods inside Palestine , as well as from refugee camps in neighbouring states , has been the well-springs of this regional resistance to the foreign occupiers . <p> Gaza has now become the tragic heart of this , historically , last venture of European colonial occupation . <p> Horror <p> The United Nations ' own UN News agency quotes WHO and UNICEF officials as reporting " horror " and " starvation " and " famine " in the Gaza Strip . This is after this militarily encircled territory has been subjected to 14 months of unceasing military onslaught by the West-sustained Israeli Defence Forces against the Palestinian population trapped there . <p> Another top UN official , Dr Francesca Albanese ( Italian legal expert ) , has already formally labelled Israel 's military operations against Palestinian Arabs as " genocidal " . The UN now says that in Gaza alone , the official fatalities record shows over 45,000 certified dead since late October 2023 when the Israeli Defence Forces , with full Western material and political backing , launched military operations on the territory . <p> Other international experts estimate that the actual number of fatalities from the Israeli ground invasion , artillery and missile bombardment and , aerial and Naval strikes , could actually be nearer 200,000 . With at least 65 per cent of the Strip 's buildings now flattened by the IDF operations , many thousands more bodies are estimated as buried under the rubble . <p> " Virtually all 1.1 million children in Gaza are in urgent need of protection and mental health support , " another UN report says . Gaza has an estimated 2.3 million residents . They include traditionally descended Palestinians indigenous to the Strip as well as 1.1 million people now living for generations in eight permanent refugee camps dotting the Strip . Their forebears were chased out of their native home areas in other parts of Palestine when European Jewish settler militia invaded the country in 1948 . <p> Iran <p> With the fall of Baathist Syria , Iran has begun preparing for possible greater Israeli military adventurism . But given its size and own geostrategic location that is of immense value to other global power blocs , namely China and its allied SCO and BRICS networks of that vast economic constituency of the Global South , the Islamic Republic of Iran is no push-over . <p> Iran is far too important to both China as well as Russia in today 's world power balance . Even as NATO attempts to ' bleed ' Russia by sustaining a war in Ukraine , Russia itself is too vast a territory rich in minerals and industrial economy to be undermined that easily . <p> At the same time , Russia is too valued an ally against the domineering West for emerging non-Western powers to allow it to be weakened , especially given Moscow 's crucial countervailing nuclear capability . 
